DSYMUTIL(1)                          LLVM                          DSYMUTIL(1)

NAME
       dsymutil - manipulate archived DWARF debug symbol files

SYNOPSIS
       dsymutil [options] executable


DESCRIPTION
       dsymutil links the DWARF debug information found in the object files
       for an executable executable by using debug symbols information
       contained in its symbol table. By default, the linked debug information
       is placed in a .dSYM bundle with the same name as the executable.

OPTIONS

       --accelerator=<accelerator type>
              Specify the desired type of accelerator table. Valid options are
              'Apple', 'Dwarf', 'Default' and 'None'.

       --arch <arch>
              Link DWARF debug information only for specified CPU architecture
              types.  Architectures may be specified by name. When using this
              option, an error will be returned if any architectures can not
              be properly linked.  This option can be specified multiple
              times, once for each desired architecture. All CPU architectures
              will be linked by default and any architectures that can't be
              properly linked will cause dsymutil to return an error.

       --build-variant-suffix <suffix=buildvariant>
              Specify the build variant suffix used to build the executable
              file.  There can be multiple variants for the binary of a
              product, each built slightly differently. The most common build
              variants are 'debug' and 'profile'. Setting the
              DYLD_IMAGE_SUFFIX environment variable will cause dyld to load
              the specified variant at runtime.

       --dump-debug-map
              Dump the executable's debug-map (the list of the object files
              containing the debug information) in YAML format and exit. No
              DWARF link will take place.

              -D <path>

              Specify a directory that contain dSYM files to search for.  This
              is used for mergeable libraries, so dsymutil knows where to look
              for dSYM files with  debug information about symbols present in
              those libraries.

       --fat64
              Use a 64-bit header when emitting universal binaries.

       --flat, -f
              Produce a flat dSYM file. A .dwarf extension will be appended to
              the executable name unless the output file is specified using
              the -o option.

       --gen-reproducer
              Generate a reproducer consisting of the input object files.
              Alias for --reproducer=GenerateOnExit.

       --help, -h
              Print this help output.

       --keep-function-for-static
              Make a static variable keep the enclosing function even if it
              would have been omitted otherwise.

       --minimize, -z
              When used when creating a dSYM file, this option will suppress
              the emission of the .debug_inlines, .debug_pubnames, and
              .debug_pubtypes sections since dsymutil currently has better
              equivalents: .apple_names and .apple_types. When used in
              conjunction with --update option, this option will cause
              redundant accelerator tables to be removed.

       --no-object-timestamp
              Don't check timestamp for object files.

       --no-odr
              Do not use ODR (One Definition Rule) for uniquing C++ types.

       --no-output
              Do the link in memory, but do not emit the result file.

       --no-swiftmodule-timestamp
              Don't check the timestamp for swiftmodule files.

       --num-threads <threads>, -j <threads>
              Specifies the maximum number (n) of simultaneous threads to use
              when linking multiple architectures.

       --object-prefix-map <prefix=remapped>
              Remap object file paths (but no source paths) before processing.
              Use this for Clang objects where the module cache location was
              remapped using -fdebug-prefix-map; to help dsymutil find the
              Clang module cache.

       --oso-prepend-path <path>
              Specifies a path to prepend to all debug symbol object file
              paths.

       --out <filename>, -o <filename>
              Specifies an alternate path to place the dSYM bundle. The
              default dSYM bundle path is created by appending .dSYM to the
              executable name.

       -q, --quiet
              Enable quiet mode and limit output.

       --remarks-drop-without-debug
              Drop remarks without valid debug locations. Without this flags,
              all remarks are kept.

       --remarks-output-format <format>
              Specify the format to be used when serializing the linked
              remarks.

       --remarks-prepend-path <path>
              Specify a directory to prepend the paths of the external remark
              files.

       --reproducer <mode>
              Specify the reproducer generation mode. Valid options are
              'GenerateOnExit', 'GenerateOnCrash', 'Use', 'Off'.

       --statistics
              Print statistics about the contribution of each object file to
              the linked debug info. This prints a table after linking with
              the object file name, the size of the debug info in the object
              file (in bytes) and the size contributed (in bytes) to the
              linked dSYM. The table is sorted by the output size listing the
              object files with the largest contribution first.

       -s, --symtab
              Dumps the symbol table found in executable or object file(s) and
              exits.

       -S     Output textual assembly instead of a binary dSYM companion file.

       --toolchain <toolchain>
              Embed the toolchain in the dSYM bundle's property list.

       -u, --update
              Update an existing dSYM file to contain the latest accelerator
              tables and other DWARF optimizations. This option will rebuild
              the '.apple_names' and '.apple_types' hashed accelerator tables.

       --use-reproducer <path>
              Use the object files from the given reproducer path. Alias for
              --reproducer=Use.

       --verbose
              Display verbose information when linking.

       --verify
              Run the DWARF verifier on the linked DWARF debug info.

       -v, --version
              Display the version of the tool.

       -y     Treat executable as a YAML debug-map rather than an executable.

EXIT STATUS
       dsymutil returns 0 if the DWARF debug information was linked
       successfully. Otherwise, it returns 1.

SEE ALSO
       llvm-dwarfdump(1)

AUTHOR
       Maintained by the LLVM Team (https://llvm.org/).

COPYRIGHT
       2003-2025, LLVM Project

11                                2025-02-14                       DSYMUTIL(1)
