3dpong(6)                            Games                           3dpong(6)

NAME
       3dpong - three dimensional Pong clone

SYNOPSIS
       3dpong display1 [display2|--computer] [--gravity g] [--net n] [--sound]
       [--noclick1] [--noclick2]

DESCRIPTION
       3D Pong is a three-dimensional clone of the ancient computer game Pong
       for the X11 window system.

       There are three modes of play

       one player
              One player mode agains the computer

       two players
              Two human players, each with their own view at the game

       handball
              One human player against gravity.  This is like throwing a ball
              at a wall

       The player(s) is presented a three dimensional view at the arena.
       There is a white divider in the middle, or possibly the net.  The
       player one's paddle is a red square, the player two has a blue paddle.
       The current score is displayed in the upper left corner.  The ball is a
       green diamond, and dark green markers follow the ball on the walls to
       display it's position in relation to them.

       The player(s) controls a paddle at one end of the arena with mouse
       movement.  To serve, the player presses the mouse button three.  The
       key c toggles whether the player needs to keep the mouse button one
       pressed while dragging the mouse.  See also the --noclickn switches
       below.

       Six views exist, switched amongst with the key v

       normal 1st person perspective from behind the paddle

       bleacher
              Side view, with the paddle on the left

       above  From above, paddle on the top

       freeview
              Any angle the user selects, by pressing mouse button two and
              dragging the mouse

       follow the ball
              The view follows the ball

       follow the paddle
              The view follows the paddle

       Key 3 toggles red/blue mode to be used with appropriate 3D glasses,
       with red for the left eye.

       The game quits if the q key is pressed.

       The game goes on until quitted.  In the one or two player games the
       ball gets faster and faster until someone scores.  Players score by
       getting the ball behind the opponents paddle.  In the handball mode the
       player scores every time the ball bounces off the paddle, and does not
       go to the goal.  The high score will kept for the session.

OPTIONS
       The switches display1 and display2 specify the X11 displays for the
       game.  The first is mandatory, and ``$DISPLAY'' is often a good value
       for it.  The special value ``computer'' means that only one human
       player is to play, the other will be a computer player.  If only one
       display is specified, then a handball game is started.

       Attention to the order of the options must be payed.

       --gravity_g
              The gravity to use.  In one and two player games, this is toward
              the floor, and in the handball it is toward the paddle.  Minimum
              gravity for handball game is 0.1, and negative values are not
              allowed, unlike in the other two modes.  A synonym for the
              switch is -g_g

       --net_n
              To use a net in the one or two player modes, use this switch.
              The value of n must be 0>n>0.75.  The net will be in the middle,
              between the two players and when the ball hits it, it will
              bounce back at full force.  The maximum height, 0.75, is two
              thirds of the height of the game arena.  A synonym for this
              switch is -n_n The net option must not appear before the gravity
              option.

       --sound
              To use sound in the game, use this switch or it's synonym -s.
              This must appear after the optional net switch.

       The switches --noclick1 and--noclick2 mean that the specified player
       need not to keep the mouse button 1 pressed down.  Such options must
       appear last on the command line.  The key c can also be used to toggle
       this while the game is running.

NOTES
       This manual page documents the 3D Pong version 0.5, and is based on the
       README.txt file in the distribution.

AUTHOR
       The game is written by Bill Kendrick <bill@newbreedsoftware.com>, and
       this manual page was written independetly of the actual software by
       mace <mace@pcuf.fi>.  The game sounds originally appeared in the game
       xboing(6x).

                                  28/04/2004                         3dpong(6)
