arcan(1)                          User manual                         arcan(1)

NAME
       aclip - command line interface to Arcan clipboards

SYNOPSIS
       aclip [OPTIONS]


DESCRIPTION
       This tool is used to send input to- and/or monitor- an arcan connection
       point that accepts clipboards as a primary connection, which is an
       indicator of a clipboard manager. It is up to the running set of
       scripts that controls the connection point to determine if this is
       permitted or not, but the 'safe default' is rejecting such connections.
       See 'Limitations' below.


OPTIONS
       -i, --in
              Read valid UTF-8 input from standard input and forward to the
              clipboard.


       -I, --in-data datastr
              Forward the contents of the datastr argument to the clipboard.


       -o, --out
              Enable output mode, sending incoming clipboard entries (by
              default) to stdout.


       -e --exec execstr
              For each new clipboard entry, run (popen) execstr in a subshell,
              where the entry contents will be available on stdin.


       -p, --separator sepstr
              (in -o mode) Append sepstr argument after each incoming
              clipboard entry.


       -l, --loop count
              (in -o mode) Set a limit of new entries that should be received
              from the clipboard. If count is set to '0', the program will
              loop indefinitely.


       -s, --silent
              Close stdout and fork into background (so best use with -e or
              -i/-I, not just -o)


       -d, --display connpath
              By default, the ARCAN_CONNPATH environment is used in order to
              find an arcan instance to connect to. This argument overrides
              the environment with the connpath argument.


       -h, --help
              Show a brief summary of commands and usage.


EXAMPLES
       This examples places 'hi there' on the clipboard.

       echo -n 'hi there' | aclip -p durden -i


       Keep the X selection buffer synched to the latest received clipboard
       entry.

       aclip -o -l 0 -s -e xclip


       Terminate after three completed clipboard entries. each new entry,
       spawn the "tee" command that appends to a log with the custom '||'
       string to separate between elements.

       aclip -l 0 -o -p || -e tee -a >> log


LIMITATIONS
       The appl that arcan is running must expose a connection point, and
       explicitly allow clipboard and/or clipboard-paste primary segments to
       connect. This is usually not added by default due to the security
       implications it might have.

       Additional constraints may also have been placed on this connection
       point.  One common constraint is to only allow one active monitor or
       input connection.  Other constraints may be read- or write- only access
       or ignoring write- operations that is longer than a certain cutoff
       value.

       Consult the documentation for the appl you are using to get more
       information on what applies to your particular scenario.

       All inputs and outputs need to be valid UTF-8 or they will likely be
       silently filtered. The tool is still young and few of the clipboard
       features offered by Arcan are exposed yet, this means that right now,
       only adding text to a clipboard, and monitoring the clipboard for
       entries actually work. Managing binary blobs, audio and video streams
       will be added in the near future.


ENVIRONMENT
       ARCAN_CONNPATH
              Name of the connection point to use when connecting to arcan.

       ARCAN_CONNKEY
              Key to use for authenticating againgst the connection path.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2017 Bjorn Stahl. 3-clause BSD licensed. This is free
       software: you are free  to  change and redistribute it. There is NO
       WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.


AUTHOR
       Bjorn Stahl <contact at arcan-fe dot com>

aclip                            February 2017                        arcan(1)
