ACM(6)                       FreeBSD Games Manual                       ACM(6)



NAME
       acm - an aerial combat simulator for X

SYNOPSIS
       acm [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       acm is a distributed air combat simulator that runs on the X window
       system.  Players can engage in simultaneous air combat from different
       Unix workstations.  Players fly jet aircraft equipped with radar, heat
       seeking missiles and cannon.

       Each player flies something close to either an F-16C Falcon or MiG-29
       Fulcrum.



USAGE REFERENCE
       The following command line options are recognized by acm:

       -plane F-16 or MiG-29 or C-172
              Select the aircraft type that you'd like to fly.

       -frame-rate n
              Limits the displayed frame rate to n frames per second.  If
              neither -frame-rate nor -update-rate are specified, ACM updates
              the display as fast as possible, effectively eating all
              available CPU time.

       -update-rate n
              Sets the simulation update rate to n interations per second. If
              neither -frame-rate nor -update-rate are specified, ACM updates
              the display as fast as possible, effectively eating all
              available CPU time.  If -frame-rate is supplied alone the update
              rate defaults to 50 hertz.

       -watch-frame-rate
              Print statistics about the actual display frame rate on standard
              output.

       -dis-sim integer
              Sets the DIS simulation address to the specified value.  The DIS
              standard defines this address as an enumerated value
              corresponding to a geographical site.  For more information,
              consult the IEEE 1278 protocol definition.

       -dis-appl integer
              Sets the DIS application id to the specified value. This value
              is used in DIS packets to distinguish your acm application from
              other DIS applications running at the same site.

       -js serial-device
              Specifies the local serial port where a Colorado Spectrum
              Workstation Gameport is attached.  The Gameport allows you to
              connect PC-compatible joysticks and use them with ACM.

       -geometry geometry_spec
              An X compatible window geometry specification

       -team <1 or 2>
              Specifies the starting airfield.  Airfields are about 50 nm
              apart.  Team 1 flies F-16's, team 2 flies MIG-23's.

       -dv    Use the X server's default visual for your screen.  Normally,
              acm will hunt for a Visual that has a depth of eight planes.  It
              will also create a private colormap for acm's use.  If your
              screen's default Visual is an 8-plane PseudoColor Visual, using
              this switch will allow acm to use the "public" Colormap so that
              other windows won't change color when acm is in use.

       -simx  Consult the SIM/x server to obtain appropriate DIS simulation
              and application identifiers.



HOW TO TAKE-OFF
       Your mouse is the control stick.  The neutral position is the center of
       your view display -- denoted by the dot in the center of your heads-up-
       display (HUD).  Moving the mouse away from you pitches the plane down,
       moving it back pitches the plane up.  Left and right inputs roll the
       aircraft in the corresponding direction.  On the ground at speeds up to
       100 kts, nose wheel steering guides the aircraft.

       To take off for the first time, select 20 degrees of flaps (press H
       twice), then press the full throttle key (the 4 key on the main
       keyboard).  Keep the mouse in the neutral position until you are moving
       at about 140 kts, then pull the mouse about two-thirds of the way down
       the view window.  You should pitch up and lift off the ground fairly
       easily.  Gradually move the stick closer to the neutral position and
       let your airspeed build -- don't move it back to neutral too quickly or
       you will end up back on the ground again!  As your airspeed passes
       about 250 kts, raise the flaps (press Y twice) and landing gear (press
       G).  Congratulations, you're flying a multi-million dollar jet.



ENGINE CONTROLS
       The following keys control your engine thrust:


            4    Full Power

            3    Increase Power (about 2 percent)

            2    Decrease Power (about the same amount)

            1    Idle Power

            A    Toggle Afterburner

       Your engine gauge displays the power that you are generating.  Below
       that, you have displays showing your total fuel remaining as well as
       your current fuel consumption rate.  The afterburner uses fuel at an
       amazing rate; use it wisely.



LOOKING AROUND
       The keys of the numeric keypad control which direction you're looking
       outside of the cockpit:


                 8 Forward

            4 Left    5 Up 6 Right

                 2 Aft

       It pays to look around when you're in a combat environment.  Your
       chances of staying alive increase remarkably.



THE HEADS UP DISPLAY (HUD)
       On the left side of the HUD is a ladder showing your current airspeed
       in nautical miles per hour (it displays true airspeed).  Above that, in
       the upper left corner, is a G-meter.

       The right ladder shows altitude; above that is a readout of your
       current angle-of-attack in degrees ("a=X.X").  Your jet will stall at a
       30 degrees positive angle of attack and negative 16 degrees.

       The airplane symbol (something like "-O-") shows the direction that the
       relative wind is coming from.  The relative wind combines your current
       angles of attack and sideslip.  A ladder in the center of the HUD show
       your aircraft's current attitude.

       The lower, horizontal ladder shows your current heading.  Discretes in
       the lower left-hand corner show the state of your weapons systems.
       Slightly above them is a readout of your current thrust percentage as
       well as the state of your engine's afterburner -- the "AB" symbol means
       the afterburner is on.



USING YOUR RADAR DISPLAY
       The radar system has a field of view of 130 degrees vertically and
       side-to-side.  Radar automatically locks onto the closest threat in its
       field of view.  A locked target is displayed as a solid block.  Other
       hostile targets are displayed as hollow squares.

       Targeting information is displayed in the lower right corner of the
       display.  The top number is the heading of the locked target, the next
       number is the relative heading you should steer to intercept the target
       (displayed as "ddd R", and the third number is the rate that you are
       closing with this target, expressed in knots.

       You can lock onto other targets by pressing the target designator key
       (Q).



WHO'S GUNNING FOR ME?
       Radar sets that are tracking your aircraft can be detected.  Your
       Threat Early Warning System (TEWS) display warns you of potential
       threats.  This circular display shows the relative direction of radars
       (other aircraft) that are looking at you.


ARMAMENTS
       Your aircraft is equipped with heat-seeking missiles and a 20
       millimeter cannon.  Weapon information is displayed in the lower left-
       hand corner of your HUD.  Different weapons may be selected by pressing
       mouse button 3.

       The missiles are patterned after U.S. AIM-9M Sidewinders.  They can
       detect infrared (IR) targets at any aspect (not just from the rear).
       Their range varies dramatically with the altitude and closure rate.
       The missile subsystem couples with your radar set to provide time-to-
       impact information when AIM-9's are selected.



EXAMPLES
        acm -js /dev/tty0  -simx

        acm -geometry 1000x500


KEYBOARD COMMAND LIST
       Stick and Rudder Controls


       The Mouse if your stick.  It controls pitch and roll.

       Z -- Rudder Left

       C -- Rudder Right

       X -- Center the Rudder



       Engine Controls


       4 -- Full Power

       3 -- Increase Power

       2 -- Decrease Power

       1 -- Idle

       A -- Toggle Afterburner State



       Radar Controls


       R -- Toggle Radar State (On/Standby)

       Q -- Target Designator



       Flaps


       H -- Extend 10 degrees

       Y -- Retract 10 degrees



       Speed Brakes


       S -- Extend

       W -- Retract


       Weapon Controls


       Mouse Button 2 -- Fire the selected weapon

       Mouse Button 3 -- Select another weapon


       Pitch Trim Controls


       U -- Set Take-off pitch trim

       J -- Set pitch trim to the control stick's current pitch setting


       Other Controls


       G -- Retract/Extend landing gear

       P -- Self-Destruct (Quit the game)

       L -- Launch a target drone



       View Controls (Numeric Keypad)


       8 -- Forward

       2 -- Aft

       4 -- Left

       6 -- Right

       5 -- Up



AUTHOR
       Riley Rainey, rainey@netcom.com



                                October 1, 1995                         ACM(6)
