ADMESH(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              ADMESH(1)

NAME
       ADMesh - a program for processing triangulated solid meshes

SYNOPSIS
       admesh [OPTION]... file

DESCRIPTION
       ADMesh is a program for processing triangulated solid meshes.
       Currently, ADMesh only reads the STL file format that is used for rapid
       prototyping applications, although it can write STL, VRML, OFF, and DXF
       files.

       By default, ADMesh performs all of the mesh checking and repairing
       options on the input file.  This means that is checks exact, nearby,
       remove-unconnected, fill-holes, normal-directions, and normal-values.
       The file type (ASCII or binary) is automatically detected.  The input
       file is not modified unless it is specified by the --write option.  If
       the following command line was input:

       admesh sphere.stl

       The file sphere.stl would be opened and read, it would be checked and
       fixed if necessary, and the results of processing would be printed out.
       The results would not be saved.

       The default value for tolerance is the length of the shortest edge of
       the mesh.  The default number of iterations is 2, and the default
       increment is 0.01% of the diameter of a sphere that encloses the entire
       mesh.

       If any of the options --exact, --nearby, --remove-unconnected, --fill-
       holes, --normal-directions, --reverse-all, --normal-values, or --no-
       check are given, then no other checks besides that one will be done
       unless they are specified or unless they are required by ADMesh before
       the specified check can be done.  For example the following command
       line:

       admesh --remove-unconnected sphere.stl

       would first do an exact check because it is required, and then the
       unconnected facets would be removed.  The results would be printed and
       no other checks would be done.

OPTIONS
       --x-rotate=angle
              Rotate CCW about x-axis by angle degrees

       --y-rotate=angle
              Rotate CCW about y-axis by angle degrees

       --z-rotate=angle
              Rotate CCW about z-axis by angle degrees

       --xy-mirror
              Mirror about the xy plane

       --yz-mirror
              Mirror about the yz plane

       --xz-mirror
              Mirror about the xz plane

       --scale=factor
              Scale the file by factor (multiply by factor)

       --translate=x,y,z
              Translate the file to x, y, and z

       --merge=name
              Merge file called name with input file

       -e, --exact
              Only check for perfectly matched edges

       -n, --nearby
              Find and connect nearby facets. Correct bad facets

       -t, --tolerance=tol
              Initial tolerance to use for nearby check = tol

       -i, --iterations=i
              Number of iterations for nearby check = i

       -m, --increment=inc
              Amount to increment tolerance after iteration=inc

       -u, --remove-unconnected Remove facets that have 0 neighbors

       -f, --fill-holes
              Add facets to fill holes

       -d, --normal-directions
              Check and fix direction of normals(ie cw, ccw)

       --reverse-all
              Reverse the directions of all facets and normals

       -v, --normal-values
              Check and fix normal values

       -c, --no-check
              Don't do any check on input file

       -b, --write-binary-stl=name
              Output a binary STL file called name

       -a, --write-ascii-stl=name
              Output an ascii STL file called name

       --write-off=name
              Output a Geomview OFF format file called name

       --write-dxf=name
              Output a DXF format file called name

       --write-vrml=name
              Output a VRML format file called name

       --help Display this help and exit

       --version
              Output version information and exit

       The functions are executed in the same order as the options shown here.
       So check here to find what happens if, for example, --translate and
       --merge options are specified together.  The order of the options
       specified on the command line is not important.

EXAMPLES
       To perform all checks except for nearby, the following command line
       would be used:

       admesh --exact --remove-unconnected --fill-holes --normal-directions
       --normal-values sphere.stl

       Actually, since the exact check is required by ADMesh before remove-
       unconnected, and remove-unconnected is required before --fill-holes,
       the above command line could be shortened as follows with the same
       results:

       admesh --fill-holes --normal-directions --normal-values sphere.stl

       And again the same results could be achieved using the short options:

       admesh -fudev sphere.stl

       or

       admesh -fdv sphere.stl

       The following command lines do the same thing:

       admesh sphere.stl

       admesh -fundev sphere.stl

       admesh -f -u -n -d -e -v sphere.stl

       since the -fundev options are implied by default.  To eliminate one of
       the checks, just remove the letter of the check to eliminate from the
       "word" fundev.

SEE ALSO
       For more information about the options and output read admesh-doc.txt -
       it is usually located in /usr/share/doc/admesh-x.xx dir.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1995, 1996  Anthony D. Martin <amartin@engr.csulb.edu>

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

User Commands                     21/10/2013                         ADMESH(1)
