ADPLAY(1)                        User Commands                       ADPLAY(1)

NAME
       adplay - AdPlay/UNIX console-based OPL2 audio player

SYNOPSIS
       adplay [OPTION]... FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       AdPlay/UNIX is AdPlug's UNIX console-based frontend. It tries to play
       back all given FILEs, using one of many available output mechanisms.

       AdPlay/UNIX plays endlessly, if only one file is given. With multiple
       files, it plays them in a sequence and exits after the last file. The
       same can also be accomplished with only one file, by using the -o
       option. When using the disk writer, -o is implied.

EXIT STATUS
       adplay returns 0 on successful operation. 1 is returned otherwise.

OUTPUT MECHANISMS
       AdPlay/UNIX can play back using many different output mechanisms, which
       can be selected with the -O argument. The availability of a method
       depends on compile-time settings. Available methods are printed out
       after the help text, displayed with --help.

       Next is a brief description of all output mechanisms, following their
       abbreviations:

   oss -- Open Sound System (OSS) driver
       This output method is available on most Linux and other UNIX systems.

   null -- Total silence
       Discards anything sent to it. It can be useful for testing purposes.

   disk -- Disk writer
       Writes its output to a file in Microsoft RIFF WAVE format.

   esound -- EsounD output
       Creates a socket connection to an EsounD server and streams the audio
       to it.

   qsa -- QNX Sound Architecture (QSA) driver
       Uses the QNX system's standard output method.

   sdl -- Simple Directmedia Layer (SDL) driver
       Uses the SDL library for sound output. The library has a broader
       platform support than any of the other output methods. Thus, it could
       be useful on some exotic systems.

   alsa -- Advanced Linux Sound Architecture (ALSA) driver
       Uses the standard output method on newer Linux systems.

   ao -- libao driver
       Libao is a cross-platform audio library with very broad platform
       support. Might be useful on systems, where SDL is not available, and
       generally to do tricky things.

OPTIONS
       The order of the option commandline parameters is not important, except
       for the -d option, which always has to be specified after an -O option.

   Output selection:
       -O, --output=OUTPUT
              Specify output mechanism. Available mechanisms depend on
              compilation settings and are printed on --help output. A
              reasonable default is automatically selected, based on the
              availability of the output mechanisms.

   OSS driver (oss) specific:
       -d --device=FILE
              Set sound output device file to FILE. This is /dev/dsp by
              default.

   Disk writer (disk) specific:
       -d --device=FILE
              Write sound data to FILE. The data is written in Microsoft RIFF
              WAVE format (little-endian). You can specify a single '-' to
              write to stdout instead. This option has no default and must be
              specified when the disk writer is to be used!

   EsounD output (esound) specific:
       -d --device=URL
              Connect to "hostname:port" combination in URL. Example:
              "myhost.sound.net:1234". The default is "localhost:16001".

   ALSA driver (alsa) specific:
       -d --device=DEVICE
              Set sound output device to DEVICE. This is plughw:0,0 by
              default.

   Playback quality:
       -8, --8bit
              Use only 8-bit samples for playback.

       --16bit
              Use only 16-bit samples for playback (default).

       -f, --freq=FREQ
              Set playback frequency to FREQ, in Hz. This is 44100Hz by
              default.

       --stereo
              Use only stereo samples for playback. The sound stream is just
              doubled, no further audio processing is done. This option is
              pretty useless unless you have very obscure audio hardware that
              only accepts stereo streams. AdPlug only generates mono streams
              because the OPL2 only generates mono sound.

       --mono Use only mono samples for playback (default if AdPlug <= 2.1.)

       --surround
              Use only stereo samples for playback, but generate them from two
              mono OPL2 chips.  One OPL2 chip is very slightly transposed to
              produce a pleasant harmonic/surround sound effect (default if
              AdPlug >= 2.2.)

       -b --buffer=SIZE
              Set sound buffer size to SIZE samples. If you notice sound
              skipping with the default setting, try a greater buffer size.
              Note that this is measured in samples, not bytes! This is 2048
              samples by default. Only the OSS, SDL, ALSA and libao output
              drivers support this option.

   Informative output:
       -i --instruments
              Display instrument names (if available).

       -r --realtime
              Display realtime playback information, while playing. This will
              display a one-line status bar, containing essential playback
              information.

       -m --message
              Display the song message (if available).

   Playback:
       -s --subsong=N
              Play subsong number N, instead of the default subsong of the
              file. Only useful for file formats that support multiple
              subsongs.

       -o --once
              Play just once, don't loop. This will exit adplay after the song
              ended. This is the default when multiple FILEs are given.

   Miscellaneous:
       -D, --database=FILE
              Additionally use database file FILE. This option may be
              specified multiple times. Each database file is additionally
              merged with the others, creating one large database on the fly.

       -q, --quiet
              Be more quiet.

       -v, --verbose
              Be more verbose.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -V, --version
              Show version of program.

AUTHOR
       Simon Peter <dn.tlp@gmx.net>

AdPlay/UNIX 1.8.1                May 24, 2020                        ADPLAY(1)
