agedu(1)                         Simon Tatham                         agedu(1)

NAME
       agedu - correlate disk usage with last-access times to identify large
       and disused data

SYNOPSIS
       agedu [ options ] action [action...]

DESCRIPTION
       agedu scans a directory tree and produces reports about how much disk
       space is used in each directory and subdirectory, and also how that
       usage of disk space corresponds to files with last-access times a long
       time ago.

       In other words, agedu is a tool you might use to help you free up disk
       space. It lets you see which directories are taking up the most space,
       as du does; but unlike du, it also distinguishes between large
       collections of data which are still in use and ones which have not been
       accessed in months or years - for instance, large archives downloaded,
       unpacked, used once, and never cleaned up. Where du helps you find
       what's using your disk space, agedu helps you find what's wasting your
       disk space.

       agedu has several operating modes. In one mode, it scans your disk and
       builds an index file containing a data structure which allows it to
       efficiently retrieve any information it might need. Typically, you
       would use it in this mode first, and then run it in one of a number of
       `query' modes to display a report of the disk space usage of a
       particular directory and its subdirectories. Those reports can be
       produced as plain text (much like du) or as HTML. agedu can even run as
       a miniature web server, presenting each directory's HTML report with
       hyperlinks to let you navigate around the file system to similar
       reports for other directories.

       So you would typically start using agedu by telling it to do a scan of
       a directory tree and build an index. This is done with a command such
       as

       $ agedu -s /home/fred

       which will build a large data file called agedu.dat in your current
       directory. (If that current directory is inside /home/fred, don't worry
       - agedu is smart enough to discount its own index file.)

       Having built the index, you would now query it for reports of disk
       space usage. If you have a graphical web browser, the simplest and
       nicest way to query the index is by running agedu in web server mode:

       $ agedu -w

       which will print (among other messages) a URL on its standard output
       along the lines of

       URL: http://127.0.0.1:48638/

       (That URL will always begin with `127.', meaning that it's in the
       localhost address space. So only processes running on the same computer
       can even try to connect to that web server, and also there is access
       control to prevent other users from seeing it - see below for more
       detail.)

       Now paste that URL into your web browser, and you will be shown a
       graphical representation of the disk usage in /home/fred and its
       immediate subdirectories, with varying colours used to show the
       difference between disused and recently-accessed data. Click on any
       subdirectory to descend into it and see a report for its subdirectories
       in turn; click on parts of the pathname at the top of any page to
       return to higher-level directories. When you've finished browsing, you
       can just press Ctrl-D to send an end-of-file indication to agedu, and
       it will shut down.

       After that, you probably want to delete the data file agedu.dat, since
       it's pretty large. In fact, the command agedu -R will do this for you;
       and you can chain agedu commands on the same command line, so that
       instead of the above you could have done

       $ agedu -s /home/fred -w -R

       for a single self-contained run of agedu which builds its index, serves
       web pages from it, and cleans it up when finished.

       In some situations, you might want to scan the directory structure of
       one computer, but run agedu's user interface on another. In that case,
       you can do your scan using the agedu -S option in place of agedu -s,
       which will make agedu not bother building an index file but instead
       just write out its scan results in plain text on standard output; then
       you can funnel that output to the other machine using SSH (or whatever
       other technique you prefer), and there, run agedu -L to load in the
       textual dump and turn it into an index file. For example, you might run
       a command like this (plus any ssh options you need) on the machine you
       want to scan:

       $ agedu -S /home/fred | ssh indexing-machine agedu -L

       or, equivalently, run something like this on the other machine:

       $ ssh machine-to-scan agedu -S /home/fred | agedu -L

       Either way, the agedu -L command will create an agedu.dat index file,
       which you can then use with agedu -w just as above.

       (Another way to do this might be to build the index file on the first
       machine as normal, and then just copy it to the other machine once it's
       complete. However, for efficiency, the index file is formatted
       differently depending on the CPU architecture that agedu is compiled
       for. So if that doesn't match between the two machines - e.g. if one is
       a 32-bit machine and one 64-bit - then agedu.dat files written on one
       machine will not work on the other. The technique described above using
       -S and -L should work between any two machines.)

       If you don't have a graphical web browser, you can do text-based
       queries instead of using agedu's web interface. Having scanned
       /home/fred in any of the ways suggested above, you might run

       $ agedu -t /home/fred

       which again gives a summary of the disk usage in /home/fred and its
       immediate subdirectories; but this time agedu will print it on standard
       output, in much the same format as du. If you then want to find out how
       much old data is there, you can add the -a option to show only files
       last accessed a certain length of time ago. For example, to show only
       files which haven't been looked at in six months or more:

       $ agedu -t /home/fred -a 6m

       That's the essence of what agedu does. It has other modes of operation
       for more complex situations, and the usual array of configurable
       options. The following sections contain a complete reference for all
       its functionality.

OPERATING MODES
       This section describes the operating modes supported by agedu. Each of
       these is in the form of a command-line option, sometimes with an
       argument. Multiple operating-mode options may appear on the command
       line, in which case agedu will perform the specified actions one after
       another. For instance, as shown in the previous section, you might want
       to perform a disk scan and immediately launch a web server giving
       reports from that scan.

       -s directory or --scan directory
              In this mode, agedu scans the file system starting at the
              specified directory, and indexes the results of the scan into a
              large data file which other operating modes can query.

              By default, the scan is restricted to a single file system
              (since the expected use of agedu is that you would probably use
              it because a particular disk partition was running low on
              space). You can remove that restriction using the --cross-fs
              option; other configuration options allow you to include or
              exclude files or entire subdirectories from the scan. See the
              next section for full details of the configurable options.

              The index file is created with restrictive permissions, in case
              the file system you are scanning contains confidential
              information in its structure.

              Index files are dependent on the characteristics of the CPU
              architecture you created them on. You should not expect to be
              able to move an index file between different types of computer
              and have it continue to work. If you need to transfer the
              results of a disk scan to a different kind of computer, see the
              -D and -L options below.

       -w or --web
              In this mode, agedu expects to find an index file already
              written. It allocates a network port, and starts up a web server
              on that port which serves reports generated from the index file.
              By default it invents its own URL and prints it out.

              The web server runs until agedu receives an end-of-file event on
              its standard input. (The expected usage is that you run it from
              the command line, immediately browse web pages until you're
              satisfied, and then press Ctrl-D.) To disable the EOF behaviour,
              use the --no-eof option.

              In case the index file contains any confidential information
              about your file system, the web server protects the pages it
              serves from access by other people. On Linux, this is done
              transparently by means of using /proc/net/tcp to check the owner
              of each incoming connection; failing that, the web server will
              require a password to view the reports, and agedu will print the
              password it invented on standard output along with the URL.

              Configurable options for this mode let you specify your own
              address and port number to listen on, and also specify your own
              choice of authentication method (including turning
              authentication off completely) and a username and password of
              your choice.

       -t directory or --text directory
              In this mode, agedu generates a textual report on standard
              output, listing the disk usage in the specified directory and
              all its subdirectories down to a given depth. By default that
              depth is 1, so that you see a report for directory itself and
              all of its immediate subdirectories. You can configure a
              different depth (or no depth limit) using -d, described in the
              next section.

              Used on its own, -t merely lists the total disk usage in each
              subdirectory; agedu's additional ability to distinguish unused
              from recently-used data is not activated. To activate it, use
              the -a option to specify a minimum age.

              The directory structure stored in agedu's index file is treated
              as a set of literal strings. This means that you cannot refer to
              directories by synonyms. So if you ran agedu -s ., then all the
              path names you later pass to the -t option must be either `.' or
              begin with `./'. Similarly, symbolic links within the directory
              you scanned will not be followed; you must refer to each
              directory by its canonical, symlink-free pathname.

       -R or --remove
              In this mode, agedu deletes its index file. Running just agedu
              -R on its own is therefore equivalent to typing rm agedu.dat.
              However, you can also put -R on the end of a command line to
              indicate that agedu should delete its index file after it
              finishes performing other operations.

       -S directory or --scan-dump directory
              In this mode, agedu will scan a directory tree and convert the
              results straight into a textual dump on standard output, without
              generating an index file at all. The dump data is intended for
              agedu -L to read.

       -L or --load
              In this mode, agedu expects to read a dump produced by the -S
              option from its standard input. It constructs an index file from
              that dump, exactly as it would have if it had read the same data
              from a disk scan in -s mode.

       -D or --dump
              In this mode, agedu reads an existing index file and produces a
              dump of its contents on standard output, in the same format used
              by -S and -L. This option could be used to convert an existing
              index file into a format acceptable to a different kind of
              computer, by dumping it using -D and then loading the dump back
              in on the other machine using -L.

              (The output of agedu -D on an existing index file will not be
              exactly identical to what agedu -S would have originally
              produced, due to a difference in treatment of last-access times
              on directories. However, it should be effectively equivalent for
              most purposes. See the documentation of the --dir-atime option
              in the next section for further detail.)

       -H directory or --html directory
              In this mode, agedu will generate an HTML report of the disk
              usage in the specified directory and its immediate
              subdirectories, in the same form that it serves from its web
              server in -w mode.

              By default, a single HTML report will be generated and simply
              written to standard output, with no hyperlinks pointing to other
              similar pages. If you also specify the -d option (see below),
              agedu will instead write out a collection of HTML files with
              hyperlinks between them, and call the top-level file index.html.

       --cgi  In this mode, agedu will run as the bulk of a CGI script which
              provides the same set of web pages as the built-in web server
              would. It will read the usual CGI environment variables, and
              write CGI-style data to its standard output.

              The actual CGI program itself should be a tiny wrapper around
              agedu which passes it the --cgi option, and also (probably) -f
              to locate the index file. agedu will do everything else. For
              example, your script might read

              #!/bin/sh
              /some/path/to/agedu --cgi -f /some/other/path/to/agedu.dat

              (Note that agedu will produce the entire CGI output, including
              status code, HTTP headers and the full HTML document. If you try
              to surround the call to agedu --cgi with code that adds your own
              HTML header and footer, you won't get the results you want, and
              agedu's HTTP-level features such as auto-redirecting to
              canonical versions of URIs will stop working.)

              No access control is performed in this mode: restricting access
              to CGI scripts is assumed to be the job of the web server.

       --presort and --postsort
              In these two modes, agedu will expect to read a textual data
              dump from its standard input of the form produced by -S (and
              -D). It will transform the data into a different version of its
              text dump format, and write the transformed version on standard
              output.

              The ordinary dump file format is reasonably readable, but
              loading it into an index file using agedu -L requires it to be
              sorted in a specific order, which is complicated to describe and
              difficult to implement using ordinary Unix sorting tools. So if
              you want to construct your own data dump from a source of your
              own that agedu itself doesn't know how to scan, you will need to
              make sure it's sorted in the right order.

              To help with this, agedu provides a secondary dump format which
              is `sortable', in the sense that ordinary sort(1) without
              arguments will arrange it into the right order. However, the
              sortable format is much more unreadable and also twice the size,
              so you wouldn't want to write it directly!

              So the recommended procedure is to generate dump data in the
              ordinary format; then pipe it through agedu --presort to turn it
              into the sortable format; then sort it; then pipe it into agedu
              -L (which can accept either the normal or the sortable format as
              input). For example:

              generate_custom_data.sh | agedu --presort | sort | agedu -L

              If you need to transform the sorted dump file back into the
              ordinary format, agedu --postsort can do that. But since agedu
              -L can accept either format as input, you may not need to.

       -h or --help
              Causes agedu to print some help text and terminate immediately.

       -V or --version
              Causes agedu to print its version number and terminate
              immediately.

OPTIONS
       This section describes the various configuration options that affect
       agedu's operation in one mode or another.

       The following option affects nearly all modes (except -S):

       -f filename or --file filename
              Specifies the location of the index file which agedu creates,
              reads or removes depending on its operating mode. By default,
              this is simply `agedu.dat', in whatever is the current working
              directory when you run agedu.

       The following options affect the disk-scanning modes, -s and -S:

       --cross-fs and --no-cross-fs
              These configure whether or not the disk scan is permitted to
              cross between different file systems. The default is not to:
              agedu will normally skip over subdirectories on which a
              different file system is mounted. This makes it convenient when
              you want to free up space on a particular file system which is
              running low. However, in other circumstances you might wish to
              see general information about the use of space no matter which
              file system it's on (for instance, if your real concern is your
              backup media running out of space, and if your backups do not
              treat different file systems specially); in that situation, use
              --cross-fs.

              (Note that this default is the opposite way round from the
              corresponding option in du.)

       --prune wildcard and --prune-path wildcard
              These cause particular files or directories to be omitted
              entirely from the scan. If agedu's scan encounters a file or
              directory whose name matches the wildcard provided to the
              --prune option, it will not include that file in its index, and
              also if it's a directory it will skip over it and not scan its
              contents.

              Note that in most Unix shells, wildcards will probably need to
              be escaped on the command line, to prevent the shell from
              expanding the wildcard before agedu sees it.

              --prune-path is similar to --prune, except that the wildcard is
              matched against the entire pathname instead of just the filename
              at the end of it. So whereas --prune *a*b* will match any file
              whose actual name contains an a somewhere before a b, --prune-
              path *a*b* will also match a file whose name contains b and
              which is inside a directory containing an a, or any file inside
              a directory of that form, and so on.

       --exclude wildcard and --exclude-path wildcard
              These cause particular files or directories to be omitted from
              the index, but not from the scan. If agedu's scan encounters a
              file or directory whose name matches the wildcard provided to
              the --exclude option, it will not include that file in its index
              - but unlike --prune, if the file in question is a directory it
              will still scan its contents and index them if they are not
              ruled out themselves by --exclude options.

              As above, --exclude-path is similar to --exclude, except that
              the wildcard is matched against the entire pathname.

       --include wildcard and --include-path wildcard
              These cause particular files or directories to be re-included in
              the index and the scan, if they had previously been ruled out by
              one of the above exclude or prune options. You can interleave
              include, exclude and prune options as you wish on the command
              line, and if more than one of them applies to a file then the
              last one takes priority.

              For example, if you wanted to see only the disk space taken up
              by MP3 files, you might run

              $ agedu -s . --exclude '*' --include '*.mp3'

              which will cause everything to be omitted from the scan, but
              then the MP3 files to be put back in. If you then wanted only a
              subset of those MP3s, you could then exclude some of them again
              by adding, say, `--exclude-path './queen/*'' (or, more
              efficiently, `--prune ./queen') on the end of that command.

              As with the previous two options, --include-path is similar to
              --include except that the wildcard is matched against the entire
              pathname.

       --progress, --no-progress and --tty-progress
              When agedu is scanning a directory tree, it will typically print
              a one-line progress report every second showing where it has
              reached in the scan, so you can have some idea of how much
              longer it will take. (Of course, it can't predict exactly how
              long it will take, since it doesn't know which of the
              directories it hasn't scanned yet will turn out to be huge.)

              By default, those progress reports are displayed on agedu's
              standard error channel, if that channel points to a terminal
              device. If you need to manually enable or disable them, you can
              use the above three options to do so: --progress unconditionally
              enables the progress reports, --no-progress unconditionally
              disables them, and --tty-progress reverts to the default
              behaviour which is conditional on standard error being a
              terminal.

       --dir-atime and --no-dir-atime
              In normal operation, agedu ignores the atimes (last access
              times) on the directories it scans: it only pays attention to
              the atimes of the files inside those directories. This is
              because directory atimes tend to be reset by a lot of system
              administrative tasks, such as cron jobs which scan the file
              system for one reason or another - or even other invocations of
              agedu itself, though it tries to avoid modifying any atimes if
              possible. So the literal atimes on directories are typically not
              representative of how long ago the data in question was last
              accessed with real intent to use that data in particular.

              Instead, agedu makes up a fake atime for every directory it
              scans, which is equal to the newest atime of any file in or
              below that directory (or the directory's last modification time,
              whichever is newest). This is based on the assumption that all
              important accesses to directories are actually accesses to the
              files inside those directories, so that when any file is
              accessed all the directories on the path leading to it should be
              considered to have been accessed as well.

              In unusual cases it is possible that a directory itself might
              embody important data which is accessed by reading the
              directory. In that situation, agedu's atime-faking policy will
              misreport the directory as disused. In the unlikely event that
              such directories form a significant part of your disk space
              usage, you might want to turn off the faking. The --dir-atime
              option does this: it causes the disk scan to read the original
              atimes of the directories it scans.

              The faking of atimes on directories also requires a processing
              pass over the index file after the main disk scan is complete.
              --dir-atime also turns this pass off. Hence, this option affects
              the -L option as well as -s and -S.

              (The previous section mentioned that there might be subtle
              differences between the output of agedu -s /path -D and agedu -S
              /path. This is why. Doing a scan with -s and then dumping it
              with -D will dump the fully faked atimes on the directories,
              whereas doing a scan-to-dump with -S will dump only partially
              faked atimes - specifically, each directory's last modification
              time - since the subsequent processing pass will not have had a
              chance to take place. However, loading either of the resulting
              dump files with -L will perform the atime-faking processing
              pass, leading to the same data in the index file in each case.
              In normal usage it should be safe to ignore all of this
              complexity.)

       --mtime
              This option causes agedu to index files by their last
              modification time instead of their last access time. You might
              want to use this if your last access times were completely
              useless for some reason: for example, if you had recently
              searched every file on your system, the system would have lost
              all the information about what files you hadn't recently
              accessed before then. Using this option is liable to be less
              effective at finding genuinely wasted space than the normal mode
              (that is, it will be more likely to flag things as disused when
              they're not, so you will have more candidates to go through by
              hand looking for data you don't need), but may be better than
              nothing if your last-access times are unhelpful.

              Another use for this mode might be to find recently created
              large data. If your disk has been gradually filling up for
              years, the default mode of agedu will let you find unused data
              to delete; but if you know your disk had plenty of space
              recently and now it's suddenly full, and you suspect that some
              rogue program has left a large core dump or output file, then
              agedu --mtime might be a convenient way to locate the culprit.

       --logicalsize
              This option causes agedu to consider the size of each file to be
              its `logical' size, rather than the amount of space it consumes
              on disk. (That is, it will use st_size instead of st_blocks in
              the data returned from stat(2).) This option makes agedu less
              accurate at reporting how much of your disk is used, but it
              might be useful in specialist cases, such as working around a
              file system that is misreporting physical sizes.

              For most files, the physical size of a file will be larger than
              the logical size, reflecting the fact that filesystem layouts
              generally allocate a whole number of blocks of the disk to each
              file, so some space is wasted at the end of the last block. So
              counting only the logical file size will typically cause under-
              reporting of the disk usage (perhaps large under-reporting in
              the case of a very large number of very small files).

              On the other hand, sometimes a file with a very large logical
              size can have `holes' where no data is actually stored, in which
              case using the logical size of the file will over-report its
              disk usage. So the use of logical sizes can give wrong answers
              in both directions.

       The following option affects all the modes that generate reports: the
       web server mode -w, the stand-alone HTML generation mode -H and the
       text report mode -t.

       --files
              This option causes agedu's reports to list the individual files
              in each directory, instead of just giving a combined report for
              everything that's not in a subdirectory.

       The following option affects the text report mode -t.

       -a age or --age age
              This option tells agedu to report only files of at least the
              specified age. An age is specified as a number, followed by one
              of `y' (years), `m' (months), `w' (weeks) or `d' (days). (This
              syntax is also used by the -r option.) For example, -a 6m will
              produce a text report which includes only files at least six
              months old.

       The following options affect the stand-alone HTML generation mode -H
       and the text report mode -t.

       -d depth or --depth depth
              This option controls the maximum depth to which agedu recurses
              when generating a text or HTML report.

              In text mode, the default is 1, meaning that the report will
              include the directory given on the command line and all of its
              immediate subdirectories. A depth of two includes another level
              below that, and so on; a depth of zero means only the directory
              on the command line.

              In HTML mode, specifying this option switches agedu from writing
              out a single HTML file to writing out multiple files which link
              to each other. A depth of 1 means agedu will write out an HTML
              file for the given directory and also one for each of its
              immediate subdirectories.

              If you want agedu to recurse as deeply as possible, give the
              special word `max' as an argument to -d.

       -o filename or --output filename
              This option is used to specify an output file for agedu to write
              its report to. In text mode or single-file HTML mode, the
              argument is treated as the name of a file. In multiple-file HTML
              mode, the argument is treated as the name of a directory: the
              directory will be created if it does not already exist, and the
              output HTML files will be created inside it.

       The following option affects only the stand-alone HTML generation mode
       -H, and even then, only in recursive mode (with -d):

       --numeric
              This option tells agedu to name most of its output HTML files
              numerically. The root of the whole output file collection will
              still be called index.html, but all the rest will have names
              like 73.html or 12525.html. (The numbers are essentially
              arbitrary; in fact, they're indices of nodes in the data
              structure used by agedu's index file.)

              This system of file naming is less intuitive than the default of
              naming files after the sub-pathname they index. It's also less
              stable: the same pathname will not necessarily be represented by
              the same filename if agedu -H is re-run after another scan of
              the same directory tree. However, it does have the virtue that
              it keeps the filenames short, so that even if your directory
              tree is very deep, the output HTML files won't exceed any OS
              limit on filename length.

       The following options affect the web server mode -w, and in some cases
       also the stand-alone HTML generation mode -H:

       -r age range or --age-range age range
              The HTML reports produced by agedu use a range of colours to
              indicate how long ago data was last accessed, running from red
              (representing the most disused data) to green (representing the
              newest). By default, the lengths of time represented by the two
              ends of that spectrum are chosen by examining the data file to
              see what range of ages appears in it. However, you might want to
              set your own limits, and you can do this using -r.

              The argument to -r consists of a single age, or two ages
              separated by a minus sign. An age is a number, followed by one
              of `y' (years), `m' (months), `w' (weeks) or `d' (days). (This
              syntax is also used by the -a option.) The first age in the
              range represents the oldest data, and will be coloured red in
              the HTML; the second age represents the newest, coloured green.
              If the second age is not specified, it will default to zero (so
              that green means data which has been accessed just now).

              For example, -r 2y will mark data in red if it has been unused
              for two years or more, and green if it has been accessed just
              now. -r 2y-3m will similarly mark data red if it has been unused
              for two years or more, but will mark it green if it has been
              accessed three months ago or later.

       --address addr[:port]
              Specifies the network address and port number on which agedu
              should listen when running its web server. If you want agedu to
              listen for connections coming in from any source, specify the
              address as the special value ANY. If the port number is omitted,
              an arbitrary unused port will be chosen for you and displayed.

              If you specify this option, agedu will not print its URL on
              standard output (since you are expected to know what address you
              told it to listen to).

       --auth auth-type
              Specifies how agedu should control access to the web pages it
              serves. The options are as follows:

              magic  This option only works on Linux, and only when the
                     incoming connection is from the same machine that agedu
                     is running on. On Linux, the special file /proc/net/tcp
                     contains a list of network connections currently known to
                     the operating system kernel, including which user id
                     created them. So agedu will look up each incoming
                     connection in that file, and allow access if it comes
                     from the same user id under which agedu itself is
                     running. Therefore, in agedu's normal web server mode,
                     you can safely run it on a multi-user machine and no
                     other user will be able to read data out of your index
                     file.

              basic  In this mode, agedu will use HTTP Basic authentication:
                     the user will have to provide a username and password via
                     their browser. agedu will normally make up a username and
                     password for the purpose, but you can specify your own;
                     see below.

              none   In this mode, the web server is unauthenticated: anyone
                     connecting to it has full access to the reports generated
                     by agedu. Do not do this unless there is nothing
                     confidential at all in your index file, or unless you are
                     certain that nobody but you can run processes on your
                     computer.

              default
                     This is the default mode if you do not specify one of the
                     above. In this mode, agedu will attempt to use Linux
                     magic authentication, but if it detects at startup time
                     that /proc/net/tcp is absent or non-functional then it
                     will fall back to using HTTP Basic authentication and
                     invent a user name and password.

       --auth-file filename or --auth-fd fd
              When agedu is using HTTP Basic authentication, these options
              allow you to specify your own user name and password. If you
              specify --auth-file, these will be read from the specified file;
              if you specify --auth-fd they will instead be read from a given
              file descriptor which you should have arranged to pass to agedu.
              In either case, the authentication details should consist of the
              username, followed by a colon, followed by the password,
              followed immediately by end of file (no trailing newline, or
              else it will be considered part of the password).

       --title title
              Specify the string that appears at the start of the <title>
              section of the output HTML pages. The default is `agedu'. This
              title is followed by a colon and then the path you're viewing
              within the index file. You might use this option if you were
              serving agedu reports for several different servers and wanted
              to make it clearer which one a user was looking at.

       --launch shell-command
              Specify a command to be run with the base URL of the web user
              interface, once the web server has started up. The command will
              be interpreted by /bin/sh, and the base URL will be appended to
              it as an extra argument word.

              A typical use for this would be `--launch=browse', which uses
              the XDG `browse' command to automatically open the agedu web
              interface in your default browser. However, other uses are
              possible: for example, you could provide a command which
              communicates the URL to some other software that will use it for
              something.

       --no-eof
              Stop agedu in web server mode from looking for end-of-file on
              standard input and treating it as a signal to terminate.

LIMITATIONS
       The data file is pretty large. The core of agedu is the tree-based data
       structure it uses in its index in order to efficiently perform the
       queries it needs; this data structure requires O(N log N) storage. This
       is larger than you might expect; a scan of my own home directory,
       containing half a million files and directories and about 20Gb of data,
       produced an index file over 60Mb in size. Furthermore, since the data
       file must be memory-mapped during most processing, it can never grow
       larger than available address space, so a really big filesystem may
       need to be indexed on a 64-bit computer. (This is one reason for the
       existence of the -D and -L options: you can do the scanning on the
       machine with access to the filesystem, and the indexing on a machine
       big enough to handle it.)

       The data structure also does not usefully permit access control within
       the data file, so it would be difficult - even given the willingness to
       do additional coding - to run a system-wide agedu scan on a cron job
       and serve the right subset of reports to each user.

       In certain circumstances, agedu can report false positives (reporting
       files as disused which are in fact in use) as well as the more benign
       false negatives (reporting files as in use which are not). This arises
       when a file is, semantically speaking, `read' without actually being
       physically read. Typically this occurs when a program checks whether
       the file's mtime has changed and only bothers re-reading it if it has;
       programs which do this include rsync(1) and make(1). Such programs will
       fail to update the atime of unmodified files despite depending on their
       continued existence; a directory full of such files will be reported as
       disused by agedu even in situations where deleting them will cause
       trouble.

       Finally, of course, agedu's normal usage mode depends critically on the
       OS providing last-access times which are at least approximately right.
       So a file system mounted with Linux's `noatime' option, or the
       equivalent on any other OS, will not give useful results! (However, the
       Linux mount option `relatime', which distributions now tend to use by
       default, should be fine for all but specialist purposes: it reduces the
       accuracy of last-access times so that they might be wrong by up to 24
       hours, but if you're looking for files that have been unused for months
       or years, that's not a problem.)

LICENCE
       agedu is free software, distributed under the MIT licence. Type agedu
       --licence to see the full licence text.

Simon Tatham                      2008‐11‐02                          agedu(1)
