arcan(1)                          User manual                         arcan(1)

NAME
       aloadimage - Trivial image viewer for Arcan servers

SYNOPSIS
       aloadimage [global_options] file1 file2 ...


DESCRIPTION
       aloadimage displays images over an arcan connection point. Each image
       is parsed in a separate and sandboxed process. If multiple images are
       provided, a certain number of items will be processed in advance.


OPTIONS
       -a, --aspect
              image into output window, maintain source image aspect radio and
              pad with a background color.


       -S, --server-size
              Scale source images to fit server- suggested content size. This
              changes the primary type from MEDIA (server side scaling) to
              APPLICATION (client defined scaling).


       -l, --loop
              When the playlist reaches the end, it will loop back from the
              beginning rather than shutting down.


       -t, --step-time
              Set the playlist automatic stepping time (default: 0, manual
              control). The time unit is in ticks on a 25Hz clock.


       -b, --block-input
              Ignore all keyboard and mouse input.


       -d, --display connpath
              By default, the ARCAN_CONNPATH environment is used in order to
              find an arcan instance to connect to. This argument ignores that
              in favor for the connpath argument.


       -p, --padcol ,g,b,a
              When running in a scalemode where source size != destination
              size and output window cannot be resized, the default behavior
              is to center image and pad the sides. This argument can override
              the default colors with the restriction that all four channels
              should be provided and only decimal encoding in the range 0-255
              is accepted.


       -m, --limit-mem limit(mb)
              Limit the maximum decoded memory sized allowed for eaching
              loading process.


       -r, --readahead limit(count)
              Set the readahead limit for worker processes preloading playlist
              contents.


       -T, --timeout timeout(seconds)
              Stop/kill a worker process if it fails to decode an image within
              a certain number of seconds.


       -x, --no-sysflt
              (build- option) aloadimage may be built with syscall filtering
              for worker processes. This may break image loading in some
              environments/libc implementations and may therefore need to be
              disabled.


       -H, --vr
              attempt to connect as a VR compatible output, requires that the
              listening end accepts HMD_L/R primary and secondary segment
              types. Playlist items should be prefixed with the intended
              dominant eye, e.g. l:image_l.jpg r:image_r.jpg.


       -h, --help
              Show a brief summary of commands and usage.


ENVIRONMENT
       ARCAN_CONNPATH
              Name of the connection point to use when connecting to arcan.

       ARCAN_CONNKEY
              Key to use for authenticating againgst the connection path.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2017-2020 Bjorn Stahl. 3-clause BSD licensed. This is
       free software: you are free  to  change and redistribute it. There is
       NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.


AUTHOR
       Bjorn Stahl <contact at arcan-fe dot com>

aloadimage                        August 2020                         arcan(1)
