ANDI(1)                           andi manual                          ANDI(1)

NAME
       andi - estimates evolutionary distances

SYNOPSIS
       andi [OPTIONS...] FILES...

DESCRIPTION
       andi estimates the evolutionary distance between closely related
       genomes. For this andi reads the input sequences from FASTA files and
       computes the pairwise anchor distance. The idea behind this is
       explained in a paper by Haubold et al. (2015).

OUTPUT
       The output is a symmetrical distance matrix in PHYLIP format, with each
       entry representing divergence with a positive real number. A distance
       of zero means that two sequences are identical, whereas other values
       are estimates for the nucleotide substitution rate (Jukes-Cantor
       corrected). For technical reasons the comparison might fail and no
       estimate can be computed. In such cases nan is printed. This either
       means that the input sequences were too short (<200bp) or too diverse
       (K>0.5) for our method to work properly.

OPTIONS
       -b INT, --bootstrap=INT
              Compute multiple distance matrices, with n-1 bootstrapped from
              the first. See the paper Klötzl & Haubold (2016) for a detailed
              explanation.

       --file-of-filenames=FILE
              Usually, andi is called with the filenames as commandline
              arguments. With this option the filenames may also be read from
              a file itself, with one name per line. Use a single dash ('-')
              to read from stdin.

       -j, --join
              Use this mode if each of your FASTA files represents one
              assembly with numerous contigs. andi will then treat all of the
              contained sequences per file as a single genome. In this mode at
              least one filename must be provided via command line arguments.
              For the output the filename is used to identify each sequence.

       -l, --low-memory
              In multithreaded mode, andi requires memory linear to the amount
              of threads. The low memory mode changes this to a constant
              demand independent from the used number of threads.
              Unfortunately, this comes at a significant runtime cost.

       -m MODEL, --model=MODEL
              Set the nucleotide evolution model to one of 'Raw', 'JC',
              'Kimura', or 'LogDet'. By default the Jukes-Cantor correction is
              used.

       -p FLOAT
              Significance of an anchor; default: 0.025.

       --progress[=WHEN]
              Print a progress bar. WHEN can be 'auto' (default if omitted),
              'always', or 'never'.

       -t INT, --threads=INT
              The number of threads to be used; by default, all available
              processors are used.
              Multithreading is only available if andi was compiled with
              OpenMP support.

       --truncate-names
              By default andi outputs the full names of sequences, optionally
              padded with spaces, if they are shorter than ten characters.
              Names longer than ten characters may lead to problems with
              downstream tools. With this switch names will be truncated.

       -v, --verbose
              Prints additional information, including the amount of found
              homology. Apply multiple times for extra verboseness.

       -h, --help
              Prints the synopsis and an explanation of available options.

       --version
              Outputs version information and acknowledgments.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2014 - 2021 Fabian Klötzl License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3
       or later.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  The full license
       text is available at <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
       1) andi: Haubold, B. Klötzl, F. and Pfaffelhuber, P. (2015). andi: Fast
       and accurate estimation of evolutionary distances between closely
       related genomes, Bioinformatics 31.8.
       2) Algorithms: Ohlebusch, E. (2013). Bioinformatics Algorithms.
       Sequence Analysis, Genome Rearrangements, and Phylogenetic
       Reconstruction. pp 118f.
       3) SA construction: Mori, Y. (2005). libdivsufsort, unpublished.
       4) Bootstrapping: Klötzl, F. and Haubold, B. (2016). Support Values for
       Genome Phylogenies, Life 6.1.

BUGS
   Reporting Bugs
       Please report bugs to <kloetzl@evolbio.mpg.de> or at
       <https://github.com/EvolBioInf/andi>.

0.15-beta                         2020-01-09                           ANDI(1)
