ap-config(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           ap-config(8)

NAME
     ap-config - configure and monitor Atmel and NWN based APs


SYNOPSIS
     ap-config


DESCRIPTION
     ap-config to config and get stats from Atmel-chipset based AP with ATMEL
     Private MIB support.


MENU
     Info/

     SysInfo
            Get info about AP hardware and software

     Ethernet
            This option displays the Ethernet statistics for your reference.

     Wireless
            This option displays the wireless statistics for your reference.

     Stations (atmel)
            Under this menu the user will be able to see the Associated
            Stations that are currently associated with the Access Point. For
            each associated station the user will be able to see the MAC
            Address. From version 0.7.3-pre1 you may save mac addresses list
            to file ~/<util_name>.stations.  Stations on NWN AP: For each
            associated station the user will be able to see the MAC Address,
            Link Quality, RSSI and Idle time.
             * Mac address: If the association is pending (that is, the Client
            is scanning, authenticating or associating), assocAddress contains
            the MAC address of that Client with the group bit set to indicate
            that the Access Point is aware of the presence of that Client. The
            other objects of the entry will be updated based on the
            information extracted from the received Probe Requests.
             * Link Quality: An indicator for the quality of the Client. If
            the association is still pending, the quality is calculated over
            the received Probe Requests from the Client. If the Client is
            associated, the quality derived from any activity with the Client.
            The actual quality source depends on the selected quality
            indicator. The semantics of the indicator is 'low is good quality'
            and 'high is bad quality'.
             * IdleTime: An indicator (in seconds) for the age of the
            information on the Client. The age is reset to 0 if any activity
            of this Client is detected.
             * RSSI: An indicator for the RSSI of the Client. If the
            association is still pending, the RSSI is calculated over the
            received Probe Requests from the Client. If the Client is
            associated, the RSSI derived from any activity with the Client.

     KnownAP
            By using option APs from info menu you may see all Access Points
            thats visible by your AP.
             * Link  Quality:  An indicator for the quality of the Client. If
            the associat ion  is  still  pending, the  quality  is calculated
            over the received Probe Requests from the Client. If the Client is
            associated,  the  quality  derived from any activity with the
            Client. The actual quality  source  depends  on the  selected
            quality  indicator. The semantics of the indicator is 'low is good
            quality' and 'high is bad quality'.
             * RSSI:  An indicator for the RSSI in dBm of the Client.  If the
            association is still pending,  the  RSSI  is calculated  over  the
            received Probe Requests from the Client. If the Client is
            associated,  the  RSSI derived from any activity with the Client.
             * WARNING! By reports this option my be dangerously - in some
            cases you may lost you AP configuration and on SMC2655W the one
            way to fix it - only restore factory defaults.

     Config/

     Bridging
             IP configuration - If the server site supports DHCP function and
            the  DHCP Enable box is ticked; the IP address of an access point
            will be automatically displayed and assigned; otherwise, you need
            to key in an IP address now.      The primary port provides a
            wired or wireless method to change the access point setting. If
            the  Ethernet  option is ticked, the setting of an access point
            can be done through Ethernet. If the Wireless  option is ticked,
            the access point function can be set through a wireless station.
            Wireless station means a laptop PC or a desktop PC equipped with
            an IEEE802.11b PCMCIA card or USB dongle.      Enable SNMP Traps
            enables the SNMP trap function. You can view the records by using
            ap-trapd utility.      You are allowed to set your access point to
            be used as  Access point, Access point client, or  Wireless
            bridge.
             * Access Point - An internetworking device that seamlessly
            connects wired and wireless networks together.
             * Wireless bridge Point to point - The point-to-point wireless
            bridge configuration uses two Wireless Bridge units to connect two
            separate LANs. You must to fill in the Remote MAC Address before
            your bridge-function-enable access point can work with it.
             * Point to multipoint - When connecting three to more separate
            LANs, each LAN located building requires a wireless bridge. This
            is called Multipoint wireless bridge and again requires one
            Master  bridge unit and two or more Slave bridge units as
            required. If the point-to-multipoint option is selected, your
            bridge-function-enable access point will designate as a  Mater
            and to work with it, others bridges need to be set as a point-to-
            point bridge and enter the MAC address of the mater access point.

     Wireless
            You can give your access point a name and give it an ESSID
            (Extended Service Station ID), which can allow other wireless
            stations, which knows the ESSID, to link with it.


     Privacy
            The Privacy options allow you to enable 64-bit or 128-bit WEP
            (wired equivalent privacy) encryption. If an encryption function
            is not needed, you can just simply tick on the  Disable  box to
            disable it. If the 64-bit or 128-bit encryption function is
            enabled, there are four sets of key need to be filled into the
            blanket boxes. For the 64-bit encryption, each key is required to
            enter 5 Hex digits. For example: 11 22 33 44 55 66. The 128-bit
            encryption requires each key to enter 13 Hex digits. For example:
            12 34 56 78 9A BC DE F0 11 22 33 44 55.
            NOTE! The WEP keys you enter are really accepted and written to
            the AP, permanently if you do an Upload from the Commands menu
            after setting them.  However, the new key values are not echoed to
            the user when you return to the Privacy settings under the Config
            menu.  This is a security feature of SNMP implementation in this
            hardware.


     Authorized MAC address
            For security or management purpose, you can edit a list of
            authorized MAC addresses, which are allowed to view or modify the
            setting of an access point. Authorization Table Enable  option
            allows you to enable or disable this function.


     Community
            The Community configuration  allow you to set a phrase for
            administrator and manufacturer community and a phrase for user
            community. If a user knows the phrase of administrator, he/she is
            authorized to change the setting of an access point. If a user
            only knows about the phrase of a user community; he/she is allowed
            to view the setting of an access point but is not allowed to
            change the setting.


     Radio      Under the Radio user will be able to set or get the
            Transmitting Powervalues, for the Control Register 31 of the
            Baseband, for each channel. Reg CR31: Under this option user
            defines a value for the transmitted power (Value for the Control
            register 31 of the baseband) and it must be in the range 128 (max)
            to 255 (min) in Decimal form. Starting from version 0.6 of Access
            Point SNMP Config utility it's possible to set power output level
            for your AP. You may set signal power output in range from 0mw to
            100mw by setting value for corresponding channel from 0 to 255
            (0xFF). The scale is as follows:
                         Value: 00----------128--------255
                         Power: 0mw--------100mw-------0mw
                 So to get maximum power output from your AP set value for
            corresponding channel to 128 (0x80). But sometimes better solution
            - experimentalli choose values for best link quality, sometimes
            not max. More info you can get from:
             http://pasadena.net/aprf/;
             http://www.wi2600.org/mediawhore/nf0/wireless/docs/802.11/WAP11/fun_with_the_wap11.txt.

     Advanced

     StationDBTimeout: This object specifies a timeout on entries and their
     state information in the Station database. For Clients the Station
     database is mapped on the roamTable. For Access Points, the Station
     database is mapped on the assocTable. The timeout is in seconds.

     ACKWindow: The ACK frame time out defined in number of slottimes. This
     can be used to optimize long range links.


     Commands/

     Upload After you ve changed any value or setting of an access point
            through the SNMP config utility. You must come back to this option
            to make the new changes and setting s validated. Also, only an
            administrator and manufacturer is allowed to do such changes.

     Defaults
            Restore factory default configuration.

     Reset  Reset AP. All changed and not uploaded settings will be lost.

     TestMode/
                 When user selects the Tests option a form will appear
            indicating a number of parameter needed to be set by the user in
            order to perform the Radio test.
                    Antenna: Under this option we specify the antenna to be
            tested (A, B).
                    Tx Filter: Under this option user needs to select the
            Baseband transmitting Filter to be used. There are two options
            (US, JPN) available since the bandwidth for Europe - USA is 11MHz
            and for, Japan is 14MHz.
                    Rate: Under this option user needs to specify the rate to
            be used among the following options 1Mbps, 2Mbps, 5.5Mbps and
            11Mbps.
                    Channel: Under this option user needs to select the
            channel to be used. There are 14 channels available.      After
            setting the parameters there are three commands available:
            Continuous Tx (With modulation), Continuous Tx (Witout modulation)
            and Continuous Rx:
             * Continuous Tx (with modulation): Using this command the MAC
            sets the transmitter in continuous mode with modulation. We can
            measure the output power of the radio.
             * Continuous Tx (without modulation): Using this command we can
            measure the frequency accuracy of the radio. The MAC sets the
            baseband Processor in test mode and turns off the spreading and
            scrambling codes.
             * Continuous Rx: With this command user can set the device in a
            receiving mode.
             Note: In  order to perform the above test user needs to have a
            Spectrum Analyzer connected.


     Connect/
            In order to make a connection with Access Point user needs to set
            two parameters. The IP Address of the Access Point and the
            Community name (default 'public').

     Search/
            Find connected Access Points. Search for WNW APs only works if
            community set to right AP community. It's useful if you know
            community but dont know what ip your AP got from DHCP server.  You
            must have support for multicasting enabled in kernel.

     About/ About function shows the Wireless Access Point Configurator for
            Unix version and short info.

     Shell/ Run subshell. To return type 'exit'


NAVIGATION KEYS
     In case you unable to use cursor keys to menu navigate - try to use "h"
     to go left, "j" to go down, "k" to go up, "l" to go right, like vi
     editor.


AUTHOR
     Roman Festchook <roma@polesye.net>
     http://ap-utils.polesye.net


SEE ALSO
     ap-trapd(8), ap-mrtg(8)


                    Wireless Access Point Utilites for Unix       ap-config(8)
