ARCHIVESMTP(8)          FreeBSD System Manager's Manual         ARCHIVESMTP(8)

NAME
     archivesmtp – SMTP mail archiver

SYNOPSIS
     archivesmtp [-abdhnv] [-r pidfile] [-t timeout] [-u username] -f filename
                 -p port

DESCRIPTION
     archivesmtp uses rule based matching to collect local copies of mail
     passing through the MTA (Mail Transfer Agent) using the milter library
     interface.

     Supported options are as follows:

     -a       Always store mail. By default archivesmtp will always allow mail
              to pass. This option causes mail to be rejected with a temporary
              failure message should something prevent its storage. Use with
              care, simply having a rule with a path that is not writable
              would result in all messages that match the rule being rejected.

     -b       Detach from the terminal and run in the background (daemonise
              process). This will cause all output to be sent to /dev/null and
              the working directory to be set to /.

     -d       Don't unlink local or unix domain sockets prior to attempting to
              open them, if they exist the open will fail and the program will
              exit with an error. In normal operating conditions the socket
              would be unlinked when the program exits, thus the existence of
              the socket would suggest the program is already running. However
              the socket could be left behind if the program was unable to
              exit cleanly. *NOTE: When running as root the socket will NEVER
              be removed on exit.

     -f filename
              Filename of the configuration file to use. For the format of
              this file check the CONFIGURATION section of this man page. This
              argument is required.

     -h       Help. Prints the usage string and then exits.

     -n       No run. Parses configuration file and prints out the rules that
              would be created by it, then exits. Useful for testing that a
              configuration file has no syntax errors.

     -p port  Port to use for communications with MTA, can be of type unix,
              local or inet. For example: unix:/var/run/archivesmtp/f1.sock.
              This argument is required. *NOTE: If using unix or local socket
              and the file exists it will be DELETED unless running with the
              -d option.

     -r pidfile
              Running processes pid will be stored in this file. The path must
              be readable and writable by the user archivesmtp is running as.

     -t timeout
              Timeout value for communication between archivesmtp and the MTA
              in seconds. The default value of 7210 will be used if this flag
              is not given (Note: Zero (0) does NOT mean wait forever, but
              rather do not wait at all).

     -u username
              Username to run as. This can only be set by the root user, it is
              recommended that you do NOT run archivesmtp as root.

     -v       Verbose output to stdout. Add multiple v's to increase level of
              verbosity (currently two is the highest level used).

CONFIGURATION
     The configuration file contains a list of rules that when matched will
     cause the listed actions specified by that rule to be performed. Rules
     are evaluated in the order they appear and evaluation will continue
     regardless of the success or failure of the previous rule to match,
     unless Halt was given as one of the rules actions.

     Each rule is made up of two parts, the rule body which contains all the
     conditions of the rule and is contained between an opening { and closing
     } bracket followed by a list of comma separated actions to perform if the
     rule matches. The rule is terminated by a semi-colon.

     { rule_body } action_list;

     The rule body consists of one or more conditions which are separated by
     the Or and And key words. Conditions can also be grouped between opening
     ( and closing ) brackets.

     { condition1 or (condition2 and condition3) }

     Each condition is made up of three values, the field to match against,
     the part of the field to match against and finally the string to match.
     Valid fields are Sender, From or To and the parts that can be matched are
     Start, End, Contains or Is. The string to match can be quoted and honours
     backslash \ escapes, if not quoted it is white space delimited. The
     string match will be case insensitive except in the case of Sender, since
     usernames are case sensitive while mail addresses are not. All conditions
     may be negated using the ! character before them, this includes brackets.

     { Field Part String }

     Fields:

     Sender    The username of the sender from SMTP Auth (or null if not
               auth'd)

     From      The address given in the From: header of the mail

     To        All recipients of the mail, including To:, Cc: and Bcc:

     Parts:

     Start     Matches string against the start of the field

     End       Matches string against the end of the field

     Contains  Matches string against any part of the field

     Is        Matches if the string and field are the same

     There are also two special conditions that need no part or string:

     Not Matched
               Matches if no previous rule has matched this mail

     Match All
               Matches everything

     The action list consists of one or more actions separated by commas, each
     action has a type and a single string containing all arguments. The rule
     is terminated after the last action by a semi-colon. There must be at
     least one action.

     action1_type arguments, action2_type arguments;

     Actions:

     Store In  Stores the matching mail to the file specified in the argument

     Add Header
               Adds a header to the matching mail, the argument format is
               "field:value"

     Pipe      Executes the program specified in the argument and pipes the
               mail data to that programs standard input

     Halt      Flags that should this rule match, no further matching will be
               performed after processing its actions. Has no arguments.

     Action arguments support token substitution. Tokens are in UPPER CASE and
     marked by a % symbol at the start and end. All tokens support the
     addition of .USER or .DOMAIN to substitute only that part of the address,
     by default they insert the whole address. You may use an unlimited amount
     of tokens.

     Tokens:

     %%        Inserts a literal % character

     %SENDER%  Inserts the username of the sender if it has been set

     %FROM%    Inserts the address set in the from header

     %TO%      Inserts the FIRST matched address in the to header

     %ALLTO%   This special case token will cause the action it appears in to
               be performed once for every matched address in the to header,
               substituting a different one each time

     *Note: Both the TO and ALLTO tokens require at least one To condition to
     be tested and matched by the rule they are part of, otherwise they will
     be empty.

     So an example rule may be as follows:

     { Sender Starts "bob" Or From Contains "bob" and (To Ends "@domain.com"
     Or To Ends "@other.com") } Store In /home/%SENDER.USER%/mail.mbox, Halt;

     Please take a look at the sample configuration file for more examples.

Authors
     Dancing Fortune Software - http://www.dancingfortune.com

SEE ALSO
     http://www.dancingfortune.com/projects/archivesmtp/

                                    1/11/09
