artsportagg(l)                                                  artsportagg(l)

NAME
       artsportagg - utility to aggregate port table objects in time domain

SYNOPSIS
       artsportagg [-h hours] [-o] [-q] outfile infile(s)

DESCRIPTION
       artsportagg is a utility that reads port table objects from ARTS files
       (infile(s)) and aggregates them in the time domain, placing the
       resulting port table object(s) into an output file (outfile).

OPTIONS
       -h hours
              The -h hours option may be used to specify the period of
              aggregation, in hours.  The hours argument accepts a decimal
              value to permit aggregation by fractional hour values.  When the
              -h hours option is not used, artsportagg will write a single
              port table object for the entire time interval seen in infile(s)
              to outfile.

       -o     By default, artsportagg appends to the output file, so you may
              accumlate aggregate port table objects in a single file over
              multiple invocations of artsportagg.  You may override this
              behavior with the -o option.  This will cause artsportagg to
              overwrite the output file instead of appending to it.

       -q     By default, artsportagg prints a '.' for each port table object
              it reads and prints a '+' for each object it writes.  You may
              suppress this behavior with the -q (quiet) option.

EXAMPLES
       artsportagg -h 1.0 /tmp/portagg1hr.19980821 arts.19980821

SEE ALSO
       artsagg(l), artsportmagg(l), artsportms(l), artsports(l), artsdump(l),
       artsases(l), artsasagg(l), artsnets(l), artsnetagg(l), artsprotoagg(l),
       artsprotos(l), artsintfms(l), artsintfmagg(l), artsnexthops(l),
       artsnexthopagg(l), artstos(l), artstoc(l)

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       artsportagg and documentation written by Daniel W. McRobb
       CAIDA, August 1998


                                     LOCAL                      artsportagg(l)
