asfsm(1.0pre15)                                                asfsm(1.0pre15)

NAME
       asfsm - the AfterStep file system monitor

SYNOPSIS
       asfsm [-showzero] [-bg] [-fg] [-bp] [-z] [-pbg] [-pfg] [-pbp] [-i]

DESCRIPTION
       The asfsm application is a file system monitor for the AfterStep window
       manager.  It displays "raised" horizontal bars representing the percent
       used of each mounted filesystem. Filesystems of zero initial block size
       are represented as "lowered" horizontal bars that span the entire
       window if the -showzero option is used, otherwise they are not shown at
       all.  asfsm checks the filesystem usage on an interval.  Filesystems
       mounted between intervals will appear after the next scan.  Left
       clicking the mouse in a bar pops up a window displaying detailed
       information about the filesystem that the bar represents.  Left
       clicking the mouse in the border or anywhere not occupied by a bar pops
       up a window which displays the filesystem names and mount directories
       for each filesystem available for mount (excluding NFS filesystems on
       sun machines).  An icon surrounded by a colored rectangle displays the
       filesystem type and status.  A red rectangle denotes an unmounted
       filesystem, a green denotes a mounted filesystem and a yellow rectangle
       denotes a filesystem which users do not have permission to mount or
       unmount.  A zip disk image is displayed for all filesystems whose
       device name contain "zip",  a jaz disk image is displayed for all
       filesystems whose device name contain "jaz", a Compact Disc is
       displayed for all filesystems whose type is "RCKRDG", "ISO9660",
       "iso9660", or "hsfs", a floppy image is displayed for all filesystems
       whose device name contains "fd", a dos floppy image is displayed for
       all floppies whose device type is "DOS" or "msdos", a dos hard disk
       image is displayed for all non-floppies whose device type is "DOS" or
       "msdod", a networking image is displayed for all nfs filesystems (whose
       filesystem names have a":" in them) and an image of a hard drive
       platter with a devil on it is displayed for everything else.  Left
       clicking inside the colored rectangle toggles the mount status of the
       filesystem.

CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
       -showzero
              Shows zero sized filesystems such as /proc.

       -bg
              Changes background color of the main window.

       -fg
              Changes foreground color of the main window.

       -bp
              Changes background pixmap of the main window. Can also be None
              which lets the background color show through.

       -z
              Changes foreground color for filesystems of zero initial block
              size.

       -pbg
              Changes background color of the popup window.

       -pfg
              Changes foreground color of the popup window.

       -pbd
              Changes border color of the popup window.

       -pbp
              Changes background pixmap of the popup window. Can also be None
              which lets the background color show through, Transparent which
              makes it transparent, or Translucent which makes it translucent.

       -i
              Changes the interval of scan in seconds. The default is every 5
              seconds.

INVOCATION
       asfsm can be called from one of many ways.  The most common invocation
       is the command line:

            [user@host] ~% asfsm -b green -f blue -i 3 -pbp Translucent&

       Another way to call asfsm is from the window manager:

            *Wharf - - MaxSwallow "asfsm" asfsm -b green -f blue -i 3 -pbp Translucent&



       This line, when placed in the .steprc file in the users home directory
       will cause asfsm a button on the Wharf (1) button bar under the
       afterstep (1) window manager.

COPYRIGHTS
       GNU GPL v2

AUTHORS
       David Muse <mused@examco.com> -- application and man page.

3rd Berkeley Distribution        21 April 1998                 asfsm(1.0pre15)
