ATP(1)                     ATP QWK Mail/News Reader                     ATP(1)



NAME
       atp - read, reply, and archive QWK format mail packets.


SYNOPSIS
       atp bbsname[.qwX]

       where bbsname is the name of the QWK packet with extension omitted.
       The long form uses bbsname.qwX where X is any valid filename character,
       typically the letter `k' or a digit in the range `0' to `9'.


DESCRIPTION
       ATP is used for reading and replying to messages contained in QWK mail
       packets which are available through public access bulletin boards. ATP
       evolved from an earlier reader written by Rene Cougnenc which he called
       `AzerTyuioP' (the name `AzerTyuioP' is the top row of keys on a French
       typewriter).  ATP has greatly enhanced and expanded upon the
       functionality of its predecessor. But like its predecessor, ATP still
       may be compiled for the French language. German is now also supported.
       ATP includes the Rich Salz and Simmule Turner Emacs-style command line
       editor with command history. Note that this is covered by a separate
       copyright.


       A BBS will typically carry topical news conferences. A user may dial up
       a BBS, start a program know as a mail door, and quickly gather the
       current news into a file called a ``QWK packet.'' Once this file is
       downloaded, an offline mail reader such as ATP processes it for reading
       and replying at one's leisure.  There are several formats for offline
       mail packets but QWK is the most common. Some of the more popular QWK
       mail doors which produce these packets are Qmail, Markmail, Jimmer, and
       TQM.  ATP can handle QWK packets produced by any of these doors so
       there is no need to worry which one to use.


       When started, ATP will present you with a command prompt. This prompt
       will show the current active BBS and the conference. At any time you
       may type `help' at the command prompt to receive a summary of commands.
       ATP also functions as a mini-shell allowing you to enter many common
       Unix commands at the prompt.


FEATURES
       In addition to reading and replying to mail, ATP maintains archives of
       past messages. These can be reviewed at any time. As new QWK packets
       are loaded, they are immediately added to the archives. Pointers to the
       last read messages are maintained. Loading a new mail packet will not
       reset these pointers. Reading will resume with the last read message in
       each conference. By entering a number at the command line, ATP will
       move to that message number and display it. In this way you can move
       backward and forward among the messages at will. Typing `reset' resets
       the the message pointer, marking the current message as the last
       message read.  The `clean' command provides a means of maintaining and
       pruning message bases.


       ATP will support 8192 conferences per BBS. The limit is set for
       backward compatibility with some older mail doors. You may change this
       limit by recompiling ATP should the need arise.  Your tagline file can
       hold many thousands of taglines, essentially no limit for most
       purposes.  Taglines are stored in a the plain text file taglines.atp.


       Other features include the ability to scan message headers, a tagline
       management system, support for FIDO or regular style taglines, personal
       mail notification and personal mail conference, the ability to search
       messages for strings, a separate conference for replies, kill and
       change security on replies, tagline selection by random, automatic, or
       direct means, hooks for a spelling checker, powerful command line
       editing with history recall.


ENVIRONMENT
       ATP looks for three environment variables: SHELL, HOME, and ATP.  The
       SHELL
       environment variable must reflect the path to your command shell (under
       MSDOS and OS/2 this path would be called COMSPEC
       instead).  The HOME
       environment variable points to your home directory.  Some command
       processors will automatically set SHELL and HOME for you.  The ATP
       environment variable should be the full path to a subdirectory where
       ATP will store its configuration files, normally a subdirectory under
       your home directory. Use a descriptive name such as `atpmail' or
       `qwkmail' for this directory. As you probably know, environment
       variables most often are set by adding entries to your command shell's
       startup file (.e.g.  .profile or autoexec.bat).


CONFIGURATION
       Before using ATP for the first time, you will have to edit its
       configuration file which you may call either .atprc or atprc.  This
       file contains a list of information which tells ATP where to find your
       mail packets, what editor to invoke for entering messages, how many
       lines your screen has. Below is a typical configuration file.
       IMPORTANT! A space must reside on either side of the `=' sign for
       correct parsing to take place. After you have edited your atprc
       configuration file, don't forget to put it in the same directory as
       pointed to by the ATP
       environment variable, or your home directory. If you have a Perl
       interpreter installed on your system, you can use the script atpdiag to
       check your installation and configuration. See atpdiag(1) for details.


       # -------------------------------------------------------
       # sample atprc ATP configuration file
       #
       user = PAUL DRAKE
       editor = vile
       reply =  /usr/spool
       mail  =  /usr/spool
       archiver = zip -jk
       unarchiver = unzip -Lxjo
       speller = ispell
       ansi = on
       bell = on
       color = on
       graphics = on
       charset = latin1
       screenlen = 25
       screencol = 80
       qlist = ls -lt *.qw? | cut -c 34- | less
       blist = ls -lt blt* | cut -c 34- | less
       tagstyle = fido
       tagline = Why buy a cow when the milk is free?
       autotag = on
       workpath = /tmp
       truncate = 50
       pcb = on
       header = off
       #  end of sample atprc ATP configuration file
       # ------------------------------------------------------



       user
            Your name goes here. It must be spelled exactly as it appears on
            the bulletin boards where you are registered.


       editor
            The name of the editor which you will use to edit your replies.


       reply
            This is the path to your directory where you keep reply packets
            for uploading.


       mail
            This is the path to your directory where downloaded message
            packets are kept.


       archiver
            This is the name of the program used to prepare your reply packet
            for uploading. Normally this is zip.  When using the Info-Zip
            version, the switches `-jk' tell zip to create archives without
            pathnames and to emulate PKzip. These switches aren't absolutely
            needed put could be helpful in certain situations.  Please acquire
            the most recent versions of zip and unzip for your system which
            are compatible with the BBSs which you frequent. The Info-Zip
            package is highly recommended.


       unarchiver
            This is the name of the program used to extract the data files
            from your QWK mail packets. Normally this would be unzip.  The
            sample atprc assumes the freeware Info-Zip version of unzip.  The
            switches `-Lxjo' tell it to extract files while junking path
            names, convert MSDOS file names to lower case, and to overwrite
            existing files without prompting. These switches may not always be
            necessary but may be helpful in certain situations. Use
            appropriate switches for the brand of unarchiver you are using.


       speller
            This line defines the name of the spelling checker you wish to use
            to check the spelling of your replies. The program ispell is
            recommended because of its interactive design. It is available in
            source code form via anonymous ftp from prep.ai.mit.edu:/pub/gnu.


       ansi
            This configuration switch can be set to either `on' or `off'. It
            defaults to `off' but most users should set this to `on'. This
            controls the placing of the cursor on the screen and other screen
            attributes.  Note that if `ansi' is set `on' you must have a
            terminal capable of handling ANSI sequences. MSDOS users will want
            to add the line DEVICE=ANSI.SYS
            to their config.sys file in order to use this feature. Many common
            terminals support ANSI such as the popular VT102 and VT220
            terminals. The Linux console also supports ANSI, as do many other
            PC unixes, and OS/2. So if you fall into any of these categories,
            please set `ansi' to `on'.


       bell
            This configuration switch can be set to either `on' or `off'. It
            determines if ATP will use the terminal bell. If you desire silent
            operation, set bell to `off'.


       color
            ATP will support color on ANSI terminals. Setting color `on' will
            enable ANSI color. You must have the ATP `ansi' variable set to
            `on' also.  If you have a monochrome terminal you may find that
            setting color to `off' gives a more readable screen. Experiment
            and see.


       graphics
            When graphics is set to `on' ATP will use VT102 line graphics
            characters to emulate the MSDOS line graphic character set. Linux
            users will want to set this `on'. If your terminal or system
            console is unable to display the VT102 line graphics set then set
            this `off'.

            If you want to see if your terminal is capable of displaying VT102
            graphics, type the command `graphics' at the ATP command line. It
            will toggle this mode on and off, displaying a boxed message. If
            you toggle graphics `on' and instead of a pretty graphics box on a
            reverse field you view an ugly box composed of q's and a's then
            you may safely assume that your terminal will not support VT102
            line graphics.

            Note: not all VT102 class terminals have the line graphics option.
            Note too that line graphics is independent of which character set
            you choose.  If your terminal uses the MSDOS character set and
            displays it correctly, there is little point in choosing this
            option. However, just because your operating system is running on
            a PC, do not assume that is uses the MSDOS character set.


       charset
            Most QWK packets use the MSDOS character set to represent foreign
            language and line graphics characters. If your system does then
            you should set charset equal `msdos' and `graphics' to `off'.
            However most Unix systems do not recognize the MSDOS character set
            mappings. If your terminal or console uses ISO standard LATIN1
            character set (e.g.  Linux) then you will want to set charset
            equal to `latin1'. If your system is unable to display any 8 bit
            characters you will want to set this to `7-bit' (8 bit characters
            will then be mapped to their closest 7-bit counterpart). Please
            see the file atprc for more details. Here is a table of some
            suggested settings:


                                         TABLE 1
                        CHARACTER SET OPTIONS FOR ATPRC VARIABLES

                            ┌──────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
                            │  system  │  charset │  graphics │
                            ├──────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
                            │  Linux   │   latin1 │   on     │
                            │  VT102   │   7-bit  │   on     │
                            │  generic │   7-bit  │   off    │
                            │  OS/2    │   msdos  │   off    │
                            │  386bsd  │   msdos  │   off    │
                            │  MS-DOS  │   msdos  │   off    │
                            └──────────┴──────────┴──────────┘

       screenlen
            This configuration setting tells ATP how many lines your screen
            uses.  This depends on the type of video card which you are using
            and also on the type of terminal emulation which you have
            selected. Valid entries are in the range of 3 to 300. If ATP is
            unable to automatically detect your screen size, it will fallback
            to these values.


       screencol
            This configuration setting tells ATP how many columns your screen
            uses.  This depends on the type of video card which you are using
            and also on the type of terminal emulation which you have
            selected.  Typical entries are 80 columns. Some terminals will
            support 132 columns too.  If ATP is unable to automatically detect
            your screen size, it will fallback to the value you specify here.


       qlist
            Used for listing QWK packets.  This configuration entry is a
            command line which will be executed anytime you type `qlist' at
            the ATP prompt. ATP will change to your mail path directory and
            execute this command line. The example here when invoked will list
            all the QWK packets in your mail directory sorted by time and only
            displaying the size, date, and name of the packets. It is piped
            into `less' which is the GNU version of `more'. You may delete
            this entry or modify it if it doesn't do what you want. A simple
            default entry is already set internal to ATP.


       blist
            ATP can display bulletins delivered with the mail packet. The
            `blt' command uses the string specified here, passing it to the
            shell to list your bulletins.  You will want to modify this entry
            depending on your operating system. After you have viewed the list
            of available bulletins, view a bulletin by typing its name at the
            command line.


       tagstyle
            This switch sets the default style used in your message taglines.
            It defaults to normal. By setting this to `tagstyle = fido', atp
            will start up using FIDOnet style taglines. See later section on
            taglines for more information.


       tagline
            This is used to set your persistent tagline which can always be
            called back immediately from the command line. See section on
            taglines for details.


       autotag
            By default, ATP will randomly select taglines for your replies.
            The taglines are stored in the text file taglines.atp located in
            the same directory as your atprc. Automatic selection of taglines
            may be turned off from the command line or by setting autotag to
            `off'.


       workpath
            This option is not usually needed. However, if you need the ATP
            work directory to be on some particular path or drive specify it
            here.  OS/2 and MSDOS users can specify a disk drive by specifying
            the drive letter. See example in atprc.


       truncate
            Under ATP there is a `clean' command that will put you into
            maintenance mode for your message bases. One of the options is to
            truncate a message base to the most recent messages. This option
            sets the default truncation length. This truncate option can be
            changed during the maintenance process if the need should arise.


       pcb
            The BBS known as PCBoard supports long subject lines as of PCB
            version 15.  If you would like to have long subject lines then set
            this option on. Note that not all QWK readers will be able to read
            your entire subject line because most readers are limited to 25
            characters. But generally there should be no problem. Note that if
            you use the RIME network that you should not use a long subject
            line when entering a routed message, i.e. a message where the
            first line must read something like ->156<-.  If this option is
            enabled and you enter a reply subject line less than 25 characters
            in length, behavior defaults to normal QWK conventions.


       header
            When replying to a message, ATP generates a reply header which
            mentions the author of the message being responded to. If you wish
            to have no headers then set the header option off in your atprc.


SHELL SYSTEM COMMANDS
       When at the ATP command prompt, you will be able to execute many common
       Unix commands directly: cat, cd, cp, echo, df, du, less, ln, lpr, ls,
       man, mkdir, more, mv, pwd, cwd, rm, rmdir, set, sort, sync.


       Under the MSDOS version the following commands are available: cd,
       chkdsk, copy, del, dir, md, mem, more, mkdir, print, rd, rmdir, set,
       sort, type, xcopy.


COMMANDS SUMMARY
       What follows is a summary of the commands available inside ATP. The
       most important are: `load', `review', `j',`n',`r', `e', and `qscan'.
       These will be presented first. Remember that you may always type `help'
       for a brief summary of commands.


       help
            The `help' command will display a brief summary of available
            commands.


       load bbsname
            This command is used to get a QWK packet from your spool directory
            and load it into the reader for viewing. It takes one argument,
            the name of the BBS or the explicit name of the mail packet. If
            you just give the name of the BBS, ATP will search for the packet
            named bbsname.qwk.  You may also name the packet explicitly (e.g.
            bbsdeguy.qwk, joesbbs.qw5, etc.).

            Example:  load zer0g.qw4


       review bbsname
            The review command is used for reviewing the BBS archives
            previously loaded into the reader. It takes one argument, the name
            of the BBS without any extension. DO NOT add the `qwk' file
            extension with this command. The short form of this command is
            `rev'.

            Example:  rev hobbits


       <cr>
            A carriage return alone will read the next message.


       j    [ conference_name | conference_number ]
            The `j' command stands for `join' and it is used for changing
            conferences.  It must be followed by either the conference name or
            the conference number.


       n    The `n' command will join the next active conference.


       a    The `a' command will display the current message again.


       +    The `+' command will go forward one message.


       -    The `-' command will go backward one message.


       r    The `r' command is used to enter a reply to the current message.
            You may redirect a reply to a different message area by following
            `r' with the name of the new area where the reply should be
            posted.  When entering a reply, you are always prompted to allow
            changing of the subject, address, and security information. When
            prompted for security you may answer `n' or `r' which respectively
            stand for `none' and `receiver only' (private message) security.


       x    The `x' command is used to crosspost a reply to another area. To
            use this command, go to the reply conference and select the reply
            you wish to crosspost. Type `x' followed by the conference number
            or conference name where you wish to post a new copy of the reply.


       c    The `c' command is used to enter changes to a previous reply. This
            command Is valid only in the replies conference. It will re-invoke
            the editor for the current message. The old message is killed
            along with its tagline. The tagline active at the time this
            command was invoked will be the new tagline for the edited reply.
            Note that that in the context of the reply conference, the `e'
            command has the same effect as the `c' command—change a reply.


       p    The `p' command is used to toggle message security between
            `private' and `public' for your reply messages. When a message is
            private, a warning to this affect will be highlighted in the
            bottom right of the message header.


       e    [ conference_name | conference_number ]
            The `e' command with no arguments will enter a message in the
            current conference. Again, choose your tagline before entering
            your message.  The `e' command may be followed optionally by the
            name or number of the conference where you would like to enter
            your message. Upon invoking `e' you will be presented some choice
            as to subject, addressee, and message security.

            Note that this command behaves differently if the current
            conference is either the REPLY or PERSONAL conference. If you are
            in the PERSONAL message conference, this command is completely
            disabled because it makes no sense to enter a message in the
            personal conference (you CAN reply to messages though--use the `r'
            command). If you are in the REPLY conference, this command will
            re-edit the current message. It does not enter a new message.


       head
            The `head' command will toggle the automatic reply header on and
            off.  The reply header is a sentence at the top of a quoted reply
            message which will mention the name of the author of the quoted
            message, who it was written to, and on what date it was written.
            If you don't want this style in your replies then you may turn it
            off with the head command or just edit it out when composing your
            reply.


       reset
            The `reset' command is used to set the conference message pointer
            to the highest message which you have read. It looks at the value
            of the current message and resets the highest read pointer to that
            value. This is useful if you wish to quit in the middle of re-
            reading a conference but would like to save your place marker.


       scan
            Will scan forward from the current message displaying message
            headers.  You will be prompted after each screen whether you wish
            to continue scanning.


       qscan
            Quick scan is the same as scan except it will only display a
            single line abbreviated header.


       conf The conf command will display a list of all available conferences
            on a particular BBS.


       ts   The `ts' is text search command, an alias for `find', see below.


       find The `find' command will search the current conference for any text
            that follows it. Wildcards are not supported, and it is not case
            sensitive.  For example:

                 find paul drake

            will display messages containing the text ``Paul Drake'' or ``PaUl
            dRakE'' and so on. After finding some text, use the `next' command
            to repeat the search.  Note that any spaces after the first one
            following `find' are significant.  Thus,

                 find paul drake

            is NOT the same as

                 find      paul drake



       next
            The `next' command is used to repeat the search initiated by the
            `find' command.  If your version of ATP supports function keys,
            pressing F10 is equivalent to typing this command. To abort
            search, type control-C.


       qlist
            The qlist command will display a list of all QWK packets in your
            mail directory. See the configuration section for details.


       clean
            The clean command will allow you to do maintenance on your message
            bases.  You will be able to delete, truncate, or purge messages
            marked as killed.  Use the `k' command while reading messages to
            mark a message as killed.  Set the default truncation length for
            maintenance in your atprc.  This number is changeable from inside
            the clean command should you need that flexibility.


       rot  The rot command will filter the current message through a Usenet
            standard rot-13 text filter. Invoking the rot command twice will
            restore the original message. Rot-13 encoding is sometimes used to
            shield offensive material from being accidentally read. It is not
            a secure cypher, and it is not intended to be.


       !    [ shell_command ]
            Without arguments, this command will shell you out of the program
            into the system. Type `exit' to return. You may also follow this
            command with any valid command line which your operating system's
            command processor will recognize.


       cls  Will clear the screen display.


       pcb  Will toggle support for PCBoard long subject lines.


       time Will display the current date and time.


       date Will display the current date and time


       fido The `fido' command will toggle the current tagline style. See
            section on taglines for more information.


       last The `last' command will display the end message in a conference.


       news The `news' command will display the current news file from the
            BBS.


       welcome
            The `welcome' command will display the current board's welcome
            message.


       files
            The `files' command will display the new files list from the
            current BBS.


       blt  The `blt' command will display a list of available bulletins from
            the current BBS. To display a particular bulletin just enter its
            file name.


       hello
            The `hello' command will display the BBS Welcome message.


       goodbye
            The `goodbye' command will display the BBS goodbye message.


       door The `door' command will display the BBS door id and version (if it
            was included in the mail packet).


       m    The `m' command will toggle the ansi mode on and off.


       g    The `g' command will quit ATP.


       q    The `q' command will quit ATP. It is the same as the `g' command.


       s filename
            The `s' command will save the current message to a specified text
            file.  If the file exists, the message will be appended to the
            end.


       tag  The `tag' command is used to set tagline options. See the section
            below on taglines for details.


TAGLINES
       ATP supports either FIDO or regular style taglines. In addition ATP
       uses three types of taglines: persistent, run-time, list. You have 1
       persistent and 1 run-time tagline. Your list taglines must be kept in
       the file taglines.atp which should be in the same directory as your
       atprc.  The purpose of the persistent tagline is that it is always
       there for you to recall and use. You may choose to use other taglines
       but the persistent tagline will still be there when you want it. The
       run-time tagline is one you yourself enter at the command line.  Should
       a  bit of whimsy strike you, you can use it right away without editing
       the tagline file.  At any one time there is only one active tagline
       which may be viewed by typing the command `tag ?'. Before entering your
       message choose your active tagline. You may pick from the list, use
       your persistent tagline, or type a run-time defined tagline at the
       prompt.  You also have the choice of toggling FIDO or regular style
       tagline by typing the command `fido' at the command line. Here is a
       summary:


       persistent
            Defined after the `tagline =
            ' statement in the configuration file. This tagline is stored in a
            stack with the run-time tagline. Typing `tag swap' will copy the
            stack into the current active tagline. Typing `tag swap' twice in
            a row will roll the stack. The persistent tagline is good for a
            tagline which you regularly use such as one containing place of
            message origin.


       run-time
            Defined at the ATP command line. If you feel like adding an
            impromptu tagline just type `tag' followed by your text.

            Example:  tag Laurel and Hardy fan club

            This above example command will change the active tagline to:

             ...
              * ATP/Linux 1.50 * Laurel and Hardy fan club.



       list
            A list type tagline is just a tagline stored in the plain text
            file taglines.atp.  If you have selected the auto tagline feature,
            ATP will choose a tagline at random from your taglines.atp file
            every time you enter a reply. You may also type `tag random' at
            the command prompt to re-select at any time. Taglines may also be
            selected directly. Type `tag list' to view your list of taglines,
            and then type `tag n' to choose a numbered tagline directly (where
            `n' would be the number of the tagline in the list as it is
            viewed). If you wish to add or delete taglines from taglines.atp
            you should use your favorite text editor.


TAGLINE COMMAND
       The `tag' command is the basic command for setting and changing
       taglines. ATP echoes any changes in tagline to the screen so you may be
       certain as to what the current tagline is. If in doubt, just type `tag
       ?'. Here are the possible variations on `tag':


       tag help
            The `tag help' command will display the special help menu for
            taglines.


       tag swap
            The `tag swap' command will swap move either the persistent or the
            run-time defined tagline into the current tagline buffer. Any list
            defined tagline will be removed from the buffer. Alternately
            typing `tag swap' will toggle the current tagline between
            persistent and run-time defined.


       tag steal
            The `tag steal' command will append the tagline in the current
            message to your taglines.atp file. This feature only works on
            messages which follow the PCBoard BBS style of taglines. For Fido
            taglines use the `tag add' command.


       tag add
            The `tag add' command allows you to type in a tagline which will
            then be appended to your taglines.atp file. This feature is useful
            for Fido style taglines which are not so easily captured by the
            `tag steal' command.


       tag list
            The `tag list' command will display a list of all available
            taglines.


       tag n
            The `tag n' command will set the current tagline to the tagline in
            the list designated by the number `n'.


       tag ?
            The `tag ?' command will display the current tagline.


       tag auto
            The `tag auto' command will toggle automatic tagline selection ON
            or OFF.


       tag random
            The `tag random' will choose a random tagline for you.  It may be
            used with either automatic selection disabled or enabled. The auto
            tagline mode itself uses this command after every reply to
            regenerate a new tagline. Try it out a few times to familiarize
            yourself with it.


       tag off
            The `tag off' command will disable taglines.


       tag on
            The `tag on' command will re-enable taglines.


       fido This is a command which toggles the tagline style between FIDO
            style taglines and regular style. This is provided because FIDOnet
            has specific rules about tear lines and high ascii characters.
            Here is an example of a regular tagline followed by an example of
            a FIDO style tagline:

             ---
              □ ATP/Linux 1.50 □ This is a regular style tagline.

             ...
              * ATP/Linux 1.50 * This is a FIDO style tagline.



SPECIAL KEYS
       With release 1.4 some support for special keys have been added.  This
       is still being developed and may change. If you would like to try the
       special keys here are the mappings. Note: support now is only for
       VT102, Linux, OS/2, and MSDOS consoles.

        key          command
       -------------------------------------------------------------
        <f1>         help
        <f2>         tagline help
        <f3>         view taglines
        <f4>         list available QWK packets
        <f5>         show terms of license
        <f10>        `next' for text search.
        <home>       goto first message in conference [keypad upper left]
        <end>        goto last message in conference [keypad lower left]
        <page up>    view messages in reverse order [keypad upper right]
        <page dn>    view messages in forward order [keypad lower right]
        <keypad `5'> `N' either `next' or `no' (depends on context)
        <up arrow>   recall previous command in history
        <down arrow> recall next command in history



COMMAND LINE EDITOR
       ATP uses the Rich Salz and Simmule Turner command-line editor. This
       provides a simple but powerful emacs-like command-line editing
       interface to its users.  Previous commands may be recalled by scrolling
       through the command history with the arrow keys. A line may be edited
       before it is sent by typing either control characters or escape
       sequences. A control character, shown as a caret followed by a letter,
       is typed by holding down the ``control'' key while the letter is typed.
       For example, ``^A'' is a control-A. An escape sequence is entered by
       typing the ``escape'' key followed by one or more characters.  The
       escape key is abbreviated as ``ESC.'' Note that unlike control keys,
       case matters in escape sequences; ``ESC F'' is not the same as
       ``ESC f''. Auto command completion is invoked by pressing the ``TAB''
       key. If there is more than one possible completion, ``ESC ?'' will
       display the available alternatives.

       An editing command may be typed anywhere on the line, not just at the
       beginning.  In addition, a return may also be typed anywhere on the
       line, not just at the end.

       Most editing commands may be given a repeat count, n, where n is a
       number.  To enter a repeat count, type the escape key, the number, and
       then the command to execute.  For example, ``ESC 4 ^f'' moves forward
       four characters.  If a command may be given a repeat count then the
       text ``[n]'' is given at the end of its description.

       Please see the man page editline(3) for more details.  The following
       are a list of the basic control characters and commands:


              ^A   Move to the beginning of the line
              ^B   Move left (backwards) [n]
              ^D   Delete character [n]
              ^E   Move to end of line
              ^F   Move right (forwards) [n]
              ^G   Ring the bell
              ^H   Delete character before cursor (backspace key) [n]
              ^I   Complete filename (tab key); see below
              ^J   Done with line (return key)
              ^K   Kill to end of line (or column [n])
              ^L   Redisplay line
              ^M   Done with line (alternate return key)
              ^N   Get next line from history [n]
              ^P   Get previous line from history [n]
              ^R   Search backward (forward if [n]) through history for text
                   must start line if text begins with an uparrow
              ^T   Transpose characters
              ^V   Insert next character, even if it is an edit command
              ^W   Wipe to the mark
              ^X^X Exchange current location and mark
              ^Y   Yank back last killed text
              ^]c  Move forward to next character ``c''
              ^?   Delete character before cursor (delete key) [n]
              ESC  start an escape sequence (escape key)
              TAB  auto command completion
              ESC ?     suggest alternative completions

              Note: use the up/down arrow keys to recall previous commands.


HISTORY
       Version 1.50 January 1997 -- fourth release of ATP

            Full termcap support for non-ansi terminals. No limits on message
            size for any version. Replies can now be directed to any message
            area with `r' command. New `x' command for cross posting. Improved
            `r' and `c' commands for re-directing replies to different message
            areas.  Use ^C to cancel `find' search.  Add perl script `atpdiag'
            to help diagnose proper configuration.  Rot-13 message
            shroud/unshroud added.  GNU autoconf support provides configure
            script for building ATP on Unix systems.  Tom Glaab contributes
            tagline steal/add (thanks!). Tagline `tag on/off' commands added.
            MSDOS 16 bit version can swap itself out when spawning sub-shell
            if linked with Ralph Brown's spawno libraries. MSDOS versions now
            DESQview aware.  Stefan Reinauer contributes German language
            support. Code re-organized with greater modularity and strong type
            checking in mind.  Source includes ansi2knr to allow building with
            non-ANSI C compiler.  Can now be compiled with C++.  Various bug
            fixes and improvements.

       Version 1.42 September 4, 1993 -- third release of ATP

            This release sports improved `find' and `clean' commands. The
            `clean' command now allows selective purging of messages that have
            been marked killed with the `k' key. It also allows truncation of
            message bases to the last `n' messages. All in all a much nicer
            way to maintain message bases. Derric Scott
            (dtscott@access.digex.net) provided the patches for the improved
            `find' command which highlights found text in reverse video.  ATP
            supports messages up to 180,000 bytes in size (more than 3000
            lines). The ATP command line is now 8 bit clean and will accept
            the so called "high ascii" and foreign language characters.

            PCBoard long subject lines are now supported but this is still
            experimental. Users may toggle this feature with the `pcb' command
            from the command line. The `blt' command displays a list of
            available bulletins, then type the bulletin name that you wish to
            view. Alan Barclay provided patches for SCO which also added the
            `qscan' command for a quick scan of abbreviated message headers.
            Many bugs have been fixed and efforts to greater portability have
            continued. OS/2 is now supported.  Jim Gomes provided Windows and
            MSC support. It has been reported that ATP runs under the AMIGA
            but no patches were submitted for inclusion in this release.
            Thanks to David Fox for his bug reports and ideas.

       Version 1.41 Spring 1993 -- beta testing release of ATP

            Closed beta testing with interested individuals.

       Version 1.4 November 1992 -- second release of ATP

            Now ATP includes a separate conference for replies. Replies may be
            killed with the `k' command or security toggled with the `p'
            command.  The `find' command and `next' command were added for
            text search. The Rich Salz and Simmule Turner line editing library
            is now included. This gives powerful Emacs style command line
            editing and history recall.  Please check the separate copyright
            notice regarding this library.  Three character sets are now
            supported: ISO Latin1, 7bit, and MSDOS. On terminals which support
            VT102 line graphics, MSDOS line graphics are translated
            appropriately. In addition, for some terminals, special function
            keys are now supported.

            Limits on number of conferences per BBS is now set at 8192 with
            dynamic memory allocation for supporting data structures. Message
            size limit has been increased from 32K bytes to 150K bytes,
            roughly 3000 lines of typical message text.  Limits on the number
            of taglines have been removed. Taglines are now stored in a
            separate tagline file "taglines.atp". Taglines may now be selected
            randomly (automatically or manually) as well as directly. Bug
            fixes and general code cleanup also were done. Code has been
            brought into stricter compliance with ANSI and POSIX standards.
            Sorry K&R. No matter what your system GNU GCC is recommended for
            compiling ATP.

            ATP has been compiled and tested on a number of systems for this
            release including Esix, Linux, SVR4, 386bsd, and MSDOS. For MSDOS
            it is recommended that DJ Delorie's port of GNU GCC be used. This
            is a very nice compiler and it will compile Unix source code very
            easily. It requires a 386 or better computer. ATP will also
            compile under the large model of Borland's Turbo C but the limits
            are smaller.

       Version 1.3 July 1992 -- first release of ATP

            McWilliams. Character set translation MSDOS/Linux, Linux/MSDOS.
            Personal mail alarm. Personal mail conference. Correct reply
            headers, correct time and conference numbers. Command line
            processing. Improved command parsing. Rewrite fget() to handle
            pathological control.dat files.  Taglines and tagline management.
            Ansi editing of entries. Replies queries: save, abort, edit.
            Message header scanning. Bug fixes. Improved message quoting.
            Correction of conference Autojoin(); Tested under Linux 0.96c and
            Esix R.4.0.

       Version 1.2 April 1992 -- first Unix/Linux port of AzerTyuioP.

            Salazar. Unix-izing for Linux. Conversion of path names. Writing
            new string comparison functions. Reworking system.c and system.h
            modules for portability.  First version to unarc packets and read
            them under Linux.  Improved handling of control.dat parsing.
            Introduction of array to track real conference numbers versus
            conference ordinal numbers.

       Version 1.1 November 1990 -- Cougnenc releases AzerTyuioP code.

            Cougnenc. Code to experimental QWK reader AzerTyuioP is  released
            for MSDOS. Primarily useful as tool for studying QWK packets.
            Cougnenc had no documentation on the layout so this work was
            empirical in nature.  Includes both French and English
            capabilities, set-able at compile time.  Reader creates archives
            of received messages.


THANKS
       Many thanks to Rene Cougnenc for his AzerTyuioP from which much of ATP
       is derived. Also thanks must be given to Mark Salazar who provided the
       first quasi-functional Unix version of AzerTyuioP which was able to un-
       archive packets and read mail. A big thanks to all who have provided
       patches particularly Derric Scott with enhancements to the `find'
       command. Alan Barclay provided fixes and added functionality with his
       SCO patches.  Tom Glaab has provided nice enhancements to the tagline
       functionality such as the `steal' command. Stefan Reinauer provided
       German language support. Also thanks to Jim Gomes, Dane Beko, Patrick
       Lee, Ron Smith, and David Fox who have provided useful suggestions,
       contributions, and bug-reports.


COPYING AND NO WARRANTY
       Copyright © 1992,1993,1997 Thomas McWilliams.
       ATP is copyrighted free software provided WITHOUT warranty of any kind,
       NOT EVEN the implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for any
       particular purpose. Use at your own risk.  ATP may be used in any way
       you wish so long as you comply with the provisions of the Free Software
       Foundation GNU General Public License; either version 2 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version. Essentially this means that you
       *MUST* provide the source code for any works derived from ATP when you
       distribute binaries. You can not withhold the rights which you yourself
       have been granted. Please type `show terms' from ATP's command line for
       a display of warranty disclaimer and pointers to pertinent documents.
       This software should have come with a copy of the GNU General Public
       License. You may obtain a copy of this license by writing to:

            Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
            675 Mass Ave,
            Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.



BUG REPORTS AND PATCHES
       Bug reports, suggestions, and code contributions are welcome.  If you
       have ported ATP to another system, your are welcome to submit the
       patches so that they might be incorporated into the next release.  Bug
       reports should include a way for me to reproduce the bug.

       Fido netmail may be sent to me at node 1:109/615
       and I am sometimes reachable via the Internet at one of the following
       locations:

            tgm@netcom.com

            thomas.mcwilliams@f615.n109.z1.fidonet.org

       Snail mail may be sent to:

            Thomas McWilliams
            P.O. Box 7545
            Arlington, VA 22207

       Source code for ATP can be found at:
       sunsite.unc.edu:/pub/Linux/system/BBS/mail/atp-1.50-src.tar.gz


FILES
       /usr/local/bin/atp
       $ATP/taglines.atp
       $ATP/atprc


SEE ALSO
              atpdiag(1), editline(3), zip(1), unzip(1), rot13(1)

ATP 1.50                        4 January 1997                          ATP(1)
