AUTOFS(5)                 FreeBSD File Formats Manual                AUTOFS(5)

NAME
     autofs – automounter filesystem

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following line in the
     kernel configuration file:

           options AUTOFS

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           autofs_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The autofs driver is the kernel component of the automounter
     infrastructure.  Its job is to pass mount requests to the automountd(8)
     daemon, and pause the processes trying to access the automounted
     filesystem until the mount is completed.  It is mounted by the
     automount(8).

OPTIONS
     These options are available when mounting autofs file systems:

     master_options
             Mount options for all filesystems specified in the map entry.

     master_prefix
             Filesystem mountpoint prefix.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     vfs.autofs.debug
             Verbosity level for log messages from the autofs driver.  Set to
             0 to disable logging or 1 to warn about potential problems.
             Larger values enable debugging output.  Defaults to 1.

     vfs.autofs.interruptible
             Set to 1 to allow mount requests to be interrupted by signal.
             Defaults to 1.

     vfs.autofs.retry_delay
             Number of seconds before retrying mount requests.  Defaults to 1.

     vfs.autofs.retry_attempts
             Number of attempts before failing mount.  Defaults to 3.

     vfs.autofs.cache
             Number of seconds to wait before reinvoking automountd(8) for any
             given file or directory.  Defaults to 600.

     vfs.autofs.timeout
             Number of seconds to wait for automountd(8) to handle the mount
             request.  Defaults to 30.

     vfs.autofs.mount_on_stat
             Set to 1 to trigger mount on stat(2) on mountpoint.  Defaults to
             0.

EXAMPLES
     To unmount all mounted autofs filesystems:

           umount -At autofs

     To mount autofs filesystems specified in auto_master(5):

           automount

SEE ALSO
     auto_master(5), automount(8), automountd(8), autounmountd(8)

HISTORY
     The autofs driver first appeared in FreeBSD 10.1.

AUTHORS
     The autofs was developed by Edward Tomasz Napierala <trasz@FreeBSD.org>
     under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        December 2, 2017        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
