BCLOCK(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              BCLOCK(1)

NAME
       bclock - round X clock with bezier curve hands

SYNOPSIS
       bclock [-option ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       Bclock simply displays the current time on an analog display.

OPTIONS
       -fg color
               choose a different color for the hands of the clock

       -bg color
               choose a different color for the background.

       -curve color
               choose a different color for the hands on the clock.

       -backing { WhenMapped Always NotUseful }
               selects an appropriate level of backing store.

       -geometry geometry
               define the initial window geometry; see X(1).

       -display display
               specify the display to use; see X(1).

       -bd color
               choose a different color for the window border.

       -bw width
               choose a different width for the window border.  As the Clock
               widget changes its border around quite a bit, this is most
               usefully set to zero.

       -shape  causes the clock to use the Shape extension to create an oval
               window.  This is the default unless the shapeWindow resource is
               set to false.

       -noshape
               causes the clock to not reshape itself and ancestors to exactly
               fit the outline of the clock.

       -transparent
               causes the clock to consist only of the hands, and the border.

COLORS
       If you would like your clock to be viewable in color, include the
       following in the #ifdef COLOR section you read with xrdb:

       *customization:                 -color

       This will cause bclock to pick up the colors in the app-defaults color
       customization file: <XRoot>/lib/X11/app-defaults/Clock-color.  Below
       are the default colors:

       Clock*Background: grey
       Clock*BorderColor: light blue
       Clock*curve: yellow

SEE ALSO
       X(1), X Toolkit documentation

AUTHOR
       Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium

X Version 11                      Release 6.1                        BCLOCK(1)
