BGPUMA(1)                                                            BGPUMA(1)


NAME
              bgpuma -- A program to search BGP Update files for CIDR blocks or
              Autonomous Systems

SYNOPSIS
              bgpuma --file=path --cidrfile=path


              bgpuma --file=path --asnfile=path

DESCRIPTION
              The BGP update files are stored in the MRT format and are not easily searchable.  This program seeks to fix that issue by allowing you to search the files for not only the CIDR block in question but for any CIDR blocks which contain the CIDR block in question and also any CIDR blocks which are contained in the that block.  In other words, it will not only find exact matches for 127.0.0.0/9 but will also find any announcements or withdrawals for 127.0.0.0/8 and 127.1.0.0/16.  This allows you to find any announcements or withdrawals that could potentially affect a netblock.  In addition, the ability to search for Autonomous Systems by number is included.

OPTIONS
       --verbose
                  Prints extra output during the searching operation.  This is
       useful for debugging.

       --cidrfile=file
                  The file containing a list of the CIDR blocks to look for.

       --asnfile=file
                  The file that contains a list of Autonomous System numbers
       to search for.

       --or
                  If you use both of the --asnfile and the --cidrfile options,
       by default bgpuma mlooks for lines that satisfy both lists.  Using this
       flag turns that 'and' into an 'or'.

       --update=file
                  A single BGP update file to search.

       --file=file
                  A file containing a list of BGP update files to search.

       --startdate=YYYYMMDD --enddate=YYYYMMDD
                  These two flags must be used together. bgpuma understands
       the directory structure used by both the RIPE Routing Information
       Service and the Route Views Archive Project.  If you have access to
       these files via a file system, then bgpuma mcan search across a date
       range.

       --dir=dir
                  This flag should be used in conjunction with the --startdate
       and --enddate flags.  It tells bgpuma that the files for either RIPE or
       Route Views are contained in that directory.  It can be used more than
       once, in which case it will search first one directory for a date and
       then the other.

       --outfile=outfile
                  The output file for bgpuma results.  By default, bgpuma
       prints the results to standard out.

       --help
                  Lists the flags available in bgpuma.

OUTPUT
              bgpuma finds both the additions and the withdrawals in the routing table.  For additions, the output is in pipe delimited format and includes:

              Time Seen
              IP address announcing the route
              Autonomous System announcing the route
              IP address receiving the announcement
              Autonomous System receiving the announcement
              The CIDR announced
              The path in question

              For withdrawals, the output contains the same as the additions except it does not include the path.

EXAMPLES
       Given a file called FILE containing a list of update files and another
       file called CFILE containing a list of CIDR blocks to look for, the
       command line looks like:
                   bgpuma --file=FILE --cidrfile=CFILE

       If you have access to the directory structure used by RIPE or
       Routeviews contained in DIR, a file called CFILE containing a list of
       CIDR blocks to look for and a date range of STARTDATE and ENDDATE, then
       the command line is:
                   bgpuma --dir=DIR --cidrfile=CFILE --startdate=STARTDATE
                   --enddate=ENDDATE

SEE ALSO
              L<SiLK> and L<BGPdump>

                                  2015-08-20                         BGPUMA(1)
