BIBLE(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               BIBLE(1)

NAME
       bible - Lookup words and verses in the Bible (King James version)

SYNOPSIS
       bible [-f] [-l columns] [-m memlimit] [-p path-list] [-d datafile-name]
       [verse-reference(s)]

DESCRIPTION
       Bible writes the text of specified Bible verses to stdout.  The text
       used is the Authorized (King James) version.  Commands may be given
       either on the command line, or interactively.  Bible also supports
       instant searches for verses containing a particular word, or
       combination of words.  The program uses a specially-compressed form of
       the text that allows for rapid random access, while still compressing
       the original 4.4 Mbyte text into less than 1.8 Mbytes (plus the
       "concordance" data file, which requires nearly 900 Kbytes).

   Options
       The options to bible are:

       -f             Toggles special output formatting (pretty-printing).  By
                      default, pretty-printing is on (a change from earlier
                      versions).  When pretty-printing is off, bible precedes
                      each verse with its book/chapter/verse reference.  When
                      pretty-printing is on, the book name and chapter are
                      printed on a line by themselves, and only when the
                      chapter or book changes.  The start of each verse is
                      indented and preceded by the verse number.  The book and
                      chapter names are separated from the text by blank lines
                      to facilitate post-processing by other tools such as
                      adjust.  Pretty-printing activates automatic line breaks
                      ( -l)

       -l_columns     When pretty-printing is off, bible prints one verse per
                      line, even though the text may be much longer than will
                      fit on a single line of a display.  This is very handy
                      when the output will be processed by other programs, but
                      it doesn't look very nice.  The -l option sets a limit
                      on the length of an output line, causing bible to break
                      lines (only between words) to fit.  The columns argument
                      is optional; if it is not specified, bible will use the
                      value of the COLUMNS environment variable minus one.  If
                      COLUMNS is not set a default value of 79 is used.

       -m_memlimit    Bible normally allocates up to 1 megabyte for buffers to
                      store uncompressed text.  If the -m option is present,
                      bible will set the limit to memlimit kilobytes.

       -p_path-list   Bible normally searches for the text data file first in
                      the current directory, and then in /usr/local/lib.  The
                      -p option may be used to change the search path.
                      Path-list should be a list of directories, each
                      separated by a space (be sure to escape them from the
                      shell).

       -d_filename    Bible normally expects to find the text data in a file
                      named bible.data, and the concordance data in
                      bible.data.conc.  If the -d option is present, bible
                      will look for a text data file named filename, and a
                      concordance data file named filename.conc instead.

   Verse References
       Bible accepts verse references in a variety of forms, including single
       verses and verse ranges.  For example:

           Jn3:16, john3:16,17 ps1:1-6

       Most recognizable abbreviations are allowed, and spelling errors are
       ignored if the book can be made out in the first few characters.  No
       distinction is made between upper and lower case.  Multiple references
       may be provided on an input line, delimited by spaces or commas.

       Verse and chapter will be silently coerced into a realistic range, e.g.
       "Ps1:87" will be treated as Psalm 1:6 since there are only six verses
       in Psalm 1, and "Rev99:99" will be treated as Revelation 22:21 (the
       last verse in the Bible).  A book name by itself is assumed to be a
       reference to chapter 1, verse 1 of that book, i.e. "Acts" is the same
       as "Acts1:1".  Similarly, a book and chapter without a verse is assumed
       to refer to verse one of that chapter.

       A range of verses may be printed by giving a starting and ending
       reference, separated by a hyphen ("-").  For example, "Gen1:1-Rev22:21"
       will dump the entire text (about 4.4 MB).

       Bible keeps track of your current context and will attempt to interpret
       references in that context.  For example if you request "John1:1",
       followed by "3:16", and then "17", the second reference is assumed to
       be within the book of John, and the third is assumed to be within
       chapter 3 of that book.  An empty reference, e.g. a blank line on the
       input, will show the next verse following the last one displayed.

       More examples of legal verse references:

           psalms1

           Psalms

           Romans3:23 5:8 6:23

           1

           5:1

           1-22


   Concordance (Word Searches)
       Bible includes a concordance, with which you can immediately find all
       the verses in which a word appears.  The ??word command will select all
       the references that include word.  Bible will display the number of
       matching references, if any, but since the number could be quite large,
       it won't actually list the references until you ask.

       In order to list the references from a word search, the ?list (or ?l)
       command is used.  Likewise, to print the full text of the verses
       selected by a word search, use the ?view (or ?v) command.

       The lists for multiple words may be combined using the ?and word and
       ?or word commands.  First create a reference list using the ??
       command.  For example,

           ??faith

       will find 231 references to the word "faith".  To narrow the list
       further, the command

           ?and love

       will inform you that, while there were 281 references to "love", only
       16 of them were also in the previous reference list (i.e. contained
       both words).  The "combined list" of 16 references produced by the ?and
       word command is the intersection of the two lists, and replaces the
       original reference list.

       The ?list and ?view commands will now apply to the combined list.  You
       can continue to apply the ?and command to the combined list.  For
       example,

           ?and hope

       will further narrow the combined list to only two references.  Typing
       ?view then displays the full text:

           1 Thessalonians 1

             3 Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, and labour of
           love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the
           sight of God and our Father;

           1 Thessalonians 5

             8 But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the
           breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of
       salvation.

       The ?or word command is similar to ?and, but it produces a combined
       reference list that is the union of the two lists.  In other words, the
       list includes those verses in which either of the words appears.  For
       example

           ??angels
           ?or angel

       will find all 283 verses in wich either word is used.

       By default, reference lists cover the entire Bible.  But for those
       times when it is useful to limit them to a particular section of the
       text, bible provides the ?in verse range command.  For example

           ?in mt1:1-rev22:21

       will limit future reference lists to the New Testament.  If you have a
       current reference list, references that fall outside the limits will be
       dropped.  Note that only a contiguous range of verses may be used.  To
       reset the limits so that the whole text is searched, the command is ?in
       all.

   Interactive Use
       For interactive use, invoke bible without any verse references on the
       command line.  You should see a prompt displayed:

           Bible(KJV) [Gen1:1]>

       Typing ?  will print a command summary.

       The program accepts three types of interactive command input:

              •  Bible verse references, as described above.
              •  Concordance (word search) commands, also described above.
                 These commands are: ??, ?list, ?view, ?and, ?or, and ?in.
              •  Miscellaneous program control commands:

              ?, ?h, ?help   Prints help text.
              ?f             Toggles output formatting modes.
              ?wfile         Begin writing program output to a file.  If file
                             exists, output is appended to what's there
                             already.
              ?w             Stop writing to a file.
              >, <           Toggle the direction (forward or backward) in
                             which bible will move through the text when a
                             blank line is entered.
              q, ?bye, ?exit, ?quit, ?q
                             End the program.

BUGS
       References to the one-chapter books of Philemon and 3 John are non-
       standard in that they require a dummy chapter number.  For example, use
       Phm1:5 instead of Phm5 to get verse 5.

       The possessive form 's is handled strangely by the Concordance.  The
       apostrophe has been removed and the s has been treated as if it were a
       separate word.  So, for example, if you wanted to find all references
       to "refiner's" you would have to first search for "refiner" (using the
       command ??refiner) and then combine it with a search for "s" (?and s).

       The convention for handling partial verse specifications can be clumsy.
       A book name by itself, e.g. "Matthew" is taken as a reference to verse
       1:1 of that book.  So ?in matt results in a range limit of a single
       verse (Mt1:1) instead of the whole book as one might hope.  Similarly,
       ?in mt-rev results in a range of Matthew 1:1 to Revelation 1:1, instead
       of extending all the way to Revelation 22:21.

FILES
       /usr/local/lib/bible.data
       /usr/local/lib/bible.data.conc

SEE ALSO
       Rev3:20

AUTHOR
       Chip Chapin, Hewlett Packard Company (chip@cup.hp.com).

       The current version uses Lempel-Ziv-Welch compression on the data file,
       though I modified the "compress" program to emit checkpoints at known
       intervals to facilitate random access to the data.  I call this simple
       technique "windowed compression", and it could be used for any similar
       application.  The data file can still be uncompressed using the
       standard "compress" utility if my file header is removed.

       I would like to gratefully acknowledge the contribution of the authors
       of the compress program, which I modified for use in the text storage
       component of bible.  As listed in the compress sources they are:
       Spencer W. Thomas, Jim McKie, Steve Davies, Ken Turkowski, James A.
       Woods, Joe Orost.

       Matthew Vernon <matthew@debian.org> has substantially updated a the
       code of this package. His alterations are made available under the
       terms of the GNU General Public Licence, version 2 or later, as
       published by the Free Software Foundation.






                                January 8, 1993                       BIBLE(1)
