CVPASSWD(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            CVPASSWD(1)

NAME
     cvpasswd – scramble passwords for CVSup authentication

SYNOPSIS
     cvpasswd clientName serverName

DESCRIPTION
     The cvpasswd utility creates scrambled passwords for the CVSup server's
     authentication database.  It is invoked with a client name and a server
     name.  ClientName is the name the client uses to gain access to the
     server.  By convention, e-mail addresses are used for all client names,
     e.g., ‘BillyJoe@FreeBSD.ORG’.  Client names are case-insensitive.

     ServerName is the name of the CVSup server which the client wishes to
     access.  By convention, it is the canonical fully-qualified domain name
     of the server, e.g., ‘CVSup.FreeBSD.ORG’.  This must agree with the
     server's own idea of its name.  The name is case-insensitive.

     To set up authentication for a given server, one must perform the
     following steps:

     1.   Obtain the official serverName from the administrator of the server
          or from some other source.

     2.   Choose an appropriate clientName.  It should be in the form of a
          valid e-mail address, to make it easy for the server administrator
          to contact the user if necessary.

     3.   Choose an arbitrary secret password.

     4.   Run cvpasswd, and type in the password when prompted for it.  The
          utility will print out a line to send to the server administrator,
          and instruct you how to modify your $HOME/.cvsup/auth file.  You
          should use a secure channel to send the line to the server
          administrator.

     Since $HOME/.cvsup/auth contains passwords, you should ensure that it is
     not readable by anyone except yourself.

FILES
     $HOME/.cvsup/auth    Authentication password file.

SEE ALSO
     cvsup(1), cvsupd(8).

     http://www.cvsup.org/

AUTHORS
     John Polstra ⟨jdp@polstra.com⟩.

LEGALITIES
     CVSup is a registered trademark of John D. Polstra.

FreeBSD                         January 1, 2002                        FreeBSD
