BINBLOOM(15 Sep 2021)                                    BINBLOOM(15 Sep 2021)

NAME
       binbloom - Find firmware loading address and UDS database (if any)


SYNOPSIS
       binbloom [-a arch] [-b address] [-d] [-e endianness]
                [-f functions-file] [-t threads] [-v]


DESCRIPTION
       binbloom can determine an unknown binary firmware loading address (or
       base address) from its content based on heuristics and the target
       architecture characteristics (i.e.  32-bit/64-bit and endianness). If
       the endianness is unknown, binbloom will try to determine it.

       binbloom is also able to locate any Unified Diagnostic Services (UDS)
       database generally used in automotive firmwares, once the loading
       address has been found.


   OPTIONS
       -a arch, --arch=arch
              Specify target architecture, must be 32 (for 32-bit
              architecture) or 64 (for 64-bit architecture).


       -b address, --base=address
              Specify the base address (or loading address) to use. Use this
              option to enable UDS database search.


       -e endianness, --endian=endianness
              Specify target endianness,  must be le for little-endian or be
              for big-endian.


       -m alignment, --align=alignment
              Specify base address alignment, default is 0x1000.


       -d, --deep
              Enable deep search. This search mode will consider each
              potential loading/base address without applying a first
              heuristic filter used in normal mode. This type of search takes
              longer to complete and requires much more computing power, it is
              also recommended to use multiple threads (through the
              -t,--threads option) to speed up the search.


       -f, --functions
              Specify an external file containing known function addresses in
              hex (one per line) that will be used by binbloom in its base
              address guessing algorithm. Providing such a file may help
              finding the correct base address, depending on the architecture.


       -t, --threads
              Specify a number of threads to use when searching for the base
              address. It is recommended to set this value to the number of
              cores minus 1 in order to get the best performances.


       Enable verbose mode, binbloom will display more information. Use this
       option many times to get more information displayed.


EXAMPLES
       Here are some examples showing how to use binbloom in different cases.

       binbloom -a 32 firmware.bin

       Binbloom will analyze firmware.bin considering a 32-bit architecture.
       Binbloom will guess the endianness and then find out one or more
       possible base addresses.

       binbloom -a 32 -e le firmware.bin

       Same as above, but in this example the endianness is set to little-
       endian.

       binbloom -a 32 -e le -d -t 4 firmware.bin

       Binbloom will perform a deep search considering a 32-bit little-endian
       architecture, and will use 4 threads to speed up this process.

       binbloom -a 64 -f ./function.list firmware.bin

       Binbloom will parse firmware.bin to find points of interest but also
       use the provided file functions.list to guess the base address.


BUGS
       No known bugs.

AUTHORS
       Guillaume Heilles, Damien Cauquil

binbloom man page                     2.0                BINBLOOM(15 Sep 2021)
