BLIND-ARITHM(1)         FreeBSD General Commands Manual        BLIND-ARITHM(1)

NAME
       blind-arithm - Perform simple arithmetic on a video

SYNOPSIS
       blind-arithm [-axyz] operation right-hand-stream

DESCRIPTION
       blind-arithm reads left-hand operands from stdin, and right-hand
       operands from right-hand-stream, and perform the choosen operation over
       the read values and prints the resulting video to stdout.  The
       operation with operands from the same colour parameters on the sames
       pixels on the same frames on the two videos.

       If stdin is longer than right-hand-stream, the remainder of stdin is
       printed without any changes.  If stdin is shorter than
       right-hand-stream, the remainder of right-hand-stream is ignored but
       may be partially read.

OPERATIONS
       add    Calculate the sum of the operands.

       sub    Subtract the right-hand operand from the left-hand operand.

       mul    Calculate the product of the operands.

       div    Divide the left-hand operand by the right-hand operand.

       exp    Raise the left-hand operand to the nth operand, where n is the
              value of the right-hand operand.

       log    Calculate the logarithm of the left-hand operand and divide it
              by the logarithm of the rigth-hand operand.

       min    Select the lowest operand.

       max    Select the highest operand.

       abs    Calculate the the sum of absolute value of the left-hand operand
              subtracted by the right-hand operand, and the right-hand operand

OPTIONS
       -a     Do not modify the alpha channel (the fourth channel).

       -x     Do not modify the X channel (the first channel).

       -y     Do not modify the Y channel (the second channel).

       -z     Do not modify the Z channel (the third channel).

SEE ALSO
       blind(7), blind-single-colour(1), blind-set-alpha(1),
       blind-set-luma(1), blind-invert-luma(1), blind-set-saturation(1)

AUTHORS
       Mattias Andrée <maandree@kth.se>

                                   blind 1.1                   BLIND-ARITHM(1)
