BLUETOOTH-CONFIG(8)     FreeBSD System Manager's Manual    BLUETOOTH-CONFIG(8)

NAME
     bluetooth-config – a script to manage config files for the bluetooth sub
     system

SYNOPSIS
     bluetooth-config scan [-d device] [-n node]

DESCRIPTION
     The bluetooth-config utility is an interactive script to provide a
     frontend to the complex bluetooth sub system daemons.

     The following options are available:

     -d       Scan for a specific bluetooth device address.

     -n       Limit scan to a specific host controller. Hint: List all
              netgraph nodes with ‘/usr/sbin/ngctl list’.

     bluetooth-config will help finding and setting up bluetooth controllers,
     scan for nearby bluetooth devices in pairing mode, lookup their names,
     allow mapping to friendly names in /etc/bluetooth/hosts, ask for the
     paring PIN, instrument hcsecd(8) to securely pair with new devices and,
     if the device offers HID endpoints such as mice or keyboards, configure
     and restart bthidd(8).

     bluetooth-config can bring up any interface and daemon necessary for
     operation and, if a node is provided on command line, will do so
     automatically for that interface.

CAVEATS
     bluetooth-config can not parse entries in hcsecd(8) config file and thus
     will ask the user to manually modify existing pairing PIN entries.

FILES
     /etc/bluetooth/hosts
     sysrc -n bthidd_config
     sysrc -n hcsecd_config

EXAMPLES
     bluetooth-config scan -n ubt0 -a 00:26:bb:7a:58:95

           This will scan the bluetooth controller ubt0hci for a bluetooth
           device with the address 00:26:bb:7a:58:95, set up ubt0 if necessary
           and enter an interactive dialog to pair the new device. Since in
           this example a mouse is paired, bluetooth-config will interact with
           bthidd(8), enabling it if necessary and then write an HID
           descriptor to its config.

     bluetooth-config scan

           This will scan all bluetooth controllers on the systems for
           bluetooth devices, prompting to bring up controllers or daemons
           along the way.

SEE ALSO
     bthidcontrol(8), bthidd(8), bthost(1), hccontrol(8), hcsecd(8),
     sdpcontrol(8), sysrc(8)

HISTORY
     A bluetooth-config utility first appeared in FreeBSD 12.1.

AUTHORS
     Dirk Engling <erdgeist@erdgeist.org>

THANKS TO
     Lars Engels and Warren Block for suggestions, help, and testing.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         January 7, 2019        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
