bochs(1)                       The Bochs Project                      bochs(1)

NAME
       bochs - Portable x86 Emulator.

SYNOPSIS
       bochs [bochs_options] [bochsrc_options]

DESCRIPTION
       Bochs is a portable Intel Architecture  32 (x86) emulator that runs on
       most popular  operating systems. Inside  the emulator,  it  can  run
       many operating systems including Linux and Microsoft(R) Windows(R).

OPTIONS
       When you run Bochs without one of the following options, it will search
       for a configuration file called .bochsrc in the current directory and
       your home directory and display the start menu.

       -q     With this option the start menu will be skipped after loading
              the configuration file.

       -f configfile
              This option specifies the name of the configuration file.

       -qf configfile
              When you run Bochs with this option, it will skip the start menu
              and use the specified configuration file.

       -n     With this option Bochs doesn't load a configuration file.  In
              that case the setup for the emulation must be done with bochsrc
              options on the command line or in the start menu.

       -benchmark N
              Run Bochs in benchmark mode for N millions of emulated ticks

       -dumpstats N
              Dump Bochs stats every N millions of emulated ticks

       -r path
              Restore the Bochs state from path

       -log filename
              Specify Bochs log file name

       -unlock
              Unlock Bochs images leftover from previous session

       -h, --help
              Print a summary of the command line options for Bochs and exit

       -h, --help features
              Display available features / devices and exit

       -h, --help cpu
              Display supported CPU models and exit

       The following options are available if Bochs is compiled with debugger
       support.

       -dbg   Start Bochs internal debugger on startup

       -rc filename
              Execute debugger commands stored in file

       -dbglog
              Specify Bochs internal debugger log file name

       You can override the settings from the configuration file with command
       line arguments, using the  same  syntax  as the bochsrc file. If you
       have  any spaces in your command line arguments, they should be
       enclosed  in  single quotes.  For information on Bochs command line and
       configuration file arguments, see the man page bochsrc(5).

       Example:
         bochs -q 'boot:a' 'floppya: 1_44=a.img, status=inserted'


LICENSE
       This program  is distributed  under the terms of the  GNU Lesser
       General Public License as published  by  the  Free Software
       Foundation.  See the LICENSE and COPYING files located in
       /usr/share/doc/bochs/ for details on the license and the lack of
       warranty.

AVAILABILITY
       The latest version of this program can be found at:
            https://bochs.sourceforge.io/getcurrent.html

SEE ALSO
       bochsrc(5), bochs-dlx(1), bximage(1)

       The Bochs IA-32 Emulator site on the World Wide Web:
            https://bochs.sourceforge.io

       Online Bochs Documentation
            https://bochs.sourceforge.io/doc/docbook

AUTHORS
       The   Bochs  emulator  was   created   by  Kevin   Lawton
       (kevin@mandrakesoft.com),  and  is  currently  maintained by the
       members of  the  Bochs x86 Emulator Project.  You can see a current
       roster of members at:

            https://bochs.sourceforge.io/getinvolved.html

BUGS
       Please  report all  bugs to the bug tracker  on  our  web site. Just go
       to https://bochs.sourceforge.io, and click "Bug Reports" on the sidebar
       under "Feedback".

       Provide a detailed description of the bug, the version of the program
       you are running, the operating system you are running the program on
       and  the  operating   system  you are running in the emulator.


bochs 3.0                         14 Dec 2024                         bochs(1)
