bombadillo(1)              General Operation Manual              bombadillo(1)

NAME
       bombadillo - a non-web browser

SYNOPSIS
       bombadillo [options] [url]

DESCRIPTION
       bombadillo is a non-web browser for the terminal. It features a full
       terminal user interface, vim-like keybindings, document pager,
       configurable settings, and a robust command selection.

       bombadillo supports the following protocols as first class citizens:
       gopher, gemini, finger, and local (a user’s file system). Support for
       telnet, http and https is also available via integration with third
       party applications.

OPTIONS
       -h     Display usage help and exit. Provides a list of all command line
              options with a short description and exits.

       -t     Set the window title to 'Bombadillo'. Can be used in a GUI
              environment, however not all terminals support this feature.

       -v     Display version information and exit.

PROTOCOL SUPPORT
       All of the below protocols are supported. With the exception of gopher,
       the protocol name must be present as the scheme component of a url in
       the form of [protocol]://[the rest of the url].

       gopher Gopher is the default protocol for bombadillo. Any textual item
              types will be visited and shown to the user and any non-text
              types will be downloaded. Type 7 (querying) is fully supported.
              As the default protocol, any url that is not prefixed with the
              scheme section of a url (gopher:// for example) will be treated
              as gopher urls.

       gemini Gemini is supported, but as a new protocol with an incomplete
              specification, features may change over time. At present
              Bombadillo supports TLS with a trust on first use certificate
              pinning system (similar to SSH). Gemini maps and other text
              types are rendered in the browser and non-text types will be
              downloaded.

       finger Basic support is provided for the finger protocol. The format
              is: finger://[[username@]][hostname]. Many servers still support
              finger and it can be fun to see if friends are online or read
              about the users whose phlogs you follow.

       local  Local is similar to the file protocol used in web browsers or
              the like, with a smaller set of features. Users can use the
              local scheme to view files on their local system. Directories
              are supported as viewable text object as well as any files.
              Wildcards and globbing are not supported. Using ~ to represent a
              user's home directory, as well as relative paths, are supported.
              The color theme has no effect on this protocol and all terminal
              escape sequences will be rendered to the screen literally.

       telnet Telnet is not supported directly, but addresses will be followed
              and opened as a subprocess by whatever telnet client a user sets
              in their settings (defaulting to telnet). In some cases this
              behavior may be buggy.

       http, https
              Neither of the world wide web protocols are supported directly.
              bombadillo can be configured to open web links in a user's
              default graphical web browser. It is also possible to display
              web content directly in bombadillo using lynx, w3m, or elinks
              terminal web browsers to render pages. Opening http/https links
              is opt-in only, controlled by the webmode setting.

              Opening links in a default graphical web browser will only work
              in a GUI environment.

              Displaying web content directly in bombadillo requires lynx, w3m
              or elinks terminal web browsers are installed on the system.

COMMANDS
   KEY COMMANDS
       These commands work as a single keypress anytime bombadillo is not
       taking in a line based command or when the user is being prompted for
       action. This is the default command mode of bombadillo.

       b, h   Navigate back one place in your document history.

       B      Toggle the bookmarks panel open/closed.

       d      Scroll down an amount corresponding to 75% of your terminal
              window height in the current document.

       f, l   Navigate forward one place in your document history.

       g      Scroll to the top of the current document.

       G      Scroll to the bottom of the current document.

       j      Scroll down a single line in the current document.

       k      Scroll up a single line.

       n      Jump to next found text item.

       N      Jump to previous found text item.

       q      Quit bombadillo.

       R      Reload the current page (does not destroy forward history).

       1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0
              Quick navigation to the first 10 links on a page. The 0 key will
              navigate to the link numbered '10', all other numbers navigate
              to their matching link number.

       U      Move up a level in the current url path.
              /mydir/mysubdir/myfile.txt would become /mydir/mysubdir/, and so
              on.

       u      Scroll up an amount corresponding to 75% of your terminal window
              height in the current document.

       /      Search for text within current document. / followed by a text
              query will highlight and allow navigation of found text. / with
              an empty query will clear the current query.

       <tab>  Toggle the scroll focus between the bookmarks panel and the
              document panel. Only has an effect if the bookmarks panel is
              open.

       <spc>  Enter line command mode. Once a line command is input, the mode
              will automatically revert to key command mode.

       :      Alias for <spc>. Enter line command mode.

   LINE COMMANDS
       These commands are typed in by the user to perform an action of some
       sort. As listed in KEY COMMANDS, this mode is initiated by pressing :
       or <space>. The command names themselves are not case sensitive, though
       the arguments supplied to them may be.

       [url]  Navigates to the requested url.

       [link id]
              Follows a link on the current document with the given number.

       add [url] [name...]
              Adds the url as a bookmarks labeled by name. a can be used
              instead of the full add.

       add [link id] [name...]
              Adds the url represented by the link id within the current
              document as a bookmark labeled by name. a can be used instead of
              the full add.

       add . [name...]
              Adds the current document's url as a bookmark labeled by name. a
              can be used instead of the full add.

       bookmarks
              Toggles the bookmarks panel open/closed. Alias for KEY COMMAND
              B. b can be used instead of the full bookmarks.

       bookmarks [bookmark id]
              Navigates to the url represented by the bookmark matching
              bookmark id. b can be entered, rather than the full bookmarks.

       check [link id]
              Displays the url corresponding to a given link id for the
              current document. c can be used instead of the full check.

       check [setting name]
              Displays the current value for a given configuration setting. c
              can be used instead of the full check.

       delete [bookmark id]
              Deletes the bookmark matching the bookmark id. d can be used
              instead of the full delete.

       help   Navigates to the gopher based help page for bombadillo. ? can be
              used instead of the full help.

       home   Navigates to the document set by the homeurl setting. h can be
              entered, rather than the full home.

       jump   Navigates to the previous page in history from the current page.
              Useful for keeping the current page in your history while still
              browsing. j can be used instead of the full jump.

       jump [history location]
              Navigates to the given history location. The history location
              should be an integer between 0 and 20. j can be used instead of
              the full jump.

       purge *
              Deletes all pinned gemini server certificates. p can be used
              instead of the full purge.

       purge [host name]
              Deletes the pinned gemini server certificate for the given
              hostname. p can be used instead of the full purge.

       quit   Quits bombadillo. Alias for KEY COMMAND q. q can be used instead
              of the full quit.

       reload Requests the current document from the server again. This does
              not break forward history the way entering the url again would.
              r can be used instead of the full reload.

       search Queries the user for search terms and submits a search to the
              search engine set by the searchengine setting.

       search [keywords...]
              Submits a search to the search engine set by the searchengine
              setting, with the query being the provided keyword(s).

       set [setting name] [value]
              Sets the value for a given configuration setting. s can be used
              instead of the full set.

       version
              Shows the current Bombadillo version number.

       write .
              Writes the current document to a file. The file is named by the
              last component of the url path. If the last component is blank
              or / a default name will be used. The file saves to the
              directory set by the savelocation setting. w can be entered
              rather than the full write.

       write [url]
              Writes data from a given url to a file. The file is named by the
              last component of the url path. If the last component is blank
              or / a default name will be used. The file saves to the
              directory set by the savelocation setting. w can be entered
              rather than the full write.

       write [link id]
              Writes data from a given link id in the current document to a
              file. The file is named by the last component of the url path.
              If the last component is blank or / a default name will be used.
              The file saves to the directory set by the savelocation setting.
              w can be entered rather than the full write.

FILES
       bombadillo keeps a hidden configuration file in a user's XDG
       configuration directory. The file is a simplified ini file titled
       .bombadillo.ini. It is generated when a user first loads bombadillo and
       is updated with bookmarks and settings as a user adds them. The file
       can be directly edited, but it is best to use the SET command to update
       settings whenever possible. To return to the state of a fresh install,
       simply remove the file and a new one will be generated with the
       bombadillo defaults. On some systems an administrator may set the
       configuration file location to somewhere other than the default
       setting. If you do not see the file where you expect it, or if your
       settings are not being read, try :check configlocation to see where the
       file should be, or contact your system administrator for more
       information.

SETTINGS
       The following is a list of the settings that bombadillo recognizes, as
       well as a description of their valid values.

       configlocation
              The path to the directory that the .bombadillo.ini configuration
              file is stored in. This is a read only setting and cannot be
              changed with the set command, but it can be read with the check
              command.

       defaultscheme
              The scheme that should be used when no scheme is present in a
              given URL. gopher, gemini, http, and https are valid values.

       geminiblocks
              Determines how to treat preformatted text blocks in text/gemini
              documents. block will show the contents of the block, alt will
              show any available alt text for the block, both will show both
              the content and the alt text, and neither will show neither.
              Unlike other settings, a change to this value will require a
              fresh page load to see the change.

       homeurl
              The url that bombadillo navigates to when the program loads or
              when the home or h LINE COMMAND is issued. This should be a
              valid url. If a scheme/protocol is not included, gopher will be
              assumed.

       maxwidth
              The number of characters at which lines should be wrapped. If
              this is bigger than the available terminal width, the full width
              of the terminal will be used. If a non-integer or an integer
              less than 10 is given, a default value will be used.

       savelocation
              The path to the directory that bombadillo should write files to.
              This must be a valid filepath for the system, must be a
              directory, and must already exist.

       searchengine
              The url to use for the LINE COMMAND search. Should be a valid
              search path that terms may be appended to.

       telnetcommand
              Tells the browser what command to use to start a telnet session.
              Should be a valid command, including any flags. The address
              being navigated to will be added to the end of the command.

       theme  Can toggle between visual modes. Valid values are normal, color,
              and inverse. When set to inverse, the normal mode colors are
              inverted. Both normal and inverse modes filter out terminal
              escape sequences. When set to color, Bombadillo will render
              terminal escape sequences representing colors when it finds them
              in documents.

       timeout
              The number of seconds after which connections to gopher or
              gemini servers should time out if the server has not responded.

       webmode
              Controls behavior when following web links. The following values
              are valid: none will disable following web links, gui will have
              the browser attempt to open web links in a user's default
              graphical web browser; lynx, w3m, and elinks will have the
              browser attempt to use the selected terminal web browser to
              handle the rendering of web pages and will display the pages
              directly in Bombadillo.


BUGS
       There are very likely bugs. Many known bugs can be found in the issues
       section of bombadillo's source code repository (see links).

LINKS
       bombadillo maintains a presence in the following locations:

       Source Code Repository
              https://tildegit.org/sloum/bombadillo

       Web Homepage
              http://bombadillo.colorfield.space

       Gopher Homepage
              gopher://bombadillo.colorfield.space

AUTHORS
       bombadillo was primarily developed by sloum, with kind and patient
       assistance from ~asdf and jboverf.

                                  27 OCT 2019                    bombadillo(1)
