bpatch(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              bpatch(1)








NAME
       bpatch - binary patch and dump file utility

SYNOPSIS
       bpatch [ -b blksize ] [ -d ] [ -D pagecnt ] [ -e ] [ -p ] [ -r reclen ]
       [ -s ] [ -x ] file...

DESCRIPTION
       Bpatch allows the viewing and/or modification of files, independent of
       file type (text, executable, data file, and so forth).  Bpatch allows
       the data to either be examined at the terminal, dumped to a print
       device or file, or edited in the general manner of vi(1).  The data in
       the file is dumped or displayed in pages of 256 bytes.

   Options
       -b blksize  The -b option specifies the blocksize of the data file.
                   This is used primarily with tapes, and is allowed only with
                   one of the dump (-d or -D) options.  When this option is
                   specified, the file is opened in readonly mode.

       -d          The -d option indicates that a dump (no terminal
                   manipulation) is to be performed.  The entire file will be
                   dumped to standard output.  No editing of the data is
                   allowed and the file is opened in readonly mode.  <DEL>
                   interrupts a continuous display, producing a pause after
                   the current record is displayed; at this point, a second
                   <DEL> exits and and other character begins display of the
                   next file.

       -D pagecnt  The -D option is similar to the -d option, with the
                   following exception: the pagecnt argument limits the dump
                   to the specified number of pages.

       -e          The -e option indicates that the file contains EBCDIC data
                   and should be converted in the character portion of the
                   dump.

       -p          Used with one of the dump options, this option causes the
                   program to pause between pages.  The program will then wait
                   for the user to press either the return key to continue, or
                   the DEL (or rubout) key to stop the dump.

       -r reclen   The -r option indicates the record length of the data
                   within the dump.  When specified, this option causes bpatch
                   to place a colon (:) between the last byte of one record
                   and the first byte of the next.

       -s          This option turns on the byte swap option.  It may be
                   toggled dynamically during execution (see -x under Commands
                   below).

       -x          This option specifies the suppression of pages that contain
                   only NUL characters.  The result is that only the page
                   header (name and page number) will appear for such a page.
                   This option may only be used with one of the dump options.

   Arguments
       file        Any number of files may be specified.

   Commands
       All commands are valid only in the non-dump, interactive mode.
       Commands may be entered in either upper or lower case.  Commands of the
       form '^x' indicate that the control character x is to be entered.

       All commands that request movement within a file or between files
       cannot be executed if any changes have been made.  To proceed in this
       case, the user must either enter the w command, the u command, or the r
       command.

       Requesting a next or previous file when there is no such will cause the
       issuance of an error message.

       Note that certain commands allow/require either some text or numeric
       value.  In those cases, the user should type in characters and end the
       string with either a <cr> or <DEL>.

       ?     Display the help screen.  The help screen will remain until the
             user either redraws the screen (see ^r) or changes pages or
             files.

       !     Execute the following command in the shell.

       backslash
             Display the previous page.

       <cr>  Display the next page.

       DEL   Quit the program if no changes have been made.

       /     This command initiates an ASCII search.  The text entered on the
             command line will be used as a search string, and the file will
             be searched starting with the current page.  When the string is
             found, the page containing the string will be displayed.  If the
             string is not found, an apapropriate message will be displayed.

       ^f    Open a named file whose name will be entered on the command line
             and followed either by <cr> or DEL.

       ^n    Open the next file and display the first page.

       ^p    Open the previous file and display the first page.

       ^q    Quit without writing current changes.

       ^r    Redraw the screen.

       NNN   Entering a numeric value requests that the specified page be
             displayed.

       -x    Toggle the command line option represented by x:

                   a     Toggle display to ascii (assume data is ascii).

                   e     Toggle display to dbcdic (assume data is ebcdic).

                   s     Toggle byte swap.

       a     Edit the ASCII display.  End edits by pressing the DEL key.  All
             other characters will be treated as valid input.  Cursor movement
             keys (arrows and home) allow movement within the edit window.
             Nonprinting characters are displayed as dot (.) in this window.

       f     Display the first page in the current file.

       g     Display the page containing the byte address typed in following
             the command.

       h     Edit the HEXADECIMAL display.  End edits by pressing DEL key.
             Cursor movement keys (arrows and home) allow movement within the
             edit window.  Two keystrokes are required to modify a byte, and
             both must be valid hexadecimal values (0-9 and a-f).  To cancel a
             change after typing one character, press DEL.

       l     Display the last page in the current file.

       q     Quit the file.  A warning will be issued if any changes have been
             made but not written out.

       r     Reread the current page.

       u     Undo all changes to the current page.

       w     Write out the current page.

SEE ALSO
       od(1)

4th Berkeley Distribution       Benetics Local                       bpatch(1)
