bsp(6)                       FreeBSD Games Manual                       bsp(6)

NAME
       bsp - node builder for WAD files

SYNOPSIS
       bsp [ -blockmap {old|comp} ] [ -factor n ] [ -noreject ] [ -o file ] [
       -picknode {traditional|visplane} ] [ -q ] file

DESCRIPTION
       BSP builds the nodes and blockmap resources for all the levels in a WAD
       file.  Levels created with level editors won't run without these
       resources.

OPTIONS
       -blockmap {old|comp}
              This selects the algorithm used for generating the blockmap
              resource.  The old algorithm (currently the default, but this
              might change in future) produces a complete blockmap which
              contains some redundancy.  The comp algorithm generates an
              equivalent blockmap, but which eliminates this redundancy,
              making a smaller resulting WAD file.

       -factor n
              Changes the cost assigned to seg splits.  Factor n can be any
              positive integer, and the larger the factor, the more costly seg
              splits are.  A factor of 17 is the default and behaves just like
              earlier versions of BSP.  Most people do not need or want to
              change the default.  Changing the factor can sometimes prevent
              visplane overflows in WAD's; but then again, some WAD's have
              just too many visplane overflows, experiment with the -factor
              option before giving up.

       -noreject
              Normally, BSP creates a zero-ed reject map, which is sub-optimal
              but sufficient for Doom to play the level.  Other tools are
              available to build an optimal reject map.  If a level already
              has an optimised reject map, this option should be used to stop
              BSP replacing it.

       -picknode {traditional|visplane}
              In traditional mode (the default), BSP aims to produce a
              balanced node tree that minimises the number of lines that must
              be split in this process.  visplane mode causes the node line
              picker to choose node lines in a way that is empirically known
              to reduce or eliminate visplane overflows.  This is an old bug
              that affected the original Doom engine but does not affect newer
              engines - if you don't know what this option is and have no
              problems without it, you do not need it.

       -o file
              Sets the name of the WAD file for output.  Should not be the
              same as the input!  As with the input filename, it can be a - to
              indicate that standard input/output should be used.  Without
              this option, output is written to tmp.wad.

       -q     Does not show program banners or progress, for usage from other
              programs.

SPECIAL EFFECTS
       BSP has some special effect features:

       If a linedef has a sector tag ≥ 900, then it is treated as "precious"
       and will not be split unless absolutely necessary.  This is good to use
       around borders of deep water, invisible stairs, etc.

       Furthermore, just for a grin, if the lindef's tag is 999, then the
       sidedef's x-offset sets an angle adjustment in degrees to be applied —
       you can look straight at a wall, but it might come right at you on both
       sides and "stretch".

       BSP supports HOM-free transparent doors.  Simply make the sector
       referenced by the doortracks have a sector tag of ≥ 900.  The
       doortracks must the lowest numbered of all the linedefs that form the
       door.  No need to remember sector numbers and type them in on a command
       line — just use any sector tag ≥ 900 to permanently mark the sector
       special.  The special tag is not strictly necessary; it just prevents a
       flash of HOM at the top of the door when it opens or closes.  See test-
       wads/transdor.wad for an example.

SUPPORTED GAMES
       Doom, Ultimate Doom, Doom ][, Final Doom, Heretic and Strife.

EXIT STATUS
       0    OK
       >0   Errors occurred

BUGS/LIMITATIONS
       This program will not build a good reject map, it will (unless
       -noreject is used) build a zero-ed one, where every sector is visible
       from any other sector.  For the final release of a level, a reject map
       should be built using a suitable tool, such as RMB.

       The Hexen level format is not supported.

AUTHORS
       BSP was written by Colin Reed and Lee Killough (killough@rsn.hp.com),
       based on an algorithm by Raphaël Quinet.

       Contributors include Simon "fraggle" Howard (compressed blockmap code),
       Oliver Kraus (endianness fixes), André Majorel (Unix port, man page)
       and Udo Munk (Unix port, man page, assorted hacks).

       BSP is currently maintained by Colin Phipps <cph@moria.org.uk>.

SEE ALSO
       idbsp(6), warm(6), wreject(6), zennode(6).

BSP 5.1                           2002-04-06                            bsp(6)
