bzip3(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               bzip3(1)

NAME
     bzip3 - an efficient statistical file compressor and spiritual successor
     to bzip2


SYNOPSIS
     bzip3 [ -BbcdehftV ] [ filenames ...  ]

     bz3cat is equivalent to bzip3 -dc

     bunzip3 is equivalent to bzip3 -d

DESCRIPTION
     Compress or decompress a file using run length encoding and Lempel Ziv
     prediction, followed by the Burrows-Wheeler transform and arithmetic
     coding.  bzip3, like its ancestor bzip2, excels at compressing text or
     source code.

     The command-line options are deliberately very similar to those of bzip2,
     but they are not identical.

     bzip3 expects at most two filenames intertwined with flags.  bzip3 will
     by default not overwrite existing files.  If this behaviour is intended,
     use the -f flag.

     If no file names are specified, bzip3 will compress from standard input
     to standard output, refusing to output binary data to a terminal. The -e
     flag (encode) is implied.

     bunzip3 (or, bzip3 -d equivalently) decompresses data from standard input
     to the standard output, refusing to read from a terminal.

     If two files are specified, the first one is used in place of standard
     input, and the second one is used in place of standard output.

     If the -c flag is present, bzip3 will read from the specified file and
     output data to standard output instead. Otherwise, if decoding, bzip3
     will try to guess the decompressed filename by removing the .bz3
     extension. If not present, an error will be reported. If encoding, the
     output filename will be generated by appending the .bz3 extension to the
     input filename.


OPTIONS
     -B --batch
            Enable batch mode. By default, bzip3 will error if more than two
            files are passed, and the two files specified are always treated
            as input and output. The batch mode makes bzip3 treat every file
            as input, so for example bzip3 -Bd *.bz3 will decompress all .bz3
            files in the current directory.

     -b --block N
            Set the block size to N mebibytes. The minimum is 1MiB, the
            maximum is 511MiB.

     -c --stdout
            Force writing output data to the standard output if one file is
            specified.

     -d --decode
            Force decompression.

     -e/-z --encode
            Force compression (default behaviour).

     -f --force
            Overwrite existing files.

     -h --help
            Display a help message and exit.

     -j --jobs N
            Set the amount of parallel worker threads that process one block
            each.

     --rm   Remove the input files after successful compression or
            decompression. This is silently ignored if output is stdout.

     -k --keep
            Keep (don't delete) the input files. Set by default, provided only
            for compatibility with other compressors.

     -v --verbose
            Set verbose output mode to see compression statistics.

     -V --version
            Display version information and exit.

     -t --test
            Verify the validity of compressed blocks.

     --     Treat all subsequent arguments as file names, even if they start
            with a dash. This is so you can handle files with names beginning
            with a dash.

FILE FORMAT
     Compression is performed as long as the input block is longer than 64
     bytes. Otherwise, it's coded as a literal block. In all other cases, the
     compressed data is written to the file. The file format has constant
     overhead of 9 bytes per file and from 9 to 17 bytes per block. Random
     data is coded so that expansion is generally under 0.8%.

     bzip3 uses 32-bit CRC to ensure that the decompressed version of a file
     is identical to the original. This guards against corruption of the
     compressed data.


MEMORY MANAGEMENT
     The -b flag sets the block size in mebibytes (MiB). The default is 16
     MiB. Compression and decompression memory usage can be estimated as:

            6 x block size

     Larger block sizes usually give rapidly diminishing returns.  It is also
     important to appreciate that the decompression memory requirement is set
     at compression time by the choice of block size.  In general, try and use
     the largest block size memory constraints allow, since that maximises the
     compression achieved.  Compression and decompression speed are virtually
     unaffected by block size.


AUTHOR
     Kamila Szewczyk, k@iczelia.net.

     https://github.com/iczelia/bzip3

     Thanks to: Ilya Grebnov, Benjamin Strachan, Caleb Maclennan, Ilya
     Muravyov, package maintainers - Leah Neukirchen, Grigory Kirillov, Maciej
     Barc, Robert Schutz, Petr Pisar, Przemyslaw Skibinski, Shun Sakai and
     others.  Also everyone who sent patches, helped with portability
     problems, encouraged me to work on bzip3 and lent me machines for
     performance tests.


SEE ALSO
     bzip2(1), bz3less(1), bz3more(1), bz3grep(1), bunzip3(1)

version v1.5.3                   30 July 2026                         bzip3(1)
