C89(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 C89(1)

NAME
     c89 – POSIX.2 C language compiler

SYNOPSIS
     c89 [-cEgOs] [-D name[=value]] ... [-I directory] ... [-L directory] ...
         [-o outfile] [-U name] ... operand ...

DESCRIPTION
     This is the name of the C language compiler as required by the IEEE Std
     1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) standard.

     The c89 compiler accepts the following options:

     -c      Suppress the link-edit phase of the compilation, and do not
             remove any object files that are produced.

     -D name[=value]
             Define name as if by a C-language #define directive.  If no
             “=value” is given, a value of 1 will be used.  Note that in order
             to request a translation as specified by IEEE Std 1003.2
             (“POSIX.2”) you need to define _POSIX_SOURCE either in the source
             or using this option.  The -D option has lower precedence than
             the -U option.  That is, if name is used in both a -U and a -D
             option, name will be undefined regardless of the order of the
             options.  The -D option may be specified more than once.

     -E      Copy C-language source files to the standard output, expanding
             all preprocessor directives; no compilation will be performed.

     -g      Produce symbolic information in the object or executable files.

     -I directory
             Change the algorithm for searching for headers whose names are
             not absolute pathnames to look in the directory named by the
             directory pathname before looking in the usual places.  Thus,
             headers whose names are enclosed in double-quotes ("") will be
             searched for first in the directory of the file with the #include
             line, then in directories named in -I options, and last in the
             usual places.  For headers whose names are enclosed in angle
             brackets (⟨⟩), the header will be searched for only in
             directories named in -I options and then in the usual places.
             Directories named in -I options shall be searched in the order
             specified.  The -I option may be specified more than once.

     -L directory
             Change the algorithm of searching for the libraries named in the
             -l objects to look in the directory named by the directory
             pathname before looking in the usual places.  Directories named
             in -L options will be searched in the order specified.  The -L
             option may be specified more than once.

     -o outfile
             Use the pathname outfile, instead of the default a.out, for the
             executable file produced.

     -O      Optimize the compilation.

     -s      Produce object and/or executable files from which symbolic and
             other information not required for proper execution has been
             removed (stripped).

     -U name
             Remove any initial definition of name.  The -U option may be
             specified more than once.

     An operand is either in the form of a pathname or the form -l library.
     At least one operand of the pathname form needs to be specified.
     Supported operands are of the form:

           file.c            A C-language source file to be compiled and
                             optionally linked.  The operand must be of this
                             form if the -c option is used.

           file.a            A library of object files, as produced by ar(1),
                             passed directly to the link editor.

           file.o            An object file produced by c89 -c, and passed
                             directly to the link editor.

           -l library        Search the library named liblibrary.a.  A library
                             will be searched when its name is encountered, so
                             the placement of a -l operand is significant.

SEE ALSO
     ar(1), c99(1), cc(1)

STANDARDS
     The c89 utility is believed to comply with IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”).

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1       September 17, 1997       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
