CAIRO-CLOCK(1)         some dope-shit-funky time display        CAIRO-CLOCK(1)

NAME
       cairo-clock - an analog clock drawn with vector-graphics

SYNOPSIS
       cairo-clock [--x X] [--y Y] [--width WIDTH] [--height HEIGHT]
       [--seconds] [--date] [--theme name] [--ontop] [--pager] [--taskbar]
       [--sticky] [--twelve] [--twentyfour] [--refresh]
       cairo-clock -h, --help
       cairo-clock -v, --version
       cairo-clock -l, --list

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the usage of the cairo-clock
       program.  You can move the clock around with your mouse by pressing and
       holding the left mouse-button and dragging your mouse around. The clock
       will follow your movements. To resize the clock you have to press and
       hold the middle mouse-button down and drag your mouse around. The
       upper-left corner of the clock will follow your movements. Just
       clicking the right mouse-button on the clock will bring up the popup-
       menu. You find three menu-items. Properties, Info and Quit. Selecting
       the Properties item will bring up a dialog where you can change all
       available features of the clock (e.g. size, theme, display of optional
       elements, pager- and taskbar-behaviour). The next menu-item, Info, will
       bring up an informational dialog stating the name of program, current
       version, author and license information. The third and last menu-item,
       Quit, really exits the program if you select it. Surprised?! ;-) You
       can also hit the ESC-key if you want to exit the program.

       If you want to install additional themes for the clock you downloaded
       from the internet you can best place them in you home-directory under
       ~/.cairo-clock/themes. You proably have to create that directory-
       structure the first time you install new themes. A theme there goes in
       a directory like e.g.  ~/.cairo-clock/theme/new_theme. Once you copied
       the new themes directory there you will be able to select it via the
       Properties dialog in the theme-selection widget after a restart of the
       program. The theme-directories are only scanned during program-start.
       The newly added 24h-mode for cairo-clock will need you to select any of
       the supplied 24h-themes. While the clock will run without any problems
       if you switch to 24h-mode and still use a 12h-based theme, you are
       going to want to select a 24h-based theme in order to make any sense of
       the displayed hand-positions in 24h-mode.

OPTIONS
       cairo-clock now uses common GNU-convention for commandline-options.
       Take note that using commandline-options overrules everything which
       maybe stored in your local settings-file. Using the commandline-options
       will completely ignore any settings you may have stored in your local
       settings-file. Every option will default to program-internal settings.
       A summary of options is included below.  There is no Info file on this.

       -x, --xposition X
              The initial x-position of the top-left window-corner of the
              clock will be X.

       -y, --yposition Y
              The initial y-position of the top-left window-corner of the
              clock will be Y.

       -w, --width WIDTH
              Initially open the window of the clock with a width of WIDTH.

       -g, --height HEIGHT
              Initially open the window of the clock with a height of HEIGHT.

       -s, --seconds
              Passing this means to render the seconds-hand. If you leave this
              out no seconds-hand will be drawn.

       -d, --date
              Passing this means to render the date-display. If you leave this
              out no date will be drawn.

       -l, --list
              List all themes installed system-wide and locally for the
              current user and exit.

       -t, --theme NAME
              Use theme NAME for rendering. Use the any of the names returned
              by the options -l or --list.

       -o, --ontop
              Passing this means the clock-window will stay above all other
              windows. If you leave this out other windows can overlap the
              clock-window.

       -p, --pager
              Passing this means the clock-window will appear in the pager. If
              you leave this out the pager will ignore the clock-window and
              not display it.

       -b, --taskbar
              Passing this means the clock-window will show up in the taskbar.
              If you leave this out the clock-window will not show up in the
              taskbar.

       -i, --sticky
              Passing this means to have the clock-window appear all your
              workspaces. If you leave this out the clock will only be visible
              on the current workspace from where you initially started cairo-
              clock.

       -e, --twelve
              Passing this will force the hour hand to use commonly known 12h
              per full circle.

       -f, --twentyfour
              Passing this will cause the hour hand to spread 24h across a
              full circle.

       -r, --refresh RATE
              Use an animation-refreshrate of RATE for rendering. Use this
              with caution! Possible values are 1..60 Hz.

       -h, --help
              Print a usage-description and exit.

       -v, --version
              Print the programs version-number and exit.

BUGS
       If redraws don't happen every second (the second-hand is drawn) the
       needed refresh after a window-size change via the preferences-dialog
       only happens on a minute-interval.

AUTHOR
       cairo-clock is written and maintained by Mirco Mueller
       <macslow@bangang.de>.

       This manual page was written by Mirco Mueller <macslow@bangang.de>, for
       the Debian/Ubuntu project (but may be used by others).

0.3.4                          November 23, 2007                CAIRO-CLOCK(1)
