CARP(4)                FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                CARP(4)

NAME
     carp – Common Address Redundancy Protocol

SYNOPSIS
     device carp

DESCRIPTION
     The CARP allows multiple hosts on the same local network to share a set
     of IPv4 and/or IPv6 addresses.  Its primary purpose is to ensure that
     these addresses are always available.

     To use carp, the administrator needs to configure at a minimum a common
     virtual host ID (vhid), and attach at least one IP address to this vhid
     on each machine which is to take part in the virtual group.  Additional
     parameters can also be set on a per-vhid basis: advbase and advskew,
     which are used to control how frequently the host sends advertisements
     when it is the master for a virtual host, and pass which is used to
     authenticate carp advertisements.  The advbase parameter stands for
     “advertisement base”.  It is measured in seconds and specifies the base
     of the advertisement interval.  The advskew parameter stands for
     “advertisement skew”.  It is measured in 1/256 of seconds.  It is added
     to the base advertisement interval to make one host advertise a bit
     slower that the other does.  Both advbase and advskew are put inside CARP
     advertisements.  These values can be configured using ifconfig(8), or
     through the SIOCSVH ioctl(2).

     CARP virtual hosts can be configured on multicast-capable interfaces:
     Ethernet, layer 2 VLAN, FDDI and Token Ring.  An arbitrary number of
     virtual host IDs can be configured on an interface.  An arbitrary number
     of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses can be attached to a particular vhid.  It is
     important that all hosts participating in a vhid have the same list of
     prefixes configured on the vhid, since all the prefixes are included in
     the cryptographic checksum supplied in each advertisement.  Multiple
     vhids running on one interface participate in master/backup elections
     independently.

     Additionally, there are a number of global parameters which can be set
     using sysctl(8):

     net.inet.carp.allow                       Allow carp operation.  When
                                               disabled, virtual hosts remain
                                               in initial state, neither
                                               sending nor receiving
                                               announcements or traffic.
                                               Enabled by default.

     net.inet.carp.preempt                     Allow virtual hosts to preempt
                                               each other.  When enabled, a
                                               vhid in a backup state would
                                               preempt a master that is
                                               announcing itself with a lower
                                               advskew.  Disabled by default.

     net.inet.carp.dscp                        DSCP value in carp packet.
                                               Valid Values are 0 to 63.  A
                                               value of 4 is equivalent to the
                                               old standard of TOS LOW_DELAY.
                                               TOS values were deprecated and
                                               replaced by DSCP in 1998.  The
                                               default value is 56
                                               (CS7/Network Control).

     net.inet.carp.log                         Determines what events relating
                                               to carp vhids are logged.  A
                                               value of 0 disables any
                                               logging.  A value of 1 enables
                                               logging state changes of carp
                                               vhids.  Values above 1 enable
                                               logging of bad carp packets.
                                               The default value is 1.

     net.inet.carp.demotion                    This value shows the current
                                               level of CARP demotion.  The
                                               value is added to the actual
                                               advskew sent in announcements
                                               for all vhids.  During normal
                                               system operation the demotion
                                               factor is zero.  However,
                                               problematic conditions raise
                                               its level: when carp
                                               experiences problem with
                                               sending announcements, when an
                                               interface running a vhid goes
                                               down, or while the pfsync(4)
                                               interface is not synchronized.
                                               The demotion factor can be
                                               adjusted writing to the sysctl
                                               oid.  The signed value supplied
                                               to the sysctl(8) command is
                                               added to current demotion
                                               factor.  This allows to control
                                               carp behaviour depending on
                                               some external conditions, for
                                               example on the status of some
                                               daemon utility.

     net.inet.carp.ifdown_demotion_factor      This value is added to
                                               net.inet.carp.demotion when an
                                               interface running a vhid goes
                                               down.  The default value is 240
                                               (the maximum advskew value).

     net.inet.carp.senderr_demotion_factor     This value is added to
                                               net.inet.carp.demotion when
                                               carp experiences errors sending
                                               its announcements.  The default
                                               value is 240 (the maximum
                                               advskew value).

STATE CHANGE NOTIFICATIONS
     Sometimes it is useful to get notified about carp status change events.
     This can be accomplished by using devd(8) hooks.  Master/slave events are
     signalled under system CARP.  The subsystem specifies the vhid and name
     of the interface where the master/slave event occurred.  The type of the
     message displays the new state of the vhid.  Please see devd.conf(5) and
     the EXAMPLES section for more information.

EXAMPLES
     For firewalls and routers with multiple interfaces, it is desirable to
     failover all of the addresses running carp together, when one of the
     physical interfaces goes down.  This is achieved by the use of the
     preempt option.  Enable it on both hosts A and B:

           sysctl net.inet.carp.preempt=1

     Assume that host A is the preferred master and we are running the
     192.168.1.0/24 prefix on em0 and 192.168.2.0/24 on em1.  This is the
     setup for host A (advskew is above 0 so it could be overwritten in the
     emergency situation from the other host):

           ifconfig em0 vhid 1 advskew 100 pass mekmitasdigoat 192.168.1.1/24
           ifconfig em1 vhid 2 advskew 100 pass mekmitasdigoat 192.168.2.1/24

     The setup for host B is identical, but it has a higher advskew:

           ifconfig em0 vhid 1 advskew 200 pass mekmitasdigoat 192.168.1.1/24
           ifconfig em1 vhid 2 advskew 200 pass mekmitasdigoat 192.168.2.1/24

     When one of the physical interfaces of host A fails, advskew is demoted
     to a configured value on all its carp vhids.  Due to the preempt option,
     host B would start announcing itself, and thus preempt host A on both
     interfaces instead of just the failed one.

     Processing of carp status change events can be set up by using the
     following devd.conf rule:

           notify 0 {
                   match "system"          "CARP";
                   match "subsystem"       "[0-9]+@[0-9a-z]+";
                   match "type"            "(MASTER|BACKUP)";
                   action "/root/carpcontrol.sh $subsystem $type";
           };

     To see carp packets decoded in tcpdump(1) output, one needs to specify
     the -T carp option, otherwise tcpdump(1) will interpret them as VRRP
     packets:

           tcpdump -npi vlan0 -T carp

SEE ALSO
     tcpdump(1), inet(4), pfsync(4), devd.conf(5), rc.conf(5), ifconfig(8),
     sysctl(8)

HISTORY
     The carp device first appeared in OpenBSD 3.5.  The carp device was
     imported into FreeBSD 5.4.  In FreeBSD 10.0, carp was significantly
     rewritten, and is no longer a pseudo-interface.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          July 1, 2018          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
