CATDVI(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              CATDVI(1)

NAME
       catdvi - a DVI to plain text converter

SYNOPSIS
       catdvi [-d debuglevel, --debug=debuglevel] [-e outenc, --output-
       encoding=outenc] [-p pagespec, --first-page=pagespec] [-l pagespec,
       --last-page=pagespec] [-N, --list-page-numbers] [-s, --sequential] [-U,
       --show-unknown-glyphs] [-h, --help] [--version] [--copyright]
       [dvi-file]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents catdvi version 0.14

       catdvi reads the DVI (typesetter DeVice Independent) file dvi-file and
       dumps a plain text approximation of the document it describes to
       stdout.  If the argument dvi-file is omitted or a dash (`-'), catdvi
       will read from stdin.  Several output encodings (different character
       sets of the plain text output) are supported, most notably UTF-8.

       The current version of catdvi is a work in progress; it may not be
       robust enough for production use, but already works fine with linear
       english text.  Many mathematical symbols (e.g. the uppercase greek
       letters) and moderately complex formulae also come out right.

       The program needs to read the TFM (Tex Font Metric) files corresponding
       to the fonts used in the DVI file.  These are searched (and, if
       necessary and possible, created on the fly) through the Kpathsea
       library.

       In order to correctly translate a DVI file to text, the input encoding
       of the fonts used in it (i.e. a meaning-preserving mapping from font
       code points to Unicode) must be known. There are a lot of different
       font encodings in use. At the time of writing, catdvi understands the
       following input encodings:

       `TEX TEXT'
              Knuth's original font encoding, also known as OT1.

       `TEX TEXT WITHOUT F-LIGATURES'
              A variant of the above.

       `EXTENDED TEX FONT ENCODING - LATIN'
              The Cork encoding, also known as T1.

       `TEX MATH ITALIC'
              The encoding of Knuth's math italic fonts, also known as OML.

       `TEX MATH SYMBOLS'
              The encoding of Knuth's math symbol fonts, also known as OMS.

       `TEX MATH EXTENSION' (most of it)
              The encoding of Knuth's math extension fonts (big operators,
              brackets, etc.), also known as OMX.

       `TEX TYPEWRITER TEXT'
              The encoding of Knuth's typewriter type fonts.

       `LATEX SYMBOLS'
              The encoding of the lasy fonts.

       Henrik Theilings European currency symbol (`eurosym') font.

       `TEX TEXT COMPANION SYMBOLS 1---TS1' (almost everything)
              The encoding of the text companion fonts.

       Martin Vogels symbol (`MarVoSym') font.
              Both the 1998 and the 2000 version are supported as far as
              possible -- about half of the symbols are not representable in
              Unicode.

       `BLACKBOARD'
              The encoding of the blackboard bold math (`bbm') fonts.

       All AMS fonts except the Cyrillic ones.
              This includes the AMS math symbols group A and group B, Euler
              fraktur, Euler cursive, Euler script and Euler compatible
              extension fonts.

       It is impossible to do perfect translation from unmarked-up DVI to
       plain text, since the former does only describe the layout of a page,
       and a translator such as this should really know where words and
       paragraphs end, and more importantly, which glyphs should be aligned
       vertically and which shouldn't.  The current alignment algorithm tries
       to preserve the relative horizontal positions of word beginnings; this
       works well in most cases.  Word breaks are detected using simple
       heuristics; paragraphs are not detected at all (and no paragraph fill
       is attempted).

       The price of alignment is that the output will likely be more than 80
       columns wide, even though catdvi tries very hard not to use more
       columns than strictly necessary.  Output is usually less than 120
       columns, almost always less than 132 columns wide. It may be a good
       idea to switch your terminal to one of these modes if possible.

OPTIONS
       The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
       options starting with two dashes.

       -d debuglevel, --debug=debuglevel
              Set the debug output level to debuglevel (default is 10).  Large
              values will result in lots of debug output, 0 in none at all.
              The maximal debug output level currently used is 150.

       -e outenc, --output-encoding=outenc
              Specify the encoding of the output character set.  outenc can be
              one of the numbers or names from the table below.  Names are
              case insensitive.  The following output encodings should be
              available:
              0: UTF-8
              1: US-ASCII
              2: ISO-8859-1
              3: ISO-8859-15
              The command catdvi --help (see below) will give a more up-to-
              date list of all compiled-in output encodings. The default
              encoding is 1.

       -p pagespec, --first-page=pagespec
              Do not output pages before page pagespec.  Pages can be
              specified in three different ways; the first two are exactly the
              same as for dvips(1).

              A (possibly negative) number num specifies a TeX page number,
              which is stored as the so-called count0 value in the DVI file
              for every page.  Plain TeX uses negative page numbers for roman-
              numbered frontmatter (title page, preface, TOC, etc.) so the
              count0 values compare as
                     -1 < -2 < -3 < ... < 1 < 2 < 3 < ...
              There may be several pages with the same count0 value in a
              single DVI file. This usually happens in documents with a per-
              chapter page numbering scheme.

              A number prefixed by an equals sign (`=num') specifies a
              physical page, i.e. the num-th page appearing in the DVI file.
              Numbering starts with 1.  Note that with the long form of the
              option you actually need two equals signs, one as part of the
              long option and one as part of the page specification. Example:
                     catdvi --first-page==5 foo.dvi

              The third form of a page specification, two numbers separated by
              a colon (`num1:num2'), is useful for documents with separately-
              numbered parts, e.g. chapters.  It refers to the page with
              count0 value equal to num2 that catdvi believes to be in part
              num1.  Since those part numbers are not stored in the DVI file,
              the program has to guess them: an internal chapter counter is
              increased by one every time the count0 value of the current page
              is not greater (in above ordering) than that of the previous
              page.  The counter is initialized to 1 if the first page has
              negative count0 value and to 0 otherwise. (A document with
              separately numbered parts will probably have separately numbered
              frontmatter as well, and then this rule keeps the internal
              counter equal to real world part numbers.)

       -l pagespec, --last-page=pagespec
              Do not output pages after page pagespec.  Pages are specified
              exactly as for the --first-page option above.

       -N, --list-page-numbers
              Instead of the contents of pages, output their physical page
              count, count0 value and chapter count (see the --first-page
              option above for a definition of these).

       -s, --sequential
              Do not attempt to reproduce the page layout; output glyphs in
              the order they appear in the DVI file. This may be useful with
              e.g. multi-column page layouts.

       -U, --show-unknown-glyphs
              Show the Unicode number of unknown glyphs instead of `?'.

       -h, --help
              Show usage information and a list of available output encodings,
              then exit.

       --version
              Show version information and exit.

       --copyright
              Show copyright information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       The usual environment variables TFMFONTS, TEXFONTS, etc. for Kpathsea
       font search and creation apply.  Refer to the Kpathsea documentation
       for details.

SEE ALSO
       xdvi(1), dvips(1), tex(1), mktextfm(1), the Kpathsea texinfo
       documentation, utf-8(7).

BUGS
       These things do not work (yet):

       •      No rules are converted.

       •      Extensible recipes (very large brackets, braces, etc. built out
              of several smaller pieces) are not properly handled.

       •      Complicated math formulae are sometimes misaligned (mostly due
              to lack of appropriate word break heuristics).

       •      Some fonts and font encodings are not recognised yet.

       •      Most mathematical symbols have no representation in the
              available output character sets except Unicode, and hence show
              up as `?' unless UTF-8 output encoding is selected. A textual
              transcription would be desirable.

       Watch out for these:

       •      If there is a space where it does not belong or if there is no
              space where there should be one, report this as a bug (send the
              DVI file to the catdvi maintainer, stating where in the file the
              bug is seen).

AUTHORS
       catdvi was written by Antti-Juhani Kaijanaho <gaia@iki.fi>, based on a
       skeletal version by J.H.M. Dassen (Ray).  Bjoern Brill
       <brill@fs.math.uni-frankfurt.de> did further improvements and currently
       maintains the program.

       The manual page was compiled by Bjoern Brill, using material written by
       the first two program authors.

                                8 November 2002                      CATDVI(1)
