CDCEEM(4)              FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual              CDCEEM(4)

NAME
     cdceem – USB Communication Device Class Ethernet Emulation Model (CDC
     EEM) driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device uhci
           device ohci
           device usb
           device miibus
           device uether
           device cdceem

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_cdceem_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The cdceem driver provides support for USB devices based on the USB
     Communication Device Class Ethernet Emulation Model (CDC EEM)
     specification.

     The driver works on both host, and device-side; see usb_template(4) for
     details.

     The USB device appears as a regular network interface on both sides,
     transporting Ethernet frames.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

     The cdceem driver does not support different media types or options.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     hw.usb.cdceem.debug
             Verbosity level for log messages from the cdceem driver.  Set to
             0 to disable logging or 1 to warn about potential problems.
             Larger values enable debugging output.  Defaults to 1.

     hw.usb.cdceem.send_echoes
             If set to 1, the driver will send an Echo EEM packet when the
             interface is brought up.  While responding to Echo is mandatory,
             some devices cannot handle it.  Only use for debugging.  Defaults
             to 0.

     hw.usb.cdceem.send_fake_crc
             If set to 1, the driver will use 0xdeadbeef as the CRC value for
             outgoing Data EEM packets.  Only use for debugging.  Defaults to
             0.

SEE ALSO
     arp(4), cdce(4), intro(4), ipheth(4), netintro(4), urndis(4), usb(4),
     usb_template(4), ifconfig(8)

     Universal Serial Bus Communications Class Subclass Specification for
     Ethernet Emulation Model Devices,
     https://usb.org/sites/default/files/CDC_EEM10.pdf.

HISTORY
     The cdceem device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 12.1.

AUTHORS
     The cdceem driver was written by Edward Tomasz Napierala
     <trasz@FreeBSD.org> under sponsorship from Hewlett Packard Enterprise.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        November 7, 2019        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
