CONTEXTFREE(1)                   Context Free                   CONTEXTFREE(1)

NAME
       cfdg - image generator based on context-free grammars

SYNOPSIS
       cfdg [options] input.cfdg [output.png/svg/mov]

DESCRIPTION
       Context Free is a system that produces images based on context-free
       grammars.  cfdg is the command-line program to generate the actual
       images (in PNG or SVG format) from the input.cfdg file containing these
       grammars.  Cfdg files can also be animated. The output can either be
       PNG files of individual frames or as a QuickTime .mov file. If - is
       specified instead of an input file, the grammar is read from standard
       input.  The output filename can be left out if the -o/--outputtemplate
       option or -C/--check option is used.  If the --display option is
       specified and there is no output file then the output is saved in a
       temporary file. Note that the output mode (PNG, SVG, or MOV) is not
       detected depending on the specified extension, but must be explicitly
       set using the -V/--svg or -Q/--quicktime option.

OPTIONS
       All command-line options consist of a single letter, and an optional
       argument. Longer "GNU-style" options exist as well. A summary of
       options supported by cfdg is included below.

       -w WIDTH, --width=WIDTH
              Set width of the output image in pixels (for PNG) or millimeters
              (for SVG) (default: 500).

       -h HEIGHT, --height=HEIGHT
              Set height of the output image in pixels (for PNG) or
              millimeters (for SVG) (default: 500).

       -s SIZE, --size=SIZE
              Set both width and height of the output image in pixels (for
              PNG) or millimeters (for SVG) to the same value.

       -s WIDTHxHEIGHT, --size=WIDTHxHEIGHT
              Set both width and height of the output image in pixels (for
              PNG) or millimeters (for SVG).

       -T SIZE, --tile=SIZE
              Multiply both width and height of the tiled output image by the
              same amount.

       -T WIDTHxHEIGHT, --tile=WIDTHxHEIGHT
              Multiply both width and height of the tiled output image by the
              given amounts.

       -m MAXSHAPES, --maxshapes=MAXSHAPES
              Set the maximum number of shapes rendered (default: no maximum).

       -x MINIMUMSIZE, --minimumsize=MINIMUMSIZE
              Set the minimum size for a shape to be rendered in pixels/mm
              (default: 0.3).

       -b BORDERSIZE, --bordersize=BORDERSIZE
              Set the border size: -1 for a -8 pixel border, 0 for no border,
              1 for an 8 pixel border, or 2 for a variable-sized border.

       -v VARIATION, --variation=VARIATION
              Set the variation code (default: random).  This code determines
              what the final image will look like when the input contains non-
              deterministic rules.

       -DNAME=VALUE
              Declare a variable, configuration, or function. Any declaration
              that can be made at global scope can be entered at the command
              line with this option. Command line declarations override any
              global-scope declarations in the cfdg file with the same name.
              Note that function declarations require a space-delimited type
              identifier in front, so quotes would be required to force the
              shell to group the function declaration parts as one entity.

       -o NAMETEMPLATE, --outputtemplate=NAMETEMPLATE
              Set the output filename.  In this filename, %f is replaced by
              the animation frame number (if any), %v and %V are replaced by
              the variation code (in lower or upper case, respectively), and
              %% is replaced by a literal %.

       -a NUM, --animate=NUM
              Generate NUM animation frames at 15 fps.

       -a TIMExFPS, --animate=TIMExFPS
              Generate TIME x FPS animation frames at the specified fps.

       -f FRAME, --frame=FRAME
              Generate animation FRAME only.

       -z, --zoom
              Zoom out during animation, when producing an animation using -a.

       -V, --svg
              Generate SVG (vector) output.

       -Q, --quicktime
              Generate Quicktime movie output.

       --prores
              Generate Quicktime movie output using the ProRes codec instead
              of the H.264 codec.

       --display=DISPLAY_EXECUTABLE
              Display output with specified program.

       -c, --crop
              Crop image output.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet mode; suppress non-error output.

       -C, --check
              Check the syntax of the cfdg file, then exit.

       -t, --time
              Time output; output the time taken to render the cfdg file.

       -d, --cleanup
              Delete old temporary files.

       -P, --paramdebug
              Enable debug mode to test if all parameter blocks are
              deallocated.

       -?, --help
              Show summary of options.

SEE ALSO
       More information can be found on the Context Free website, at
       https://www.contextfreeart.org/index.html

AUTHOR
       Context Free was written by Chris Coyne, John Horigan and Mark
       Lentczner.

       This manual page was written by Bram Senders <bram@luon.net>, for the
       Debian project (but may be used by others).

3.3.1                             2020-04-04                    CONTEXTFREE(1)
