CFISCSI(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             CFISCSI(4)

NAME
     cfiscsi – CAM Target Layer iSCSI target frontend

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device cfiscsi
           device ctl
           device iscsi

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           cfiscsi_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The cfiscsi subsystem provides the kernel component of an iSCSI target.
     The target is the iSCSI server, providing LUNs backed by local files and
     volumes to remote initiators.  The userspace component is provided by
     ctld(8).  cfiscsi is implemented as a ctl(4) frontend and uses
     infrastructure provided by iscsi(4).

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     kern.cam.ctl.iscsi.debug
             Verbosity level for log messages from the kernel part of iSCSI
             target.  Set to 0 to disable logging or 1 to warn about potential
             problems.  Larger values enable debugging output.  Defaults to 1.

     kern.cam.ctl.iscsi.maxtags
             The number of outstanding commands to advertise to each iSCSI
             initiator.  Current implementation is not very accurate, so do
             not set this below 2.  Defaults to 256.

     kern.cam.ctl.iscsi.ping_timeout
             The number of seconds to wait for the iSCSI initiator to respond
             to a NOP-In PDU.  In the event that there is no response within
             that time the session gets forcibly terminated.  Set to 0 to
             disable sending NOP-In PDUs.  Defaults to 5.

SEE ALSO
     ctl(4), iscsi(4), ctl.conf(5), ctld(8)

HISTORY
     The cfiscsi subsystem first appeared in FreeBSD 10.0 as part of the
     ctl(4) driver.  It was split off of ctl(4) in FreeBSD 12.0.

AUTHORS
     The cfiscsi subsystem was developed by Edward Tomasz Napierala
     <trasz@FreeBSD.org> under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.  This
     manual page was written by Enji Cooper <ngie@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 28, 2017          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
