CFLOW(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               CFLOW(1)

NAME
       cflow - print a function call hierarchy

SYNOPSIS
       cflow [-Aagivx] [-d n] [-w n] [-r name] [cpp-opts] files

DESCRIPTION
       The cflow command reads files as program source and attempts to print a
       graph of the program's function call hierarchy to the standard output.
       Called functions are indented with respect to their calling functions,
       and printed only once, in the order they occur.

       The first reference to function func is printed with the name of the
       file and line number where it is defined, e.g.,

              func {file.c n}.

       Subsequent references are printed as:

              func ... {mm},

       where mm is the line number in  the graph of func's first reference.
       Global variable references appear (if invoked with the -v option) as:

              var {v file.c n}.

       External functions and variables are printed with a null source, i.e.,

              func {}.

       An ellipsis precedes the name of a function called recursively, e.g.,

               ... func ... {mm}

   OPTIONS
       -a        Print a separate call graph for each function.

       -A        Eliminate ansi keywords

       -P        Eliminate POSIX keywords

       -d_nn     Print the call graph to at most depth nn.

       -g        Add to the list of C keywords GNU CC keywords.

       -i        Print an inverted graph of depth 2, i.e.,  for each function
                 (or variable if used with the -v option), print a list of
                 functions which call it.

       -r_name   Print a call graph with function or variable name as root (in
                 the case of a variable, this only makes sense if used with
                 the -i option).  This option may be repeated.

       -v        Print references to global variables.  Only functions calls
                 are printed by default.

       -x        Print each sub-graph in full.  This overrides the default
                 format where subsequent references are abbreviated as
                 described above.

       -Dmacro or -Umacro or -Idir
                 Invoke cpp with the corresponding options.  If there is a
                 makefile, then the command make -n should indicate the proper
                 flags to invoke cflow with.

       -X        eliminate header files (empty files are made to a temporary
                 location).  This often makes better results occur.  Files to
                 look at eliminating are:
                      stdio.h
                      errno.h
                      ctypes.h
                      stdlib.h

       -V        Echo commands as they are being executed.

AUTHORS
       The graph printing command prcg is essentially the one in M. M.
       Taylor's calls(1) as posted to the Usenet newsgroup comp.sources.unix.
       A new parser, prcc, is based on Steven Kirkendall's ctags(1) command
       which is distributed with the vi-clone elvis(1).
       Marty Leisner (leisner@sdsp.mc.xerox.com) got this working on SunOS and
       Linux, and added a plethora of options to cflow; rewriting cflow to use
       bash.

ENVIRONMENT
       Uses $CPP, which is normally $CC -E.  If $CC is not define, use gcc.
       PRCG is defaulted to be the prcg program.
       PRCC is defaulted to be the prcc program.

HINTS
       Sometimes redefine CPP as cat will produce output if you see known.


BUGS
       An extern variable declaration is overridden by an actual (global)
       variable declaration.  A complaint is written to stderr whether there
       is a conflict or not.

       Function parameters are ignored.  If these parameters share the names
       of global variables, then references to them are  flagged as external
       references.

       The static qualifier is ignored.  Only the first definition of a
       function or variable is recognized.

                                    PUBLIC                            CFLOW(1)
