CFUMASS(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             CFUMASS(4)

NAME
     cfumass – USB device side support for Mass Storage Class Transport

SYNOPSIS
     This driver can be compiled into the kernel by placing these lines in the
     kernel configuration file:

           device usb
           device usb_template
           device ctl
           device cfumass

     The driver module can also be loaded at boot by adding this line to
     loader.conf(5):

           cfumass_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The cfumass driver provides device side support for emulating an USB mass
     storage device compliant with the USB Mass Storage Class Bulk-Only (BBB)
     Transport specification, implemented as a ctl(4) frontend driver.

     To use cfumass:

     •   cfumass(4) must be loaded as a module or compiled into the kernel.

     •   The USB Mass Storage template must be chosen by setting the
         hw.usb.template sysctl to 0.

     •   The USB OTG port must be working in USB device-side mode.  This
         happens automatically upon connection to a USB host.

     •   There must be a ctl(4) LUN configured for the cfumass port.

     Upon loading, the driver creates a ctl(4) port named cfumass, presenting
     the first LUN mapped for that port - usually LUN 0 - to the USB host.
     See ctl.conf(5) and ctld(8) for details on configuring the LUN.  See the
     cfumass_enable and cfumass_dir rc(8) variables in rc.conf(5) for an
     automated way to configure it at boot.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     These variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and loader(8)
     tunables:

     hw.usb.cfumass.debug
             Verbosity level for log messages from the cfumass driver.  Set to
             0 to disable logging or 1 to warn about potential problems.
             Larger values enable debugging output.  Defaults to 1.

     hw.usb.cfumass.ignore_stop
             Ignore START STOP UNIT SCSI commands with START and LOEJ bits
             cleared.  Some initiators send that command to stop the target
             when the user attempts to gracefully eject the drive, but fail to
             start it when the drive is reconnected.  Set to 0 to handle the
             command in a standards-compliant way, 1 to ignore it and log a
             warning, or 2 to ignore it silently.  Defaults to 1.

     hw.usb.cfumass.max_lun
             Max LUN number to report to the initiator (USB host).  Must be
             between 0 and 15.  Some initiators incorrectly handle values
             larger than 0.  Defaults to 0.

SEE ALSO
     ctl(4), umass(4), usb(4), usb_template(4), ctl.conf(5), ctld(8)

HISTORY
     The cfumass driver first appeared in FreeBSD 11.1.

AUTHORS
     The cfumass driver was developed by Edward Tomasz Napierala
     <trasz@FreeBSD.org> under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         April 21, 2018         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
