CG(1)                   FreeBSD General Commands Manual                  CG(1)

NAME
     cg – semi-automatic newsgroup binary downloader

SYNOPSIS
     cg [-chmV] [-n rcfile] [-p passwd] [-s server] [-u user] group ...

DESCRIPTION
     cg is a semi-automatic newsgroup binary downloader.  It assembles parts
     based on subject headers and then offers them in an editor for the user
     to choose which files he really wants.

     It supports decoding data in the following formats:
           MIME      The following message formats are supported:
                     multipart/mixed, message/partial; the following encodings
                     are supported: base64, quoted printable, x-uuencode.
           uuencode  Both single- and multi-posting binaries.
           yEnc      Both single- and multi-posting binaries.

     The following flags are supported:
           -c, --mark-complete   Mark only parts of complete files as read.
           -h, --help            Show a short usage.
           -n, --newsrc FILE     Use FILE as newsrc file.
           -p, --pass PASS       Use PASS as password for authentication.
           -s, --server SERVER   Use SERVER as NNTP server.  Both IPv4 and
                                 IPv6 are supported.
           -u, --user USER       Use USER as user for authentication.
           -V, --version         Show release information.

     cg reads the XOVER record from the news server for each group given on
     the command line and tries to assemble all unread binaries in this group.
     Then cg spawns an editor (taken from the VISUAL or EDITOR environment
     variables, or defaulting to vi(1)) where the user can delete all lines of
     unwanted binaries.  After leaving the editor, the binaries corresponding
     to undelete lines are decoded and saved in the current directory.

     Comments in 0-parts or around the encoded data are saved in the file
     “filename.desc”; broken files (problems during decoding, missing parts
     due to expiration) are saved as “filename.broken”.  Files are not
     overwritten, rather “.1”, “.2”, ... is appended to the filename to make
     it unique.

ENVIRONMENT
     The VISUAL and EDITOR environment variables are honored in this order.

     Set the NNTPSERVER environment variable to choose your newsserver (which
     must support xover records), or use the -s flag.  Both IPv4 and IPv6 are
     supported.

BUGS
     Mail suggestions and bug reports to <nih@giga.or.at>.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            April 17, 2002            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
