CHEMTOOL(1)                      User commands                     CHEMTOOL(1)



NAME
       chemtool - chemical structures editor


SYNOPSIS
       chemtool [filename]


DESCRIPTION
       chemtool is a program for drawing organic molecules and exporting them
       as a X bitmap, PNG, PicTeX,  Xfig, SVG, SXD, MDL or EPS file. It runs
       under the X Window System using the GTK widget set.

       The program offers essentially unlimited undo/redo, two text fonts plus
       symbols, seven colors, drawing at several zoom scales, and square and
       hexagonal backdrop grids for easier alignment.


EXAMPLES
       In all drawing and editing modes, mouse button one (usually the left
       button) is used to mark or draw objects, while button three (the right
       button) can be used to delete objects of the current type. The middle
       button is mainly used in the bond drawing modes where it allows fast
       changing of bondtypes.  Starting with version 1.5, the default storage
       directory for datafiles, and the filename extension to use, can be
       saved via a configuration dialog.

   Drawing of bonds:
       Bonds can be drawn in 4 different angle settings (hexagon with 30°
       intervals, two pentagons with 72° intervals (different orientation),
       and a 45° i octagon). (Intermediate angles are possible in all of these
       modes as well - just ignore the marker points in this case).

       The bond style chooser in the center of the button bar determines the
       type of bond that is drawn - initially, this is a single bond. If you
       want to change the type of a bond later, either click on it with the
       middle button of your mouse to advance to the next type(s), or select
       the appropriate type in the chooser and then switch to bondtype mode
       and pick all bonds that you want to change over to the new type. (The
       color used for the bond is updated at the same time if necessary.)
       Pressing the middle mousebutton on a bond when in 'Bondtype' mode
       reverses the direction of that bond.

       Using the third (usually the right) mouse button deletes the bond next
       to the cursor position.

       The available bond types are:


               • single bond

               • double bond

               • double bond (shorter line on the other side)

               • centered double bond

               • triple bond (flanking lines shorter than central)

               • triple bond (with equal line lengths)

               • quadruple bond

               • wedge-shaped bond

               • dashed wedge-shaped bond

               • wavy line

               • half arrow

               • regular arrow

               • wide bond

               • circle

               • dotted line

               • overlapping single bond (which cuts out a segment from any
                 bond it crosses)

               • light pi orbital lobe

               • dark pi orbital lobe


   Semiautomatic drawing of rings:
       Rings of 3 to 12 members can be drawn easily by holding down the Ctrl
       key while drawing a line. This line will then become the first segment
       of a ring that is automatically drawn in clockwise direction. The size
       of the ring defaults to that appropriate for the selected drawing mode
       (i.e. 5, 6 or 8 sides), but it can be set on a per-ring basis by
       pressing Ctlr-<number> before drawing the ring, where numbers 3-9
       correspond to 3 to 9-membered rings, while 0 to 2 select 10, 11 and
       12-membered rings, respectively.

       Newly drawn rings can be deleted by pressing Ctrl and mouse button 3
       together.


   Drawing of curved lines:
       Curved lines for objects like arrows or orbital lobes can be drawn in
       spline curve mode by specifying four control points that form a
       bounding polygon (startpoint, two points on either side of the peak,
       endpoint). Of the regular bondtypes available in the Style menu, the
       'single line', 'semiarrow', arrow and 'dashed line' retain their usual
       function, while the 'wide line' type is used to denote a filled
       polygon. The control points are only visible in Move mode, where they
       can be dragged around to change the form of a curve after it is drawn.


   Setting bond style
       In bond style mode, clicking on any bond in the diagram changes its
       representation to the type selected in the pull-down menu next to the
       Type button.

       The additional bond type available in the pulldown menu,

              curved arrow

       is only available for drawing. It is actually a shortcut for one of the
       curve drawing functions described above, with the second and third
       control points automatically generated. As such, it can not be
       converted to or from any of the conventional bond types.

       (One can, however, convert it to any of the other curve types, e.g. to
       change the type of arrowhead). The shape of the arrow will usually need
       to be adjusted by shifting the control point that appears alongside it
       in 'Move' mode.


   Inserting text
       Text written into the text box can be positioned with the cursor and
       may appear left, middle or right-aligned in the drawing. Text size and
       color is selectable from a fixed list of choices.  There are two
       special characters to be used for sub- and superscripting the following
       character:

               '^' to shift up     (e.g. N^+)

               '_' to shift down   (e.g. CH_3)


       The control character '|' is used to italicise the following character,
       as in |t-Bu.

       A bold fonttype, typically used for numbering compounds, can be
       selected by preceding the character with a '#'.

       The special character '@' switches to symbol mode, which uses the
       standard X11 symbol font. All alphabetic keys produce the corresponding
       Greek characters in this mode, and several other symbols are available
       if their standard Latin1 equivalents are already mapped onto the
       keyboard:

               yen -> infinity

               hyphen -> uparrow

               macron -> downarrow


       The symbols 'plusminus' and 'registered' (trademark) are already in the
       standard font, although they are not normally available on the
       keyboard.  Use the following commands (or add the declarations to your
       .xmodmaprc ) to make them available via <AltGr>+<Key>
       (<RightAlt>+<Key>):

               xmodmap -e 'keysym r = r R registered'  \
                       -e 'keysym o = o O yen' \
                       -e 'keysym p = p P plusminus' \
                       -e 'keysym u = u U hyphen' \
                       -e 'keysym d = d D macron'

       (this leads to AltGr-P = plusminus, AltGr-R = registered in normal mode
       and AltGr-O = infinity, AltGr-U = uparrow, AltGr-D = downarrow in
       symbol font).


       For 'dots-and-crosses' diagrams, the following mappings to the symbol
       font might be useful: acute -> cross  (e.g. keysym x = x X acute)
       middle dot -> filled dot (e.g. keysym d = d D periodcentered) (using
       the degree sign for the open dot).


       Circled versions of the plus and minus signs for denoting ionic charge
       are available as @+ and @- .


       When you want to use symbols as sub- or superscripts, place the sub- or
       superscripting character before the '@' character, e.g. K_@a .

       In text mode, the right mouse button deletes the label at the cursor
       position.  Changing the size, font or color of a label can be done by
       left-clicking on it after choosing the desired combination of settings.
       When the text entry box above the drawing area is empty, only the
       settings are updated without changing the contents of the label,
       otherwise the label text is replaced as well. If you want to copy the
       text of an existing label to the text entry box, click on it with the
       middle mouse button.


   Labeling shortcuts
       In all bond drawing modes, several keyboard shortcuts are available to
       add atom symbols without having to leave drawing mode. The label is
       placed at the current drawing position (the endpoint of the last line
       drawn, or the spot last clicked on).

       The keys 'c','h','n','o','s','p' and 'r' insert the corresponding
       capital letter, 'l' (lowercase L) inserts 'Cl', while '1', '2', '3'
       insert CH,CH_2 and CH_3, respectively. The asterisk key (*) inserts a
       filled circle.

       Pressing the space bar once allows you to enter arbitrary labels, which
       will be placed at the current position when you press the Return key.


   Drawing electron pairs
       The keys of the numeric keypad can be used to draw short 'electron
       pair' lines next to an element symbol - if one imagines the element
       symbol to be sitting on the central '5' key, each key draws the
       appropriate electron pair for its position. When used together with the
       Shift key, two dots are drawn instead of a line - simply delete one of
       the dots again if you need an odd number of electrons.


   Numbering atoms
       For quick numbering of the atoms in a molecule, switch to one of the
       text modes, hold down the Control key and pick each atom in succession
       with the left mouse button. Numbering starts at 1, and the sequence can
       be reset at any time by clicking the right mouse button. If you need to
       use your own numbering scheme, clicking the middle button (while still
       holding down the Control key) makes it pick up whatever number is in
       the text entry field.


   Centering
       If there is not enough space for your molecule you can put it in the
       middle of the sheet with the center button.


   Exporting to foreign formats:
       You can export your molecules as an X bitmap, a PNG or EMF image, an
       encapsulated postscript file, an input file for Brian Smith' xfig(1)
       program, an MDL ver. 2000 molfile for data exchange with commercial
       packages, an SVG file for XHTML web pages, or in the PicTeX format for
       direct inclusion in LaTeX documents.  The PicTeX, PNG, EMF and
       Postscript output functions rely on the fig2dev81) program from the
       transfig(1) package and are only available when this program was
       detected on startup. If the fig2sxd(1) program is installed, an
       additional export option is available for OpenOffice SXD format.
       Likewise, if the (open)babel program is installed, an additional Export
       menu providing access to all filetypes supported by this tool becomes
       available.

       You can create the outputs in different sizes according to the current
       zoom scale. Postscript and PicTeX files can also be created at
       arbitrary scales selectable on the export file menu.

       An option in the configuration menu can be set to call fig2dev in
       international language mode, which will automatically render any text
       written in the alternate (Times) font using the postscript font
       appropriate for the current locale (currently Croatian, Cyrillic,
       Czech, Hungarian, Japanese, Korean, Polish).  See the fig2dev
       documentation for details.

       To include the PicTeX-file in your LaTeX document, you will need the
       pictex macro package. Depending on the versions you use, you might also
       have to load the 'color' package in the preamble of your LaTeX file.
       If you experience 'TeX capacity exceeded' error messages, increase the
       extra_mem_bot parameter in your texmf.cnf file (usually in
       /usr/share/texmf/web2c, /usr/local/texmf or /etc/texmf).  Pictex is
       known for its unusual (by tex standards) memory requirements, and the
       standard settings do not account for this (although you may find a
       comment a la 'change this if you use pictex' in the texmf.cnf file).
       Something like extra_mem_bot=400000 should not hurt on any moderately
       modern system.


   Printing drawings
       Since version 1.5, direct printing of diagrams to a Postscript-capable
       printing device (or more typically a print queue running ghostscript)
       is possible. The paper size, magnification, printer name and the print
       command to use (currently either lp(1), lpr(1) or kprinter(1)) can be
       stored in the Configuration Dialog.


   Selecting all or parts of a drawing for transformations:
       Using the 'Mark' button, you can easily select parts of the current
       drawing by enclosing them with a 'rubberband' rectangle.

       If you need to add atoms outside of the rectangular area to your
       selection, simply draw another rubberband around them while holding
       down the Ctrl key.

       The selected parts will appear highlighted in blue and are immediately
       available for


       moving      simply drag the fragment to the desired position with the
                   mouse while holding down the left mouse button. (If you
                   only need to move individual atoms or bonds, you can simply
                   pick and drag them in 'Move' mode without having to mark
                   them first).

       rotating    horizontal movement of the mouse translates to smooth
                   rotation around the pivot point selected when pressing the
                   mouse button

       flipping    (mirroring) the fragment about a horizontal or vertical
                   mirror plane through its center: this is performed by
                   clicking on the appropriate menu button

       copying     clicking on the 'Copy' menu button creates an exact copy of
                   the selected fragment slightly offset to the original. The
                   mark is automatically transferred to the new copy.

       rescaling   horizontal mouse movement is translated into a smooth
                   increase or decrease of size of the marked fragment

       deleting    to delete the marked fragment, simply click the third
                   (usually the right) mouse button after it is highlighted.

       framing     choosing one of the icons from the drop-down list of frame
                   and bracket styles draws the corresponding object, e.g. a
                   pair of round parentheses, around the highlighted fragment.

       optimizing  clicking on the 'bucket and broom' symbol invokes a
                   function that removes overlapping (duplicate) bonds and
                   labels from the drawing and straightens lines that are
                   almost horizontal or vertical.


   Adding previously saved figures:
       To add another molecule from a previously saved chemtool drawing,
       select it in the file selection window that comes up when you press the
       'Add' button.  Single clicking on any filename in the list displays a
       small preview of the molecule to aid in selection.  The newly added
       molecule is automatically made active so that it can be repositioned as
       desired.

       If you want to add it to a predefined position on another molecule, you
       can mark that attachment site by left-clicking on it instead of
       dragging the marker rectangle. A small green dot will appear at what is
       now the reference position for the new part. If you save molecules with
       such a marker set, it will in turn define their attachment site when
       they are added to another drawing.


   Adding one of the predefined templates:
       Selecting 'Templates' from the 'Tools' menu opens a second window with
       a small collection of predefined structures. Simply click on the image
       of the desired molecule to add it to your drawing. The Template window
       can be kept open throughout a chemtool session - if it is hidden by
       another window, you can move it to the front by selecting the
       'Template' menu in chemtool again.

       The data in the template system differ from normal chemtool drawings
       only by the fact that they are stored within the program, and in a
       slightly awkward format (x and y coordinates listed separately in the
       source file templates.h).  These are meant to provide a convenient
       basis set available to all users, but not individually extendable (you
       can use the 'Add' function for your own structures). Please let us know
       if you want specific molecules added to the templates - their name or
       ideally a regular chemtool drawing file is all we need. (send email to
       martin@ruby.chemie.uni-freiburg.de)


   Importing foreign file formats:
       Chemtool provides functions for importing files in both the PDB format
       used by the Protein Database (and by most molecular modeling packages)
       and the proprietary MDL molfile format used by ISISdraw and understood
       by other structure drawing packages and database frontends.

       As both are 3D file formats, while chemtool only handles 2D
       projections, imported molecules are read into a temporary storage at
       first and displayed in blue on the canvas. This 3D representation can
       then be rotated using the mouse. Only after pressing the Return key on
       the keyboard is it converted into the final 2D projection that can be
       edited. While such a 3d import is in progress, all normal drawing and
       editing functions are disabled.

       With MDL molfile import, the carbon atom labels are automatically
       discarded. For PDB import, the amount of labeling can be chosen in the
       file selection dialog, which offers retention of either all labels,
       only those of non-hydrogen atoms, or only the non-numeric part of the
       labels.

       If the program babel is installed - either the original version written
       by Pat Walters or the more recent OpenBabel effort -  chemtool will
       automatically offer a menu option for importing from any of the file
       formats this supports.


   Determining sum formula and molecular weight:
       The distribution contains a helper program, cht(1), by Radek Liboska
       (Prague) to calculate sum formula and (exact) molecular weight from a
       chemtool drawing file. It is also available from within chemtool to
       calculate these data for the current structure or a marked fragment of
       it. cht can be misled by duplicate bonds ( chemtool does not remove
       overlapping bonds, such as they might result from fusing ring systems,
       automatically) and by the 'aromatic ring' symbol, so you should avoid
       these and check the plausibility of the generated sum formula where
       possible.


   Drawing functions not available within Chemtool:
       For features not currently supported by chemtool, like general line-
       drawing functions, getting Brian Smith's XFig drawing package xfig is
       highly recommended.  About the only thing it does not offer is support
       for 'chemical' linetypes and drawing angles - which is why chemtool was
       written as a sort of companion program. (There will probably be more of
       the most sorely needed drawing options added to chemtool over time, but
       duplicating the more general-purpose features of xfig seems rather
       pointless.)


LICENSE
       chemtool and its companion program cht are available under the terms of
       the GNU General Public License (see the file 'COPYING' in the package).
       This software comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.


AUTHORS
       Thomas Volk
              Original author and maintainer up to 1.1.1.

       Dr. Martin Kroeker <martin@ruby.chemie.uni-freiburg.de>
              Maintainer and primary author since 1.1.2.

       Radek Liboska, PhD <liboska@uochb.cas.cz>

       Michael Banck <mbanck@gmx.net>

       and many others.


SEE ALSO
       babel(1), cht(1), fig2dev(1), fig2sxd(1), transfig(1), xfig(1)

       Homepage:
       http://ruby.chemie.uni-freiburg.de/~martin/chemtool/chemtool.html


1.6.13                            23 Dec 2011                      CHEMTOOL(1)
