CKDIST(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              CKDIST(1)

NAME
     ckdist – check software distributions

SYNOPSIS
     ckdist [-airsx] [-d dir] [-n name] [-t type] file ...

DESCRIPTION
     The ckdist utility reads “checksum” files (which are assumed to specify
     components of a software distribution) and verifies the integrity of the
     distribution by validating the checksum of each component file.  Both MD5
     (128-bit “message digest”) and .inf (32-bit CRC) checksum formats are
     supported.

     The file operands may refer to regular files or to directories.  Regular
     files named md5, or which have an .md5 or an .inf extension, are assumed
     to be of the implied type, otherwise format is determined from content.
     If a directory is specified, it is searched for appropriately-named files
     only.

     The options are as follows:

           -a        Report on all distribution components, not just those in
                     respect of which errors are detected.

           -i        Ignore missing distribution components.

           -r        Search specified directories recursively.

           -s        Suppress complaints about inaccessible checksum files and
                     directories.

           -x        Verify the existence of distribution components (and also
                     check sizes, in the case of .inf files), but omit the
                     more time-consuming step of actually computing and
                     comparing checksums.

           -d dir    Look for distribution components in the directory dir.

           -n name   Access distribution components using the filename name.
                     When accessing .inf file components, append the
                     appropriate extension to the filename.

           -t type   Assume that all specified checksum files are of the
                     format type, and search directories only for files in
                     this format (where type is either md5 or inf).

EXIT STATUS
     The ckdist utility exits with one of the following values:

     0       No errors were detected.

     1       Errors were found in a distribution.

     2       Usage errors, inaccessible input files, or other system errors
             were encountered.

SEE ALSO
     cksum(1), md5(1)

NOTES
     Both BSD and DOS versions of ckdist are available.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        January 20, 1997        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
