BAR(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 BAR(1)

NAME
       bar - show information about a data transfer

SYNOPSIS

       bar [ I/O-options ] [ display-options ] [ color-options ]
           [ input-file ] [ output-file ]
           [ -h | --help ] [ -v | --version ]


DESCRIPTION
       Bar is a simple tool to process a stream of data and print a display
       for the user on stderr showing (a) the amount of data passed, (b) the
       throughput of the data transfer, and, if the total size of the data
       stream is known, (c) estimated time remaining, percent complete, and a
       progress bar.


       Bar was originally written for the purpose of estimating the amount of
       time needed to transfer large amounts (many, many gigabytes) of data
       across a network.  (Usually in an SSH/tar pipe.)


I/O COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       -if input-file
       --in-file input-file

         Read input from input-file.  Default: stdin

       -of output-file
       --out-file output-file

         Write output to output-file. If the output file is a directory, then
         bar will attempt to create a file in the output directory with the
         same name as the input file, and attempt to copy the input file mode
         as well as it's data.  Default: stdout

       Please notice that if no -if, --in-file, -of, or --out-file options are
       specified on the command line, and an unknown command line option is
       encountered, then bar will assume that the first unknown command line
       option is a path to an input file, and the second (if found) is a path
       to an output file.

       -s size
       --size size

         Expect an input stream of size bytes.

         When reading a regular file or a link to a regular file, bar will
         extract the file size on it's own.  However, this flag is useful for
         reading from a character- or block-special device file, or from a
         pipe.  size may be followed by 'k', 'm', 'g', 't', 'p', or 'e' for
         kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, terabytes, petabytes, or exabytes,
         respectively (see also the -k option below).  Alternatively, size may
         also be specified in terms of 'b' for blocks (see the -bl option
         below).  See examples below.

       -c size
       --completed size

         Instruct bar that size bytes of the data stream have already been
         copied, and that this is a continuation of a previous data stream.
         Note that use of this option will throw off throughput and ETA
         calculations at first, but they should settle down as the transfer
         continues.

         -bs buffer-size
         --buffer-size buffer-size

           Allocate an I/O buffer of buffer-size bytes.  The same modifiers
           may apply here ('k', 'm', 'g', 't', 'p', 'e' and 'b') as for the -s
           flag above.  Changing the buffer size can improve throughput,
           depending on your application of bar.  For fast I/O operations, say
           from a ramdisk for instance, it might be worth your while to
           experiment with a large buffer (circa 1MB for instance).  But for
           slow I/O operations, like from a tape drive, you could merely be
           wasting your memory.  Default: 52488 (512KB)

         -th rate
         --throttle rate

           Restrict I/O throughput to rate bytes per second.  The same
           modifiers apply here ('k', 'm', 'g', 't', 'p', 'e' and 'b') as for
           the -s flag above.

         -i seconds
         --interval seconds

           Update the display every seconds seconds.  Default: 1 second

         -t microseconds
         --timeout microseconds

           The number of microseconds to wait for a change in I/O state before
           select() times out.  Default: 250000 (1/4 second)

         -k 1000|1024
         --kilo 1000|1024

           Use either 1000 or 1024 as the definition of a kilobyte.  Default:
           1024

         -bl size
         --block-size size

           When reading sizes from the command line that are specified in
           terms of blocks, assume a single block is size bytes.  Size may be
           followed by 'k', 'm', 'g', 't', 'p', or 'e' for kilobytes,
           megabytes, gigabytes, terabytes, petabytes, or exabytes,
           respectively.  Block size must be set before specifying any sizes
           in terms of blocks or the default value will be used instead.
           Specifying size in terms of 'b' for blocks is not allowed for this
           option.  Default: 512


DISPLAY COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       -sw width
       --screen-width width

         Assume a screen width of width characters.

         Bar will attempt to retrieve the width of the terminal it is running
         on, and will adjust that width if the terminal is resized.  If bar
         cannot determine the terminal width, then bar will assume a default
         width of 79 characters.  Use the --screen-width command line option
         to override this behavior and specify a fixed width for bar to use.
         (When this option is used, bar will ignore terminal resized signals
         and continue to use the value provided by the user.)

       -sw-1 | --screen-width-minus-one
       -sw-0 | --screen-width-minus-zero

         Instruct bar to use either the entire column width reported by
         termio, or one less than reported by termio.  I.e. If termio reports
         that you are running bar in a terminal that's 80 characters wide,
         using the command line option --screen-width-minus-one instructs bar
         to only use 79 characters to print the display.  If you're using a
         terminal or shell that wraps the line whenever bar prints the last
         character then this should alleviate that problem.  Default is to use
         the full terminal's width.

       -sh height
       --screen-height height

         Assume a screen height of height characters.

         Bar will attempt to retrieve the height of the terminal it is running
         on, and will adjust that height if the terminal is resized.  If bar
         cannot determine the terminal height, then bar will assume a default
         height of 23 characters.  Use the --screen-height command line option
         to override this behavior and specify a fixed height for bar to use.
         (When this option is used, bar will ignore terminal resized signals
         and continue to use the value provided by the user.)

         Please note that this option is only useful when used in conjunction
         with the --info-file command line option.  Otherwise bar has no need
         to know the screen height in order to perform it's function.

       -sh-1 | --screen-height-minus-one
       -sh-0 | --screen-height-minus-zero

         Instruct bar to use either the entire row height reported by termio,
         or one less than reported by termio.  I.e. If termio reports that you
         are running bar in a terminal that's 24 rows characters high, using
         the command line option --screen-height-minus-one instructs bar to
         only use 23 rows to print the display.  If you're using a terminal or
         shell that wraps the line whenever bar prints the last character then
         this should alleviate that problem.  Default is to use the full
         terminal's height.

         Please note that this option is only useful when used in conjunction
         with the --info-file command line option.  Otherwise bar has no need
         to know the screen height in order to perform it's function.

       -ti string | --title string
         Set the title to string.

       -dti | -nti
       --display-title | --no-title
         Turn on/off the title display.  Even if on, if no title string is set
         then no title will be displayed.  Default is on.

       -dtw | --display-twiddle
       -ntw | --no-twiddle

         Turn on/off the twiddle in the display.

       -dc | --display-count
       -nc | --no-count

         Turn on/off the data count in the display.  Default is on.

       -dcb | -ncb
       --display-count-bits | --no-count-bits
         Display the data count at bits instead of as bytes.  Default is off.

         By default bar will display the data count as bytes using the
         notation of "B".  Using this option, bar will display the throughput
         as bits using the notation of "b".

       -dth | --display-throughput
       -nth | --no-throughput

         Turn on/off the data throughput in the display.  Default is on.

       -dthb | -nthb
       --display-throughput-bits | --no-throughput-bits
         Display throughput as bits/second instead of as bytes/second.
         Default is off.

         By default bar will display the throughput as bytes/second using the
         notation of "B/s".  Using this option, bar will display the
         throughput as bits/second using the notation of "b/s".

       -dt | --display-time
       -nt | --no-time

         Turn on/off the time elapsed or eta in the display.  Default is on.

       -de | --display-elapsed-only
       -ne | --no-elapsed-only

         Force bar to display the elapsed time instead of the eta.  Default is
         off.

       -dp | --display-percent
       -np | --no-percent

         Turn on/off percent complete in the display.  Default is on.

       -db | --display-bar
       -nb | --no-bar

         Turn on/off the progress bar in the display.  Default is on.

       -ds | --display-summary
       -ns | --no-summary

         Turn on/off the summary information displayed when the operation is
         complete.  Default is on.

       -da | --display-all
       -dn | --display-none

         Turn on/off all displays.  -dn is equivalent to -ntw -nc -nth -nt -np
         -nb.  (Using -dn followed by -db would be equivalent to -ntw -nc -nth
         -nt -np.)  -da is equivalent to -dtw -dc -dth -dt -dp -db.

       -inf infofile | --info-file infofile

         Display the information contained in infofile while copying data.
         The file infofile is a regular text file containing tidbits of
         information broken up into sections.  Each section is separated by a
         line containing the string "@@@" by itself, with no other characters
         on the line, either preceeding or following.

         When bar begins, it will count the number of sections within the
         file.  Bar will then begin by displaying the first section of
         information to the display before it draws the status line.  Then,
         periodically, each of the successive sections will be displayed as
         the progress indicator fills up.

         The progress of the data transfer is the trigger for each successive
         display.  For instance, if your information file has exactly four
         sections to it, then the first section will be printed as bar begins,
         the second section after the data transfer hits 25%, the third at
         50%, and the fourth at 75%.

         If bar is configured to use ANSI control codes, then the screen will
         be cleared before printing a section from the information file.
         Otherwise, the contents of the current screen are scolled up and off
         the screen.

       -dnum | --display-numeric

         Do not render the usual display, but instead display an integer
         representing the percent of the transfer that is complete, one
         integer per line.  This output is suitable for piping to other
         programs such as dialog(1) or zenity(1).  This implies that the total
         transfer size must be known by bar, either by finding the size of an
         input file directly or by using the --size command line option.

         -dw | --display-wait
           Wait for the first byte of data to come through before displaying
           anything.



COLOR COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       For the following color-specific command line options, the following
       keywords are recognized as valid color names: normal, black, red,
       green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, and white

       -dan | --display-ansi
       -nan | --no-ansi

         Turn on/off the use of ansi color codes in the display.

       -spbg color | --space-background color

         Use color as the background color for spacing between display
         objects.  Default: normal

       -twfg color | --twiddle-foreground color
       -twbg color | --twiddle-background color

         Use color as the twiddle color in the display.  Default: normal

       -twb | --twiddle-bold
       -twn | --twiddle-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the twiddle.
         Default off

       -tifg color | --title-foreground color
       -tibg color | --title-background color

         Use color as the title color in the display.  Default: normal

       -tib | --title-bold
       -tin | --title-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the title.  Default
         off

       -cfg color | --count-foreground color
       -cbg color | --count-background color

         Use color as the data count color in the display.  Default: normal

       -cb | --count-bold
       -cn | --count-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the data count.
         Default off

       -thlfg color | --throughput-label-foreground color
       -thlbg color | --throughput-label-background color

         Use color as the throughput label color in the display.  Default:
         normal

       -thlb | --throughput-label-bold
       -thln | --throughput-label-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the throughput
         label.  Default off

       -thfg color | --throughput-foreground color
       -thbg color | --throughput-background color

         Use color as the throughput color in the display.  Default: normal

       -thb | --throughput-bold
       -thn | --throughput-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the throughput.
         Default off

       -tlfg color | --time-label-foreground color
       -tlbg color | --time-label-background color

         Use color as the time label color in the display.  Default: normal

       -tlb | --time-label-bold
       -tln | --time-label-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the time label.
         Default off

       -tfg color | --time-foreground color
       -tbg color | --time-background color

         Use color as the time color in the display.  Default: normal

       -tb | --time-bold
       -tn | --time-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the time.  Default
         off

       -pfg color | --percent-foreground color
       -pbg color | --percent-background color

         Use color as the percent color in the display.  Default: normal

       -pb | --percent-bold
       -pn | --percent-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the percent.
         Default off

       -bbfg color | --bar-brace-foreground color
       -bbbg color | --bar-brace-background color

         Use color as the brace color around the progress bar in the display.
         Default: normal

       -bbb | --bar-brace-bold
       -bbn | --bar-brace-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the bar braces.
         Default off

       -bfg color | --bar-foreground color
       -bbg color | --bar-background color

         Use color as the color of the progress bar in the display.  Default:
         normal

       -bb | --bar-bold
       -bn | --bar-normal

         Turn on/off the use of bold font when displaying the progress bar.
         Default off

       -bobc | --bar-openbrace-char char

         char as the open brace character on the progress bar.

       -bcbc | --bar-closebrace-char char

         char as the close brace character on the progress bar.

       -bcc | --bar-complete-char char

         char as the completed character on the progress bar.

       -bic | --bar-incomplete-char char

         char as the incomplete character on the progress bar.

       -h | --help

         Display this text and exit.

       -v | --version

         Display the program version and exit.


RESOURCE FILE OPTIONS
       Some command line options may be specified in a resource file.  Bar
       will search for a resource file by the name of /etc/clpbarrc and, if
       found, bar will use the values within by default.  Next bar will search
       for ~/.barrc and, if found, bar will use these values to override any
       values set within /etc/clpbarrc.  Last, bar will search for a file in
       the current working directory named ./.barrc.  If this file exists,
       it's values will override the values found in ~/.barrc or
       /etc/clpbarrc.  Values in all files may be overridden by command line
       flags.  Lines that begin with a # are ignored.


       For resource options requiring a boolean value, the following values
       are recognized: on and off, yes and no, (and the single-character
       abbreviations y and n), true and false, (and the single-character
       abbreviations t and f), 0 and 1.


       For resource options requiring a color value, the same keywords are
       recognized as for the color-specific command line options above:
       normal, black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, and white

       buffer-size: buffer-size

         Allocate an I/O buffer of buffer-size bytes.  See the --buffer-size
         command line option above.

       throttle: rate

         Restrict I/O throughput to rate bytes per second.  See the --throttle
         command line option above.

       interval: seconds

         Update the display every seconds seconds.  See the --interval command
         line option above.

       timeout: microseconds

         The number of microseconds to wait for a change in I/O state before
         select() times out.  See the --timeout command line option above.

       kilobyte: 1000|1024

         Use either 1000 or 1024 as the definition of a kilobyte.  See the
         --kilo command line option above.

       block-size: size
         When parsing sizes specified in terms of blocks, assume a single
         block is size bytes.  See the --block-size command line option above.

       screen-width: width

         Override termio and assume that the screen is width characters wide.
         See the --screen-width command line option above.

       screen-width-minus-one: boolean

         Instruct bar to restrict the number of columns reported by termio by
         one.  See the --screen-width-minus-one command line option above.

       display-twiddle: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the twirling twiddle character in the
         display.  See the --display-twiddle command line option above.

       display-title: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the title in the display.  See the
         --display-title command line option above.

       display-count: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the data count in the display.  See the
         --display-count command line option above.

       display-count-bits: boolean

         Display the data count as bits instead of as bytes.  See the
         --display-count-bits command line option above.

       display-throughput: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the data throughput in the display.  See
         the --display-throughput command line option above.

       display-throughput-bits: boolean

         Display throughput as bits/sec instead of as bytes/sec.  See the
         --display-throughput-bits command line option above.

       display-time: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the time in the display.  See the
         --display-time command line option above.

       display-elapsed-only: boolean

         Force bar to display the elapsed time instead of the eta.  See the
         --display-elapsed-only command line option above.

       display-percent: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the percent complete in the display.  See
         the --display-percent command line option above.

       display-bar: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the progress bar in the display.  See the
         --display-bar command line option above.

       display-summary: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the summary information displayed when
         operation is complete.  See the --display-summary command line option
         above.

       info-file: infofile
         Display the information contained in infofile while copying data.
         The file infofile is a regular text file containing tidbits of
         information broken up into sections.  Each section is separated by a
         line containing the string "@@@" by itself, with no other characters
         on the line, either preceeding or following.

         When bar begins, it will count the number of sections within the
         file.  Bar will then begin by displaying the first section of
         information to the display before it draws the status line.  Then,
         periodically, each of the successive sections will be displayed as
         the progress indicator fills up.

         The progress of the data transfer is the trigger for each successive
         display.  For instance, if your information file has exactly four
         sections to it, then the first section will be printed as bar begins,
         the second section after the data transfer hits 25%, the third at
         50%, and the fourth at 75%.

         If bar is configured to use ANSI control codes, then the screen will
         be cleared before printing a section from the information file.
         Otherwise, the contents of the current screen are scolled up and off
         the screen.

       display-numeric: boolean
         Do not render the usual display, but instead display an integer
         representing the percent of the transfer that is complete, one
         integer per line.  This output is suitable for piping to other
         programs such as dialog(1) or zenity(1).  This implies that the total
         transfer size must be known by bar, either by finding the size of an
         input file directly or by using the --size command line option.

       display-wait: boolean
         Wait for the first byte of data to come through before displaying
         anything.

       display-ansi: boolean

         Instruct bar to turn on/off the use of ansi color codes in the
         display.  See the --display-ansi command line option above.

       space-background: color

         Use color as the background color for spacing between display
         objects.  See the --space-background command line option above.

       twiddle-foreground: color
       twiddle-background: color
       twiddle-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         twiddle, and use a bold font.  See the --twiddle-foreground,
         --twiddle-background, and --twiddle-bold command line options above.

       title: string

         Set the title string for the display.  See the --title command line
         option above.

       title-foreground: color
       title-background: color
       title-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         title, and use a bold font.  See the --title-foreground,
         --title-background, and --title-bold command line options above.

       count-foreground: color
       count-background: color
       count-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         data count, and use a bold font.  See the --count-foreground,
         --count-background, and --count-bold command line options above.

       throughput-label-foreground: color
       throughput-label-background: color
       throughput-label-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         throughput label, and use a bold font.  See the
         --throughput-label-foreground, --throughput-label-background, and
         --throughput-label-bold command line options above.

       throughput-foreground: color
       throughput-background: color
       throughput-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         throughput, and use a bold font.  See the --throughput-foreground,
         --throughput-background, and --throughput-bold command line options
         above.

       time-label-foreground: color
       time-label-background: color
       time-label-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         time label, and use a bold font.  See the --time-label-foreground,
         --time-label-background, and --time-label-bold command line options
         above.

       time-foreground: color
       time-background: color
       time-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         time, and use a bold font.  See the --time-foreground,
         --time-background, and --time-bold command line options above.

       percent-foreground: color
       percent-background: color
       percent-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         percent, and use a bold font.  See the --percent-foreground,
         --percent-background, and --percent-bold command line options above.

       bar-brace-foreground: color
       bar-brace-background: color
       bar-brace-bold: boolean

         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         brace surrounding the progress bar, and use a bold font.  See the
         --bar-brace-foreground, --bar-brace-background, and --bar-brace-bold
         command line options above.

       bar-foreground: color
       bar-background: color
       bar-bold: boolean
         Use the specified colors for the foreground and background of the
         progress bar, and use a bold font.  See the --bar-foreground,
         --bar-background, and --bar-bold command line options above.

       bar-openbrace-char: char
       bar-closebrace-char: char
       bar-complete-char: char
       bar-incomplete-char:
         Use the specified custom characters char for the opening brace,
         closing brace, completed, and incomplete characters when rendering
         the progress bar.


EXAMPLES
       Example 1: Using bar to copy a 2.4gb file from a device (in this case a
       tape drive) to a file, using a 64k buffer.


         prompt% bar --in-file /dev/rmt/1cbn --out-file \
         tape-restore.tar --size 2.4g --buffer-size 64k


       Example 2: Using bar to copy a 37tb file across the network using SSH.


         prompt% ssh remote 'dd if=file' | bar --size 37t > file


       Example 3: Using bar inside a tar-pipe command:


         Normal tar-pipe command might be:


           prompt% (cd /some/dir/somewhere && tar -cf - *) \
           | (cd /some/other/dir && tar -xBpf -)


         3a: Using bar within the tar-pipe:


           prompt% (cd /some/dir/somewhere && tar -cf - *) \
           | bar \
           | (cd /some/other/dir && tar -xBpf -)


         3b: Using bar with the --size option in a tar-pipe:


           prompt% du -sk /some/dir/somewhere
           6281954 /some/dir/somewhere

           prompt% (cd /some/dir/somewhere && tar -cf - *) \
           | bar --size 6281954k \
           | (cd /some/other/dir && tar -xBpf -)


       Example 4: Using bar on a regular file.  (Note that the --size option
       is not needed here, as bar will retrieve the file size itself.)


         prompt% bar --in-file ./file | ssh remote 'cd /some/dir && dd
         of=file'


       Example 5: Generating a 512k file of random data.


         prompt% dd if=/dev/random bs=1024 count=512 \
         | bar -s 512k -of ./random


       Example 6: An example .barrc file.
         #
         # This is an example of what a ~/.barrc file
         # might look like.  Note that lines beginning
         # with a # are ignored.
         #
         display-twiddle: no
         display-ansi: yes
         # space-background: black
         twiddle-foreground: green
         # twiddle-background: normal
         # twiddle-bold: no
         count-foreground: green
         # count-background: magenta
         count-bold: yes
         throughput-label-foreground: normal
         # throughput-label-background: red
         throughput-label-bold: no
         throughput-foreground: green
         # throughput-background: black
         throughput-bold: yes
         time-label-foreground: normal
         # time-label-background: red
         time-label-bold: no
         time-foreground: green
         # time-background: black
         time-bold: yes
         percent-foreground: green
         # percent-background: green
         percent-bold: yes
         bar-brace-foreground: red
         # bar-brace-background: blue
         bar-brace-bold: no
         bar-foreground: yellow
         # bar-background: blue
         bar-bold: yes


NOTES

       - The --size option is only used by bar in calculating information
         about the data transfer.  Bar will not cease copying data once it has
         reached the number of bytes specified with the --size option, but
         instead bar will continue to copy data until and end of input is
         reached.  If this behavior is undesirable then bar may be used in
         conjunction with dd, where the count option is used with dd to
         specify when to cut off the input stream.  (See examples above.)


       - When using other commands such as du -k to calculate the expected
         size of a data transfer stream, the value returned may not be exactly
         the number of bytes counted by bar in the actual data transfer.
         Common causes for this discrepancy could be attributed to round-off
         error or the use of 1000 bytes as a kilobyte rather than 1024.  (If
         the later is the case, then using the -k 1000 option to bar will
         help.)  When such discrepancies occur, bar may report that the data
         stream contained only 98% or as much as 101% of it's expected size.
         (If you have doubts, you should definitely verify your data using
         md5sum, diff, or cmp.)


       - When the value of a calculation exceeds the size alloted for the
         display, the value +99... will be substituted in it's place.  The
         complete value will be displayed in a summary statement after bar has
         reached the end of input.


       - Bar assumes a linear relationship between the speed of the data
         transfer and the amount of time remaining.  Specifically the
         calculation is based on the following:

         elapsed time / eta = bytes written / total size

         However, it has been the author's experience that the throughput
         speed will change, particularly at the beginning of the transfer, and
         this will affect the estimated time remaining.  The author does not
         believe this is a bug, but a side-effect of this method of
         calculation.


       - Bar assumes that there are 8 bits in both a byte and a char.


BUGS
       - Bar uses the open() and fstat() functions to open and retrieve the
         size of regular files when using either the --in-file or --out-file
         command line options.  Some OS's do not support Large Files (file
         sizes up to (2**63)-1 bytes) natively.  Some OS's support Large Files
         but require _FILE_OFFSET_BITS or _LARGE_FILES to be defined properly
         at compile time.  Other OS's support neither, but still allow
         programs to open files in excess of (2**32)-1 through an O_LARGEFILE
         option that can be passed to the open() function.

         When trying to open files greater than 2gb on an OS without Large
         File support, bar will exit with the message: "File too large".  When
         trying to write more than 2gb of data to a file, bar will write
         2**32-1 bytes and then the OS may terminate bar with a message
         similar to: "File size limit exceeded".

         When trying to open files greater than 2gb on an OS without Large
         File support, but with the O_LARGEFILE option that can be passed to
         open(), bar will receive an error when trying to retrieve the file's
         size, but bar will be able to open the file anyway.  Under these
         circumstances, bar will print a "File too large" error message, but
         will then proceed to transfer the data.  Since bar will not be able
         to retrieve the file's size on it's own, the --size command line
         option must be used after the --in-file option to tell bar the file
         size manually.  On such OS's, bar should be able to write more than
         2gb of data to a file without any problems.

         For OS's that support files greater than 2gb, either natively or
         through the Large File extension definitions mentioned above, bar
         should work as expected.


       - The author has noticed that when running bar over an SSH connection,
         sometimes window resize events are not captured until after the
         display has gone through one or two more updates, which can cause the
         line to wrap.


       - The author has noticed that on some systems the use of aligned memory
         allocation, through either memalign() or posix_memalign(), causes bar
         to commit a segmentation fault the first time read() or readv() is
         called and passed a pointer to the aligned memory as it's input
         buffer.  Attempts were made to try to isolate systems in which this
         bug bites through tests in configure, but all tests devised passed
         with flying colors.  Therefore aligned memory allocation is turned
         off by default, and may only be enabled by passing --enable-use-
         memalign to configure when building the executable.


       - On some 64-bit systems it has been found that the CC compiler will,
         by default, compile bar in 32-bit mode.  This has been known to cause
         math errors which result in segmentation faults and infinite loops.
         Although multiple configure tests have been added to the compilation
         phase to try to properly detect such compilers and compensate for
         such bugs, without access to such systems for debugging purposes
         there may be other bugs waiting to rear their ugly heads.


       Report all bugs to the author.


       Bar was developed on a Sun workstation running Solaris 8.  To the best
       of the author's knowledge bar should compile and run on other platforms
       without much trouble.  Should other OS's require modifications to the
       code, the author welcomes all patch submissions, but requests that you
       include the file config.log and the output of gcc -dumpspecs (or a
       listing of predefined variables, if not using gcc).


DISTRIBUTION
       The latest version of bar can always be found at:
         http://www.freshmeat.net/projects/commandlineprogressbar
         http://sourceforge.net/projects/clpbar/


AUTHOR
       Bar was written by Michael Peek.  See DISTRIBUTION above for contact
       information.

       Occasionally, the author fancies that he knows what he's doing.  It is
       at these times more than ever that his coworkers should cower in
       fear...


                                4 November 2003                         BAR(1)
