COFFEEBREAK(6)               FreeBSD Games Manual               COFFEEBREAK(6)

NAME
     coffeebreak – pretend your machine is busy with a fake FreeBSD installer

SYNOPSIS
     coffeebreak [-f files] [-i increase] [-p barsize] [-s seconds] [-w width]

DESCRIPTION
     coffeebreak is a a fake FreeBSD installer.

     It's friday.  Do you need to pretend to be working?  Do you have FreeBSD
     systems?  Here you go!  coffeebreak is the tool you always wanted to make
     your machine as if it is very busy doing important stuff.

     The options are as follows:

     -f files     Set the list of space-separated files to fake-fetch.
                  Default value: “base.txz dict.txz doc.txz games.txz
                  ports.txz src.txz”.

     -i increase  Set the number of percentage points to increment each time.
                  increase must be even divisor of 100.  Default value: “1”.

     -p barsize   Set the size of the mini-progressbar.  Default value: “17”.

     -s seconds   Set the number of seconds to sleep in-between increments.  n
                  does not have to be an integer.  Default value: “3”.

     -w width     Set the maximum width for labels (file names defined via the
                  files environmental variable).  Default value: “28”.

ENVIRONMENT
     Those environmental are always overwritten by command-line options.

     Here is a list of environmental variables affecting the execution of
     coffeebreak:

     files      Files to fake-fetch.  Default value: “base.txz dict.txz
                doc.txz games.txz ports.txz src.txz”.

     increment  The number of percentage points to increment each time (must
                be even divisor of 100).  Default value: “1”.

     pbar_size  The size of the mini-progressbar.  Default value: “17”.

     sleep_sec  The time to sleep in-between increments.  Default value: “3”.

     txt_size   The maximum width for labels (file names defined via the files
                environmental variable).  Default value: “28”.

AUTHORS
     coffeebreak was originally written by Devin Teske <dteske@FreeBSD.org>
     and then packaged and documented by Mateusz Piotrowski <0mp@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            April 30, 2018            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
