COLOR.LUA(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           COLOR.LUA(8)

NAME
     color.lua – FreeBSD color module

DESCRIPTION
     color.lua contains functionality for working with colors.

     Before using the functionality provided by color.lua, it must be included
     with a statement such as the following:

           local color = require("color")

     The following color constants are exported from color.lua:

           color.BLACK

           color.RED

           color.GREEN

           color.YELLOW

           color.BLUE

           color.MAGENTA

           color.CYAN

           color.WHITE

     The following attribute constants are exported from color.lua:

           color.DEFAULT

           color.BRIGHT

           color.DIM

     The following functions are exported from color.lua:

           color.isEnabled()   Returns True if loader(8) has been configured
                               to not allow color, False otherwise.  This
                               checks the loader_color loader.conf(5)
                               variable, along with core.isSerialBoot().

           color.escapefg(color_value)
                               Returns the escape sequence that encodes
                               color_value as a foreground color.
                               color.escapefg() returns an empty string if
                               color is disabled.

           color.resetfg()     Returns the escape sequence for the default
                               foreground color.  color.resetfg() returns an
                               empty string if color is disabled.

           color.escapebg(color_value)
                               Returns the escape sequence that encodes
                               color_value as a background color.
                               color.escapebg() returns an empty string if
                               color is disabled.

           color.resetbg()     Returns the escape sequence for the default
                               background color.  color.resetbg() returns an
                               empty string if color is disabled.

           color.escape(fg_color, bg_color, attribute)
                               Returns an escape sequence that encodes
                               fg_color as the foreground color, bg_color as
                               the background color, and attribute applied.
                               color.escape() returns an empty string if color
                               is disabled.

           color.default()     Returns the escape sequence for the default
                               color scheme, white on black with no attributes
                               applied.  color.default() returns an empty
                               string if color is disabled.

           color.highlight(str)
                               Returns str with the color.BRIGHT attribute
                               applied before it and reset after it.
                               color.highlight() returns str if color is
                               disabled.

SEE ALSO
     screen.lua(8)

AUTHORS
     The color.lua file was originally written by Pedro Souza
     <pedrosouza@FreeBSD.org>.  Later work and this manual page was done by
     Kyle Evans <kevans@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         August 19, 2018        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
