COLORIZE(1)                  colorize Users Manual                 COLORIZE(1)

NAME
       colorize - A robust log colorizer

SYNOPSIS
       colorize [options]<logfile

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the colorize utility.

       colorize is a short (no, it's not short anymore :) perl script to
       colorize your logs. You can even use syslog-ng to redirect all logs to
       the script and colorize them on the fly!

OPTIONS
       These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
       options starting with two dashes (`-'). A summary of options is
       included below.

       -f, --file output
              Print output to output instead of standard output.

       -F, --rcfile rcfile
              Specify an initialization file to read instead of
              /etc/colorizerc and ~/.colorizerc

       -h, --html
              Generate output in HTML format.

       --nocss
              Don't use cascanding style sheets for HTML output. This can be
              used when the program you want to use to view the output doesn't
              support cascading stylesheets (like some mailers).

       -b, --bgcolor color
              Set the color color as the background color for HTML output. The
              given value should be a valid HTML color reference, like
              "#ff0000" or "red".

       -C, --convert-date
              Convert unix timestamp to readable date format (in oops and
              squid log example).

       -r, --remove-facility
              syslog-ng paste the facility level before log messages, with
              this switch you can cut these strings off.

       --help Show summary of options and exit.

       -V, --version
              Show version of program.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Gergely Nagy <8@free.bsd.hu>, for the
       Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  Modified by
       Istvan Karaszi <colorize@spam.raszi.hu>.

colorize                         June 25, 2002                     COLORIZE(1)
