COMPARATOR(1)                     Open Source                    COMPARATOR(1)

NAME
     comparator, filterator - fast location of common code in large source
     trees

SYNOPSIS
     comparator [-c] [-C] [-d dir] [-h] [-m minsize] [-n] [-N
     normalization-spec] [-o file] [-s shredsize] [-v] [-w] [-x]
     source-tree-path...

     filterator [-d dir] [-m minsize]

     comparator.py

DESCRIPTION
     comparator is a program for quickly finding common sections in two or
     more source-code trees. It is named after a now-obsolete astronomical
     instrument called a blink comparator that was used to find moving objects
     in starfield photos. These reports tend to be noisy; filterator is a
     postprocessor for comparator reports that can apply significance
     filtering. comparator.py is a Python module for interpreting comparator
     reports; filterator uses it.

   How comparator works
     comparator works by first chopping the specified trees into overlapping
     shreds (by default 3 lines long) and computing a hash of each shred. The
     resulting list of shreds is examined and all unique hashes are thrown
     out. Then comparator generates a report listing all cliques of lines with
     duplicate hashes, with overlapping ranges merged. The output format can
     (not by coincidence) be stepped through with the next-error function of
     Emacs.

     A consequence of the method is that comparator will find common code
     segments wherever they are. It is insensitive to rearrangements of the
     source trees. With appropriate options, code can be normalized at input
     to ignore differences in whitespace and (in C code) brace placement. An
     option to strip comments also exists.

     The program is capable of generating a hash list for a source code tree
     which can be used in place of the tree itself. Thus, it is possible to do
     comparisons with source trees without having access to the actual source
     code, providing someone who has access is willing to ship you a hash
     list. These hash lists are called 'SCF files' and made with the extension
     .scf; the name stands for Source Comparison Format.

     In its normal mode of operation, comparator expects two or more
     command-line arguments which are the root directories of the source-code
     trees to be compared, and generates a report to standard output. Progress
     messages are emitted to standard error. Some arguments may be the names
     of SCF files.

     When given a single path argument which is a tree, the program generates
     an SCF hash list to standard output.

     When the -c option is specified, the program generates a SCF file from
     each tree specified on the command line. The name of the resulting file
     is the argument name with .scf appended.

     The -o option directs output to a specified file. This may be used with
     -c to override the normal .scf convention, or simply as an alternative to
     output redirection when generating a final report. One advantage of -o is
     that the program will not create the output file until it is ready to
     write; thus, unlike shell redirects, it will not leave an empty file
     lying around if it aborts early.

     The -d option changes current directory to the specified tree before
     walking down each argument path to generate hashes. This will be useful
     if you want to generate a report for trees in a directory other than your
     current, but want the filenames in the report to be relative.

     The -s option changes the shred size. Smaller shred sizes are more
     sensitive to small code duplications, but produce correspondingly noisier
     output. Larger ones will suppress both noise and small similarities.

     The -m option sets the minimum-sized span of lines that will be output.
     By default this is zero; setting it to a value higher than the shred size
     will eliminate a lot of junk from the report. These are two separate
     parameters because shred size controls how likely common segments are to
     not get recognized because of unshared things near them, while minimum
     span size defines the smallest features we want to see in the output
     report.

     Normally, comparator performs significance filtering before emitting a
     span into the common-segment report. The -n option suppresses this,
     emitting all common spans. See the discussion of significance filtering
     below.

     The -v option enables progress and timing messages to standard error.

     The -x option enables some debugging output. It is for developers; if you
     need to understand it, read the code.

     comparator uses a heuristic for figuring out which files in a tree are
     eligible to be compared. Files with .c and .h extensions are always
     eligible. Files with .o or ~ extensions are always ignored. CVS, RCS,
     SCCS, and .svn directories are ignored. Other files are checked to see if
     the percentage of printable characters near the front of the file is
     above 90%.

   Normalization specifications
     The -N option passes in its argument as a normalization specification. A
     normalization specification consists of a comma-separated list of tokens.
     The first token names a normalizer, e.g., a set of rules for transforming
     code into a canonical form. Subsequent tokens (if present) are options to
     the normalizer.

   The line-oriented normalizer
     The default normalizer is named by the leading token line-oriented. It
     has the following options:

     remove-whitespace
         All whitespace in the file (including blank lines) is ignored for
         comparison purposes (line numbers in the output report will
         nevertheless be correct).

     remove-braces
         Remove { and }. This is recommended for comparing C code; it prevents
         the comparison from being fooled by differences in indent style.

     remove-comments
         Remove comments in C files. All // comments are removed, but only
         "winged" /* comments with the start and end of comment on the same
         line are ignored; also, block /* comments are retained, but the
         beginning / and ending / are ignored. In other files, all # comments
         are removed.

   Significance filtering
     Normally, comparator tries to throw out common segments that are just
     noise. A segment is considered noise if one of the following conditions
     holds:

      1. Its file has a .c or .h extension, and the segment consists entirely
         of whitespace, punctuation, C keywords, C include lines, and other
         things that are not C identifiers, function names, or user-defined
         macros.

      2. The file has a .sh extension or a #! first line directing shell
         interpretation, and the segment consists entirely of shell keywords
         and punctuation.

     Significance filtering can be disabled with the -n option.

   filterator
     filterator is a postprocessor for the SCF-B output of comparator that
     produces an actual code listing.

     The -d option acts as it does for comparator.

     The -m option sets the minimum size of overlap to be reported. Setting
     this to a slightly larger number than the comparator shred size is a
     useful way to filter out spurious matches; thus, while comparator
     defaults to a shred size of 3, filterator defaults to a minimum size of
     5.

     The -f option takes a Python regexp as argument and throws out all
     cliques for which no associated filename matches the regexp. This might
     be useful if you want to see a common-segment report only for files with
     a particular extension such as .h or .S.

     The -F option takes an argument which is a file containing a list of
     filenames. Any clique that does not contain one of these filenames is
     discarded.

     The -n option suppresses code listing, so that an SCF-B output is
     produced instead. You can use this to filter common-segment reports with
     -m, -f, and -F options of the tool and then hand-filter them for junk
     before generating a listing.

     Each filterator line beginning with % is the filename from which the
     following common span of lines is displayed. filterator displays each
     span of lines, unnormalized, from the first file in the clique of matches
     that it can find and open.

     Occasionally the filterator output looks as though the code has failed to
     properly merge two or more overlapping line ranges. When this happens,
     the ranges have different match sets; they may overlap in one tree, but
     not in others. A clue to this is the number of matches reported for each
     range.

   comparator.py
     comparator.py is a Python module that parses and interprets the format
     emitted by comparator. It can be used to write report generators. The
     filterator program is an example; it is a trivial wrapper around
     comparator.py.

AUTHOR
     Eric S. Raymond  <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>.  Ronald Rivest suggested the
     custom RXOR hash function used in versions 2.0 and up. See ESR’s home
     page at  <http://www.catb.org/~esr/> for updates and other resources.

LIMITATIONS
     comparator does not attempt to do semantic analysis and catch relatively
     trivial changes like renaming of variables, etc. This is because
     comparator is designed not as a tool to detect plagiarism of ideas (the
     subject of patent law), but as a tool to detect copying of the expression
     of ideas (the subject of copyright law). Normalizing the code in
     excessively clever ways would trespass into the territory of ideas and
     tend to produce false positives.

     The heuristic for eligible files can be fooled, though this is unlikely.

     The use of hashes means there is a very small probability of
     false-positive matches between shreds; to be precise, with the default
     RXOR hash you can expect the first false positive after accumulating
     6,074,000,999 shreds. For even very large forests, such as collections of
     Linux and Unix source trees running into the tens of millions of lines,
     you are very unlikely to ever see this. There is no possibility of false
     negatives.

     The design of this program accepts some size limits to get high
     performance in the typical case. The RXOR hash function’s performance
     will degrade, possibly leading to false positives, on shreds of 512 or
     more characters. Also, comparison will handle a maximum of 65536 lines
     per file (you will be warned if this limit is exceeded). A full integer
     line-number range would increase working-set size by 33%.

     You will get spurious results if you mix .scf files with different hash
     methods, shred sizes or normalizations, or with settings for these that
     conflict with the command-line options you have in effect for shredding
     source-code trees. The program does some sanity checking but will not
     prevent you from shooting yourself in the foot.

     The implementation is O(n log n) in the size of the code trees and O(n^2)
     in the number of common segments. The code for finding duplicate hashes
     uses a brute-force approach that relies on being able to allocate core
     for the entire hash list generated during processing. The results are
     almost ridiculously fast on machines with enough core (the author has
     observed speeds of up to two million lines of code compared per minute on
     a 1.8GHz Intel box).

     Comparing a directory to itself will show no similarities. This is
     because the algorithm ignores matching shreds from within a single
     directory, and it only knows which directory a shred came from by
     relative pathname.

comparator                        2026-02-28                     COMPARATOR(1)
