COOLMAIL(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            COOLMAIL(1)

NAME
       coolmail - 3D animated mail notificaion utility

SYNOPSIS
       coolmail [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Coolmail is a mail notification utility with 3D animated graphics.
       Coolmail watches your inbox and lets you know when you have mail.
       Clicking on coolmail can launch your mail reading/writing utility.
       While your mail utility is open, clicking on coolmail will cause it to
       check your inbox at that instant, without waiting for the next regular
       interval.

OPTIONS
       -e command
               Use the specified command to launch your mail utility.  Command
               is a string, and should be in quotes if it contains spaces.

       -f filename
               Watch filename, instead of the default mail inbox file.

       -fr n   Set the number of frames to generate for each animation to n.
               Set this to an suit your preference and your machine's graphics
               performance.  The default is 15.

       -h      Print some help then exit.

       -int n | -update n
               Check your mail inbox at n-second intervals.  The default is 30
               seconds.

       -mono   Run in monochrome mode.

       -once   Ring bell when new mail is first detected, but not when more
               new mail is detected.

       -vol n  Value between 0 and 100 for the volume setting for the system
               beep. The default is 50.

       -v      Print version and inbox path.

               Coolmail also accepts the standard X Toolkit options, such as
               -geometry, etc.

EXAMPLES
       coolmail -e "emacs -f rmail" -int 20
               Tells coolmail to check the inbox every 20 seconds, and launch
               the shell command, emacs -f rmail, when the user clicks on
               coolmail.

X DEFAULTS
       This program understands the core resource names and classes as well
       as:

       frameCount (class FrameCount)
               Specifies the number of frames to be generated per animation.

       inbox (class Inbox)
               Specifies the mail inbox that coolmail will watch.

       mailCommand (class MailCommand)
               Specifies the command that should be launched to read and write
               mail.

       monochrome (class Monochrome)
               A Boolean value that enables monochrome mode when true.

       volume (class  Volume)
               Value between 0 and 100 for the volume setting for the system
               beep.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1994

       by Byron C. Darrah (darrah@kaiwan.com)

AUTHORS
       Byron C. Darrah (darrah@kaiwan.com) Sound support added by Randall K.
       Sharpe (rsharpe@ncsa.uiuc.edu)

SEE ALSO
       X(1), xrdb(1)

Coolmail                              1.3                          COOLMAIL(1)
