COPYTAPE(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            COPYTAPE(1)

NAME
       copytape - duplicate magtapes

SYNOPSIS
       copytape

DESCRIPTION
       copytape duplicates magtapes.  It is intended for duplication of
       bootable or other non-file-structured (non-tar-structured) magtapes on
       systems with only one tape drive.  copytape is blissfully ignorant of
       tape formats.  It merely makes a bit-for-bit copy of its input.

       In normal use, copytape would be run twice.  First, a boot tape is
       copied to an intermediate disk file.  The file is in a special format
       that preserves the record boundaries and tape marks.  On the second
       run, copytape reads this file and generates a new tape.  The second
       step may be repeated if multiple copies are required.  The typical
       process would look like this:

            tutorial% copytape /dev/rmt8 tape.tmp
            tutorial% copytape tape.tmp /dev/rmt8
            tutorial% rm tape.tmp

       copytape copies from the standard input to the standard output, unless
       input and output arguments are provided.  It will automatically
       determine whether its input and output are physical tapes, or data
       files.  Data files are encoded in a special (human-readable) format.

       Since copytape will automatically determine what sort of thing its
       input and output are, a twin-drive system can duplicate a tape in one
       pass.  The command would be
            tutorial% copytape /dev/rmt8 /dev/rmt9

OPTIONS
       -snnn
          Skip tape marks.  The specified number of tape marks are skipped on
          the input tape, before the copy begins.  By default, nothing is
          skipped, resulting in a copy of the complete input tape.  Multiple
          tar(1) and dump(1) archives on a single tape are normally separated
          by a single tape mark.  On ANSI or IBM labelled tapes, each file has
          three associated tape marks.  Count carefully.

       -lnnn
          Limit.  Only nnn files (data followed by a tape mark), at most, are
          copied.  This can be used to terminate a copy early.  If the skip
          option is also specified, the files skipped do not count against the
          limit.

       -f From tape.  The input is treated as though it were a physical tape,
          even if it is a data file.  This option can be used to copy block-
          structured device files other than magtapes.

       -t To tape.  The output is treated as though it were a physical tape,
          even if it is a data file.  Normally, data files mark physical tape
          blocks with a (human-readable) header describing the block.  If the
          -t option is used when the output is actually a disk file, these
          headers will not be written.  This will extract all the information
          from the tape, but copytape will not be able to duplicate the
          original tape based on the resulting data file.

       -v Verbose.  copytape does not normally produce any output on the
          control terminal.  The verbose option will identify the input and
          output files, tell whether they are physical tapes or data files,
          and announce the size of each block copied.  This can produce a lot
          of output on even relatively short tapes.  It is intended mostly for
          diagnostic work.

FILES
       /dev/rmt*

SEE ALSO
       ansitape(1), dd(1), tar(1), mtio(4), copytape(5)

AUTHOR
       David S. Hayes, Site Manager, US Army Artificial Intelligence Center.
       Originally developed September 1984 at Rensselaer Polytechnic
       Institute, Troy, New York.  Revised July 1986.  This software is in the
       public domain.

BUGS
       copytape treats two successive file marks as logical end-of-tape.

       The intermediate data file can consume huge amounts of disk space.  A
       2400-foot reel at 6250-bpi can burn 140 megabytes.  This is not
       strictly speaking a bug, but users should be aware of the possibility.
       Check disk space with df(1) before starting copytape.  Caveat Emptor!

       A 256K buffer is used internally.  This limits the maximum block size
       of the input tape.

                                 25 June 1986                      COPYTAPE(1)
