CANCELMSG(1)                Double Precision, Inc.                CANCELMSG(1)

NAME
       cancelmsg - Cancel an E-mail message

SYNOPSIS
       cancelmsg {msgid} ["reason"]

DESCRIPTION
       cancelmsg removes a message from the mail queue. There will be no more
       attempts to deliver this message, and a standard delivery failure
       notice is sent to the return address listed on the message. You can
       only cancel your own messages. The superuser can cancel any message. An
       attempt to cancel a message will fail if the message has already been
       sent (of course), or if a delivery attempt is currently in progress.
       Because a delivery attempt is usually started as soon as an E-mail
       message is added to the mail queue, a cancellation attempt is only
       effective if the message cannot be immediately delivered for some
       reason, or if the system is very busy and is working on a mail backlog.
       cancelmsg works by marking all pending recipients as undeliverable. A
       non-delivery report is then generated and sent in the normal fashion.

       msgid is the message queue id that can be obtained from the
       mailq(1)[1], command. A reason is optional. The message does not
       disappear into a black void. The message will be returned as
       undeliverable, citing reason. A generic error message will be used if
       reason is not specified.

BUGS
       A non-delivery report may not be sent immediately, but delayed until
       the message's turn comes up in the scheduling queue.

       There is no immediate indication if the message cancellation worked. A
       subsequent non-delivery report is the only indication of a successful
       cancel. If it doesn't come, it means the message wasn't cancelled in
       time.

       A non-delivery report will not be sent for recipients whose delivery
       status notification does not include the FAIL notice.

SEE ALSO
       mailq(1)[1], courier(8)[2].

AUTHOR
       Sam Varshavchik
           Author

NOTES
        1.

           mailq(1)
           http://www.courier-mta.org/mailq.html

        2.

           courier(8)
           http://www.courier-mta.org/courier.html

Courier Mail Server               01/22/2022                      CANCELMSG(1)
