COURIERTCPD(1)              Double Precision, Inc.              COURIERTCPD(1)

NAME
       couriertcpd - the Courier mail server TCP server daemon

SYNOPSIS
       couriertcpd [-pid=pidfile] [option...] {list} {program} {arg...}

       couriertcpd {-pid=pidfile} {-stop}

       couriertcpd {-pid=pidfile} {-restart}

DESCRIPTION
       couriertcpd accepts incoming network connections, and runs program
       after establishing each network connection. The program's standard
       input and output are set to the network connection.

       list is a comma-separated list of TCP port numbers where incoming
       connections are created.  program is the program to run. If program
       requires any arguments, they are specified on the command line, after
       program itself.

       Before running program, couriertcpd initializes several environment
       variables that describe the network connection. The environment
       inherited by program will be the environment inherited by couriertcpd,
       plus any additional environment variables initialized by couriertcpd.
       It is also possible to reject certain network connections. Several
       options are available to specify which network connections will be
       rejected.

OPTIONS
       -access=filename
           Specifies an optional access file. The access file lists the IP
           addresses from which connections should be accepted or rejected.
           The access file is also used to initialize environment variables
           based on the IP address of the connection.  filename is a GDBM or
           DB database file that's usually created by a script from one or
           more text files. See "ACCESS FILE" below for more information.

       -accesslocal
           Lookup the local interface IP and port in the access file, in
           addition to looking up the remote IP. This gives a mechanism for
           setting environment variables depending on which IP address and/or
           port the client connected to. In the access file, "1.2.3.4.25"
           matches connections to IP address 1.2.3.4 port 25; "1.2.3.4"
           matches connections to IP address 1.2.3.4 on any port; and "*.25"
           matches connections to port 25 on any IP address.

       -address=n.n.n.n
           Accept network connections only to IP address n.n.n.n. If not
           specified, couriertcpd accepts connections to any IP address that
           the system accepts connections on. If the system has multiple
           network interfaces with separate IP addresses, this option makes
           couriertcpd accept connections only to one specific IP address.
           Most systems have multiple network interfaces: the loopback
           interface, plus the local network interface, so that
           -address=127.0.0.1 accepts connections only from the local system.
           When multiple port numbers are specified, it is also possible to
           selectively bind different network addresses to each port number
           when list specifies more than one port number. See the section
           called “MULTIPLE PORT LIST” below for information.

       -block=zone[=display_zone][,var[/n.n.n.n][,msg]] or
       -allow=zone[=display_zone][,var[/n.n.n.n[,]]]
           Initialize the environment variable var if both of the following
           conditions are true: var is not already initialized; the connecting
           IP address can be found in a DNS-based access list. See DNS ACCESS
           LISTS, below. Multiple -block and -allow options can be specified.

           -block and -allow are very similar, differing only in minor
           semantics.  -block's semantics are more appropriate for using DNS
           access list to block access, and -allow's semantics are more
           appropriate for using DNS access list to whitelist IP addresses and
           exempt them even if they appear in other -blocked zones.

       -denymsg=text
           Specifies an optional message to be returned to the client if the
           -access option rejects them. The default is to drop the TCP
           connection without sending back any messages.

       -drop=var
           If the environment variable var is set to a nonempty value,
           terminate immediately. Do not run the program to handle the
           connection. See DNS ACCESS LISTS, below, for more information.  var
           defaults to “BLOCK”, if not specified.

       -group=group
           Set couriertcpd's its group ID.  group may be specified
           numerically, or by its name. Only the superuser may use -group.

       -listen=n
           Length of the queue which holds pending connections.  n is a
           number. If not specified, the system default is used.

       -maxperc=n
           Maximum number of connections accepted from the same C network
           block. Using this option is recommended, because connection slots
           are limited. Without this option, the same C network block can
           potentially use up all available connection slots.

       -maxperip=n
           Maximum number of connections accepted from the same IP address.
           Use both the -maxperc and -maxperip options to fine tune connection
           limits. For example, when couriertcpd is listening on the SMTP port
           it makes sense to set an upper limit on the number of connections
           from the same C block. Domains that send a large amount of mail
           often have multiple servers sending outbound mail from the same C
           block, so it makes sense to set limits on individual C blocks. On
           the other hand, if couriertcpd is listening on the POP3 port it
           makes more sense to set limits on individual IP addresses. If a C
           block of addresses is assigned to a dialup modem pool, it is
           certainly possible to have many IP addresses within the same C
           block have connections to the POP3 server at the same time.

           The -maxperip option can be overridden for a given IP address by
           setting the MAXCPERIP environment variable, see the section called
           “Setting environment variables” for more information.

       -maxprocs=n
           Maximum number of connection slots, or the maximum number of
           processes started. This effectively specifies the maximum number of
           connections accepted at the same time. After the maximum number of
           connections has been opened, couriertcpd waits for an existing
           connection to close, before accepting any more connections.

       -warn=n
           Log a LOG_WARNING message to syslog when the number of active
           processes exceeds n. The default is 90% of maxprocs.  couriertcpd
           logs a LOG_ALERT syslog message when the number of active processes
           reaches the maximum.

       -nodnslookup
           Do not look up the hostname associated with connecting IP address
           and the local addres, do not initialize the TCPREMOTEHOST or
           TCPLOCALHOST environment variables (see below).

       -haproxy=options
           Enable the HAProxy protocol. See the section called “ENABLING
           HAPROXY” for more information.

       -pid=filename
           If given, couriertcpd puts itself into the background and saves its
           process ID in this file, usually somewhere in /var/run.

           This option must also be present when using the -restart and -stop
           options.

       -restart
           Send a SIGHUP to an existing couriertcpd process. Specify the same
           -pid argument as the one that was used to start couriertcpd. The
           process ID is read from the -pid file, and the couriertcpd receives
           a SIGHUP signal.

       -stderr=socket
           Set program's standard error to the network connection, just like
           its standard input and output.

       -stderr=logfile
           Set program's standard error to the specified file, logfile. The
           file is created, if necessary, and is opened in append mode.

       -stderrlogger=logprogram
           Set program's standard error to a pipe, which is read by
           logprogram. Only one instance of logger is started, which receives
           standard error from every instance of program. The specified logger
           is executed with the output end of the stderr pipe connected as
           standard input.  logprogram is executed with one argument -
           program's name.

       -stderrloggername=name
           Use name as the argument to logprogram, instead of the program's
           name.

       -stop
           Stop (kill) an existing couriertcpd process. Specify the same -pid
           argument as the one that was used to start couriertcpd. The process
           ID is read from the -pid file, and the couriertcpd process is
           killed. All child processes of couriertcpd will receive a SIGTERM
           signal.

       -user=user
           Set couriertcpd's user ID. Also, the group ID is set to the user's
           group ID. Using both -group and -user is not necessary. Only the
           superuser can specify -user.

MULTIPLE PORT LIST
       The list argument can be a comma-separated list of multiple port
       numbers.  couriertcpd listens for network connections on every listed
       port. Each port number is optionally specified as “address.port”, for
       example:

           couriertcpd -pid=/var/run/smtp.pid 127.0.0.1.25,999 program

       This instance accepts network connections to either port 25 or port
       999, however connections on port 25 are created only on the IP address
       127.0.0.1, the loopback interface.

       Whenever an IP address is not specified, network connections are
       accepted to any IP address (called "wildcarding"). On IPv6-capable
       systems, couriertcpd will attempt to create two incoming network
       connection ports, if an IP address is not specified. After creating the
       first port as an IPv6 wildcard port, couriertcpd will then attept to
       create an IPv4 wildcard port, with the same port number. Some
       BSD-derived systems must use separate IPv6 and IPv4 wildcard ports to
       create incoming network connections. Most other systems only need an
       IPv6 port to create both IPv6 and IPv4 incoming network connections.
       couriertcpd quietly ignores a failure to create an IPv4 wildcard port,
       as long as an IPv6 wildcard was succesfully created.

       The -address option can be used to default a specific IP address for
       every listed port number. For example:

           couriertcpd -pid=/var/run/smtp.pid 127.0.0.1.25,127.0.0.1.999 program

       and

           couriertcpd -pid=/var/run/smtp.pid -address=127.0.0.1 25,999 program

       will create network connections on ports 25 and 999 of the IP address
       127.0.0.1.

ACCESS FILE
       The access file lists IP addresses that couriertcpd will accept or
       reject connections from. An access file is optional. Without an access
       file couriertcpd accepts a connection from any IP address.

       Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses can be specified, if IPv6 support is
       available. A slightly non-standard syntax is used to specify IPv6
       addresses.

       The access file is a binary database file that's usually created by a
       script, such as makesmtpaccess(8)[1], or makeimapaccess(8)[2], from one
       or more plain text files. Blank lines in the text file are ignored.
       Lines that start with the # character are also ignored.

   Rejecting and accepting connections by IP address
       The following line instructs couriertcpd to reject all connections from
       an IP address range:

           netblock<tab>deny

       netblock is an IP address, such as 192.168.0.2.  <tab> is the ASCII tab
       character. There MUST be exactly one tab character after the IP address
       and the word "deny".

       You can also block connections from an entire network C block:

           192.168.0<tab>deny

       This blocks connections from IP addresses 192.168.0.0 through
       192.168.0.255. Blocking connections from an entire B or A network block
       works the same way.

       Use the word "allow" instead of "deny" to explicitly allow connections
       from that IP address or netblock. For example:

           192.168.0<tab>deny
           192.168.0.10<tab>allow

       This blocks all connections from 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.0.255 except
       for 192.168.0.10. These two lines can occur in any order.  couriertcpd
       always uses the line with the most specific IP address.

       If the IP address of the connection is not found in the access file the
       connection is accepted by default. The following line causes unlisted
       connections to be rejected:

           *<tab>deny

   IPv6 addresses
       The access file can also specify IPv6 addresses, if IPv6 support is
       available. The existing IPv4 address format is used for IPv6-mapped
       IPv4 addresses, and no changes are required. For all other IPv6
       addresses use the following format:

           :hhhh:hhhh:hhhh:hhhh:hhhh:hhhh:hhhh:hhhh<tab>action

       The IPv6 address must begin with :. The initial : character is not
       really a part of the IPv6 address, it is only used to designate this
       record as an IPv6 address, allowing an access file to contain a mixture
       of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. The IPv6 address follows the initial :
       character, and it must be spelled out using zero-padded lowercase
       hexadecimal digits. For example:

           :0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:f643:00a2:9354<tab>deny

       Netblocks must be specified using even-word boundaries only:

           :3ffe<tab>deny

       This will deny entire 3ffe::/16 (6bone network, which is phased out).

           :2002:c0a8<tab>deny

       This will deny 2002:c0a8::/32 (6to4 addresses derived from private
       address space).

   Setting environment variables
       allow can be optionally followed by a list of environment variable
       assignments, separated by commas. The environment variables are set
       before executing program or checking access lists (see below). For
       example:

           192.168.0<tab>allow,RELAYCLIENT
           192.168.0.10<tab>allow,RELAYCLIENT,SIZELIMIT=1000000

       This sets RELAYCLIENT environment variable for connections from the
       192.168.0 block. In addition to that, the SIZELIMIT environment
       variable is set to 1000000 if the connection comes from the IP address
       192.168.0.10.

       Note that RELAYCLIENT must be explicitly specified for the IP address
       192.168.0.10. The first line is NOT used for connections from this IP
       address.  couriertcpd only reads one entry from the access file, the
       entry for the most specific IP address.

           192.168.0.10<tab>allow,MAXCPERIP=100

       couriertcpd itself implements the MAXCPERIP environment variable
       setting in the access file, as an override to the -maxperip parameter,
       which specifies the maximum number of connections from the same IP
       address. If specified in the access file for an IP address, or an IP
       address range, the value given by MAXCPERIP overrides it.

   DNS ACCESS LISTS
       An alternative to listing banned IP addresses in access files is to use
       an external DNS-based IP access list.

       couriertcpd's default configuration does not automatically reject
       connections from banned IP address unless the -drop option is present.
       Instead, couriertcpd sets an environment variable if the connecting
       address has a hit in the DNS access list. The Courier mail server
       rejects all mail if the connection's environment has the environment
       variable BLOCK set to a non-empty string, and it just so happens that
       -block and -allow set the BLOCK environment variable by default.

           -allow=dnswl.example.com -block=dnsbl.example.com

       -allow and -block's parameter gives the DNS zone where the access list
       query gets performed. In this example, couriertcpd makes a DNS query
       for “d.c.b.a.dnswl.example.com”, then, if necessary, for
       “d.c.b.a.dnsbl.example.com”, for a connection from the IPv4 address
       a.b.c.d.

       An optional “=display_zone” follows the DNS zone. This sets the
       contents of BLOCK_ZONE DNS access list variable (see below), which
       defaults to the DNS zone name. This is only useful with -allow, since
       -block rejects the message, so nothing gets set anyway.

       For IPv6 addresses, the DNS query consists of individual hexadecimal
       nybbles (in reverse order, like the IPv4 query).

       If the DNS query succeeds (more details below), -allow sets the
       environment variable to an empty string, and -block sets the
       environment variable from the TXT record in the DNS response, if one
       was requested (see below), or to a default message for regular DNS
       queries for A records. It should be possible to use couriertcpd with
       DNS access lists that use either A or TXT records.

       The DNS zone parameter to -allow and -block has up to three additional
       components, which must be given in the following order, if more than
       one optional component gets specified:

           -allow=dnswl.example.com,BLOCK2

       The environment variable that gets set by the DNS access list query can
       be changed from the default of BLOCK to something else, BLOCK2 in this
       example. The Courier mail server pays attention only to BLOCK, this is
       for the benefit of local or custom hacks, which want to leverage
       couriertcpd's DNS access list lookup facilities, but want it for other
       purposes.

           -block=dnsbl.example.com/127.0.0.2

       couriertcpd's DNS access list lookup normally ignores the contents of
       the actual A record in the DNS access list, however some DNS access
       lists may use different A record to indicate different kinds of
       records. Given an explicit IP address to couriertcpd results in the
       environment variable getting set only if the lookup returned the
       matching A record. An A record must exist in the DNS access list, in
       addition to any TXT record. If an explicit IP address is not given, any
       A or TXT record sets -allow and -block's environment variable.

           -block=dnsbl.example.com,BLOCK,Go away

       The last component specifies a custom message that overrides the
       default rejection message. Note that this is a single parameter to
       couriertcpd, so the parameter must be quoted if it contains any spaces
       or special shell metacharacters. A message that's specified as “*”
       results in a TXT query to the DNS access list instead of the regular A
       query. This is for DNS access lists that provide TXT records, that gets
       copied into the BLOCK variable (or the custom variable). The “*” must
       also be quoted, since it's also a shell metacharacter, and it cannot be
       used together with an explicit A address query, described above.

       The custom message parameter gets specified for the -block, option.
       -allow also allows takes this parameter, but it has a different
       meaning. If its set, even if it's an empty string, couriertcpd looks
       for TXT records in the DNS access list that's used as a whitelist, in
       addition to the A records (using the “any” query):

           -allow=dnswl.example.com,BLOCK,

       Without this parameter couriertcpd queries for A records only.

       Finally, a literal IP address, if given, must always follow the
       variable name:

           -block=dnsbl.example.com,BLOCK/127.0.0.2,Go away

       -block normally searches the DNS access list for either A or TXT
       records using the “any” DNS query. Sometimes this can cause problems,
       or not work at all, with older DNS servers. Specifying a custom message
       results in -block executing an ordinary A DNS query.  -allow always
       uses an A query.

   MULTIPLE DNS LISTS
       Multiple -block and -allow options can be given. The connecting IP
       address gets looked up in multiple access lists. This is implemented as
       follows.

       couriertcpd processes all -block and -allow options in list order. If
       each option's environment variable (BLOCK or something else) is already
       set, couriertcpd skips the DNS access list lookup. Therefore, when
       multiple options use the same environment variable, the first DNS
       access list it exists in will set the environment variable, and the
       remaining ones get ignored, but any remaining -blocks and -allows for
       different environment variables still get processed.

       It follows that, in general, -allow options should always be listed
       first, before any -blocks; but it's also possible to implement a
       complicated policy with some -allows, then some -blocks, then more
       -allows and -blocks.

   ADDITIONAL DNS ACCESS LIST VARIABLES
       Three additional environment variables may get set in conjunction with
       a successful DNS access list lookup:

       BLOCK_IP

           The contents of the A record in the DNS access list, if one exists
           (this is not set for DNS access lists that use TXT record).

       BLOCK_TXT

           The contents of the TXT record in the DNS access list, if one
           exists. This will generally be the same as BLOCK for -blocks, but
           will also provide the contents of the TXT record for -allows (if it
           has a dummy custom message portion) which always set BLOCK to an
           empty string.

       BLOCK_ZONE

           The DNS zone of the succesfull access list lookup, like
           “dnsbl.example.com”, or an explicit display zone name.

       -block and -allow options that specify a custom environment variable
       name follow the same naming convention, of appending “_IP”, “_TXT”, and
       “_ZONE” suffix to the name of the custom environment variable.

   USING DNS WHITELISTS WITH SPF
       Including “allowok” keyword in an SPF setting automatically passes the
       SPF check for senders whose IP address is found in an -allow-ed access
       list. See courier(8)[3].

   Using CIDR notation for IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
       makesmtpaccess(8)[1] and makeimapaccess(8)[2] scripts check if the Perl
       Net::CIDR module is installed. This allows netblocks in the access
       files to use the CIDR notation:

           192.168.0.0/22<tab>allow,RELAYCLIENT

       The scripts internally duplicate this access file entry for
       “192.168.0”, “192.168.1”, “192.168.2”, and “192.168.3”.

ENABLING HAPROXY
       The -haproxy option enables support for HAProxy version 1.

           -haproxy

       The default value of this option makes all connections, on all ports
       (see the section called “MULTIPLE PORT LIST”) use the HAProxy
       protocol[4] (see below on additional settings for controlling this).
       The -haproxy option has the following requirements:

       •   A firewall is required to blocks all connections except the ones
           from HAProxy server's IP address (to ports that use the HAProxy
           protocol), this is something that must be done separately. Do not
           use -haproxy without a firewall that blocks all other connections
           (to the listening port).

       •   The network connection between the HAProxy server and couriertcpd
           must be a high availability, and a high quality connection. After
           accepting each client connection couriertcpd waits to read the
           HAProxy protocol header before accepting any more connections.

           -haproxy=5

       An optional -haproxy value sets a failsafe timeout in seconds (defaults
       to 15 seconds).  couriertcpd closes the socket if the HAProxy protocol
       header is not received in the set timeout.

       The default 15 second timeout setting should be sufficiently
       conservative. Additionally:

       •   With a high quality, reliable network, and

       •   A robust HAProxy server that sends the protocol header instantly,
           without delay:

       It should not be a problem to use a short timeout of four or five
       seconds in order to minimize the impact of rare, momentary, network
       hiccups.

           Note

           Enabling TCP Fast Open (TFO) with HAProxy effectively guarantees an
           immediate receipt of the protocol header for most connections. It
           is recommended that TFO is enabled on the the HAProxy (the TFO
           client) and couriertcpd (the TFO server).

       Additional settings follow the timeout value, each setting is prefixed
       with a “/”:

           -haproxy=5/port=143

           -haproxy=/port=143

       The “/” is still required when the default timeout value is ommited.
       One setting is available:

       /port=n
           Enable HAProxy support only for connections to this port (this is
           when when couriertcpd accepts connections on multiple ports, see
           the section called “MULTIPLE PORT LIST”).  n is one of the ports
           that couriertcpd listens for connection (no error is reported if n
           is not, and this gets ignored). Connections to any other port, that
           couriertcpd listens on, will not have HAProxy support enabled.

       /port=ip.n
           A port number is optionally specified as “address.port”, for
           example:

               -haproxy=/port=192.168.0.1.8000
           This enables HAProxy for connections to port 8000 with IP address
           192.168.0.1 (presumably this machine's IP address). Connections to
           port 8000 via the loopback interface (localhost) will not use
           HAProxy.

       -haproxy option's value is actually a comma-separated list:

           -haproxy=/port=25,/port=587

       This is logically equivalent to using two -haproxy options, one for
       each value (but only one -haproxy option is allowed as a command-line
       argument, so this is the only way to specify multiple proxy endpoints).

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       couriertcpd also initializes the following environment variables prior
       to running program:

       TCPLOCALHOST
           The name of the host on the local end of the network connection,
           looked up in DNS.  TCPLOCALHOST will not be set if the IP address
           of the network connection's local end cannot be found in DNS, or if
           -nodnslookup option is specified.  TCPLOCALHOST will be set to the
           string softdnserr if the DNS lookup fails with a temporary error
           (so you cannot tell if the IP address has a valid host name
           associated with it), or if the reverse and forward DNS lookups do
           not match.  TCPLOCALHOST will not be set if the reverse DNS lookup
           fails completely.

       TCPLOCALIP
           The IP address of the local end of the network connection.

               Note
               With the -haproxy option this is the local end of the
               connection on the HAProxy server.

       TCPLOCALPORT
           The number of the port of the local end of the network connection.

               Note
               With the -haproxy option this is the local end of the
               connection on the HAProxy server.

       TCPREMOTEHOST
           The hostname of the connecting host. Like TCPLOCALHOST, but for the
           connecting IP address.

       TCPREMOTEINFO
           This is set only when the -haproxy option is used, and contains
           brief text that repeats the contents of TCPLOCALIP and
           TCPLOCALPORT.  Courier adds this text to the Received: header.

       TCPREMOTEIP
           Connecting IP address.

               Note
               With the -haproxy option this is the remote end of the
               connection on the HAProxy server.

       TCPREMOTEPORT
           TCP port of the remote end of the network connection.

               Note
               With the -haproxy option this is the remote end of the
               connection on the HAProxy server.

SEE ALSO
       courier(8)[3].

AUTHOR
       Sam Varshavchik
           Author

NOTES
        1. makesmtpaccess(8)
           http://www.courier-mta.org/makesmtpaccess.html

        2. makeimapaccess(8)
           http://www.courier-mta.org/makeimapaccess.html

        3. courier(8)
           http://www.courier-mta.org/courier.html

        4. HAProxy protocol
           https://www.haproxy.org

Courier Mail Server               07/14/2024                    COURIERTCPD(1)
