COURIERUSERINFO(8)              Authentication              COURIERUSERINFO(8)

NAME
       courieruserinfo - use the Courier authentication library to collect
       information about a user

SYNOPSIS
       courieruserinfo [--stderr] [-AudanmqohV] username

       courieruserinfo --stderr

       courieruserinfo -A, --all

       courieruserinfo -u, --uid

       courieruserinfo -d, --homedir

       courieruserinfo -a, --address

       courieruserinfo -n, --name

       courieruserinfo -m, --maildir

       courieruserinfo -q, --quota

       courieruserinfo -o, --options

       courieruserinfo -h, --help

       courieruserinfo -V, --version

DESCRIPTION
       courieruserinfo prints information about a user given a username that
       is accessable to the Courier authentication library. Usernames can be
       up to 64 characters long.


       Exactly what information is retrieved by courieruserinfo can be
       specified using various command line switches. Default behaviour is to
       display all available user information. Using any of the specific
       information switches overrides this behaviour even if the -A switch is
       used. Any number of specific information switches can be combined.


       Each item to display is returned on a separate line in the format
       <item>=<value>. If an item cannot be found for a user, the associated
       value field is blank.  courieruserinfo cannot retrieve a user's
       password.


EXAMPLE COMMAND LINES
       This command will display only the user's home directory:
            courieruserinfo -d <username>

       As will this command:
            courieruserinfo -A -d <username>

       Whereas this will display all available user information:
            courieruserinfo -A <username>

       And this will display the user's home and maildir directories:
            courieruserinfo -d -m <username>


LOGGING
       Logging is done to syslog by default or to stderr if the --stderr
       switch is used.  courieruserinfo logs all failures to retrieve user
       information.

       courieruserinfo does certain checks on command line arguments so it is
       important to put --stderr first in the argument list if it is to be
       used in order for these checks to be logged properly.


BUGS
       If you've found a bug in courieruserinfo, please report it to
       freeware@arda.homeunix.net


SEE ALSO
       http://www.courier-mta.org/authlib/


AUTHOR
       courieruserinfo was written by Andrew St. Jean

       Courier authentication library was written by Sam Varshavchik

GNU/Linux                         20 Jan 2005               COURIERUSERINFO(8)
