CPTCAT(1)                        User commands                       CPTCAT(1)

NAME
       cptcat - concatenate GMT colour palette tables.

SYNOPSIS
       cptcat [-b rgb] [-f rgb] [-h] [-H] [-m model] [-n rgb] [-o path] [-S]
              [-v] [-V] [-z] [-Z] [-4] [-5] [-6] path...

DESCRIPTION
       The cptcat utility concatenates GMT colour palette table (cpt) files.
       The mandatory path argument(s) specify the input files which may be
       specified in any order. However, when sorted, the maximum (z-value) of
       the lower file should equal the minimum of the upper file; files can be
       modified with the makecpt(1) utility to be in this form.

       The background colour will be taken from that of the lower (or lowest)
       file, and the foreground from that of the upper (notwithstanding the
       --background and --foreground options).

       The program will write to stdout if the -o option is not specified.

OPTIONS
       -b, --background rgb, --no-background
           Set or remove the background colour of the output.

       --backtrace-file path
           Specify a file to which to write a formatted backtrace. The file
           will only be created if there is a backtrace created, typically
           when an error occurs.

       --backtrace-format format
           Specify the format of the backtrace written to the files specified
           by --backtrace-file, one of plain, xml or json.

       --comments-read path
           Read the comments from the specified path and add them to the
           output gradient.

           The format is custom XML which should be fairly easy to generate,
           see the output of --comments-write for examples.

       --comments-write path
           Write the comments in the input to the specified path.

       --comments-retain
           Use the comments in the input file as the comments for the output
           file.

       --comments-generate
           Create a comment with summary data (the date of creation, name and
           version of the cptutils package) in the output file.

       -f, --foreground rgb, --no-foreground
           Set or remove the foreground colour of the output.

       -h, --help
           Brief help.

       -H, --hinge-hard
           Adds a HARD_HINGE to the output, see HINGES below.

       -S, --hinge-soft
           Adds a SOFT_HINGE to the output, see HINGES below.

       -m, --model model
           On writing the output, convert all colours to the specified model,
           one of "rgb" or "hsv". This has no effect on non-colour segments.

       -n, --nan rgb, --no-nan
           Set or remove the NaN (no data) colour of the output.

       -o, --output path
           Write the output to path, rather than stdout.

       -v, --verbose
           Verbose operation.

       -V, --version
           Version information.

       -z, --z-normalise
           Normalise the z-values in the cpt output into the range 0/1 (or to
           -1/1 if a hinge is present) and add a RANGE directive if not
           present in the input. This is the form used in GMT master files.

           This option requires that output cpt version is at least 5.

       -Z, --z-denormalise
           Set the z-values in the cpt output into the range given by the
           RANGE directive, and remove that directive. If there is no RANGE
           then this option does nothing.

       -4, --gmt4
           Use GMT 4 conventions when writing the cpt output: the colour-model
           code is uppercase, and the colours are separated by spaces.

           This is incompatible with the -5 and -6 options of course.

           At present this option is the default, but that will change at some
           point. So specify this option if your use of the output depends on
           the GMT 4 layout (consumed by a custom parser, for example).

       -5, --gmt5
           Use GMT 5 conventions when writing the cpt output: the colour-model
           code is lowercase, and the colours are separated by a solidus for
           RGB, CMYK, by a dash for HSV.

           This is incompatible with the -4 and -6 options of course.

       -6, --gmt6
           As the -5 option, but allows the HARD_HINGE and SOFT_HINGE
           directives in place of the explicit HINGE = directive.

           This is incompatible with the -4 and -5 options of course.

HINGES
       The treatment of hinges in this program is rather different to that of
       the other programs reading and writing the cpt format, those retain the
       hinge (if any) found in the input.

       However, an expected use-case for this program is to combine bathymetry
       and topography schemes, which would typically not have hinges,
       producing a bathymetry-topography scheme, which typically would.

       Hence any hinges in the input will be ignored (a warning will be issued
       in this case), and the output will have a hinge only if one of the
       --hinge-hard (-H) or --hinge-soft (-S) options are given. These are a
       recent GMT feature, so the --gmt6 option is required.

EXAMPLES
       Create a cpt-file topobath.cpt from topo.cpt and bath.cpt, adding a
       hard hinge and normalising the output (the typical form of a "dynamic"
       or "master" cpt file)

           cptcat -v -H -6 -z -o topobath.cpt topo.cpt bath.cpt

AUTHOR
       J.J. Green

SEE ALSO
       makecpt(1).

cptutils 1.84                    21 April 2025                       CPTCAT(1)
