CPUFETCH(1)                      User Commands                     CPUFETCH(1)

NAME
       cpufetch - Simple yet fancy CPU architecture fetching tool

SYNOPSIS
       cpufetch [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       cpufetch is a command-line tool written in C that displays the CPU
       information in a clean and beautiful way

OPTIONS
       -c, --color
              Set the color scheme (by default, cpufetch uses the system color
              scheme)

       -s, --style
              Set the style of CPU logo

       -d, --debug
              Print CPU model and cpuid levels (debug purposes)

       --logo-short
              Show the short version of the logo

       --logo-long
              Show the long version of the logo

       -v, --verbose
              Print extra information (if available) about how cpufetch tried
              fetching information

       --logo-intel-old
              Show the old Intel logo

       --logo-intel-new
              Show the new Intel logo

       -F, --full-cpu-name
              Show the full CPU name (do not abbreviate it)

       -r, --raw
              Print raw cpuid data (debug purposes)

       -h, --help
              Print this help and exit

       -V, --version
              Print cpufetch version and exit

COLORS
       * "intel":
              Use Intel default color scheme

       * "amd":
              Use AMD default color scheme

       * "ibm",
              Use IBM default color scheme

       * "arm":
              Use ARM default color scheme

       * custom:
              If the argument of --color does not match any of the previous
              strings, a custom scheme can be specified. 5 colors must be
              given in RGB with the format: R,G,B:R,G,B:...The first 3 colors
              are the CPU art color and the next 2 colors are the text colors

STYLES
       * "fancy":
              Default style

       * "retro":
              Old cpufetch style

       * "legacy":
              Fallback style for terminals that do not support colors

LOGOS
       cpufetch will try to adapt the logo size and the text to the terminal
       width. When the output (logo and text) is wider than the terminal
       width, cpufetch will print a smaller version of the logo (if it
       exists). This behavior can be overridden by --logo-short  and
       --logo-long, which always sets the logo size as specified by the user,
       even if it is too big. After the logo selection (either automatically
       or set by the user), cpufetch will check again if the output fits in
       the terminal. If not, it will use a shorter name for the fields (the
       left part of the text). If, after all of this, the output still does
       not fit, cpufetch will cut the text and will only print the text until
       there is no space left in each line

EXAMPLES
       Run cpufetch with Intel color scheme:

              ./cpufetch --color intel

       Run cpufetch with a custom color scheme:

              ./cpufetch --color
              239,90,45:210,200,200:0,0,0:100,200,45:0,200,200

BUGS
       Report bugs to https://github.com/Dr-Noob/cpufetch/issues

NOTE
       Peak performance information is NOT accurate. cpufetch computes peak
       performance using the max frequency of the CPU. However, to compute the
       peak performance, you need to know the frequency of the CPU running AVX
       code. This value is not be fetched by cpufetch since it depends on each
       specific CPU. To correctly measure peak performance, see:
       https://github.com/Dr-Noob/peakperf

cpufetch v1.00 (Linux x86_64 build)
                                September 2021                     CPUFETCH(1)
