UCRED(9)               FreeBSD Kernel Developer's Manual              UCRED(9)

NAME
     ucred, crget, crhold, crfree, crcopy, crdup, cru2x – functions related to
     user credentials

SYNOPSIS
     #include <sys/param.h>
     #include <sys/ucred.h>

     struct ucred *
     crget(void);

     struct ucred *
     crhold(struct ucred *cr);

     void
     crfree(struct ucred *cr);

     void
     crcopy(struct ucred *dest, struct ucred *src);

     struct ucred *
     crcopysafe(struct proc *p, struct ucred *cr);

     struct ucred *
     crdup(struct ucred *cr);

     void
     crsetgroups(struct ucred *cr, int ngrp, gid_t *groups);

     void
     cru2x(struct ucred *cr, struct xucred *xcr);

DESCRIPTION
     The ucred family of functions is used to manage user credential
     structures (struct ucred) within the kernel.

     The crget() function allocates memory for a new structure, sets its
     reference count to 1, and initializes its lock.

     The crhold() function increases the reference count on the credential.

     The crfree() function decreases the reference count on the credential.
     If the count drops to 0, the storage for the structure is freed.

     The crcopy() function copies the contents of the source (template)
     credential into the destination template.  The uidinfo structure within
     the destination is referenced by calling uihold(9).

     The crcopysafe() function copies the current credential associated with
     the process p into the newly allocated credential cr.  The process lock
     on p must be held and will be dropped and reacquired as needed to
     allocate group storage space in cr.

     The crdup() function allocates memory for a new structure and copies the
     contents of cr into it.  The actual copying is performed by crcopy().

     The crsetgroups() function sets the cr_groups and cr_ngroups variables
     and allocates space as needed.  It also truncates the group list to the
     current maximum number of groups.  No other mechanism should be used to
     modify the cr_groups array except for updating the primary group via
     assignment to cr_groups[0].

     The cru2x() function converts a ucred structure to an xucred structure.
     That is, it copies data from cr to xcr; it ignores fields in the former
     that are not present in the latter (e.g., cr_uidinfo), and appropriately
     sets fields in the latter that are not present in the former (e.g.,
     cr_version).

RETURN VALUES
     crget(), crhold(), crdup(), and crcopysafe() all return a pointer to a
     ucred structure.

USAGE NOTES
     As of FreeBSD 5.0, the ucred structure contains extensible fields.  This
     means that the correct protocol must always be followed to create a fresh
     and writable credential structure: new credentials must always be derived
     from existing credentials using crget(), crcopy(), and crcopysafe().

     In the common case, credentials required for access control decisions are
     used in a read-only manner.  In these circumstances, the thread
     credential td_ucred should be used, as it requires no locking to access
     safely, and remains stable for the duration of the call even in the face
     of a multi-threaded application changing the process credentials from
     another thread.

     During a process credential update, the process lock must be held across
     check and update, to prevent race conditions.  The process credential,
     td->td_proc->p_ucred, must be used both for check and update.  If a
     process credential is updated during a system call and checks against the
     thread credential are to be made later during the same system call, the
     thread credential must also be refreshed from the process credential so
     as to prevent use of a stale value.  To avoid this scenario, it is
     recommended that system calls updating the process credential be designed
     to avoid other authorization functions.

     If temporarily elevated privileges are required for a thread, the thread
     credential can be replaced for the duration of an activity, or for the
     remainder of the system call.  However, as a thread credential is often
     shared, appropriate care should be taken to make sure modifications are
     made to a writable credential through the use of crget() and crcopy().

     Caution should be exercised when checking authorization for a thread or
     process perform an operation on another thread or process.  As a result
     of temporary elevation, the target thread credential should never be used
     as the target credential in an access control decision: the process
     credential associated with the thread, td->td_proc->p_ucred, should be
     used instead.  For example, p_candebug(9) accepts a target process, not a
     target thread, for access control purposes.

SEE ALSO
     uihold(9)

AUTHORS
     This manual page was written by Chad David <davidc@acns.ab.ca>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        January 23, 2019        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
