CRONTAB(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             CRONTAB(1)

NAME
     crontab – maintain crontab files for individual users (V3)

SYNOPSIS
     crontab [-u user] file
     crontab [-u user] { -l | -r [-f] | -e }

DESCRIPTION
     The crontab utility is the program used to install, deinstall or list the
     tables used to drive the cron(8) daemon in Vixie Cron.  Each user can
     have their own crontab, and though these are files in /var, they are not
     intended to be edited directly.

     If the allow file exists, then you must be listed therein in order to be
     allowed to use this command.  If the allow file does not exist but the
     deny file does exist, then you must not be listed in the deny file in
     order to use this command.  If neither of these files exists, then
     depending on site-dependent configuration parameters, only the super user
     will be allowed to use this command, or all users will be able to use
     this command.  The format of these files is one username per line, with
     no leading or trailing whitespace.  Lines of other formats will be
     ignored, and so can be used for comments.

     The first form of this command is used to install a new crontab from some
     named file or standard input if the pseudo-filename ‘-’ is given.

     The following options are available:

     -u      Specify the name of the user whose crontab is to be tweaked.  If
             this option is not given, crontab examines “your” crontab, i.e.,
             the crontab of the person executing the command.  Note that su(1)
             can confuse crontab and that if you are running inside of su(1)
             you should always use the -u option for safety's sake.

     -l      Display the current crontab on standard output.

     -r      Remove the current crontab.  By default the -r option prompts for
             confirmation, adding the -f option will attempt to remove the
             current crontab without confirmation.

     -e      Edit the current crontab using the editor specified by the VISUAL
             or EDITOR environment variables.  The specified editor must edit
             the file in place; any editor that unlinks the file and recreates
             it cannot be used.  After you exit from the editor, the modified
             crontab will be installed automatically.

FILES
     /var/cron/allow  List of users allowed to use crontab
     /var/cron/deny   List of users prohibited from using crontab
     /var/cron/tabs   Directory for personal crontab files

DIAGNOSTICS
     A fairly informative usage message appears if you run it with a bad
     command line.

SEE ALSO
     crontab(5), cron(8)

STANDARDS
     The crontab command conforms to IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) with the
     exception that the dangerous variant of calling crontab without a file
     name in the first form of the command is not allowed by this
     implementation.  The pseudo-filename ‘-’ must be specified to read from
     standard input.  The new command syntax differs from previous versions of
     Vixie Cron, as well as from the classic SVR3 syntax.

AUTHORS
     Paul Vixie <paul@vix.com>

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        December 20, 2016       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
