SCCS(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                SCCS(1)

NAME
     sccs – front end for the SCCS subsystem

SYNOPSIS
     sccs [-r] [-d path] [-T] [-V] [--version] [-p path] [--prefix=path]
          [--cssc] command [flags] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     Sccs is a front end to the SCCS programs that helps them mesh more
     cleanly with the rest of UNIX.  It also includes the capability to run
     “set user id” to another user to provide additional protection (but see
     the section entitled BUGS).

     Basically, sccs runs the command with the specified flags and args.  Each
     argument is normally modified to be prepended with “SCCS/s.”.

     Flags to be interpreted by the sccs program must be before the command
     argument.  Flags to be passed to the actual SCCS program must come after
     the command argument.  These flags are specific to the command and are
     discussed in the documentation for that command.

     Besides the usual SCCS commands, several “pseudo-commands” can be issued.
     These are:

     edit     Equivalent to “get -e”.

     delget   Perform a delta on the named files and then get new versions.
              The new versions will have id keywords expanded, and will not be
              editable.  The -m, -p, -r, -s, and -y flags will be passed to
              delta, and the -b, -c, -e, -i, -k, -l, -s, and -x flags will be
              passed to get.

     deledit  Equivalent to delget except that the get phase includes the -e
              flag.  This option is useful for making a checkpoint of your
              current editing phase.  The same flags will be passed to delta
              as described above, and all the flags listed for get above
              except -e and -k are passed to edit.

     create   Creates an SCCS file , taking the initial contents from the file
              of the same name.  Any flags to admin are accepted.  If the
              creation is successful, the files are renamed with a comma on
              the front.  These should be removed when you are convinced that
              the SCCS files have been created successfully.

     fix      Must be followed by a -r flag.  This command essentially removes
              the named delta, but leaves you with a copy of the delta with
              the changes that were in it.  It is useful for fixing small
              compiler bugs, etc.  Since it doesn't leave audit trails, it
              should be used carefully.

     clean    This routine removes everything from the current directory that
              can be recreated from SCCS files.  It will not remove any files
              being edited.  If the -b flag is given, branches are ignored in
              the determination of whether they are being edited; this is
              dangerous if you are keeping the branches in the same directory.

     unedit   This is the opposite of an edit or a “get -e”.  It should be
              used with extreme caution, since any changes you made since the
              get will be irretrievably lost.

     info     Gives a listing of all files being edited.  If the -b flag is
              given, branches (i.e., SID´s with two or fewer components) are
              ignored.  If the -u flag is given (with an optional argument)
              then only files being edited by you (or the named user) are
              listed.

     check    Like info except that nothing is printed if nothing is being
              edited, and a non-zero exit status is returned if anything is
              being edited.  The intent is to have this included in an install
              entry in a makefile to insure that everything is included into
              the SCCS file before a version is installed.

     tell     Gives a newline-separated list of the files being edited on the
              standard output.  Takes the -b and -u flags like info and check.

     diffs    Gives a diff listing between the current version of the
              program(s) you have out for editing and the versions in SCCS
              format.  The -r, -c, -i, -x, and -t flags are passed to
              get; the -l, -s, -e, -f, -h, -u, -n, -w, and -b options are
              passed to diff.  The -a, -B, -d, -H, -p, -q, -s, -v, and -y
              options are passed to diff but these options are (usually)
              specific to GNU diff, and so may not be supported on systems
              other than GNU.  The -C flag is passed to diff as -c.

     print    This command prints out verbose information about the named
              files.

     Certain commands (such as admin) cannot be run “set user id” by all
     users, since this would allow anyone to change the authorizations.  These
     commands are always run as the real user.

     --cssc        Returns a zero exit value (for the GNU version only).  No
                   other operation is performed.  This flag is used by the
                   test suite to determine if it needs to use the --prefix
                   flag in order to find the correct subprograms (non-GNU
                   versions of sccs have the full pathnames for the
                   subprograms hard-coded).  In this way, the CSSC test suite
                   can be compiled ready for installation in a particular
                   directory, but the test suite can still be run before the
                   suite has been installed in its final position.  This
                   option is supported only by the GNU version of sccs.

     --prefix=foo  Uses foo as the prefix for SCCS sub-commands.   The default
                   prefix is compiled into the program and is usually
                   “/usr/sccs”.  You can discover the prefix setting with the
                   -V flag.  This prefix is used without a final slash being
                   appended, so values like “/usr/local/bin/cssc-” can be
                   used.  This option is disallowed if the program is
                   installed setuid, and it is supported only by the GNU
                   version of sccs.  This option is not equivalent to the -p
                   flag.

     --version     Show version information; synonymous with the -V flag.

     -r            Runs sccs as the real user rather than as whatever
                   effective user sccs is “set user id” to.

     -d            Specifies a root directory for the SCCS files.  The default
                   is the current directory.  If environment variable
                   PROJECTDIR is set, it will be used to determine the -d
                   flag.

     -p            Defines the pathname of the directory in which the SCCS
                   files will be found; “SCCS” is the default.  The -p flag
                   differs from the -d flag in that the -d argument is
                   prepended to the entire pathname and the -p argument is
                   inserted before the final component of the pathname.  For
                   example, “sccs -d/x -py get a/b” will convert to “get
                   /x/a/y/s.b”.  The intent here is to create aliases such as
                   “alias syssccs sccs -d/usr/src” which will be used as
                   “syssccs get cmd/who.c”.  Please note that the -p flag is
                   (very) different in purpose from the --prefix option.

     -T            This flag causes the program to emit a debugging trace on
                   stdout.  This flag may be disabled at compile time.

     -V            Shows the version information for the sccs program, and the
                   subcommand prefix being used.  This option is supported
                   only by the GNU version of sccs.

EXAMPLES
     To get a file for editing, edit it, and produce a new delta:

           sccs get -e file.c
           ex file.c
           sccs delta file.c

     To get a file from another directory:

           sccs -p/usr/src/sccs/s. get cc.c

     or

           sccs get /usr/src/sccs/s.cc.c

     To make a delta of a large number of files in the current directory:

           sccs delta *.c

     To get a list of files being edited that are not on branches:

           sccs info -b

     To delta everything being edited by you:

           sccs delta `sccs tell -u`

     In a makefile, to get source files from an SCCS file if it does not
     already exist:

           SRCS = <list of source files>
           $(SRCS):
                sccs get $(REL) $@

MAINTAINER
     This version of sccs is maintained by James Youngman, <jay@gnu.org>.

ENVIRONMENT
     PROJECTDIR

                   The PROJECTDIR environment variable is checked by the -d
                   flag.  If it begins with a slash, it is taken directly;
                   otherwise, the home directory of a user of that name is
                   examined for a subdirectory “src” or “source”.  If such a
                   directory is found, it is used.

DIAGNOSTICS
     There are many error messages, mostly brief but fairly obvious.  If all
     goes acording to plan, the program's exit status is zero.  Otherwise, it
     will be one of the following values:-

     0     No error; everything proceeded according to plan.

     64    Command line usage error

     69    Could not exec program

     70    Internal software error.  This should not happen.

     71    System error (e.g., can't fork)

     75    Temporary failure; retry later.  This error is returned when the
           system runs out of memory.

     77    Permission denied.  This error occurs when the program has been
           installed setuid, but SCCSDIR was not configured in at compile
           time.  This can also happen if something goes wrong when the
           program tries to drop its setuid or setgid privileges.  When a
           program exits due to a fatal signal, the shell usually adds 128 to
           the signal number and uses that as the return value.   Some systems
           also produce values in this range if there was a problem with the
           dynamic linker.

SEE ALSO
     what(1), sccs-admin(1), sccs-cdc(1), sccs-comb(1), sccs-delta(1),
     sccs-get(1), sccs-help(1), sccs-prs(1), sccs-prt(1), sccs-rmchg(1),
     sccs-rmdel(1), sccs-sact(1), sccsdiff(1), sccs-unget(1), sccs-val(1),
     make(1), rcsintro(1), cvs(1), sccsfile(5).

     Eric Allman, An Introduction to the Source Code Control System.

     James Youngman, CSSC: Compatibly Stupid Source Control.

COPYING
     Copyright © 1998
     Free Software Foundation, Inc.  All rights reserved.

     Copyright © 1983, 1990, 1993
     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
     modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
     met:

     1.   Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

     2.   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
          documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

     3.   All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
          software must display the following acknowledgement:

          This product includes software developed by the University of
          California, Berkeley and its contributors.

     4.   Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
          may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
          software without specific prior written permission.

     THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
     ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
     IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
     PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
     LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
     CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
     SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
     INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
     CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
     ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
     THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

HISTORY
     The sccs command appeared in 4.3BSD.

     This version of sccs has been slightly modified to support GNU Autoconf,
     and several new options (those beginning with two dashes and also -V) and
     to make it somewhat more portable.  The program otherwise remains largely
     unchanged.

BUGS
     It should be able to take directory arguments on pseudo-commands like the
     SCCS commands do.

     Though this program is mostly derived from the original BSD code, the
     subprograms accompanying it in the CSSC suite (admin, get, delta and so
     on) are not the original AT&T code.  Please do not count on these
     programs being secure.

     Other known bugs are listed in the file BUGS, which accompanies GNU CSSC.

GNU                              June 3, 1998                              GNU
