CTLD(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                CTLD(8)

NAME
     ctld – CAM Target Layer / iSCSI target daemon

SYNOPSIS
     ctld [-d] [-f config-file] [-u]

DESCRIPTION
     The ctld daemon is responsible for managing the CAM Target Layer
     configuration, accepting incoming iSCSI connections, performing
     authentication and passing connections to the kernel part of the native
     iSCSI target.

     Upon startup, the ctld daemon parses the configuration file.  If it
     encounters any errors, ctld exits.  It then compares the configuration
     with the kernel list of LUNs managed by previously running ctld
     instances, removes LUNs no longer existing in the configuration file, and
     creates new LUNs as necessary.  After that it listens for the incoming
     iSCSI connections, performs authentication, and, if successful, passes
     the connections to the kernel part of CTL iSCSI target, cfiscsi(4), which
     handles it from that point.

     When it receives a SIGHUP signal, the ctld reloads its configuration and
     applies the changes to the kernel.  Changes are applied in a way that
     avoids unnecessary disruptions; for example removing one LUN does not
     affect other LUNs.

     When exiting gracefully, the ctld daemon removes LUNs it managed and
     forcibly disconnects all the clients.  Otherwise - for example, when
     killed with SIGKILL - LUNs stay configured and clients remain connected.

     To perform administrative actions that apply to already connected
     sessions, such as forcing termination, use ctladm(8).

     The following options are available:

     -f config-file    Specifies the name of the configuration file.  The
                       default is /etc/ctl.conf.

     -d                Debug mode.  The daemon sends verbose debug output to
                       standard error, and does not put itself in the
                       background.  The daemon will also not fork and will
                       exit after processing one connection.  This option is
                       only intended for debugging the target.

     -u                Use UCL configuration file format instead of the
                       traditional non-UCL format.

FILES
     /etc/ctl.conf          The configuration file for ctld.  The file format
                            and configuration options are described in
                            ctl.conf(5).
     /var/run/ctld.pid      The default location of the ctld PID file.

EXIT STATUS
     The ctld utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     cfiscsi(4), ctl(4), ctl.conf(5), ctladm(8), ctlstat(8)

HISTORY
     The ctld command appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.

AUTHORS
     The ctld was developed by Edward Tomasz Napierala <trasz@FreeBSD.org>
     under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         March 23, 2018         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
