ctorrent(1)                    Enhanced CTorrent                   ctorrent(1)

NAME
       ctorrent - an enhanced peer to peer (P2P) command line client.

SYNOPSIS
       ctorrent [-cvfaTd] [-A user-agent] [-b bf-filename] [-C cache-size]
                [-D dl-rate] [-E ratio] [-e hours] [-I out-ip] [-i in-ip]
                [-M max-peers] [-m min-peers] [-n file-num,...] [-P peer-id]
                [-p in-port] [-S server-host:port] [-s save-file|dir]
                [-U ul-rate] [-u trkr-num|URL] [-X exit-cmd] [-z slice-size]
                torrent-filename
       ctorrent -x torrent-filename
       ctorrent -c [-x] torrent-filename
       ctorrent -t -s filename -u URL [-p] [-l piece_len] [-c comment]
                file-or-directory

DESCRIPTION
       This is an enhanced version of the command line CTorrent peer to peer
       BitTorrent client for unix-like environments. High performance with
       minimal system resources and dependencies is a priority.

OPTIONS
   General Options
       -c     Check pieces only, don't download.

              Hash-checks all pieces of the torrent to verify completion
              status and exits. Use this when you want to verify that you've
              successfully downloaded the complete torrent, or to make sure
              the files are intact after a system crash. This option is
              normally used alone, but can be used with -x for an automated
              completion check.

       -x     Decode metainfo (torrent) file only, don't download.

              Displays the torrent information and contents from the metainfo
              (.torrent) file. No piece checking or downloading is performed.
              This option is normally used alone.

       -v     Verbose output (for debugging).

              Generates [a lot of] extra output while CTorrrent is running.

   Downloading Options
       -A user_agent
              (default = "Enhanced-CTorrent/dnh3.1") Set the User-Agent
              header.

              Specify an alternate user-agent header. This can be useful if a
              tracker is set up to only allow client programs that it
              recognizes.

       -a     Preallocate files on disk.

              Use this if you are concerned about file fragmentation or
              out-of-order block storage. This option is only effective when
              initially creating the files and will cause startup to take
              longer as each entire file is written in order to reserve
              physical disk space. Note that all files will be created and
              preallocated even if the -n option is used to download a
              particular file.

       -b filename
              (default = torrent+".bf") Specify bitfield save file name.

              Piece completion status is saved to a bitfield file on exit if
              download has not completed. On startup the file is read to
              determine (and check) available pieces. The -b option can be
              used to specify a file name other than the default. Be
              consistent and careful with this option; it is generally not
              needed.

       -C cache_size
              (default = 16MB) The cache size units in MB.

              Specify the maximum amount of memory to use for caching
              downloaded slices. The program may use less than this; the cache
              size is dynamically tuned based on the download and upload
              rates. You may need to use this option if running on a
              memory-constrained system such as a router or SAN device. If you
              use a value of 0, no memory cache will be used but the process
              will be more disk-intensive.

       -D rate
              Maximum bandwidth download rate (unit KB/s).

              Specify a download bandwidth limit for this torrent. The client
              will maintain its short-term average download rate at or below
              this value.

       -d     Daemon mode (fork to background).

              The client will detach itself from the terminal session and
              become a background process, closing stdin, stdout, and stderr.
              There is no way to bring it back into the foreground of a
              session later; if you want to monitor or manage the client then
              either use the CTCS option ( -S ) as well or run the client
              under screen instead of using -d.

              If this option is specified twice ( -dd ) then redirected
              standard I/O descriptors will not be closed.

       -E num Exit after seeding to num ratio (UL:DL).

              Specify a desired "seed ratio". After downloading completes, the
              client will continue seeding (uploading) until your total upload
              volume divided by your download volume equals this number.
              Fractional values (such as 1.5) are allowed. It is considered
              polite and fair (and required by some tracker sites) to seed
              until your ratio is at least 1:1. There is no default value, so
              this must be explicitly used on the command line if it's
              desired.

       -e int (default = 72) Exit after seeding int hours.

              Indicate how long (in hours) you want to "seed" (continue
              uploading) after download has completed. It is considered polite
              and fair (and required by some tracker sites) to seed for some
              time after downloading. A value of zero (0) will turn this off
              and seed indefinitely unless the -E ratio option is also used.

       -f     Force saved bitfield or seed mode (skip hash check at startup).

              Perform a fast startup by skipping the initial (or background)
              hash verification of the files. This option is not generally
              recommended since the client now performs initial hash checking
              in the background.  Use this option only if CTorrent was shut
              down cleanly when last downloading this torrent and you are
              absolutely certain that the bitfield (if download is not
              complete) and data files are intact and correct.  To emulate the
              old behavior of hash-checking all pieces before beginning
              download or seeding, use -f along with the -c option.

       -I ip  Specify public/external IP address for peer connections.

              Specify the IP address which the tracker should give out to peer
              clients in order to connect to you. This is normally needed only
              if you are behind a NAT and on the tracker's local network.

       -i ip  (default = all/any) Listen for connections on a specific IP
              address.

              Specify the IP address on which you want to listen for incoming
              connections. This is only useful if your system has multiple
              network interfaces and you want to restrict access or run
              multiple clients on different interfaces.

       -M max_peer
              (default = 100) Maximum peer count.

              Set the maximum allowable number of peer connections. If this
              number is reached, no new connections will be initiated or
              accepted. If memory or upload bandwidth are constrained, you may
              want to use this option to specify a lower value.

       -m min_peer
              (default = 1) Minimum peer count.

              Set the desired minimum number of peer connections. If the
              number falls below this value, the client will contact the
              tracker to request more peers.

       -n file_num,...
              Specify the file number(s) to download.

              Specify a priority order for downloading files in the torrent. A
              comma-separated list of file numbers and groups can be
              specified; the file numbers can be seen with the -x option. The
              client will preferentially request pieces of the
              highest-priority files, requesting a piece from a lower-priority
              group if a peer has no such pieces.

              A group may consist of:

                     * a file number

                     * a range of file numbers (x-y)

                     * a combination of file numbers and ranges separated with
                     plus (+) signs

                     * an asterisk (*) or 3-dot ellipsis (...)

              If an asterisk (remember to quote it on the command line!) or
              ellipsis is used, the client will download and seed the
              remainder of the torrent once the prioritized files are
              completed; this is similar to the previous behavior of the
              option. If no such specification is given, the client will
              download and seed only the indicated files.

              Examples:

              -n 3   Download and seed only file 3.

              -n 3+5+7,8-11
                     Download files 3, 5, and 7 simultaneously, then download
                     files 8 through 11 simultaneously, then stop downloading
                     and seed all downloaded files.

              -n 3-4,...
                     Download files 3 and 4 simultaneously, then download and
                     seed all remaining content.

       -P peer_id
              (default = "-CD0301-") Set the Peer ID prefix.

              Specify an alternate peer ID prefix. This can be useful if a
              tracker is set up to only allow client programs that it
              recognizes. (The admin may not even realize it, so you may want
              to try contacting them to request that they change their
              configuration or add Enhanced CTorrent to the list.) If you
              receive a tracker warning message that your client is out of
              date, try using this option with the prefix of another
              well-known client program (such as "-AZ2304-").

       -p port
              (default = 2706 -> 2106) Listen on port.

              Specify the TCP port number on which to listen for incoming
              connections. By default, CTorrent starts at 2706 and searches
              for an available port in decreasing order until it finds one or
              exhausts all ports down through 2106. The behavior with this
              option is similar, but starting at the specified port number.

       -S host:port
              Use CTCS server at host:port.

              Maintain a connection to CTCS for status reporting, bandwidth
              control, and client management. Using a colon at the end of the
              parameter (as in "-S localhost:2780:") will cause the client to
              prompt for a password to send to CTCS when connecting.

       -s filename | directory
              Download ("save as") to a different file or directory.

              Download to a different filename or top-level directory name
              than what is given in the metainfo file.

       -T     Convert foreign filenames to printable text.

              Substitutes a hex representation of any non-printable characters
              in filenames; an underscore will be inserted between any such
              sequences and regular text. This applies to printing the name of
              the file as well as accessing it on disk, so you need to use it
              (or not) consistently across multiple runs of the same torrent.
              It does not apply to names specified with the -s option.

       -U rate
              (Highly Recommended) Maximum bandwidth upload rate in KB/s.

              Specify an upload bandwidth limit for this torrent. The client
              will maintain its short-term average upload rate at or below
              this value. See the Bandwidth Limits section below for more
              information.

       -u number | URL
              Alternate announce (tracker) URL.

              Specify an alternate tracker announce URL. The parameter can be
              the actual URL or the number from the list of alternates printed
              when starting the client or using -x.

       -X command
              Run the command upon download completion ("user exit").

              Specifies a "user exit" command to run upon download completion.
              The string parameter will be passed to the sh shell for
              execution; see the system() man page for further clarification.
              You will need to quote this string on the command line in order
              to identify it as a single parameter and prevent special
              characters from being interpreted. Some substitution sequences
              beginning with ampersand (&) are available; note that it's a
              good idea to quote the sequence within the string so that the
              substituted names will be quoted in the final command.

              &d will be replaced by the name of the directory or filename
              that contains the downloaded data.

              &t will be replaced by the name of the torrent metainfo file
              (with path, if it was specified that way to ctorrent).

              &w will be replaced by the client's working directory.

              Note that the fork() and system() system/library functions are
              used for best portability. As a result, significant extra memory
              may be used while the specified command is running. Be advised
              to use this feature as a trigger mechanism to update a file or
              run a short script that kicks off a background task rather than
              for executing a longer task directly.

              This option can also be used together with -c as an automated
              completion check. Normally the completion command will be run
              only if data has been downloaded; this case is the exception.

       -z slice_size
              (default = 16, max 128) The download slice/block size in KB
              units.

              Sets the size of the basic unit of download. For greatest
              compatibility with other peer clients, use the default. This
              value can also affect the precision with which bandwidth is
              managed.

       torrent-filename
              (Required) The file name of the torrent metainfo file.

   Options For Creating A New Torrent
       -t     (Required) Create a new torrent file.

              Indicates that you want to create a new torrent. This must be
              the first option specified when creating a torrent.

       -s filename
              (Required) Specify the metainfo file name.

              Give the name of the metainfo file to be created.

       -u URL (Required) The tracker's URL.

              Specify the tracker's announce URL. This usually looks similar
              to "http://tracker.example.com:port/announce".

       -c comment
              Define a comment/description.

              Include a comment or description field in the torrent file.

       -l piece_len
              (default = 262144) The piece length in bytes.

              Specify the piece size for your torrent. This will also
              determine the total number of pieces in the torrent. Larger
              sizes can be more efficient, but smaller sized pieces can speed
              up initial distribution. Very informal research states that the
              optimum number of total pieces in a torrent is roughly between
              1200 and 2200. Common piece sizes are 262144, 524288, 1048576
              and 2097152.

       -p     Private (disable peer exchange).

              Disable the use of DHT, PEX, or other trackerless peer-exchange
              methods by other clients when sharing this torrent.

       file-or-directory
              (Required) A single file name or a single directory that will be
              used to create the torrent metainfo file.

              When a file name is used, how it's specified on the command line
              will be how it's specified within the torrent metainfo file
              that's created.

              For example; if you use "/tmp/music/goodstuff.mp3" on the
              command line, then that complete filespec will be contained
              within the resulting torrent metainfo file (and what's created
              on the remote leecher's computer). But if you are in the
              "/tmp/music" directory and only use "goodstuff.mp3" on the
              command line, then only "goodstuff.mp3" will be specified inside
              the created torrent metainfo file.

              When a directory name is used, the specified directory is NOT
              included in the torrent metainfo file, just the files and/or
              directories within that directory.

              For example; to create a torrent file to seed all of the files
              and directories found in the "/tmp/music" directory, change into
              the "/tmp" directory and then create the torrent file with the
              -t option using the "music" directory name on the command line;
              or enter "/tmp/music" while in any directory. Later, go into the
              "/tmp/music" directory itself to actually seed it.

EXAMPLES
       List the contents of a torrent:

              ctorrent -x example.torrent

       Verify download completion status (takes a little time):

              ctorrent -c example.torrent

       Download or seed a torrent using default options (not recommended):

              ctorrent example.torrent

       Download with a limit of 100KB/s, upload limit of 10KB/s, and seed
       until a ratio of 1.5:1 is achieved:

              ctorrent -D 100 -U 10 -E 1.5 example.torrent

       Create a torrent:

              ctorrent -t -u http://tracker.example.com:6969/announce -s
              example.torrent file_or_dir_to_upload

RUNTIME COMMANDS
       Several commands are available during upload/download; a list is
       available by pressing ?  or h :

       Available commands:

       [Esc/0]  Operator menu             m[+/-]   Adjust min peers count
       d[+/-]   Adjust download limit     M[+/-]   Adjust max peers count
       u[+/-]   Adjust upload limit       C[+/-]   Adjust max cache size
       n        Download specific file    S        Set/change CTCS server
       e[+/-]   Adjust seed exit time     v        Toggle verbose mode
       E[+/-]   Adjust seed exit ratio    Q        Quit

       Command keys are case-sensitive. When a command key is pressed, a
       prompt or current value is displayed. Prompts will suspend display of
       the status line while waiting for input, though the client continues to
       run normally. Toggle and numeric commands briefly suspend the status
       line display.

       Commands shown with [+/-] following the key are numeric options and can
       be adjusted by pressing + or - repeatedly after the command key. The
       increment is increased after five presses; to reset it, press the
       command key again.

       Most commands use the same letter as the corresponding command-line
       option. Note that the bandwidth limit commands use the same letters but
       opposite case.

OPERATOR MENU
       The 0 or Esc command key displays an operator menu with more advanced
       (or less routine) options. All options on and beneath this menu require
       pressing Enter to submit the input. Pressing Enter alone will exit the
       menu.

       Operator Menu
        Output Channels:
         1) Normal/status:  stdout
         2) Interactive:    stdout
         3) Error/warning:  stderr
         4) Debug/verbose:  stderr
         5) Input:          stdin
        Status Line Formats:
         6)  0/6/18 [700/700/700] 0MB,11127MB | 0,15K/s | 0,0K E:0,405
        *7) | S:0/10 L:6/7 C:0  R=15.92 D=0 U=16 K/s  seeding 48:57
        Other options:
         8) View detailed status
         9) Pause (suspend upload/download)
        10) Become daemon (fork to background)
        11) Update tracker stats & get peers
        12) Restart (recover) the tracker session
       Enter selection:

       The first set of options allow redirection of the client's various
       types of console output (or even input--use carefully!). Of particular
       use is the debug/verbose channel, which can be directed to a file to
       create a debug log (be sure to also enable verbose output with the v
       command key or CTCS).

       The second set of options is used to select the status line format.
       Since the actual client status is used to generate the menu options,
       the operator menu display can also be used just to view the alternate
       status information. An asterisk ( * ) indicates the currently selected
       format.

       The next two options provide a means to view more detailed current
       status and statistics or to pause uploading and downloading (more or
       less immediately, unlike the previous CTCS pause function).

       Note that there is no "recovery" from daemon mode. Use CTCS (with
       daemon mode) and/or "screen" if you want the client to run in the
       background but need to manage or monitor it.

       The next two options are the same as the corresponding actions in CTCS.
       The first performs an early tracker update. The second restarts the
       tracker session as if you had exited and restarted the client. This can
       be used to recover if the tracker appears to have suffered a failure
       and does not recognize your client session.

USAGE NOTES
   Bandwidth Limits
       You should always specify an upload bandwidth limit.

       With the most recent changes in the program, this "option" is not just
       a limit to stay under, but an advisement to the client as well.
       Enhanced CTorrent now tunes its upload performance based on the limit.
       Without a limit, the client has no idea how much bandwidth your line
       can support and so cannot perform this tuning. It is now possible to
       achieve better upload rates with a limit than without. Due to the
       tit-for-tat nature of bittorrent, this can also indirectly increase
       your download performance. If you just want the client to use as much
       upload bandwidth as possible, then choose a limit that is 10% or so
       less than the available upload capacity of your line. ("Available"
       means not typically in use by other applications.)

       Note that limits are specified in KB/s (kilobytes per second), where
       1KB = 1024 bytes (8192 bits). Your ISP likely measures in "kilobits"
       (Kb, where 1Kb = 1000 bits or 125 bytes) or "megabits" (1Mb = 1000000
       bits or 122KB). Some of that [to the tune of 20% in some cases] is used
       by the line protocol and thus not available to you at all.

   Startup
       If you have previously started the torrent, CTorrent will perform a
       hash-check of all pieces (or pieces indicated by the bitfield file if
       present) while beginning the upload/download process. This does not
       mean that it is starting over--quite the opposite! This is how the
       client determines which pieces it already has so that they will not be
       downloaded again (and can be offered for uploading). This process
       confirms the pieces that you have even if the files have been altered
       or recovered after a system crash.

   Status Line
       The status line that is output by the client has changed since the
       original and deserves some explanation.

       / 0/33/110 [672/672/672] 0MB,1130MB | 0,20K/s | 0,0K E:0,31 P:4/10
       - - -- ---  --- --- ---  --- ------   - --      - -    - --   ----
       A B  C  D    E   F   G    H     I     J  K      L M    N  O     P

       A: Ticker; this character changes to indicate that the client is running.
       B: Number of seeders (complete peers) to which you are connected.
       C: Number of leechers (incomplete peers) to which you are connected.
       D: Total number of peers in the swarm, as last reported by the tracker.
       E: Number of pieces of the torrent that you have completed.
       F: Total number of pieces in the torrent.
       G: Number of pieces currently available from you and your connected peers.
       H: Total amount of data you have downloaded.
       I: Total amount of data you have uploaded.
       J: Your current download rate (20 second average).
       K: Your current upload rate (20 second average).
       L: Amount of data downloaded since the last status line update.
       M: Amount of data uploaded since the last status line update.
       N: Number of tracker connection errors.
       O: Number of successful tracker connections.
       P: Completion ratio of current fileset (when -n is used).

       Additional information such as tracker connection status may be
       displayed at the end of the status line when appropriate.

   Alternate Status Line
       A new status line format is also available via the operator menu.

       / S:4/8 L:4/5 C:1  R=5.85 D=42 U=16 K/s  79/100% 49:47  P:40/100% 2:41
       -   - -   - -   -    ----   --   --      -- ---- -----    ------- ----
       A   B C   D E   F      G     H    I       J   K    L         M      N

       A: Ticker; this character changes to indicate that the client is running.
       B: Number of seeders (complete peers) to which you are connected.
       C: Number of seeders in the swarm (excluding yourself), as last reported by the tracker.
       D: Number of leechers (incomplete peers) to which you are connected.
       E: Number of leechers in the swarm (excluding yourself), as last reported by the tracker.
       F: Number of peer connection attempts in progress.
       G: Your upload/download ratio.
       H: Your current download rate (20 second average).
       I: Your current upload rate (20 second average).
       J: Percent of the torrent that you have completed.
       K: Percent of the torrent currently available from you and your connected peers.
          If you have the complete torrent, "seeding" is displayed instead of these percentages.
       L: Estimated download or seed time remaining, in hours and minutes.
       M: Completion and availability of current fileset (when -n is used).
       N: Time remaining to complete the current fileset (when -n is used).

       Additional information such as tracker connection status may be
       displayed at the end of the status line when appropriate.

   Stopping CTorrent
       Besides the Q command key (equivalent to Ctrl-C but a nicer user
       interface), CTorrent can be stopped before completing download or
       seeding by pressing Ctrl-C or sending the TERM signal ("kill pid").
       This will tell the client to contact the tracker to send its final
       statistics and advise that it is leaving the torrent. Note that this
       could take a couple of minutes if the tracker is down or very busy.
       (Only one attempt is made, so the client will exit even if the
       connection fails.)

       If Ctrl-C or kill is used a second time, the client closes all peer
       connections and exits without waiting for the tracker connection. This
       means that other peers may still attempt to contact you for a while,
       and the tracker may not accept you back into the torrent until your
       original session expires. (This could take up to a couple of hours,
       depending on the tracker.)

       In either case, this is a clean shutdown of CTorrent. All downloaded
       data is written to disk before exiting. (Though only complete pieces
       really count if the torrent is restarted, as there is no way to know
       which blocks are missing from partial pieces.)

SEE ALSO
       ctcs(1) screen(1) system(3) fork(2)

Enhanced CTorrent                 2008-06-15                       ctorrent(1)
