curator(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             curator(1)

NAME
       curator — Generate HTML image gallery pages

SYNOPSIS
       curator [options]  [<root>]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the curator command.

       This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
       because the original program does not have a manual page.  Instead, it
       has documentation embedded within the program itself.

       curator is a powerful script that allows one to generate Web page image
       galleries with the intent of displaying photographic images on the Web,
       or for a CD-ROM presentation and archiving. It generates static Web
       pages only - no special configuration or running scripts are required
       on the server. The script supports many file formats, hierarchical
       directories, thumbnail generation and update, per-image description
       file with any attributes, and 'tracks' of images spanning multiple
       directories. The templates consist of HTML with embedded Python.
       Running this script only requires a recent Python interpreter (version
       2or more) and the ImageMagick tools.

       All links it generates are relative links, so that the pages can be
       moved or copied to different media. Each image page and directory can
       be associated any set of attributes which become available from the
       template (this way you can implement descriptions, conversion code,
       camera settings, and more).

       Type 'curator --help-script' for help on the scripting environment.


OPTIONS
       A more complete list can be gathered from using the --help switch of
       the command.  Some options support either short (single dash) or long
       (double dash) formats.

       --help, -h
                 show detailed help message


       --help-script
                 show scripting environment documentation


       --version, -V
                 prints version


       --verbose, -v
                 run verbosely (default)


       --quiet, --silent, -q
                 run quietly (turns verbosity off)


       --no-thumbgen
                 don't generate thumbnails


       --force-thumbgen, -h
                 overwrite existing thumbnails


       --no-index
                 don't generate HTML indexes


       --force-index, -i
                 overwrite existing HTML indexes


       --no-imagepage
                 don't generate HTML image pages


       --force-imagepage, -j
                 overwrite existing HTML image pages


       --force   generate and overwrite everything (i.e. forces thumbnails,
                 indexes and imagepages)


       --no-html, -n
                 don't generate html (i.e. indexes and imagepages)


       --force-html, -F
                 generate and overwrite html (i.e. forces indexes and
                 imagepages)


       --use-repn
                 Don't generate an image page if there is no base file (i.e. a
                 file without an alternate repn suffix.  The default selection
                 algorithm is to choose 1) the first of the affinity repn
                 which is an image file (see repn-affinity option), 2) the
                 first of the base files which is an image file, 3) (optional)
                 the first of the alternate representations which is an image
                 file. This option adds step (3).


       --repn-affinity
                 Specifies a comma separated list of regular expressions to
                 match for alt.repn files and file extensions to prefer when
                 searching for a main image file to generate a page for (e.g.
                 ".jpg,-- 768..*,.gif".


       --templates, -t
                 Specifies the directory where to take templates from
                 (default: root). This takes precedence over the
                 CURATOR_TEMPLATE environment variable AND over the root


       --rc      Specifies an additional global file to include and run in the
                 page environment before expanding the templates. This can be
                 used to perform global initialization and customization of
                 template variables. The file template-rc.py is searched in
                 the same order as for templates and is executed in that order
                 as well. Note that output when executing this goes to stdout.


       --rccode  specifies additional global init code to run in the global
                 environment. This can be used to parameterize the templates
                 from the command line (see option -- rc).


       --save-templates, -S
                 Saves the template files in the root of the hierarchy.
                 Previous copies, if existing and different from the current
                 template, are moved into backup files. This can be useful for
                 keeping template files around for future regeneration, or for
                 saving a copy before editing.


       --rc      Specifies an additional global file to include and run in the
                 page environment before expanding the templates. This can be
                 used to perform global initialization and customization of
                 template variables. The file template-rc.py is searched in
                 the same order as for templates and is executed in that order
                 as well. Note that output when executing this goes to stdout.


       --ignore-errors, -k
                 Ignore errors in templates


       --ignore-pattern, -I
                 regexp to specify image files to ignore


       --htmlext specifies html files extension (default: '.html')


       --attrext specifies attributes files extension (default: '.desc')


       --newthumbext
                 specifies new thumbnail extension/type (default: '.jpg')


       --thumb-sfx
                 specifies the thumbnail alt.repn. suffix (default: 'thumb')


       --separator, -p
                 specify the image basename separator from the suffix and
                 extension (default: --)


       --copyright, -C
                 specifies a copyright notice to include in image conversions


       --no-meta, -M
                 disables generator meta information addition


       --magick-path
                 specify imagemagick path to use


       --old-magick
                 use old imagemagick features (default)


       --new-magick
                 use new imagemagick features


       --no-magick
                 disable using imagemagick


       --thumb-size, -s
                 specifies size in pixels of thumbnail largest side


       --check-thumb-size
                 check the size of existing thumbnails to make sure they're
                 appropriately sized


       --thumb-quality, -Q
                 specify quality for thumbnail conversion (see convert(1))


       --fast, -X
                 disables some miscalleneous slow checks, even if the
                 consistency can be shaken up. Don't use this, this is a
                 debugging tool


       --clean   remove all files generated by curator. Curator exits after
                 clean up.


SEE ALSO
       For more information about the program and it's capabilities are
       described in the --help output.

AUTHOR
       curator was written by Martin Blais <blais@iro.umontreal.ca> and may be
       downloaded directly from http://curator.sourceforge.net/

       This manual page was created by Dave Baker <dsb3@debian.org> for the
       Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
       granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms
       of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version
       published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections,
       no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.

                                   Dec 2003                         curator(1)
