CVS(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 CVS(1)

import.

NAME
       cvs - Concurrent Versions System

SYNOPSIS
       cvs [ cvs_options ]
              cvs_command [ command_options ] [ command_args ]

NOTE
       This manpage is a summary of some of the features of cvs but it may no
       longer be kept up-to-date.  For more current and in-depth
       documentation, please consult the Cederqvist manual (via the info cvs
       command or otherwise, as described in the SEE ALSO section of this
       manpage).

DESCRIPTION
       CVS is a version control system, which allows you to keep old versions
       of files (usually source code), keep a log of who, when, and why
       changes occurred, etc., like RCS or SCCS.  Unlike the simpler systems,
       CVS does not just operate on one file at a time or one directory at a
       time, but operates on hierarchical collections of directories
       consisting of version controlled files.  CVS helps to manage releases
       and to control the concurrent editing of source files among multiple
       authors.  CVS allows triggers to enable/log/control various operations
       and works well over a wide area network.

       cvs keeps a single copy of the master sources.  This copy is called the
       source ``repository''; it contains all the information to permit
       extracting previous software releases at any time based on either a
       symbolic revision tag, or a date in the past.

ESSENTIAL COMMANDS
       cvs provides a rich variety of commands (cvs_command in the Synopsis),
       each of which often has a wealth of options, to satisfy the many needs
       of source management in distributed environments.  However, you don't
       have to master every detail to do useful work with cvs; in fact, five
       commands are sufficient to use (and contribute to) the source
       repository.

       cvs checkout modules...
              A necessary preliminary for most cvs work: creates your private
              copy of the source for modules (named collections of source; you
              can also use a path relative to the source repository here).
              You can work with this copy without interfering with others'
              work.  At least one subdirectory level is always created.

       cvs update
              Execute this command from within your private source directory
              when you wish to update your copies of source files from changes
              that other developers have made to the source in the repository.

       cvs add file...
              Use this command to enroll new files in cvs records of your
              working directory.  The files will be added to the repository
              the next time you run `cvs commit'.  Note: You should use the
              `cvs import' command to bootstrap new sources into the source
              repository.  `cvs add' is only used for new files to an already
              checked-out module.

       cvs remove file...
              Use this command (after erasing any files listed) to declare
              that you wish to eliminate files from the repository.  The
              removal does not affect others until you run `cvs commit'.

       cvs commit file...
              Use this command when you wish to ``publish'' your changes to
              other developers, by incorporating them in the source
              repository.

OPTIONS
       The cvs command line can include cvs_options, which apply to the
       overall cvs program; a cvs_command, which specifies a particular action
       on the source repository; and command_options and command_arguments to
       fully specify what the cvs_command will do.

       Warning: you must be careful of precisely where you place options
       relative to the cvs_command.  The same option can mean different things
       depending on whether it is in the cvs_options position (to the left of
       a cvs command) or in the command_options position (to the right of a
       cvs command).

       There are only two situations where you may omit cvs_command: `cvs -H'
       or `cvs --help' elicits a list of available commands, and `cvs -v' or
       `cvs --version' displays version information on cvs itself.


CVS OPTIONS
       As of release 1.6, cvs supports GNU style long options as well as short
       options.  Only a few long options are currently supported, these are
       listed in brackets after the short options whose functions they
       duplicate.

       Use these options to control the overall cvs program:

       -H [ --help ]
              Display usage information about the specified cvs_command (but
              do not actually execute the command).  If you don't specify a
              command name, `cvs -H' displays a summary of all the commands
              available.

       -Q     Causes the command to be really quiet; the command will generate
              output only for serious problems.

       -q     Causes the command to be somewhat quiet; informational messages,
              such as reports of recursion through subdirectories, are
              suppressed.

       -b bindir
              Use bindir as the directory where RCS programs are located (CVS
              1.9 and older).  Overrides the setting of the RCSBIN environment
              variable.  This value should be specified as an absolute
              pathname.

       -d CVS_root_directory
              Use CVS_root_directory as the root directory pathname of the
              master source repository.  Overrides the setting of the CVSROOT
              environment variable.  This value should be specified as an
              absolute pathname.

       -e editor
              Use editor to enter revision log information.  Overrides the
              setting of the CVSEDITOR, VISUAL, and EDITOR environment
              variables.

       -f     Do not read the cvs startup file (~/.cvsrc).

       -n     Do not change any files.  Attempt to execute the cvs_command,
              but only to issue reports; do not remove, update, or merge any
              existing files, or create any new files.

       -t     Trace program execution; display messages showing the steps of
              cvs activity.  Particularly useful with -n to explore the
              potential impact of an unfamiliar command.

       -r     Makes new working files read-only.  Same effect as if the
              CVSREAD environment variable is set.

       -R     Turns on read-only repository mode.  This allows one to check
              out from a read-only repository, such as within an anoncvs
              server, or from a CDROM repository.  Same effect as if the
              CVSREADONLYFS environment variable is set.  Using -R can also
              considerably speed up checkout's over NFS.

       -v [ --version ]
              Displays version and copyright information for cvs.

       -w     Makes new working files read-write (default).  Overrides the
              setting of the CVSREAD environment variable.

       -g     Forces group-write perms on working files.  This option is
              typically used when you have multiple users sharing a single
              checked out source tree, allowing them to operate their shells
              with a less dangerous umask.  To use this feature, create a
              directory to hold the checked-out source tree, set it to a
              private group, and set up the directory such that files created
              under it inherit the group id of the directory.  This occurs
              automatically with FreeBSD.  With SysV you must typically set
              the SGID bit on the directory.  The users who are to share the
              checked out tree must be placed in that group.  Note that the
              sharing of a single checked-out source tree is very different
              from giving several users access to a common CVS repository.
              Access to a common CVS repository already maintains shared
              group-write perms and does not require this option.

              To use the option transparently, simply place the line 'cvs -g'
              in your ~/.cvsrc file.  Doing this is not recommended unless you
              firewall all your source checkouts within a private group or
              within a private mode 0700 directory.

       -x     Encrypt all communication between the client and the server.  As
              of this writing, this is only implemented when using a Kerberos
              connection.

       -z compression-level
              When transferring files across the network use gzip with
              compression level compression-level to compress and de-compress
              data as it is transferred.  Requires the presence of the GNU
              gzip program in the current search path at both ends of the
              link.

USAGE
       Except when requesting general help with `cvs -H', you must specify a
       cvs_command to cvs to select a specific release control function to
       perform.  Each cvs command accepts its own collection of options and
       arguments.  However, many options are available across several
       commands.  You can display a usage summary for each command by
       specifying the -H option with the command.

CVS STARTUP FILE
       Normally, when CVS starts up, it reads the .cvsrc file from the home
       directory of the user reading it.  This startup procedure can be turned
       off with the -f flag.

       The .cvsrc file lists CVS commands with a list of arguments, one
       command per line.  For example, the following line in .cvsrc:

       diff -c

       will mean that the `cvs diff' command will always be passed the -c
       option in addition to any other options that are specified in the
       command line (in this case it will have the effect of producing context
       sensitive diffs for all executions of `cvs diff' ).

       Global options are specified using the cvs keyword.  For example, the
       following:

       cvs -q

       will mean that all `cvs' commands will behave as thought he -q global
       option had been supplied.

CVS COMMAND SUMMARY
       Here are brief descriptions of all the cvs commands:

       add    Add a new file or directory to the repository, pending a `cvs
              commit' on the same file.  Can only be done from within sources
              created by a previous `cvs checkout' invocation.  Use `cvs
              import' to place whole new hierarchies of sources under cvs
              control.  (Does not directly affect repository; changes working
              directory.)

       admin  Execute control functions on the source repository.  (Changes
              repository directly; uses working directory without changing
              it.)

       checkout
              Make a working directory of source files for editing.  (Creates
              or changes working directory.)

       commit Apply to the source repository changes, additions, and deletions
              from your working directory.  (Changes repository.)

       diff   Show differences between files in working directory and source
              repository, or between two revisions in source repository.
              (Does not change either repository or working directory.)

       export Prepare copies of a set of source files for shipment off site.
              Differs from `cvs checkout' in that no cvs administrative
              directories are created (and therefore `cvs commit' cannot be
              executed from a directory prepared with `cvs export'), and a
              symbolic tag must be specified.  (Does not change repository;
              creates directory similar to working directories).

       history
              Show reports on cvs commands that you or others have executed on
              a particular file or directory in the source repository.  (Does
              not change repository or working directory.)  History logs are
              kept only if enabled by creation of the
              `$CVSROOT/CVSROOT/history' file; see cvs(5).

       import Incorporate a set of updates from off-site into the source
              repository, as a ``vendor branch''.  (Changes repository.)

       init   Initialize a repository by adding the CVSROOT subdirectory and
              some default control files. You must use this command or
              initialize the repository in some other way before you can use
              it.

       log    Display log information.  (Does not change repository or working
              directory.)

       rdiff  Prepare a collection of diffs as a patch file between two
              releases in the repository.  (Does not change repository or
              working directory.)

       release
              Cancel a `cvs checkout', abandoning any changes.  (Can delete
              working directory; no effect on repository.)

       remove Remove files from the source repository, pending a `cvs commit'
              on the same files.  (Does not directly affect repository;
              changes working directory.)

       rtag   Explicitly specify a symbolic tag for particular revisions of
              files in the source repository.  See also `cvs tag'.  (Changes
              repository directly; does not require or affect working
              directory.)

       status Show current status of files: latest version, version in working
              directory, whether working version has been edited and,
              optionally, symbolic tags in the RCS file.  (Does not change
              repository or working directory.)

       tag    Specify a symbolic tag for files in the repository.  By default,
              tags the revisions that were last synchronized with your working
              directory.   (Changes repository directly; uses working
              directory without changing it.)

       update Bring your working directory up to date with changes from the
              repository.  Merges are performed automatically when possible; a
              warning is issued if manual resolution is required for
              conflicting changes.  (Changes working directory; does not
              change repository.)

COMMON COMMAND OPTIONS
       This section describes the command_options that are available across
       several cvs commands.  Not all commands support all of these options;
       each option is only supported for commands where it makes sense.
       However, when a command has one of these options you can count on the
       same meaning for the option as in other commands.  (Other command
       options, which are listed with the individual commands, may have
       different meanings from one cvs command to another.)  Warning: the
       history command is an exception; it supports many options that conflict
       even with these standard options.

       -D date_spec
              Use the most recent revision no later than date_spec (a single
              argument, date description specifying a date in the past).  A
              wide variety of date formats are supported, in particular ISO
              ("1972-09-24 20:05") or Internet ("24 Sep 1972 20:05").  The
              date_spec is interpreted as being in the local timezone, unless
              a specific timezone is specified.  The specification is
              ``sticky'' when you use it to make a private copy of a source
              file; that is, when you get a working file using -D, cvs records
              the date you specified, so that further updates in the same
              directory will use the same date (unless you explicitly override
              it; see the description of the update command).  -D is available
              with the checkout, diff, history, export,  rdiff, rtag, and
              update commands.  Examples of valid date specifications include:
                        1 month ago
                        2 hours ago
                        400000 seconds ago
                        last year
                        last Monday
                        yesterday
                        a fortnight ago
                        3/31/92 10:00:07 PST
                        January 23, 1987 10:05pm
                        22:00 GMT

       -f     When you specify a particular date or tag to cvs commands, they
              normally ignore files that do not contain the tag (or did not
              exist on the date) that you specified.  Use the -f option if you
              want files retrieved even when there is no match for the tag or
              date.  (The most recent version is used in this situation.)  -f
              is available with these commands: checkout, export,  rdiff,
              rtag, and update.

       -k kflag
              Alter the default processing of keywords.  The -k option is
              available with the add, checkout, diff, rdiff, export, and  BR
              update commands.  Your kflag specification is ``sticky'' when
              you use it to create a private copy of a source file; that is,
              when you use this option with the checkout or update commands,
              cvs associates your selected kflag with the file, and continues
              to use it with future update commands on the same file until you
              specify otherwise.

              Some of the more useful kflags are -ko and -kb (for binary
              files), and -kv which is useful for an export where you wish to
              retain keyword information after an import at some other site.

       -l     Local; run only in current working directory, rather than
              recurring through subdirectories.   Available with the following
              commands: checkout, commit, diff,  export, remove, rdiff, rtag,
              status, tag, and update.

       -n     Do not run any checkout/commit/tag/update program.  (A program
              can be specified to run on each of these activities, in the
              modules database; this option bypasses it.)  Available with the
              checkout, export, and  rtag commands.  Warning: this is not the
              same as the overall `cvs -n' option, which you can specify to
              the left of a cvs command!

       -P     Prune (remove) directories that are empty after being updated,
              on checkout, or update.  Normally, an empty directory (one that
              is void of revision-controlled files) is left alone.  Specifying
              -P will cause these directories to be silently removed from your
              checked-out sources.  This does not remove the directory from
              the repository, only from your checked out copy.  Note that this
              option is implied by the -r or -D options of checkout and
              export.

       -T     Create/Update CVS/Template by copying it from the (local)
              repository.  This option is useful for developers maintaining a
              local cvs repository but committing to a remote repository.  By
              maintaining CVS/Template the remote commits will still be able
              to bring up the proper template in the commit editor session.
              Available with the checkout and update commands.

       -p     Pipe the files retrieved from the repository to standard output,
              rather than writing them in the current directory.  Available
              with the checkout and update commands.

       -r tag Use the revision specified by the tag argument instead of the
              default ``head'' revision.  As well as arbitrary tags defined
              with the tag or rtag command, two special tags are always
              available: `HEAD' refers to the most recent version available in
              the repository, and `BASE' refers to the revision you last
              checked out into the current working directory.

              The tag specification is ``sticky'' when you use this option
              with `cvs checkout' or `cvs update' to make your own copy of a
              file: cvs remembers the tag and continues to use it on future
              update commands, until you specify otherwise.  tag can be either
              a symbolic or numeric tag.  When a command expects a specific
              revision, the name of a branch is interpreted as the most recent
              revision on that branch.  Specifying the -q global option along
              with the -r command option is often useful, to suppress the
              warning messages when the RCS file does not contain the
              specified tag.  -r is available with the annotate, checkout,
              commit, diff, history, export, rdiff,  rtag, and update
              commands.  Warning: this is not the same as the overall `cvs -r'
              option, which you can specify to the left of a cvs command!

CVS COMMANDS
       Here (finally) are details on all the cvs commands and the options each
       accepts.  The summary lines at the top of each command's description
       highlight three kinds of things:

           Command Options and Arguments
                 Special options are described in detail below; common command
                 options may appear only in the summary line.

           Working Directory, or Repository?
                 Some cvs commands require a working directory to operate;
                 some require a repository.  Also, some commands change the
                 repository, some change the working directory, and some
                 change nothing.

           Synonyms
                 Many commands have synonyms, which you may find easier to
                 remember (or type) than the principal name.

       add [-k kflag] [-m 'message'] files...
                 Requires: repository, working directory.
                 Changes: working directory.
                 Synonym: new
                 Use the add command to create a new file or directory in the
                 source repository.  The files or directories specified with
                 add must already exist in the current directory (which must
                 have been created with the checkout command).  To add a whole
                 new directory hierarchy to the source repository (for
                 example, files received from a third-party vendor), use the
                 `cvs import' command instead.

                 If the argument to `cvs add' refers to an immediate sub-
                 directory, the directory is created at the correct place in
                 the source repository, and the necessary cvs administration
                 files are created in your working directory.  If the
                 directory already exists in the source repository, `cvs add'
                 still creates the administration files in your version of the
                 directory.  This allows you to use `cvs add' to add a
                 particular directory to your private sources even if someone
                 else created that directory after your checkout of the
                 sources.  You can do the following:

                           example% mkdir new_directory
                           example% cvs add new_directory
                           example% cvs update new_directory

                 An alternate approach using `cvs update' might be:

                           example% cvs update -d new_directory

                 (To add any available new directories to your working
                 directory, it's probably simpler to use `cvs checkout' or
                 `cvs update -d'.)

                 The added files are not placed in the source repository until
                 you use `cvs commit' to make the change permanent.  Doing a
                 `cvs add' on a file that was removed with the `cvs remove'
                 command will resurrect the file, if no `cvs commit' command
                 intervened.

                 You will have the opportunity to specify a logging message,
                 as usual, when you use `cvs commit' to make the new file
                 permanent.  If you'd like to have another logging message
                 associated with just creation of the file (for example, to
                 describe the file's purpose), you can specify it with the `-m
                 message' option to the add command.

                 The `-k kflag' option specifies the default way that this
                 file will be checked out.  The `kflag' argument is stored in
                 the RCS file and can be changed with `cvs admin'.  Specifying
                 `-ko' is useful for checking in binaries that shouldn't have
                 keywords expanded.

       admin [rcs-options] files...
                 Requires: repository, working directory.
                 Changes: repository.
                 Synonym: rcs
                 This is the cvs interface to assorted administrative
                 facilities, similar to rcs(1).  This command works
                 recursively, so extreme care should be used.

       checkout [options] modules...
                 Requires: repository.
                 Changes: working directory.
                 Synonyms: co, get
                 Make a working directory containing copies of the source
                 files specified by modules.  You must execute `cvs checkout'
                 before using most of the other cvs commands, since most of
                 them operate on your working directory.

                 modules are either symbolic names (themselves defined as the
                 module `modules' in the source repository; see cvs(5)) for
                 some collection of source directories and files, or paths to
                 directories or files in the repository.

                 Depending on the modules you specify, checkout may
                 recursively create directories and populate them with the
                 appropriate source files.  You can then edit these source
                 files at any time (regardless of whether other software
                 developers are editing their own copies of the sources);
                 update them to include new changes applied by others to the
                 source repository; or commit your work as a permanent change
                 to the repository.

                 Note that checkout is used to create directories.  The top-
                 level directory created is always added to the directory
                 where checkout is invoked, and usually has the same name as
                 the specified module.  In the case of a module alias, the
                 created sub-directory may have a different name, but you can
                 be sure that it will be a sub-directory, and that checkout
                 will show the relative path leading to each file as it is
                 extracted into your private work area (unless you specify the
                 -Q global option).

                 Running `cvs checkout' on a directory that was already built
                 by a prior checkout is also permitted, and has the same
                 effect as specifying the -d option to the update command
                 described below.

                 The options permitted with `cvs checkout' include the
                 standard command options -P, -f,  -k kflag , -l, -n, -p,  -r
                 tag, and -D date.

                 In addition to those, you can use these special command
                 options with checkout:

                 Use the -A option to reset any sticky tags, dates, or -k
                 options.  (If you get a working file using one of the -r, -D,
                 or -k options, cvs remembers the corresponding tag, date, or
                 kflag and continues using it on future updates; use the -A
                 option to make cvs forget these specifications, and retrieve
                 the ``head'' version of the file).  Does not reset sticky -k
                 options on modified files.

                 The -j branch option merges the changes made between the
                 resulting revision and the revision that it is based on
                 (e.g., if the tag refers to a branch, cvs will merge all
                 changes made in that branch into your working file).

                 With two -j options, cvs will merge in the changes between
                 the two respective revisions.  This can be used to ``remove''
                 a certain delta from your working file.

                 In addition, each -j option can contain on optional date
                 specification which, when used with branches, can limit the
                 chosen revision to one within a specific date.  An optional
                 date is specified by adding a colon (:) to the tag.  An
                 example might be what `cvs import' tells you to do when you
                 have just imported sources that have conflicts with local
                 changes:

                           example% cvs checkout -jTAG:yesterday -jTAG module

                 Use the -N option with `-d dir' to avoid shortening module
                 paths in your working directory.   (Normally, cvs shortens
                 paths as much as possible when you specify an explicit target
                 directory.)

                 Use the -c option to copy the module file, sorted, to the
                 standard output, instead of creating or modifying any files
                 or directories in your working directory.

                 Use the -d dir option to create a directory called dir for
                 the working files, instead of using the module name.  Unless
                 you also use -N, the paths created under dir will be as short
                 as possible.

                 Use the -s option to display per-module status information
                 stored with the -s option within the modules file.

       commit [-lR] [-m 'log_message' | -F file] [-r revision] [files...]
                 Requires: working directory, repository.
                 Changes: repository.
                 Synonym: ci
                 Use `cvs commit' when you want to incorporate changes from
                 your working source files into the general source repository.

                 If you don't specify particular files to commit, all of the
                 files in your working current directory are examined.  commit
                 is careful to change in the repository only those files that
                 you have really changed.  By default (or if you explicitly
                 specify the -R option), files in subdirectories are also
                 examined and committed if they have changed; you can use the
                 -l option to limit commit to the current directory only.
                 Sometimes you may want to force a file to be committed even
                 though it is unchanged; this is achieved with the -f flag,
                 which also has the effect of disabling recursion (you can
                 turn it back on with -R of course).

                 commit verifies that the selected files are up to date with
                 the current revisions in the source repository; it will
                 notify you, and exit without committing, if any of the
                 specified files must be made current first with `cvs update'.
                 commit does not call the update command for you, but rather
                 leaves that for you to do when the time is right.

                 When all is well, an editor is invoked to allow you to enter
                 a log message that will be written to one or more logging
                 programs and placed in the source repository file.  You can
                 instead specify the log message on the command line with the
                 -m option, thus suppressing the editor invocation, or use the
                 -F option to specify that the argument file contains the log
                 message.

                 The -r option can be used to commit to a particular symbolic
                 or numeric revision.  For example, to bring all your files up
                 to the revision ``3.0'' (including those that haven't
                 changed), you might do:

                           example% cvs commit -r3.0

                 cvs will only allow you to commit to a revision that is on
                 the main trunk (a revision with a single dot).  However, you
                 can also commit to a branch revision (one that has an even
                 number of dots) with the -r option.  To create a branch
                 revision, one typically use the -b option of the rtag or tag
                 commands.  Then, either checkout or update can be used to
                 base your sources on the newly created branch.  From that
                 point on, all commit changes made within these working
                 sources will be automatically added to a branch revision,
                 thereby not perturbing main-line development in any way.  For
                 example, if you had to create a patch to the 1.2 version of
                 the product, even though the 2.0 version is already under
                 development, you might do:

                           example% cvs rtag -b -rFCS1_2 FCS1_2_Patch product_module
                           example% cvs checkout -rFCS1_2_Patch product_module
                           example% cd product_module
                           [[ hack away ]]
                           example% cvs commit

                 Say you have been working on some extremely experimental
                 software, based on whatever revision you happened to checkout
                 last week.  If others in your group would like to work on
                 this software with you, but without disturbing main-line
                 development, you could commit your change to a new branch.
                 Others can then checkout your experimental stuff and utilize
                 the full benefit of cvs conflict resolution.  The scenario
                 might look like:

                           example% cvs tag -b EXPR1
                           example% cvs update -rEXPR1
                           [[ hack away ]]
                           example% cvs commit

                 Others would simply do `cvs checkout -rEXPR1 whatever_module'
                 to work with you on the experimental change.

       diff [-kl] [format_options] [[-r rev1 | -D date1 | -j rev1:date1] [-r
       rev2 | -D date2 | -j rev2:date2]] [files...]
                 Requires: working directory, repository.
                 Changes: nothing.
                 You can compare your working files with revisions in the
                 source repository, with the `cvs diff' command.  If you don't
                 specify a particular revision, your files are compared with
                 the revisions they were based on.  You can also use the
                 standard cvs command option -r to specify a particular
                 revision to compare your files with.  Finally, if you use -r
                 twice, you can see differences between two revisions in the
                 repository.  You can also specify -D options to diff against
                 a revision (on the head branch) in the past, and you can also
                 specify -j options to diff against a revision relative to a
                 branch tag in the past.  The -r and -D and -j options can be
                 mixed together with at most two options ever specified.

                 See `cvs --help diff' for a list of supported format_options.

                 If you don't specify any files, diff will display differences
                 for all those files in the current directory (and its
                 subdirectories, unless you use the standard option -l) that
                 differ from the corresponding revision in the source
                 repository (i.e. files that you have changed), or that differ
                 from the revision specified.

       export [-flNnQq] -r rev|-D date [-d dir] [-k kflag] module...
                 Requires: repository.
                 Changes: current directory.
                 This command is a variant of `cvs checkout'; use it when you
                 want a copy of the source for module without the cvs
                 administrative directories.  For example, you might use `cvs
                 export' to prepare source for shipment off-site.  This
                 command requires that you specify a date or tag (with -D or
                 -r), so that you can count on reproducing the source you ship
                 to others.

                 The only non-standard options are `-d dir' (write the source
                 into directory dir) and `-N' (don't shorten module paths).
                 These have the same meanings as the same options in `cvs
                 checkout'.

                 The -kv option is useful when export is used.  This causes
                 any keywords to be expanded such that an import done at some
                 other site will not lose the keyword revision information.
                 Other kflags may be used with `cvs export' and are described
                 in co(1).

       history [-report] [-flags] [-options args] [files...]
                 Requires: the file `$CVSROOT/CVSROOT/history'
                 Changes: nothing.
                 cvs keeps a history file that tracks each use of the
                 checkout, commit, rtag, update, and release commands.  You
                 can use `cvs history' to display this information in various
                 formats.

                 Warning: `cvs history' uses `-f', `-l', `-n', and `-p' in
                 ways that conflict with the descriptions in COMMON COMMAND
                 OPTIONS.

                 Several options (shown above as -report) control what kind of
                 report is generated:

             -c  Report on each time commit was used (i.e., each time the
                 repository was modified).

             -m module
                 Report on a particular module.  (You can meaningfully use -m
                 more than once on the command line.)

             -o  Report on checked-out modules.

             -T  Report on all tags.

             -x type
                 Extract a particular set of record types X from the cvs
                 history.  The types are indicated by single letters, which
                 you may specify in combination.  Certain commands have a
                 single record type: checkout (type `O'), release (type `F'),
                 and rtag (type `T').  One of four record types may result
                 from an update: `W', when the working copy of a file is
                 deleted during update (because it was gone from the
                 repository); `U', when a working file was copied from the
                 repository; `G', when a merge was necessary and it succeeded;
                 and 'C', when a merge was necessary but collisions were
                 detected (requiring manual merging).  Finally, one of three
                 record types results from commit: `M', when a file was
                 modified; `A', when a file is first added; and `R', when a
                 file is removed.

             -e  Everything (all record types); equivalent to specifying
                 `-xMACFROGWUT'.

             -z zone
                 Use time zone zone when outputting history records.  The zone
                 name LT stands for local time; numeric offsets stand for
                 hours and minutes ahead of UTC.  For example, +0530 stands
                 for 5 hours and 30 minutes ahead of (i.e. east of) UTC.

            The options shown as -flags constrain the report without requiring
            option arguments:

             -a  Show data for all users (the default is to show data only for
                 the user executing `cvs history').

             -l  Show last modification only.

             -w  Show only the records for modifications done from the same
                 working directory where `cvs history' is executing.

            The options shown as -options args constrain the report based on
            an argument:

             -b str
                 Show data back to a record containing the string str in
                 either the module name, the file name, or the repository
                 path.

             -D date
                 Show data since date.

             -p repository
                 Show data for a particular source repository (you can specify
                 several -p options on the same command line).

             -r rev
                 Show records referring to revisions since the revision or tag
                 named rev appears in individual RCS files.  Each RCS file is
                 searched for the revision or tag.

             -t tag
                 Show records since tag tag was last added to the history
                 file.  This differs from the -r flag above in that it reads
                 only the history file, not the RCS files, and is much faster.

             -u name
                 Show records for user name.

       import [-options] repository vendortag releasetag...
                 Requires: Repository, source distribution directory.
                 Changes: repository.
                 Use `cvs import' to incorporate an entire source distribution
                 from an outside source (e.g., a source vendor) into your
                 source repository directory.  You can use this command both
                 for initial creation of a repository, and for wholesale
                 updates to the module form the outside source.

                 The repository argument gives a directory name (or a path to
                 a directory) under the CVS root directory for repositories;
                 if the directory did not exist, import creates it.

                 When you use import for updates to source that has been
                 modified in your source repository (since a prior import), it
                 will notify you of any files that conflict in the two
                 branches of development; use `cvs checkout -j' to reconcile
                 the differences, as import instructs you to do.

                 By default, certain file names are ignored during `cvs
                 import': names associated with CVS administration, or with
                 other common source control systems; common names for patch
                 files, object files, archive files, and editor backup files;
                 and other names that are usually artifacts of assorted
                 utilities.  For an up to date list of ignored file names, see
                 the Cederqvist manual (as described in the SEE ALSO section
                 of this manpage).

                 The outside source is saved in a first-level branch, by
                 default `1.1.1'.  Updates are leaves of this branch; for
                 example, files from the first imported collection of source
                 will be revision `1.1.1.1', then files from the first
                 imported update will be revision `1.1.1.2', and so on.

                 At least three arguments are required.  repository is needed
                 to identify the collection of source.  vendortag is a tag for
                 the entire branch (e.g., for `1.1.1').  You must also specify
                 at least one releasetag to uniquely identify the files at the
                 leaves created each time you execute `cvs import'.  The
                 releasetag should be new, not previously existing in the
                 repository file, and uniquely identify the imported release.

                 One of the standard cvs command options is available: -m
                 message.  If you do not specify a logging message with -m,
                 your editor is invoked (as with commit) to allow you to enter
                 one.

                 There are three additional special options.

                 Use `-d' to specify that each file's time of last
                 modification should be used for the checkin date and time.

                 Use `-b branch' to specify a first-level branch other than
                 `1.1.1'.

                 Use `-I name' to specify file names that should be ignored
                 during import.  You can use this option repeatedly.  To avoid
                 ignoring any files at all (even those ignored by default),
                 specify `-I !'.

       log [-l] rlog-options [files...]
                 Requires: repository, working directory.
                 Changes: nothing.
                 Synonym: rlog
                 Display log information for files.  Among the more useful
                 options are -h to display only the header (including tag
                 definitions, but omitting most of the full log); -r to select
                 logs on particular revisions or ranges of revisions; and -d
                 to select particular dates or date ranges.  See rlog(1) for
                 full explanations.  This command is recursive by default,
                 unless the -l option is specified.

       rdiff [-flags] [-V vn] [-r t|-D d [-r t2|-D d2]] modules...
                 Requires: repository.
                 Changes: nothing.
                 Synonym: patch
                 Builds a Larry Wall format patch(1) file between two
                 releases, that can be fed directly into the patch program to
                 bring an old release up-to-date with the new release.  (This
                 is one of the few cvs commands that operates directly from
                 the repository, and doesn't require a prior checkout.) The
                 diff output is sent to the standard output device.  You can
                 specify (using the standard -r and -D options) any
                 combination of one or two revisions or dates.  If only one
                 revision or date is specified, the patch file reflects
                 differences between that revision or date and the current
                 ``head'' revisions in the RCS file.

                 Note that if the software release affected is contained in
                 more than one directory, then it may be necessary to specify
                 the -p option to the patch command when patching the old
                 sources, so that patch is able to find the files that are
                 located in other directories.

                 The standard option flags -f, and -l are available with this
                 command.  There are also several special option flags:

                 If you use the -s option, no patch output is produced.
                 Instead, a summary of the changed or added files between the
                 two releases is sent to the standard output device.  This is
                 useful for finding out, for example, which files have changed
                 between two dates or revisions.

                 If you use the -t option, a diff of the top two revisions is
                 sent to the standard output device.  This is most useful for
                 seeing what the last change to a file was.

                 If you use the -u option, the patch output uses the newer
                 ``unidiff'' format for context diffs.

                 You can use -c to explicitly specify the `diff -c' form of
                 context diffs (which is the default), if you like.

       release [-dQq] modules...
                 Requires: Working directory.
                 Changes: Working directory, history log.
                 This command is meant to safely cancel the effect of `cvs
                 checkout'.  Since cvs doesn't lock files, it isn't strictly
                 necessary to use this command.  You can always simply delete
                 your working directory, if you like; but you risk losing
                 changes you may have forgotten, and you leave no trace in the
                 cvs history file that you've abandoned your checkout.

                 Use `cvs release' to avoid these problems.  This command
                 checks that no un-committed changes are present; that you are
                 executing it from immediately above, or inside, a cvs working
                 directory; and that the repository recorded for your files is
                 the same as the repository defined in the module database.

                 If all these conditions are true, `cvs release' leaves a
                 record of its execution (attesting to your intentionally
                 abandoning your checkout) in the cvs history log.

                 You can use the -d flag to request that your working copies
                 of the source files be deleted if the release succeeds.

       remove [-lR] [files...]
                 Requires: Working directory.
                 Changes: Working directory.
                 Synonyms: rm, delete
                 Use this command to declare that you wish to remove files
                 from the source repository.  Like most cvs commands, `cvs
                 remove' works on files in your working directory, not
                 directly on the repository.  As a safeguard, it also requires
                 that you first erase the specified files from your working
                 directory.

                 The files are not actually removed until you apply your
                 changes to the repository with commit; at that point, the
                 corresponding RCS files in the source repository are moved
                 into the `Attic' directory (also within the source
                 repository).

                 This command is recursive by default, scheduling all
                 physically removed files that it finds for removal by the
                 next commit.  Use the -l option to avoid this recursion, or
                 just specify that actual files that you wish remove to
                 consider.

       rtag [-falnRQq] [-b] [-d] [-r tag | -D date] symbolic_tag modules...
                 Requires: repository.
                 Changes: repository.
                 Synonym: rfreeze
                 You can use this command to assign symbolic tags to
                 particular, explicitly specified source versions in the
                 repository.  `cvs rtag' works directly on the repository
                 contents (and requires no prior checkout).  Use `cvs tag'
                 instead, to base the selection of versions to tag on the
                 contents of your working directory.

                 In general, tags (often the symbolic names of software
                 distributions) should not be removed, but the -d option is
                 available as a means to remove completely obsolete symbolic
                 names if necessary (as might be the case for an Alpha
                 release, say).

                 `cvs rtag' will not move a tag that already exists.  With the
                 -F option, however, `cvs rtag' will re-locate any instance of
                 symbolic_tag that already exists on that file to the new
                 repository versions.  Without the -F option, attempting to
                 use `cvs rtag' to apply a tag that already exists on that
                 file will produce an error message.

                 The -b option makes the tag a ``branch'' tag, allowing
                 concurrent, isolated development.  This is most useful for
                 creating a patch to a previously released software
                 distribution.

                 You can use the standard -r and -D options to tag only those
                 files that already contain a certain tag.  This method would
                 be used to rename a tag: tag only the files identified by the
                 old tag, then delete the old tag, leaving the new tag on
                 exactly the same files as the old tag.

                 rtag executes recursively by default, tagging all
                 subdirectories of modules you specify in the argument.  You
                 can restrict its operation to top-level directories with the
                 standard -l option; or you can explicitly request recursion
                 with -R.

                 The modules database can specify a program to execute
                 whenever a tag is specified; a typical use is to send
                 electronic mail to a group of interested parties.  If you
                 want to bypass that program, use the standard -n option.

                 Use the -a option to have rtag look in the `Attic' for
                 removed files that contain the specified tag.  The tag is
                 removed from these files, which makes it convenient to re-use
                 a symbolic tag as development continues (and files get
                 removed from the up-coming distribution).

       status [-lRqQ] [-v] [files...]
                 Requires: working directory, repository.
                 Changes: nothing.
                 Display a brief report on the current status of files with
                 respect to the source repository, including any ``sticky''
                 tags, dates, or -k options.  (``Sticky'' options will
                 restrict how `cvs update' operates until you reset them; see
                 the description of `cvs update -A...'.)

                 You can also use this command to anticipate the potential
                 impact of a `cvs update' on your working source directory.
                 If you do not specify any files explicitly, reports are shown
                 for all files that cvs has placed in your working directory.
                 You can limit the scope of this search to the current
                 directory itself (not its subdirectories) with the standard
                 -l option flag; or you can explicitly request recursive
                 status reports with the -R option.

                 The -v option causes the symbolic tags for the RCS file to be
                 displayed as well.

       tag [-lQqR] [-F] [-b] [-d] [-r tag | -D date] [-f] symbolic_tag
       [files...]
                 Requires: working directory, repository.
                 Changes: repository.
                 Synonym: freeze
                 Use this command to assign symbolic tags to the nearest
                 repository versions to your working sources.  The tags are
                 applied immediately to the repository, as with rtag.

                 One potentially surprising aspect of the fact that cvs tag
                 operates on the repository is that you are tagging the
                 checked-in revisions, which may differ from locally modified
                 files in your working directory.  If you want to avoid doing
                 this by mistake, specify the -c option to cvs tag.  If there
                 are any locally modified files, CVS will abort with an error
                 before it tags any files.

                 One use for tags is to record a ``snapshot'' of the current
                 sources when the software freeze date of a project arrives.
                 As bugs are fixed after the freeze date, only those changed
                 sources that are to be part of the release need be re-tagged.

                 The symbolic tags are meant to permanently record which
                 revisions of which files were used in creating a software
                 distribution.  The checkout, export and update commands allow
                 you to extract an exact copy of a tagged release at any time
                 in the future, regardless of whether files have been changed,
                 added, or removed since the release was tagged.

                 You can use the standard -r and -D options to tag only those
                 files that already contain a certain tag.  This method would
                 be used to rename a tag: tag only the files identified by the
                 old tag, then delete the old tag, leaving the new tag on
                 exactly the same files as the old tag.

                 Specifying the -f flag in addition to the -r or -D flags will
                 tag those files named on the command line even if they do not
                 contain the old tag or did not exist on the specified date.

                 By default (without a -r or -D flag) the versions to be
                 tagged are supplied implicitly by the cvs records of your
                 working files' history rather than applied explicitly.

                 If you use `cvs tag -d symbolic_tag...', the symbolic tag you
                 specify is deleted instead of being added.  Warning: Be very
                 certain of your ground before you delete a tag; doing this
                 effectively discards some historical information, which may
                 later turn out to have been valuable.

                 `cvs tag' will not move a tag that already exists.  With the
                 -F option, however, `cvs tag' will re-locate any instance of
                 symbolic_tag that already exists on that file to the new
                 repository versions.  Without the -F option, attempting to
                 use `cvs tag' to apply a tag that already exists on that file
                 will produce an error message.

                 The -b option makes the tag a ``branch'' tag, allowing
                 concurrent, isolated development.  This is most useful for
                 creating a patch to a previously released software
                 distribution.

                 Normally, tag executes recursively through subdirectories;
                 you can prevent this by using the standard -l option, or
                 specify the recursion explicitly by using -R.

       update [-ACdflPpQqR] [-d] [-r tag|-D date] files...
                 Requires: repository, working directory.
                 Changes: working directory.
                 After you've run checkout to create your private copy of
                 source from the common repository, other developers will
                 continue changing the central source.  From time to time,
                 when it is convenient in your development process, you can
                 use the update command from within your working directory to
                 reconcile your work with any revisions applied to  the source
                 repository since your last checkout or update.

                 update keeps you informed of its progress by printing a line
                 for each file, prefaced with one of the characters `U P A R M
                 C ?' to indicate the status of the file:

       U file    The file was brought up to date with respect to the
                 repository.  This is done for any file that exists in the
                 repository but not in your working directory, and for files
                 that you haven't changed but are not the most recent versions
                 available in the repository.

       P file    Like U, but the CVS server sends a patch instead of an entire
                 file.  This accomplishes the same thing as U using less
                 bandwidth.

       A file    The file has been added to your private copy of the sources,
                 and will be added to the source repository when you run `cvs
                 commit' on the file.  This is a reminder to you that the file
                 needs to be committed.

       R file    The file has been removed from your private copy of the
                 sources, and will be removed from the source repository when
                 you run `cvs commit' on the file.  This is a reminder to you
                 that the file needs to be committed.

       M file    The file is modified in your working directory.  `M' can
                 indicate one of two states for a file you're working on:
                 either there were no modifications to the same file in the
                 repository, so that your file remains as you last saw it; or
                 there were modifications in the repository as well as in your
                 copy, but they were merged successfully, without conflict, in
                 your working directory.

       C file    A conflict was detected while trying to merge your changes to
                 file with changes from the source repository.  file (the copy
                 in your working directory) is now the result of merging the
                 two versions; an unmodified copy of your file is also in your
                 working directory, with the name `.#file.version', where
                 version is the revision that your modified file started from.
                 (Note that some systems automatically purge files that begin
                 with  `.#' if they have not been accessed for a few days.  If
                 you intend to keep a copy of your original file, it is a very
                 good idea to rename it.)

       ? file    file is in your working directory, but does not correspond to
                 anything in the source repository, and is not in the list of
                 files for cvs to ignore (see the description of the -I
                 option).


            Use the -A option to reset any sticky tags, dates, or -k options.
            (If you get a working copy of a file by using one of the -r, -D,
            or -k options, cvs remembers the corresponding tag, date, or kflag
            and continues using it on future updates; use the -A option to
            make cvs forget these specifications, and retrieve the ``head''
            version of the file).

            The -jbranch option merges the changes made between the resulting
            revision and the revision that it is based on (e.g., if the tag
            refers to a branch, cvs will merge all changes made in that branch
            into your working file).

            With two -j options, cvs will merge in the changes between the two
            respective revisions.  This can be used to ``remove'' a certain
            delta from your working file.  E.g., If the file foo.c is based on
            revision 1.6 and I want to remove the changes made between 1.3 and
            1.5, I might do:

                      example% cvs update -j1.5 -j1.3 foo.c   # note the order...

            In addition, each -j option can contain on optional date
            specification which, when used with branches, can limit the chosen
            revision to one within a specific date.  An optional date is
            specified by adding a colon (:) to the tag.

                      -jSymbolic_Tag:Date_Specifier

            Use the -d option to create any directories that exist in the
            repository if they're missing from the working directory.
            (Normally, update acts only on directories and files that were
            already enrolled in your working directory.)  This is useful for
            updating directories that were created in the repository since the
            initial checkout; but it has an unfortunate side effect.  If you
            deliberately avoided certain directories in the repository when
            you created your working directory (either through use of a module
            name or by listing explicitly the files and directories you wanted
            on the command line), then updating with -d will create those
            directories, which may not be what you want.

            Use -I name to ignore files whose names match name (in your
            working directory) during the update.  You can specify -I more
            than once on the command line to specify several files to ignore.
            By default, update ignores files whose names match certain
            patterns; for an up to date list of ignored file names, see the
            Cederqvist manual (as described in the SEE ALSO section of this
            manpage).

            Use `-I !' to avoid ignoring any files at all.

            Use the `-C' option to overwrite locally modified files with clean
            copies from the repository (the modified file is saved in
            `.#file.revision', however).

            The standard cvs command options -f, -k, -l, -P, -p, and -r are
            also available with update.

FILES
       For more detailed information on cvs supporting files, see cvs(5).

       Files in home directories:

       .cvsrc The cvs initialization file.  Lines in this file can be used to
              specify default options for each cvs command.  For example the
              line `diff -c' will ensure that `cvs diff' is always passed the
              -c option in addition to any other options passed on the command
              line.

       .cvswrappers
              Specifies wrappers to be used in addition to those specified in
              the CVSROOT/cvswrappers file in the repository.

       Files in working directories:

       CVS    A directory of cvs administrative files.  Do not delete.

       CVS/Entries
              List and status of files in your working directory.

       CVS/Entries.Backup
              A backup of `CVS/Entries'.

       CVS/Entries.Static
              Flag: do not add more entries on `cvs update'.

       CVS/Root
              Pathname to the repository ( CVSROOT ) location at the time of
              checkout.  This file is used instead of the CVSROOT environment
              variable if the environment variable is not set.  A warning
              message will be issued when the contents of this file and the
              CVSROOT environment variable differ.  The file may be over-
              ridden by the presence of the CVS_IGNORE_REMOTE_ROOT environment
              variable.

       CVS/Repository
              Pathname to the corresponding directory in the source
              repository.

       CVS/Tag
              Contains the per-directory ``sticky'' tag or date information.
              This file is created/updated when you specify -r or -D to the
              checkout or update commands, and no files are specified.

       CVS/Checkin.prog
              Name of program to run on `cvs commit'.

       CVS/Update.prog
              Name of program to run on `cvs update'.

       Files in source repositories:

       $CVSROOT/CVSROOT
              Directory of global administrative files for repository.

       CVSROOT/commitinfo,v
              Records programs for filtering `cvs commit' requests.

       CVSROOT/cvswrappers,v
              Records cvs wrapper commands to be used when checking files into
              and out of the repository.  Wrappers allow the file or directory
              to be processed on the way in and out of CVS.  The intended uses
              are many, one possible use would be to reformat a C file before
              the file is checked in, so all of the code in the repository
              looks the same.

       CVSROOT/editinfo,v
              Records programs for editing/validating `cvs commit' log
              entries.

       CVSROOT/history
              Log file of cvs transactions.

       CVSROOT/loginfo,v
              Records programs for piping `cvs commit' log entries.

       CVSROOT/modules,v
              Definitions for modules in this repository.

       CVSROOT/rcsinfo,v
              Records pathnames to templates used during a `cvs commit'
              operation.

       CVSROOT/taginfo,v
              Records programs for validating/logging `cvs tag' and `cvs rtag'
              operations.

       MODULE/Attic
              Directory for removed source files.

       #cvs.lock
              A lock directory created by cvs when doing sensitive changes to
              the source repository.

       #cvs.tfl.pid
              Temporary lock file for repository.

       #cvs.rfl.pid
              A read lock.

       #cvs.wfl.pid
              A write lock.

ENVIRONMENT
       CVSROOT
              Should contain the full pathname to the root of the cvs source
              repository (where the RCS files are kept).  This information
              must be available to cvs for most commands to execute; if
              CVSROOT is not set, or if you wish to override it for one
              invocation, you can supply it on the command line: `cvs -d
              cvsroot cvs_command...' You may not need to set CVSROOT if your
              cvs binary has the right path compiled in.

       CVSREAD
              If this is set, checkout and update will try hard to make the
              files in your working directory read-only.  When this is not
              set, the default behavior is to permit modification of your
              working files.

       CVSREADONLYFS
              If this is set, the -R option is assumed, and cvs operates in
              read-only repository mode.

       RCSBIN Specifies the full pathname where to find RCS programs, such as
              co(1) and ci(1) (CVS 1.9 and older).

       CVSEDITOR
              Specifies the program to use for recording log messages during
              commit.  If not set, the VISUAL and EDITOR environment variables
              are tried (in that order).  If neither is set, a system-
              dependent default editor (e.g., vi) is used.

       CVS_CLIENT_PORT
              If this variable is set then cvs will use this port in pserver
              mode rather than the default port (cvspserver 2401).

       CVS_IGNORE_REMOTE_ROOT
              If this variable is set then cvs will ignore all references to
              remote repositories in the CVS/Root file.

       CVS_OPTIONS
              Specifies a set of default options for cvs.  These options are
              interpreted before the startup file (~/.cvsrc) is read and can
              be overridden by explicit command line parameters.

       CVS_RSH
              cvs uses the contents of this variable to determine the name of
              the remote shell command to use when starting a cvs server.  If
              this variable is not set then `ssh' is used.

       CVS_SERVER
              cvs uses the contents of this variable to determine the name of
              the cvs server command.  If this variable is not set then `cvs'
              is used.

       CVSWRAPPERS
              This variable is used by the `cvswrappers' script to determine
              the name of the wrapper file, in addition to the wrappers
              defaults contained in the repository (CVSROOT/cvswrappers) and
              the user's home directory (~/.cvswrappers).

AUTHORS
       Dick Grune
              Original author of the cvs shell script version posted to
              comp.sources.unix in the volume6 release of December, 1986.
              Credited with much of the cvs conflict resolution algorithms.

       Brian Berliner
              Coder and designer of the cvs program itself in April, 1989,
              based on the original work done by Dick.

       Jeff Polk
              Helped Brian with the design of the cvs module and vendor branch
              support and author of the checkin(1) shell script (the ancestor
              of `cvs import').

       And many others too numerous to mention here.

SEE ALSO
       The most comprehensive manual for CVS is Version Management with CVS by
       Per Cederqvist et al.  Depending on your system, you may be able to get
       it with the info cvs command or it may be available as cvs.ps
       (postscript), cvs.texinfo (texinfo source), or cvs.html.

       For CVS updates, more information on documentation, software related to
       CVS, development of CVS, and more, see:
                 http://cvs.nongnu.org

       ci(1), co(1), cvs(5), cvsbug(8), diff(1), grep(1), patch(1), rcs(1),
       rcsdiff(1), rcsmerge(1), rlog(1).

                                                                        CVS(1)
