CVS2DARCS(1)                         darcs                        CVS2DARCS(1)

NAME
       cvs2darcs - import a CVS project into Darcs

SYNOPSIS
       cvs2darcs [OPTIONS] MODULE

DESCRIPTION
       cvs2darcs is a program to import a CVS module/project into a Darcs
       repository, preserving all (or as much as possible) of the revision
       history, including support for importing branches.

       Darcs is a free advanced revision-control program, available from
       www.darcs.net, that has many features lacking in CVS (such as the
       ability to have independent branch repositories, arbitrary merging of
       repositories, etc.).

       cvs2darcs checks out MODULE from the CVS repository into a new
       directory (by default, into the directory MODULE) and converts this
       directory into a Darcs repository.  (This will take some time for large
       repositories. You may want to copy your CVS repository to a local disk
       to speed things up.)

       Instead of MODULE, you can also specify an existing CVS project
       directory.  This will import the directory into a Darcs repository
       (preserving the CVS information as with -p below).  If the directory
       was already imported into Darcs, then cvs2darcs will import any new CVS
       patches into Darcs (but not vice-versa).

       The most important option flags are -d CVSROOT, which specifies the
       location of the CVS repository root (exactly as the cvs -d flag); -o
       DIR, which specifies an alternate output directory name; and -b BRANCH,
       which specifies a CVS branch to import (default is HEAD).  Other
       options are described below.

       The CVS repository is not modified.  However, the output directory
       created by cvs2darcs is not linked to the CVS repository (technically,
       it has no CVS/ directories).  If you want to preserve the CVS
       information in the output directory, you can pass the -p flag; this is
       the default if the output directory already exists as a CVS-controlled
       directory.


OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display help on the command-line options and usage.

       -V, --version
              Print the version number and copyright information.

       -o DIR, --output-dir=DIR
              Use/create directory DIR as the output Darcs repository, rather
              than MODULE (the default).

       -b BRANCH, --branch=BRANCH
              Import the CVS branch named BRANCH, instead of the current CVS
              HEAD (the default).

       -p, --preserve-cvs
              Preserve the CVS-repository information in the output directory
              (default is to remove it).  If the output-directory has pre-
              existing CVS information, it is preserved by default.

       -d CVSROOT
              Use CVSROOT as the root directory pathname of the CVS
              repository, exactly as for the cvs -d flag.

       -z GZIP-LEVEL
              Use GZIP-LEVEL as the gzip compression level in CVS, exactly as
              for the cvs -z flag.

       -R     As for the cvs -R flag: use read-only CVS repository mode, which
              may improve CVS performance.

       -x     As for the cvs -x flag (used for GSSAPI and Kerberos
              encryption).

BUGS
       Send bug reports to the authors: Steven G. Johnson
       <stevenj@alum.mit.edu>, Ganesh Sittampalam <ganesh@earth.li>, and David
       Roundy <droundy@abridgegame.org>.

AUTHORS
       The cvs2darcs script was written by Steven G. Johnson as a wrapper
       around Perl scripts written by David Roundy and Ganesh Sittampalam.

       Copyright (c) 2004 David Roundy
       Copyright (c) 2004 Ganesh Sittampalam
       Copyright (c) 2004 Steven G. Johnson

SEE ALSO
       darcs(1), cvs(1)

darcs                           November, 2004                    CVS2DARCS(1)
