CVSDELTA(1)                     cvsdelta 1.7.0                     CVSDELTA(1)


NAME
       cvsdelta - Manage and summarize the differences between a CVS project
       and local files.

SYNOPSIS
       cvsdelta [options] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Manages and summarizes the differences between a CVS project and local
       files, showing the changes of the files themselves and of their
       contents. Added, changed, and deleted files are denoted with `+', `*',
       and `-' respectively. The number of lines are displayed.

OPTIONS
       -a, --adds
           Display the files that were added. This is done by default.

       -A, --no-adds
           Do not display the files that were added. The default is to show
           the added files.

       --banner, --no-banner
           Whether to show the banner, i.e., the header and footer of the
           output table. By default, the banner is displayed.

       -c, --changes
           Display the files that were changed. This is done by default.

       -C, --no-changes, --nodiff
           Do not compare files that exist locally and in CVS. This executes
           significantly faster, and is useful for when one only wants to add
           and remove files, without getting the summary of the changes. It is
           also helpful for dealing with situations where CVS seems to hang
           after producing diff output, although changing the compression
           level can help with this. The default is to show the changed files.

       -d, --deletes
           Display the files that were deleted. This is done by default.

       -D, --no-deletes
           Do not display the files that were deleted. The default is to show
           the files that were deleted.

       -e, --execute
           Execute the associated CVS commands ("add" and "remove") for the
           added and deleted files.

       -f DATE, --from-date DATE
           Compare the files to their version as of the given date, rather
           than their current version in CVS. The date is expected to be in
           CVS format, for example, 2002/12/31.

       -F REVISION, --from-revision REVISION
           Compare the files to their version as of the given revision, rather
           than their current version in CVS.

       -h, --help
           Display a help message.

       -i, --confirm
           Interactively confirm deleted files with the user before removing
           them from CVS.  The default is simply to execute the remove command
           for relevant files. This option is valid only with the --execute
           option.

       --progress, --no-progress
           Whether to show the progress meter as the program is working with
           CVS. By default, this is not shown.

       -q, --quiet
           Run with minimum output. In quiet mode, the progress meter is not
           displayed.

       -s, --skip-unknown-directories
           Skip directories that are not in CVS. The default behavior is to
           process all subdirectories.

       -t DATE, --to-date DATE
           Compare the files to their version as of the given date, rather
           than to the local files. The date is expected to be in CVS format,
           for example, 2001/08/21.  This option is valid only with the
           --from-date or --from-revision options.

       -T REVISION, --to-revision REVISION
           Compare the files to their version as of the given revision, rather
           than to the local files. This is valid only with the --from-date or
           --from-revision options.

       -v, --version
           Display the version and exit.

       -V, --verbose
           Run with maximum output, which is written to standard error.

       -z [LEVEL], ---compression [LEVEL]
           Set the compression to the given level for net traffic. This can be
           useful if the CVS server seems to hang. The default level is 3; 0
           and 9 work well.

ARGUMENTS
       Arguments may be either files or directories.

       File
           If a file is provided, it is compared against the equivalent in
           CVS, if any. The .cvsignore files are applied, so that although the
           file was explicitly provided, it may be ignored.

       Directory
           Directories are processed recursively for files that are not
           filtered out by .cvsignore files.

EXAMPLES
           % cvsdelta

       Lists the changed files.

           % cvsdelta --execute

       Lists the changed files, and executes the associated add and remove
       commands.

           % cvsdelta --compression 9 --execute --confirm --no-changes

       Run with the maximum compression level. Add and remove the appropriate
       files, but get confirmation from the user before removing any files. Do
       not compare files that exist both locally and in CVS.

ENVIRONMENT
       $HOME/.cvsdeltarc, .../project/.cvsdeltarc
           Resource files containing name/value pairs, separated by either ':'
           or '='. The valid fields of a .cvsdeltarc file are as follows, with
           their default values:

               quiet:                    false
               verbose:                  false
               execute:                  false
               confirm:                  false
               diff:                     true
               compression:              3
               adds:                     true
               changes:                  true
               deletes:                  true
               skip-unknown-directories: false
               banner:                   true

           "yes" and "on" are synonymnous with "true". "no" and "off" signify
           "false".

           The values in the project .cvsdeltarc file will override those in
           the user's .cvsdeltarc file. The project .cvsdeltarc is assumed to
           be at the topmost directory in the local file hierarchy.

       CVSDELTAOPTS
           A string of whitespace-delimited options, the same as listed above.
           These values override those of the resource files.

NOTES
       If a file exists in the CVS project but not locally, it is assumed that
       the file has been deleted, not that it may have been recently added by
       another user. The --confirm option can be used to deal with this
       situation.

AUTHOR
       Jeff Pace <jpace@incava.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2002, Jeff Pace.

       All Rights Reserved. This module is free software. It may be used,
       redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the Lesser GNU Public
       License. See http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html for more
       information.

cvsdelta 1.7.0                    2004-04-08                       CVSDELTA(1)
