CVSCAN(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              CVSCAN(1)

NAME
     cvscan – generate a scanfile for cvsync and cvsyncd

SYNOPSIS
     cvscan [-hqv] [-r release] -c file [name]
     cvscan [-Fhqv] [-L | -l] [-r release] -f file directory

DESCRIPTION
     cvscan is a small utility mainly for cvsyncd.  During a synchronization,
     cvsyncd scans and compares a directory structure of each collection on
     the client with one on the server.  When a scanfile is used on the
     server, cvsyncd does not scan a directory structure and use the
     information from the scanfile instead.  This allows to reduce disk i/o
     load radically.

     However, if the server is the origin or the upstream server does not use
     cvsync, the scanfile has to be generated on the server.  cvscan is the
     utility for that purpose.

     Since cvsync automatically generates scanfiles for each collection with
     the keyword ‘scanfile’, cvscan is usually not needed on the client.

     The following options are available:

     -F      Doesn't follow a symbolic link.  By default, cvscan follows a
             symbolic link and handle it as is.

     -L      Forces cvscan to set ‘errormode’ to ‘fixup’.  Refer the keyword
             ‘errormode’ in cvsync or cvsyncd.

     -c file
             Specifies the configuration file for cvsyncd.

     -f file
             Specifies the output file.  The file must be writable.

     -h      Print the usage of cvscan to standard error.

     -l      Forces cvscan to set ‘errormode’ to ‘ignore’.  Refer the keyword
             ‘errormode’ in cvsync or cvsyncd.

     -q      Be silent mode.

     -r release
             Specifies the release type.  Refer the keyword ‘release’ in
             cvsync or cvsyncd.

     -v      Be verbose mode.

EXIT STATUS
     The cvscan utility exits EXIT_SUCCESS on success, and EXIT_FAILURE if an
     error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     cvsup2cvsync(1), cvsync(1), cvsync2cvsup(1), cvsyncd(1)

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            April 10, 2004            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
