DCD(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 DCD(1)

NAME
       dcd - play audio CDs, program CD-ROM as a smart CD player

SYNOPSIS
       dcd [options] [track-list]

DESCRIPTION
       dcd will help you use your CD-ROM drive as a CD player under Linux.  In
       addition to merely playing CDs, dcd can also play random tracks, accept
       a pre-programmed list of tracks, and generally do most of the things a
       good portable CD player is capable of.

OPTIONS
       dir    List a directory of the CD contents (track numbers and playing
              times, and track names if they are available).  This option
              causes dcd to exit immediately.

       eject  Open the CD-ROM tray, and exit immediately. dcd tries to locate,
              and kill, other dcd processes that may be running.

       help   Display a friendly help message, and exit.

       info   Display one line of information about the current CD, like this:
              Playing track 3 (of 15), length 5:35 (of 77:05)
              This option causes dcd to exit immediately.

       pause  Pause or resume the current CD, exiting immediately.

       stop   Stop the CD currently in the player. stop makes a reasonable
              effort to locate, and kill, other dcd processes that may be
              running.

       version
              Report the version of dcd and a brief copyright notice, and exit
              immediately.

       a      Print the number of the first track of the CD to stdout, and
              exit immediately. Comes in handy for various shell scripts.

       z      Print the number of the last track of the CD to stdout, and exit
              immediately. Comes in handy for various shell scripts.

       loop   Loop the tracks in the track list, or the entire CD if no tracks
              are specified.  An effort is made to locate, and kill, other dcd
              processes. (Having two copies of dcd running, each with
              different looped track lists, could get very strange very
              quickly.)

       quit   Normally, dcd does everything it can to get out of the way
              quickly, freeing up the console or xterm it was launched from
              and allowing you to get on with your day. Specifying quit
              inhibits this; i.e. dcd will NOT exit until it's done. This lets
              you use dcd in things like combined CD/MP3 playlists.  dcd
              attempts to detect unwise combinations of commands (like loop
              and random, which would effectively create an infinite loop) and
              nip them in the bud.

       random Play randomly-selected tracks from the CD forever (until
              killed), and return to the console immediately. As with loop, an
              effort is made to deal with other rogue dcd tasks. This option
              may accept a tracklist.

       x      Display the CD Index discid for the CD, exiting immediately.
              This isn't often useful by itself, but might be useful in a
              script of some sort.

       back   Go to the previous track on the CD. If you're already on the
              first track, this loops around to the last track. As with many
              other options, we attempt to locate and kill other instances of
              dcd.

       forward
              Go to the next track on the CD. If you're already on the last
              track, this loops around to the first track. As with many other
              options, we attempt to locate and kill other instances of dcd.

       kill   Kills off other known instances of dcd. Might be useful in a
              shell script, or just in case dcd somehow gets carried away and
              starts doing weird things.

EXAMPLES
       dcd Plays a CD, plain and simple.

       dcd 2  Stars playing a CD from track 2.

       dcd loop
              Plays the whole CD, over and over and over, until killed (with
              dcd stop).

       dcd loop 2 4 7
              Plays tracks 2, 4, and 7, over and over, in that order.

       dcd random
              Plays random tracks from the CD, over and over and over...

       dcd random 1 3 5 7 9 12
              Randomly selects from the tracks listed, and plays 'em over and
              over...

       dcd 4 6 quit
              Plays tracks 4 and 6, then exits. (Normally, dcd will return you
              to a shell prompt immediately; this option is useful for some
              scripts, combination MP3/CD playlists, and other cool stuff.)


BUGS
       dcd doesn't make nearly as many error/sanity checks as it could.  It
       assumes you know what you're doing, so trying to eject a CD when the
       tray is already open (as one example) could have undefined results. It
       shouldn't do anything truly bad, but under the terms of the GNU General
       Public License anything it somehow does isn't my fault.
       dcd unfortunately now requires Internet access to work. Blame the
       people at MusicBrainz for that one. When they discontinued their lean,
       sexy "CD Index" project in favor of the current project, things got a
       lot less pleasant for everyone involved (except perhaps for them).
       Fortunately, broadband access is rather more common these days, so
       hopefully this isn't as much of a problem as it would have been a
       couple years back.

SEE ALSO
       cdcd(1), workbone(1)

URL
       The dcd home page is currently at:
       http://www.technopagan.org/dcd/

TRIVIA
       `dcd' stands for Dave's CD player.

AUTHORS
       dcd was written by David E. Smith <dave@technopagan.org>. In
       analphabetical order, the following people contributed really keen
       ideas (and in some cases, actual code): Scott Walker, Luc Vrancx,
       Robert Tol, Kevin Thompson, Nigel Stepp, Othmar Pasteka, Markus F.X.J.
       Oberhumer, Mario Moder, Lorenz Minder, Lalo Martins, Britton Kerin,
       Alvaro Herrera, Anders Semb Hermansen, Shane Henthorne, Boris Gjenero,
       Aidan Delaney, Izak Burger, Don Barber, and Jens Axboe.

dcd-0.98                         15 June 2002                           DCD(1)
