DCLOCK(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              DCLOCK(1)

NAME
       dclock - digital clock for X

SYNOPSIS
       dclock [-toolkitoption ...] [-option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The dclock program displays the time in digital format only.  The time
       is updated on a per second basis or on a per minute basis.  This
       program is nothing more than a wrapper around the dclock widget not
       associated with any particular widget set.

       When the clock is running, the user may change attributes by typing:
         r                   Toggles Reverse Video.
         s                   Toggles the seconds display.
         b                   Toggles the bell attribute.
         j                   Toggles the jump/scroll attribute.
         f                   Toggles the fade attribute.
         d                   Toggles the date format.
         u                   Toggles the location of date (top/bottom).
         m                   Toggles the military time format.
         a                   Toggles the alarm clock.
         t                   Toggles the tails attribute.
         :                   Toggles the blinking colon.
         /                   Increases the tilt of the numbers.
         \                   Decreases the tilt of the numbers.
         +                   Increases the thickness of the numbers.
         -                   Decreases the thickness of the numbers.
         >                   Increases the spacing between numbers.
         <                   Decreases the spacing between numbers.
         q                   quits the program.

       The third mouse button puts the clock in the mode where the alarm clock
       can be set.  The alarm must be set in 24-hour format to distringuish
       between am and pm time.  Digits can be changed by selecting the digit
       with the left or middle mouse button.  The Left button advances the
       time while the Middle button moves the time backwards.  Using the left
       or middle button over the text at the bottom of the clock toggles the
       alarm from actually being set (or, use the 'a' key).

OPTIONS
       Dclock accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along
       with the additional options listed below:

       -help   This option indicates that a brief summary of the allowed
               options should be printed on the standard error.

       -bell

       -nobell
               This option, if enabled, indicates that the bell will beep once
               on the half hour and twice on the hour.

       -bellFile filename
               This specifies a sound file to use to play the dclock hourly
               chime.  If unspecified, or the string "NULL" is used, the
               system beep is used instead.  The sound file format must be
               understood by the executable specified by option "audioPlay".
               The "NULL" value is a means to override a system-level setting
               to disable external sound playing.

       -miltime

       -nomiltime
               This option, if enabled, causes the clock to display the time
               in 24 hour (military) time format.

       -utc

       -noutc
               This option, causes the clock to display the UTC (GMT) time
               rather than the default local time.

       -tails

       -notails
               This option places [or removes] "tails" on the digits 6 and 9.

       -scroll

       -noscroll
               When the time changes, the digits scroll from the previous
               digit to the next digit.  The -noscroll option turns the
               behavior off.

       -blink

       -noblink
               The colon separating hours from minutes blinks on and off once
               per second.  With the -noblink option, it remains on
               permanently.

       -persist

       -nopersist
               This option determines whether or not the clock display remains
               in the reverse video state after the alarm goes off.

       -fade

       -nofade
               This option, when enabled, causes the display to fade from one
               digit to the next instead of jumping or scrolling.  If fade is
               specified, the scroll attribute will be automatically disabled.

       -fadeRate n
               The fadeRate attribute takes an integer value which specifies
               the number of milliseconds to wait between iterations when
               fading from one digit to the next.  A larger value will make
               the fade slower and more pronounced.  The default is 50.

       -audioPlay filename
               Specifies an executable to use to play audio files for the bell
               and alarm.  The default is none, which falls back to using the
               system bell for both the dclock bell and alarm.

       -date "format"
               The date is printed under the time in the specified font.  The
               string displayed is in the "format" argument.  The format
               corresponds to the system call strftime() (see strftime(3)).

                 dclock -date "Today is %A"

               Useful examples of strftime() formatting:
                 %A                  Full weekday name
                 %a                  Three-char weekday name (Sun, Mon, Tue...)
                 %B                  Full month name
                 %b                  Three-char month name (Jan, Feb, Mar...)
                 %d                  The date (numerical day number of the month)
                 %Y                  Full year (4 digits)
                 %y                  2-digit year number

       -dateup By default, the date string is at the bottom of the display.
               This option starts it at the top, instead.

       -alarm

       -noalarm
               The alarm is turned on or off.  Alarm rings bell and toggles
               reverse video.

       -alarmTime HH:MM
               If alarm is set, it goes off at time specified in 24-hour
               format.

       -alarmFile filename
               This specifies a sound file to use to play the dclock alarm.
               If unspecified, or the string "NULL" is used, the system beep
               is used instead.  The sound file format must be understood by
               the executable specified by option "audioPlay".  The "NULL"
               string is a means to override a system-level setting to disable
               external sound playing.

       -seconds
               This option will update the clock every second and display the
               time including the seconds.

       -slope value
               Sets the angle of the digits according to the (floating-point)
               slope value value.

       -thickness width_factor
               Sets the segment thickness as a (floating-point) ratio to digit
               width.

       -spacing space_factor
               Sets the digit spacing as a (floating-point) ratio to digit
               width.

       -smallsize space_factor
               Sets the seconds digit size as a (floating-point) ratio to the
               digit size of the minutes and hours digits.

       -second_gap space_factor
               Sets the spacing of the seconds digits from the other digits as
               a (floating-point) ratio to digit width.  -bg color This option
               specifies the color to use for the background of the window.
               The default is ``darkslategray''.

       -bd color
               This option specifies the color to use for the border of the
               window.  The default is ``black.''

       -bw number
               This option specifies the width in pixels of the border
               surrounding the window.

       -fg color
               This option specifies the color to use for displaying text and
               digit segments.  The default is ``chartreuse''.

       -led_off color
               This option specifies the color to use for displaying digit
               segments when turned off.  The default is ``darkgreen''.

       -fn font
               This option specifies the font to be used for displaying normal
               text.  The default is ``Fixed.''

       -geometry geometry
               This option specifies the prefered size and position of the
               clock window.

       -display host:display
               This option specifies the X server to contact.

       -xrm resourcestring
               This option specifies a resource string to be used.  This is
               especially useful for setting resources that do not have
               separate command line options.

X DEFAULTS
       It understands all of the core resource names and classes as well as:

       width (class Width)
               Specifies the width of the clock.

       height (class Height)
               Specifies the height of the clock.

       foreground (class Foreground)
               Specifies the color for the digits.  Using the class specifies
               the color for all things that normally would appear in the
               foreground color.  The default is ``chartreuse''.

       background (class Background)
               Specifies the background color, by default ``DarkSlateGray''.

       led_off (class Foreground)
               Specifies the color of the digit segments when ``off''.  This
               can be set to be the background color, or it can be set to a
               color just slightly different from the background, matching the
               segment colors, to give just a hint of color.  Default
               ``DarkGreen'' works well with the default segment color of
               ``chartreuse''.

       bell (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether or not a bell should be rung on the hour and
               half hour.

       font (class Font)
               Specifies the font to be used for the date.

       militaryTime (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the military (24hr) time format should be
               used.

       utc (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether UTC (GMT) time should be used, rather than
               local time.

       reverseVideo (class ReverseVideo)
               Specifies that the foreground and background colors should be
               reversed.

       scroll (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the digits should scroll or not.

       fade (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the digits should fade or not.

       fadeRate (class Time)
               The number of milliseconds of delay between iterations of
               fading.

       seconds (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the seconds should be displayed or not.

       bell (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the bell should sound on the half hour and on
               the hour.

       tails (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether tails should be put on the digits 6 and 9.

       blink (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the colon separating hours from minutes
               should blink on and off once per second or remain on
               permanently.

       alarm (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the alarm should go off at the specified time
               (alarmTime).

       alarmTime (class String)
               Specifies the time alarm goes off if alarm is set.

       alarmPersist (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether the alarm should remain in reverse video
               after the alarm goes off, or return to normal video.

       angle (class Float)
               Defines the slope of the digits (default 6).

       smallRatio (class Float)
               Defines the size of the seconds digits compared to the minutes
               digits (default 2/3).

       secondGap (class Float)
               Defines the amount of space between the minutes digits and the
               seconds digits (default 0.3).

       widthFactor (class Float)
               Determines the width of segments as a ratio to digit width
               (default 0.13).

       spaceFactor (class Float)
               Determines the spacing between digit as a ratio to digit width
               (default 0.09).

       bellFile (class String)
               Specifies an audio file to play for the hourly bell (no
               default).

       alarmFile (class String)
               Specifies an audio file to play for the alarm (no default).

       audioPlay (class String)
               Specifies an executable to use to play the bell and alarm audio
               files, if they are specified.  Otherwise, the system bell is
               used (default is "/usr/local/bin/play").

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.  XENVIRONMENT to
               get the name of a resource file that overrides the global
               resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.

SEE ALSO
       X(1), xrdb(1), time(3C).

BUGS
       Dclock believes the system clock.

       Scrolling from 9 to 10 O'Clock seems weird, but chances are you won't
       notice it.

       Scrolling can take so long that dclock may lag behind system time by a
       fraction of a second and eventually skip a second to catch up.  In
       modern times, it should be dealing with this by tracking seconds with a
       separate thread.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1988, Dan Heller.  Revisions copyright (c) 1993 and 1999,
       Tim Edwards.

AUTHOR
       Original dclock by Dan Heller (1988) <argv@sun.com> or <dheller@cory.berkeley.edu>
       Fade & tails by Steve Reinhardt, <steven@fts.webo.dg.com>
       Derived geometry by Tim Edwards (1993) <tim@stravinsky.jhuapl.edu>
       Antialiasing, color fades, and audio play by Tim Edwards (1999)
       <tim@stravinsky.jhuapl.edu>

X Version 11                     1 March 1988                        DCLOCK(1)
