dekagen(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             dekagen(1)



NAME
       dekagen - a frontend to rip, convert and name MP3/Ogg

SYNOPSIS
       dekagen
       dekagen --version

DESCRIPTION
       dekagen is an interactive script that automates the whole process of
       ripping data from music compact discs (CD), the naming of the files,
       their converting into MP3 or Ogg-Vorbis format, and the labelling of
       the MP3 files with an ID3 tag.  dekagen uses dialog(1) for a user
       interface that is intended to be "intuitive".

       Music data is read from CDs using cdda2wav(1), cdparanoia(1),
       dagrab(1), or tosha(1), and stored on your harddisk in wav-format.
       After this, the wav-data is converted into MP3 format using 8hz-mp3,
       bladeenc, l3enc, lame(1), mp3enc, or notlame, or into Ogg-Vorbis format
       using oggenc(1).  cda(1), which comes within the xmcd(1) package, is
       used for CDDB lookups.  To label the MP3 files with ID3 tags, id3ed,
       id3tag, id3tool(1), mp3info(1), or the built-in capabilities of some
       converters are used.

OPTIONS
       Using any command line option will cause dekagen to print its version
       number and exit:

       -V, --version
              Print program version and exit.

       All configuration is done interactively from the "Preferences" menu in
       the program:

       Change working directory
              Full path to the directory in which all ripping and encoding
              will be done.  dekagen will check whether you have write-access
              to it.

       Choose ripper
              Your preferred ripping tool.  dekagen will check whether it is
              installed and executable.
              If you do not wish to rip any data, but to convert only already
              existing wav-files, choose "none" here.

       Choose encoder
              Your preferred MP3-/Ogg-Vorbis-converter.  dekagen will check
              whether it is installed and executable.
              If you do not wish to convert any data, but to rip only wav-
              files from audio CDs, choose "none" here.

       Choose ID3 tag tool
              Your preferred ID3 tagging utility.  dekagen will check whether
              it is installed and executable, and whether it can be used
              together with the converter you chose.
              When using oggenc(1) as encoder, you can only choose either
              "none" or "built-in" here. Besides this, the "built-in" option
              can be used only together with lame(1) or notlame.
              If you do not wish to have your MP3-/Ogg-files tagged, or if you
              do not have an ID3 tagging utility installed, choose "none"
              here.

       Toggle between manual or CDDB naming
              Manual naming is used by default.  If you have cda(1) installed
              and configured on your system correctly, you may choose "cddb"
              here, avoiding manual naming for all the files you are going to
              rip and encode.  cda(1) will connect to the CDDB, either
              locally, which requires an already existing entry in your local
              CDDB for the CD you are going to rip and encode, or remotely,
              which requires a network connection.

       Set XMCD_LIBDIR variable for cda
              Some versions of cda(1) require the XMCD_LIBDIR environment
              variable to be set.  This can be done here by entering the full
              path to the directory cda(1) resides in.  If you unset the
              option by entering a blank line here, the value of the system's
              XMCD_LIBDIR environment variable will not be changed.

       Set file naming convention
              Your preferred file naming convention. Options 5, 6, and 7
              cannot be used with various artists CDs.

       Rip whole CD
              Enable this option if you want to have the whole CD, i.e. any
              title on it, to be ripped and encoded.

       Set small hard disk option
              By default, dekagen will rip all selected songs, putting their
              encoding into a queue in the background. If you have only a
              small hard disk (and only a rather weak processor), you can
              enable this option. It will make dekagen to rip one song and
              than encode it, before ripping the next one.

       Select your CD-ROM device
              Full path to the device dekagen should use for ripping.  dekagen
              will check whether it exists.

       Set nominal bitrate for the encoded MP3/Ogg
              Choose the encoding bitrate for your MP3-/Ogg-file.  The values
              available are limited to those settings that all encoders
              supported by dekagen understand.
              When using an encoder that uses variable bitrate (VBR) encoding
              by default, like oggenc(1) does, this value is used for an
              average encoding bitrate, without disabling the default VBR
              encoding.  Thus, setting this option allows you to determine the
              quality and the size of the encoded audio file, without causing
              it to be of a quality inferior to that it would have if a
              corresponding "quality level" setting was used instead.

REQUIREMENTS
       Either cdda2wav(1), cdparanoia(1), dagrab(1), or tosha(1) to rip data
       from the music CD, and either 8hz-mp3, bladeenc, l3enc, lame(1),
       mp3enc, or notlame for conversion into MP3 format, or oggenc(1) for
       conversion into Ogg-Vorbis format.
       To avoid manual naming for all the files, xmcd(1) for CDDB lookups is
       recommended, and id3ed, id3tag, id3tool(1), or mp3info(1) to label the
       MP3 files with ID3 tags.

       ID3 tagging utilities are not needed when using lame(1) or notlame as
       converters, because these programs have a built-in ID3 tagging
       capability.  Labelling of the Ogg-Vorbis files is always done by
       oggenc(1), because Ogg-Vorbis has its own tagging system, so no ID3
       tagging utilities have to be used together with oggenc(1).

AUTHOR
       Current maintainer and primary download location for dekagen is:
       Martin Bayer <mbayer@zedat.fu-berlin.de>
       http://userpage.fu-berlin.de/~mbayer/tools/dekagen.html <>

SEE ALSO
       cda(1), cdda2wav(1), cdparanoia(1), dagrab(1), dialog(1), id3tool(1),
       lame(1), mp3info(1), oggenc(1), tosha(1)

COPYRIGHT
       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
       merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. See the GNU
       General Public License for details.

       Please note that some of the third-party software supported by dekagen
       might have different copyright terms or might even be subject to patent
       restrictions.



                                  2003-07-19                        dekagen(1)
