devilspie(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           devilspie(1)

NAME
       devilspie - perform actions on windows as they are created


SYNOPSIS
       devilspie [OPTION]...  configuration-files...


DESCRIPTION
       devilspie is a program which can detect windows as they are created,
       and perform actions on them if they match as set of criteria.

       The configuration files are a set of s-expressions.  For documentation
       and examples, see /usr/share/doc/devilspie/.

       Command-lines options:

       -a --apply-to-existing
              Apply to all existing windows instead of just new windows.

       -d --debug
              Output debug information

       -l --list-symbols
              List available symbols supported in input files.

       -s symname --symbol-doc=symname
               Get detailed help on symbol symname ('all' for all symbols).


ALLOWED SYMBOLS
       In the input files, the following symbols are known by devilspie:

       is     String equality, (is a b) means a is the same as b.

       contains
              Substring, (contains haystack needle) means haystack contains
              needle.

       matches
              Regexp matches, (matches str pattern) means the regexp pattern
              matches str.

       window_name
              Return the title of the current window (String).

       window_role
              Return the role (as determined by the WM_WINDOW_ROLE hint) of
              the current window (String).

       window_class
              Return the class of the current window (String).

       window_xid
              Return the X11 window id of the current window (Integer).

       application_name
              Return the application name (as determined by libwnck) of the
              current window (String).

       window_property
              Returns the given property of the window, e.g. pass
              "_NET_WM_STATE" (String).

       window_workspace
              Returns the workspace a window is on (Integer).

       debug  Debugging function, outputs the current window's title, name,
              role and geometry (Returns TRUE).

       print  Print args (without trailing 0 returns boolean).

       println
              Print args (with trailing 0 returns boolean).

       str    Transform parameters into strings and concat them.

       hex    Transform the integer parameter into an unsigned hexadecimal
              string (with 0x prefix).

       geometry
              Set position + size (as tring) of current window (returns
              boolean).

       fullscreen
              Make the current window fullscreen (returns TRUE).

       focus  Focus the current window (returns TRUE).

       center Center position of current window (returns boolean).

       maximize
              Maximise the current window (returns TRUE).

       maximize_vertically
              Maximise vertically the current window (returns TRUE).

       maximize_horizontally
              Maximise horizontally the current window (returns TRUE).

       unmaximize
              Un-maximise the current window (returns TRUE).

       minimize
              Minimise the current window (returns TRUE).

       unminimize
              Un-minimise the current window (returns TRUE).

       shade  Shade ("roll up") the current window (returns TRUE).

       unshade
              Un-shade ("roll down") the current window (returns TRUE).

       close  Close the current window (returns TRUE).

       pin    Pin the current window to all workspaces (returns TRUE).

       unpin  Unpin the current window from all workspaces (returns TRUE).

       stick  Make the current window stick to all viewports (returns TRUE).

       unstick
              Unstick the window from viewports (returns TRUE).

       set_workspace
              Move the window to a specific workspace number, counting from 1
              (returns boolean).

       set_viewport
              Move the window to a specific viewport number, counting from 1
              (returns boolean).

       skip_pager
              Remove the current window from the window list (returns TRUE).

       skip_tasklist
              Remove the current window from the pager (returns TRUE).

       above  Set the current window to be above all normal windows (returns
              TRUE).

       below  Set the current window to be below all normal windows (returns
              TRUE).

       decorate
              Add the window manager decorations to the current window
              (returns boolean).

       undecorate
              Remove the window manager decorations from the current window
              (returns boolean).

       wintype
              Set the window type of the current window (returns boolean).
              Accepted values are: normal, dialog, menu, toolbar,
              splashscreen, utility, dock, desktop.

       opacity
              Change the opacity level (as integer in 0..100) of the current
              window (returns boolean).

       spawn_async
              Execute a command in the background (returns boolean). Command
              is given as a single string, or as a series of strings (similar
              to execl).

       spawn_sync
              Execute a command in the foreground (returns command output as
              string, or FALSE on error). Command is given as a single string,
              or as a series of strings (similar to execl).


BUGS
       This manpage is almost useless, as it was thrown together on a train.


AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Ross Burton <ross@burtonini.com>.

                                                                  devilspie(1)
