DF(1)                   FreeBSD General Commands Manual                  DF(1)

NAME
     df – display free disk space

SYNOPSIS
     df [--libxo] [-b | -g | -H | -h | -k | -m | -P] [-acilnT] [-,] [-t type]
        [file | filesystem ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The df utility displays statistics about the amount of free disk space on
     the specified file system or on the file system of which file is a part.
     By default block counts are displayed with an assumed block size of 512
     bytes.  If neither a file or a file system operand is specified,
     statistics for all mounted file systems are displayed (subject to the -t
     option below).

     The following options are available:

     --libxo
             Generate output via libxo(3) in a selection of different human
             and machine readable formats.  See xo_parse_args(3) for details
             on command line arguments.

     -a      Show all mount points, including those that were mounted with the
             MNT_IGNORE flag.  This is implied for file systems specified on
             the command line.

     -b      Explicitly use 512 byte blocks, overriding any BLOCKSIZE
             specification from the environment.  This is the same as the -P
             option.  The -k option overrides this option.

     -c      Display a grand total.

     -g      Use 1073741824 byte (1 Gibibyte) blocks rather than the default.
             This overrides any BLOCKSIZE specification from the environment.

     -h      “Human-readable” output.  Use unit suffixes: Byte, Kibibyte,
             Mebibyte, Gibibyte, Tebibyte and Pebibyte (based on powers of
             1024) in order to reduce the number of digits to four or fewer.

     -H, --si
             “Human-readable” output.  Use unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte,
             Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte (based on powers of
             1000) in order to reduce the number of digits to four or fewer.

     -i      Include statistics on the number of free and used inodes.  In
             conjunction with the -h or -H options, the number of inodes is
             scaled by powers of 1000.

     -k      Use 1024 byte (1 Kibibyte) blocks rather than the default.  This
             overrides the -P option and any BLOCKSIZE specification from the
             environment.

     -l      Only display information about locally-mounted file systems.

     -m      Use 1048576 byte (1 Mebibyte) blocks rather than the default.
             This overrides any BLOCKSIZE specification from the environment.

     -n      Print out the previously obtained statistics from the file
             systems.  This option should be used if it is possible that one
             or more file systems are in a state such that they will not be
             able to provide statistics without a long delay.  When this
             option is specified, df will not request new statistics from the
             file systems, but will respond with the possibly stale statistics
             that were previously obtained.

     -P      Explicitly use 512 byte blocks, overriding any BLOCKSIZE
             specification from the environment.  This is the same as the -b
             option.  The -k option overrides this option.

     -t      Only print out statistics for file systems of the specified
             types.  More than one type may be specified in a comma separated
             list.  The list of file system types can be prefixed with “no” to
             specify the file system types for which action should not be
             taken.  For example, the df command:

                   df -t nonfs,nullfs

             lists all file systems except those of type NFS and NULLFS.  The
             lsvfs(1) command can be used to find out the types of file
             systems that are available on the system.

     -T      Include file system type.

     -,      (Comma) Print sizes grouped and separated by thousands using the
             non-monetary separator returned by localeconv(3), typically a
             comma or period.  If no locale is set, or the locale does not
             have a non-monetary separator, this option has no effect.

ENVIRONMENT
     BLOCKSIZE  Specifies the units in which to report block counts.  This
                uses getbsize(3), which allows units of bytes or numbers
                scaled with the letters k (for multiples of 1024 bytes), m
                (for multiples of 1048576 bytes) or g (for gibibytes).  The
                allowed range is 512 bytes to 1 GB.  If the value is outside,
                it will be set to the appropriate limit.

SEE ALSO
     lsvfs(1), quota(1), fstatfs(2), getfsstat(2), statfs(2), getbsize(3),
     getmntinfo(3), libxo(3), localeconv(3), xo_parse_args(3), fstab(5),
     mount(8), pstat(8), quot(8), swapinfo(8)

STANDARDS
     With the exception of most options, the df utility conforms to IEEE Std
     1003.1-2004 (“POSIX.1”), which defines only the -k, -P and -t options.

HISTORY
     A df command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

BUGS
     The -n flag is ignored if a file or file system is specified.  Also, if a
     mount point is not accessible by the user, it is possible that the file
     system information could be stale.

     The -b and -P options are identical.  The former comes from the BSD
     tradition, and the latter is required for IEEE Std 1003.1-2004
     (“POSIX.1”) conformity.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 8, 2017         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
