DHCLIENT(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            DHCLIENT(8)

NAME
     dhclient – Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) client

SYNOPSIS
     dhclient [-bdqu] [-c file] [-l file] [-p file] interface

DESCRIPTION
     The dhclient utility provides a means for configuring network interfaces
     using DHCP, BOOTP, or if these protocols fail, by statically assigning an
     address.

     The name of the network interface that dhclient should attempt to
     configure must be specified on the command line.

     The options are as follows:

     -b             Forces dhclient to immediately move to the background.

     -c file        Specify an alternate location, file, for the configuration
                    file.

     -d             Forces dhclient to always run as a foreground process.  By
                    default, dhclient runs in the foreground until it has
                    configured the interface, and then will revert to running
                    in the background.

     -l file        Specify an alternate location, file, for the leases file.

     -p file        Specify an alternate location for the PID file.  The
                    default is /var/run/dhclient/dhclient.interface.pid.

     -q             Forces dhclient to be less verbose on startup.

     -u             Forces dhclient to reject leases with unknown options in
                    them.  The default behaviour is to accept such lease
                    offers.

     The DHCP protocol allows a host to contact a central server which
     maintains a list of IP addresses which may be assigned on one or more
     subnets.  A DHCP client may request an address from this pool, and then
     use it on a temporary basis for communication on the network.  The DHCP
     protocol also provides a mechanism whereby a client can learn important
     details about the network to which it is attached, such as the location
     of a default router, the location of a name server, and so on.

     On startup, dhclient reads /etc/dhclient.conf for configuration
     instructions.  It then gets a list of all the network interfaces that are
     configured in the current system.  It then attempts to configure each
     interface with DHCP.

     In order to keep track of leases across system reboots and server
     restarts, dhclient keeps a list of leases it has been assigned in the
     /var/db/dhclient.leases.IFNAME file.  IFNAME represents the network
     interface of the DHCP client (e.g., em0), one for each interface.  On
     startup, after reading the dhclient.conf(5) file, dhclient reads the
     leases file to refresh its memory about what leases it has been assigned.

     Old leases are kept around in case the DHCP server is unavailable when
     dhclient is first invoked (generally during the initial system boot
     process).  In that event, old leases from the dhclient.leases.IFNAME file
     which have not yet expired are tested, and if they are determined to be
     valid, they are used until either they expire or the DHCP server becomes
     available.

     A mobile host which may sometimes need to access a network on which no
     DHCP server exists may be preloaded with a lease for a fixed address on
     that network.  When all attempts to contact a DHCP server have failed,
     dhclient will try to validate the static lease, and if it succeeds, it
     will use that lease until it is restarted.

     A mobile host may also travel to some networks on which DHCP is not
     available but BOOTP is.  In that case, it may be advantageous to arrange
     with the network administrator for an entry on the BOOTP database, so
     that the host can boot quickly on that network rather than cycling
     through the list of old leases.

NOTES
     You must have the Berkeley Packet Filter (BPF) configured in your kernel.
     The dhclient utility requires at least one /dev/bpf* device for each
     broadcast network interface that is attached to your system.  See bpf(4)
     for more information.

FILES
     /etc/dhclient.conf                         DHCP client configuration file
     /var/db/dhclient.leases.IFNAME             database of acquired leases

SEE ALSO
     dhclient.conf(5), dhclient.leases(5), dhclient-script(8)

AUTHORS
     The dhclient utility was written by Ted Lemon <mellon@fugue.com> and
     Elliot Poger <elliot@poger.com>.

     The current implementation was reworked by Henning Brauer
     <henning@openbsd.org>.

BUGS
     The dhclient utility uses capsicum(4) to sandbox the main process.  If
     the requisite kernel support is not available, the main process will
     attempt to run in a chroot(2) sandbox instead.  This will fail if the
     process is jailed or the kern.chroot_allow_open_directories sysctl is set
     to 0.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 4, 2018         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
