DICTFMT(1)                                                          DICTFMT(1)

NAME
       dictfmt - formats a DICT protocol dictionary database

SYNOPSIS
       dictfmt  -c5|-t|-e|-f|-h|-j|-p [options]  basename
       dictfmt  -i|-I [options]

DESCRIPTION
       dictfmt takes a file, FILE, on stdin, and creates a dictionary database
       named basename.dict, that conforms to the DICT protocol.  It also
       creates an index file named basename.index.  By default, the index is
       sorted according to the C locale, and only alphanumeric characters and
       spaces are used in sorting, however this may be changed with the
       --locale and --allchars options.  ( basename is commonly chosen to
       correspond to the basename of FILE , but this is not mandatory.)

       Unless the database is extremely small, it is highly recommended that
       basename.dict be compressed with /usr/bin/dictzip to create
       basename.dict.dz.  (dictzip is included in the dictd source package.)

       FILE may be in any of the several formats described by the format
       options -c5, -t, -e, -f, -h, -j, -p, -i or -I.  Exactly one of these
       options must be given.

       dictfmt prepends several headers are to the .dict file.  The
       00-database-url header gives the value of the -u option as the URL of
       the site from which the original database was obtained.  The
       00-database-short header gives the value of the -s option as the short
       name of the dictionary.  (This "short name" is the identifying name
       given by the "dict- D" option.)  If the -u and/or -s options are
       omitted, these values will be shown as "unknown", which is undesirable
       for a publicly distributed database.

       The date of conversion (formatting) is given in the 00-database-info
       header.  All text in the input file prior to the first headword (as
       defined by the appropriate formatting option) is appended to this
       header.  All text in the input file following a headword, up to the
       next headword, is copied unchanged to the .dict file.


FORMATTING OPTIONS
       -c5    FILE is formatted with headwords preceded by 5 or more
              underscore characters (_) and a blank line.  All text until the
              next headword is considered the definition.  Any leading `@'
              characters are stripped out, but the file is otherwise
              unchanged. This option was written to format the CIA WORLD
              FACTBOOK 1995.

       -t     -c5, --without-info and --without-headword options are implied.
              Use this option, if an input database comes from dictunformat
              utility.

       -e     FILE is in html format, with the headword tagged as bold.
              (<B>headword - </B>)
              This option was written to format EASTON'S 1897 BIBLE
              DICTIONARY.  A typical entry from Easton is:

              <A NAME="T0000005">
              <B>Abagtha - </B>
              one of the seven eunuchs in Ahasuerus's court (Esther 1:10;
              2:21).

              This is converted to:
              Abagtha
                 one of the seven eunuchs in Ahasuerus's court (Esther 1:10;
              2:21).

              The heading "<A NAME="T0000005"> is omitted, and the headword
              `Abagtha' is indexed.

              NOTE: This option should be used with caution.  It removes
              several html tags (enough to format Easton properly), but not
              all.  The Makefile that was originally written to format dict-
              easton uses sed scripts to modify certain cross reference tags.
              It may be necessary to pipe the input file through a sed script,
              or hack the source of dictfmt in order to properly format other
              html databases.

       -f     FILE is formatted with the headwords starting in column 0, with
              the definition indented at least one space (or tab character) on
              subsequent lines.  The third line starting in column 0 is taken
              as the first headword , and the first two lines starting in
              column 0 are treated as part of the 00-database-info header.
              This option was written to format the F.O.L.D.O.C.

       -h     FILE is formatted with the headwords starting in column 0,
              followed by a comma, with the definition continuing on the same
              line.  All text before the first single character line is
              included in 00-database-info header, and lines with only one
              character are omitted from the .dict file.  The first headword
              is on the line following the first single character line.  The
              headword is indexed; the text of the file is not changed.  This
              option was written to format HITCHCOCK'S BIBLE NAMES DICTIONARY.

       -j     FILE is formatted with headwords starting in col 0, enclosed in
              colons, followed by the definition.  The colons surrounding the
              headword are removed, and the headword is indexed.  Lines
              beginning with '*', '=', or '-' are also removed.  All text
              before the first headword is included in the headers.  This
              option was written to format the JARGON FILE.
              NOTE: Some recent versions of the JARGON FILE had three blanks
              inserted before the first colon at each headword.  These must be
              removed before processing with dictfmt.  (sed scripts have been
              used for this purpose. ed, awk, or perl scripts are also
              possible.)

       -p     FILE is formatted with `%h' in column 0, followed by a blank,
              followed by the headword, optionally followed by a line
              containing `%d' in column 0.  The definition starts on the
              following line.  The first line beginning ´%h´ and any lines
              beginning '%d' are stripped from the .dict file, and '%h ' is
              stripped from in front of the headword.  All text before the
              first headword is included in the headers.  The second line
              beginning '%h' is taken as the first headword.  This option was
              written to format Jay Kominek's elements database.

       -i_-I  These two options are different from all other formatting
              options.  They are intended to resort (according to dictd
              requirement) an .index file given on stdin.  That is .dict file
              is not generated at all. Only resorting is made.  Three- or
              four-column .index like input is expected.  -i expects decimal
              offset and length, while -I expects them in base64 format.

OPTIONS
       -u url Specifies the URL of the site from which the raw database was
              obtained.  If this option is specified, 00-database-url headword
              and appropriate definition will be ignored.

       -s name
              Specifies the name and, optionally, the version and date, of the
              database.  (If this contains spaces, it must be quoted.)  If
              this option is specified, 00-database-short headword and
              appropriate definition will be ignored.

       -L     display license and copyright information

       -V     display version information

       -D     output debugging information

       --help display a help message

       --locale locale
              Specifies the locale used for sorting.  If no locale is
              specified, the "C" locale is used. For using UTF-8 mode, --utf8
              is needed.

       --8bit generates database in 8-bit mode, see --locale option also.
              Note: This option is deprecated.  Use it for creating 8-bit
              (non-UTF8) dictionaries only.  In order to create UTF-8
              dictionary, use --utf8 option instead.

       --utf8 If specified, UTF-8 database is created.

       --allchars
              Specifies that all characters should be used for the search, by
              default only alphabetic, numeric characters and spaces are put
              to .index file and therefore are used in search. Creates the
              special entry 00-database-allchars.

       --case-sensitive
              makes the search case sensitive.  Creates the special entry
              00-database-case-sensitive.

       --headword-separator sep
              sets the headword separator, which allows several words to have
              the same definition.  For example, if ´--headword-separator %%%'
              is given, and the input file contains ´autumn%%%fall', both
              'autumn' and 'fall' will be indexed as  headwords, with the same
              definition.

       --index-data-separator sep
              sets the index/data separator, which allows to set the first and
              fourth columns of .index file independently. That is the first
              column can be treated as an index column (where the MATCH
              command searches) and the fourth column as a result column
              (where the MATCH gets things to be returned), and they (1-st and
              4-th columns) are completely independant of each other.  The
              default value for this separator is ASCII symbol " \034".

       --break-headwords
              multiple headwords will be written on separate lines in the
              .dict file.  For use with '--headword-separator.

       --index-keep-orig
              When --utf-8 is specified headwords are lowercased and non-
              alphanumeric characters are removed from it before saving to
              .index file in order to simplify the search.  When --index-keep-
              orig option is used fourth column is created (if necessary) in
              .index file, and contains an original headword which is returned
              by MATCH command.  This option may be useful to prevent
              converting " AT&T" to " ATT" or to keep proper nouns with
              uppercased first letter.

       --without-headword
              headwords will not be included in .dict file

       --without-header
              header will not be copied to DB info entry

       --without-url
              URL will not be copied to DB info entry

       --without-time
              time of creation will not be copied to DB info entry

       --without-ver
              By default dictfmt creates a special entry 00-database-dictfmt-
              X.Y.Z that contains (in .dict file) dictfmt version in format
              dictfmt-X.Y.Z. This option suppresses this.

       --without-info
              DB info entry will not be created.  This may be useful if
              00-database-info headword is expected from stdin (dictunformat
              outputs it).

       --columns columns
              By default dictfmt wraps strings read from stdin to 72 columns.
              This option changes this default. If it is set to zero or
              negative value, wrapping is off.

       --default-strategy strategy
              Sets the default search strategy for the database.  It will be
              used instead of strategy '.'.  Special entry
              00-database-default-strategy is created for this purpose.  This
              option may be useful, for example, for dictionaries containing
              mainly phrases but the single words.  In any case, use this
              option if you are absolutely sure what you are doing.

       --mime-header mime_header
              When client sends OPTION MIME command to the dictd , definitions
              found in this database are prepended by the specified MIME
              header. Creates the special entry 00-database-mime-header.

CREDITS
       dictfmt was written by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) as part of the
       dict-misc package.  dictfmt is distributed under the terms of the GNU
       General Public License.  If you need to distribute under other terms,
       write to the author.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Robert D. Hilliard
       <hilliard@debian.org> .

SEE ALSO
       dict(1), dictd(8), dictzip(1), dictunformat(1), http://www.dict.org,
       RFC 2229

                               25 December 2000                     DICTFMT(1)
