cleanup_digikamdb(1)                                      cleanup_digikamdb(1)

NAME
       cleanup_digikamdb - Cleanup the digiKam databases to reduce their sizes
       and increase access speed

SYNOPSIS
       cleanup_digikamdb
[-t] [-T] [-p] [-h]

OPTIONS
       -t     Include thumbnail databases.

       -T     Only cleanup thumbnail databases.

       -p path
              Specify a different database path.  If this option is not set or
              the specified path is invalid, the entry from the configuration
              file will be used.

       -h     Show command line options.

DESCRIPTION
       cleanup_digikamdb will cleanup and optimize the digiKam database file.
       This will, in most cases, lead to a smaller database file size and an
       increased access speed, because unneeded elements are removed from the
       database and data is optimized.

       The program will make sure that no instance of digiKam is running,
       because it is more safe to have no database access during the
       optimization process. It then will read the digiKam configuration file
       and determine the database location.  In a final step the database will
       be optimized by invoking the sqlite command 'VACUUM;' on it.  If more
       then one database is found in this location, cleanup_digikamdb will
       optimize every database found in this path and below.

       For further explanation, see the following description of the VACUUM
       command from the sqlite3 website:

       When an object (table, index, or trigger) is dropped from the database,
       it leaves behind empty space.  This empty space will be reused the next
       time new information is added to the database.  But in the meantime,
       the database file might be larger than strictly necessary.  Also,
       frequent inserts, updates, and deletes can cause the information in the
       database to become fragmented - scrattered out all across the database
       file rather than clustered together in one place.

       The VACUUM command cleans the main database by copying its contents to
       a temporary database file and reloading the original database file from
       the copy.  This eliminates free pages, aligns table data to be
       contiguous, and otherwise cleans up the database file structure.

AUTHOR
       cleanup_digikamdb was written by Andi Clemens <andi dot clemens at
       gmail dot com>

cleanup_digikamdb               24 October 2011           cleanup_digikamdb(1)
