DIREVENT.CONF(5)            Direvent User Reference           DIREVENT.CONF(5)

NAME
       direvent.conf - configuration file for direvent(8).

DESCRIPTION
       The configuration file consists of statements and comments.

       There are three classes of lexical tokens: keywords, values, and
       separators. Blanks, tabs, newlines and comments, collectively called
       white space are ignored except as they serve to separate tokens. Some
       white space is required to separate otherwise adjacent keywords and
       values.

COMMENTS
       Comments may appear anywhere where white space may appear in the
       configuration file.  There are two kinds of comments: single-line and
       multi-line comments.  Single-line comments start with # or // and
       continue to the end of the line:

           # This is a comment
           // This too is a comment

       Multi-line or C-style comments start with the two characters /* (slash,
       star) and continue until the first occurrence of */ (star, slash).

       Multi-line comments cannot be nested.  However, single-line comments
       may well appear within multi-line ones.

   Pragmatic Comments
       Pragmatic comments are similar to the usual single-line comments,
       except that they cause some changes in the way the configuration is
       parsed.  Pragmatic comments begin with a # sign and end with the next
       physical newline character.

       #include <FILE>
       #include FILE
              Include the contents of the file FILE.  If FILE is an absolute
              file name, the named file is included.  An error message will be
              issued if it does not exist.

              If FILE contains wildcard characters (*, [, ], or ?), it is
              interpreted as a shell globbing pattern and all files matching
              that pattern are included, in lexicographical order.  If no
              matching files are found, the directive is replaced with an
              empty line.

              Otherwise, the form with angle brackets searches for file in the
              include search path, while the second one looks for it in the
              current working directory first, and, if not found there, in the
              include search path.  If the file is not found, an error message
              will be issued.

              The order of directories is as follows.  First, direvent scans
              any directories given with -I options, in the same order as
              given on the command line, and then the directories in the
              standard include search path.  The latter is defined at compile
              time and can be inspected in the output of the --help option.

       #include_once <FILE>
       #include_once FILE
              Same as #include, except that, if the FILE (or any of the files
              it expands to) has already been included, it will not be
              included again.

       #line num
       #line num "FILE"
              This line causes the parser to believe, for purposes of error
              diagnostics, that the line number of the next source line is
              given by num and the current input file is named by FILE. If the
              latter is absent, the remembered file name does not change.

       # num "FILE"
              This is a special form of the #line statement, understood for
              compatibility with the C preprocessor.

STATEMENTS
   Simple statement
       A simple statement consists of a keyword and value separated by any
       amount of whitespace.  Simple statement is terminated with a semicolon
       (;).

       The following is a simple statement:

           pidfile /var/run/direvent.pid;

       See below for a list of valid simple statements.

       A value can be one of the following:

       number A number is a sequence of decimal digits.

       boolean
              A boolean value is one of the following: yes, true, t or 1,
              meaning true, and no, false, nil, 0 meaning false.

       unquoted string
              An unquoted string may contain letters, digits, and any of the
              following characters: _, -, ., /, @, *, :.

       quoted string
              A quoted string is any sequence of characters enclosed in
              double-quotes (").  A backslash appearing within a quoted string
              introduces an escape sequence, which is replaced with a single
              character according to the following rules:

                      Sequence  Expansion               ASCII
                      \\        \                       134
                      \"        "                       042
                      \a        audible bell            007
                      \b        backspace               010
                      \f        form-feed               014
                      \n        new line                012
                      \r        carriage return         015
                      \t        horizontal tabulation   011
                      \v        vertical tabulation     013

              In addition, the sequence \newline is removed from the string.
              This allows to split long strings over several physical lines,
              e.g.:

                  "a long string may be\
                   split over several lines"

       If the character following a backslash is not one of those specified
       above, the backslash is ignored and a warning is issued.

       Here-document
              A here-document is a special construct that allows to introduce
              strings of text containing embedded newlines.

              The <<word construct instructs the parser to read all the
              following lines up to the line containing only word, with
              possible trailing blanks.  Any lines thus read are concatenated
              together into a single string.  For example:

                  <<EOT
                  A multiline
                  string
                  EOT

       The body of a here-document is interpreted the same way as a
       double-quoted string, unless word is preceded by a backslash (e.g.
       <<\EOT) or enclosed in double-quotes, in which case the text is read as
       is, without interpretation of escape sequences.

       If word is prefixed with - (a dash), then all leading tab characters
       are stripped from input lines and the line containing word.
       Furthermore, - is followed by a single space, all leading whitespace is
       stripped from them.  This allows to indent here-documents in a natural
       fashion.  For example:

           <<- TEXT
               The leading whitespace will be
               ignored when reading these lines.
           TEXT

       It is important that the terminating delimiter be the only token on its
       line.  The only exception to this rule is allowed if a here-document
       appears as the last element of a statement.  In this case a semicolon
       can be placed on the same line with its terminating delimiter, as in:

            help-text <<-EOT
                A sample help text.
            EOT;

       list   A comma-separated list of values, enclosed in parentheses.  The
              following example shows a statement whose value is a list of
              strings:

                  option (wait, stderr);

       In any context where a list is appropriate, a single value is allowed
       without being a member of a list: it is equivalent to a list with a
       single member.  This means that, e.g.

           option wait;

       is equivalent to

           option (wait);

   Block Statement
       A block statement introduces a logical group of statements.  It
       consists of a keyword, followed by an optional value, called a tag, and
       a sequence of statements enclosed in curly braces, as shown in the
       example below:

           watcher {
               path /etc;
               event create;
           }

       The closing curly brace may be followed by a semicolon, although this
       is not required.

VARIABLE EXPANSION
       Arguments of some statements undergo variable expansion before use.
       During variable expansion, variable references found in string are
       replaced with the actual values of the corresponding variables.

       A variable reference has the form $VAR or ${VAR}, where VAR is the
       variable name.  The two forms are entirely equivalent.  The form with
       curly braces is normally used if the variable name is immediately
       followed by an alphanumeric symbol, which will otherwise be considered
       part of it.  This form also allows for specifying the action to take if
       the variable is undefined or expands to an empty value:

       ${VARIABLE:-WORD}
              Use Default Values.  If VARIABLE is unset or null, the expansion
              of WORD is substituted.  Otherwise, the value of VARIABLE is
              substituted.

       ${VARIABLE:=WORD}
              Assign Default Values.  If VARIABLE is unset or null, the
              expansion of WORD is assigned to the variable.  The value of
              VARIABLE is then substituted.

       ${VARIABLE:?WORD}
              Display Error if Null or Unset.  If VARIABLE is null or unset,
              the expansion of WORD (or a message to that effect if WORD is
              not present) is output to the current logging channel.
              Otherwise, the value of VARIABLE is substituted.

       ${VARIABLE:+WORD}
              Use Alternate Value.  If VARIABLE is null or unset, nothing is
              substituted, otherwise the expansion of WORD is substituted.

       Two kinds of variables take part in variable expansion: environment
       variables and macro variables.  The latter are special variable-like
       entities defined by direvent to carry information about the event and
       its target file:

       file   Name of the file covered by the event.

       genev_code
              Generic (system-independent) event code.  It is a bitwise OR of
              the event codes represented as a decimal number.

       genev_name
              Generic event name.  If several generic events are reported
              simultaneously, the value of this variable is a list of event
              names separated by space characters.  Each name corresponds to a
              bit in genev_code.

       self_test_pid
              The PID of the external command started with the --self-test
              (-T) option.  If direvent is started without this option, this
              variable is not defined.

       sysev_code
              System-dependent event code.  It is a bitwise OR of the event
              codes represented as a decimal number.

       sysev_name
              System-dependent event name.  If several events are reported,
              the value of this variable is a list of event names separated by
              space characters.  Each name corresponds to a bit in sysev_code.
              See the section SYSTEM DEPENDENCIES in direvent(8), for a list
              of system-dependent event names.

GENERAL SETTINGS
       user NAME;
              Sets the user to run as.  NAME must be a name of an existing
              user.

       foreground BOOL;
              Run in foreground.

       pidfile FILE;
              Upon successful startup store the PID of the daemon process in
              FILE.

       debug NUMBER;
              Set debug level.  Valid NUMBER values are 0 (no debug) to 3
              (maximum verbosity).

LOGGING
       While connected to the terminal direvent outputs its diagnostics and
       debugging messages to the standard error.  After disconnecting from the
       controlling terminal it closes the first three file descriptors and
       directs all its output to the syslog.  When running in foreground mode,
       its messages are sent both to the standard error and to the syslog.

       The following configuration statement controls the syslog output:

         syslog {
             facility STRING;
             tag STRING;
             print-priority BOOL;
         }

       The statements are:

       facility STRING;
              Set syslog facility.  STRING is one of the following: user,
              daemon, auth or authpriv, mail, cron, local0 through local7
              (case-insensitive), or a facility number.

       tag STRING;
              Tag syslog messages with STRING.  Normally the messages are
              tagged with the program name.

       print-priority BOOL;
              Prefix each message with its priority.

       An example syslog statement:

           syslog {
               facility local0;
               print-priority yes;
           }

ENVIRONMENT
       By default the command inherits the environment of direvent augmented
       with the following variables:

       DIREVENT_SYSEV_CODE
              The system-dependent event code (see the sysev_code macro
              variable).

       DIREVENT_SYSEV_NAME
              The system-dependent event name or names (see the sysev_name
              macro variable).

       DIREVENT_GENEV_CODE
              The generic event code (see the genev_code macro variable).

       DIREVENT_GENEV_NAME
              The generic event name or names (see the genev_name macro
              variable).

       DIREVENT_FILE
              The name of the affected file relative to the current working
              directory (see the file macro variable).

       This environment can be further modified, using the environ
       configuration statement:

         environ {
             clear;
             keep PATTERN;
             keep"NAME=VALUE";
             set "NAME=VALUE";
             eval EXPR;
             unset PATTERN;
             unset "NAME=VALUE";
         }

       Statements inside the environ block define operations that modify the
       environment.  Their arguments undergo variable expansion.  The clear
       statement is executed first.  Then, keep statements are applied, in
       order of their appearance.  Finally, set and unset statements are
       applied in order of their appearance in the configuration.

       clear  Clears the environment by removing (unsetting) all variables,
              except those listed in keep statements, if such are given (see
              below).  This statement is always executed first.

       keep PATTERN
              Declares variables matching PATTERN (a globbing pattern) as
              exempt from clearing.  This statement implies clear.

       keep "NAME=VALUE"
              Retains NAME in the environment only if it has the value VALUE.
              Notice double-quotes.

       set "NAME=VALUE"
              Assigns VALUE to the environment variable NAME.  The value is
              subject to variable expansion using the same syntax as in shell.
              The set, eval, and unset (see below) statements are executed in
              order of their appearance.

       eval EXPR
              Perform variable expansion on EXPR and discard the result.  This
              is useful for side-effects.

       unset PATTERN
              Unset environment variables matching PATTERN.

       unset "NAME=VALUE"
              Unset environment variable NAME if it has the given VALUE.

WATCHER
       The watcher statement configures a single event watcher.  A watcher can
       control several events in multiple pathnames.  Any number of watcher
       statements is allowed in the configuration file, each one of them
       declaring a separate watcher.

         watcher {
             path PATHNAME [recursive [NUMBER]];
             file STRING-LIST;
             event STRING-LIST;
             command STRING;
             user NAME;
             timeout NUMBER;
             option STRING-LIST;
             environ {ENV-SPEC}
         }

       The statements within a watcher block are:

       path PATHNAME [recursive [NUMBER]];
              Defines a pathname to watch.  PATHNAME must be the name of an
              existing directory in the file system.  The watcher will watch
              events occurring for all files within that directory.  If the
              optional recursive clause is specified, this directory will be
              watched recursively, i.e.  when any subdirectory is created in
              it, direvent will set up a watcher for files in this
              subdirectory.  This new watcher will be an exact copy of the
              parent watcher, excepting for the pathnames.  The optional
              NUMBER parameter defines a cut-off nesting level for recursive
              watching.  If supplied, the recursive behaviour will apply only
              to the directories that are nested below that level.

              Any number of path statements can appear in a watcher block.  At
              least one path must be defined.

       file STRING-LIST;
              Selects which files are eligible for monitoring.  The argument
              is a list of globbing patterns (in the sense of fnmatch(3))
              and/or extended regular expressions ( regex(7)) one of which the
              file name must match in order for the watcher to act on it.
              Regular expressions must be surrounded by a pair of slashes,
              optionally followed by the following flags:

              b      Use basic regular expressions.

              i      Enable case-insensitive matching.

                     A pattern or regular expression prefixed with ! matches
                     file names that don't match the pattern without !.

       event STRING-LIST;
              Configures the filesystem events to watch for in the directories
              declared by the path statements.  The argument is a list of
              event names.  Both generic and system-dependent event names are
              allowed.  Multiple event statements accumulate.  A missing event
              statements means watch all events.  For example:

                  event (open,delete);

       command STRING;
              Defines a command to execute on event.  STRING is a command line
              just as you would type it in sh(1).  It may contain macro
              variables, which will be expanded prior to execution.  For
              example:

                  command "/bin/prog -event $genev_name -file $file";

              See the section HANDLER ENVIRONMENT in direvent(8), for a
              detailed discussion of how the command is executed.

       user STRING;
              Run command as this user.

       timeout NUMBER;
              Terminate the command if it runs longer than NUMBER seconds.
              The default is 5 seconds.

       option STRING-LIST;
              A list of additional options.  The following options are
              defined:

                       shell  Invoke the handler command as $SHELL -c
                              "command".

                       wait   Wait for the program to terminate before
                              handling next event from the event queue.
                              Normally the program runs asynchronously.

                       stdout Capture the standard output of the command and
                              redirect it to the syslog with the LOG_INFO
                              priority.

                       stderr Capture the standard error of the command and
                              redirect it to the syslog with the LOG_ERR
                              priority.

       environ {ENV-SPEC}
              Modify command environment.  See the section ENVIRONMENT, for a
              discussion of sub-statements in ENV-SPEC.  This statement
              applies to the environment, modified by the global environ
              statement, if any.

SEE ALSO
       direvent(8).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2012-2021 Sergey Poznyakoff
       License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
       <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.


DIREVENT                       December 29, 2021              DIREVENT.CONF(5)
