DNSPROXY(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            DNSPROXY(1)

NAME
     dnsproxy – DNS proxy

SYNOPSIS
     dnsproxy [-dhV] [-c file]

DESCRIPTION
     The dnsproxy daemon waits for nameserver queries on a user specified
     address, dispatches these queries to authoritative and recursive
     nameservers and forwards the received answers back to the original
     client.

     The options are as follows:

     -c file  Read configuration from file.

     -d       Detach from current terminal and run as background process.

     -h       Show usage.

     -V       Show version.

     If a client from an internal IP address does a recursive lookup the query
     is forwarded to a recursive DNS server.  Authoritative queries and
     queries coming from clients in foreign networks are forwarded to an
     authoritative DNS server.

CONFIGURATION FILE
     At startup dnsproxy reads a configuration file specified via the -c
     option or at the default location of /etc/dnsproxy.conf.

     The following keywords are recognized:

     authoritative IP
     Address of the authoritative nameserver [required].

     recursive IP
     Address of the recursive nameserver [required].

     listen IP
     Local address (defaults to 0.0.0.0).

     port number
     Local port number (defaults to 53).

     chroot path
     A path to chroot to before starting to answer queries.

     user name
     A user to change to before starting to answer queries.

     authoritative-timeout seconds
     Time in seconds when authoritative queries time out (defaults to 10).

     recursive-timeout seconds
     Time in seconds when recursive queries time out (defaults to 90).

     authoritative-port number
     Port number on authoritative nameserver (defaults to 53).

     recursive-port number
     Port number on recursive nameserver (defaults to 53).

     statistics seconds
     Period between output of statistics (defaults to 3600).  Use 0 to disable
     output of statistics completely.

     internal network
     Declare networks recognized as internal and thus eligible to do recursive
     queries. One network in CIDR notation per keyword.

   EXAMPLE
           authoritative 10.1.1.1
           recursive 127.0.0.1
           recursive-port 10053
           listen 192.168.1.1
           port 53
           chroot /var/empty
           user nobody
           internal 192.168.1.0/24
           internal 127.0.0.1

STATISTICS
     Every hour (by default) dnsproxy logs the collected statistics about its
     usage to standard error (or syslog when running detached). Statistics
     look like

           ActiveQr AuthorQr RecursQr AllQuery Answered
           0        0        0        0        0
           TimeoutQ DroppedQ DroppedA LateAnsw HashColl
           0        0        0        0        0

     and have the following meaning:

     ActiveQr
     Number of currently active queries proxied to the servers.

     AuthorQr
     Accumulated number of authoritative queries.

     RecursQr
     Accumulated number of recursive queries.

     AllQuery
     Accumulated number of all queries ever received.

     Answered
     Accumulated number of answered queries.

     TimeoutQ
     Accumulated number of queries that did not receive an answer in time.

     DroppedQ
     Accumulated number of dropped queries (e.g. transmission errors).

     DroppedA
     Accumulated number of dropped answers.

     LateAnsw
     Accumulated number of answers received after the timeout period.

     HashColl
     Accumulated number of hash collisions in the query list.

SEE ALSO
     named(1)

VERSION
     This manual page describes dnsproxy version 1.17.

AUTHORS
     Armin Wolfermann <armin@wolfermann.org>

     The dnsproxy homepage is at http://www.wolfermann.org/dnsproxy.html.

LOCAL                          November 29, 2003                         LOCAL
