dns-boot-check(1)       FreeBSD General Commands Manual      dns-boot-check(1)

NAME
       dns-boot-check - check /etc/named.boot file

SYNOPSIS
       dns-boot-check [ option...  ] filename
       dns-boot-check -Help
       dns-boot-check -VERSion

DESCRIPTION
       The dns-boot-check program is used to check the named(8) configuration
       file for correctness.  It checks for things like the forwards and
       backwards mappings exactly corresponding, and for the name server
       records all having address records.

       The filename on the command line is the file to be checked.  It
       defaults to /etc/named.boot if not specified.

       Suggestions for additional checks that dns-boot-check(1) could perform
       are most welcome.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -Help
               Provide some help with using the dns-boot-check program.

       -Idirectory
               This option may be used to specify a directory to search for
               include files.  It may be used more than once, the directories
               will be searched in the order given.

       -VERSion
               Print the version of the dns-boot-check program being executed.

       All other options will produce a diagnostic error.

       See the file man1/arglex.so.


       See the file man1/exit.so.


EXAMPLES
       To check your named(8) configuration, you need only say
              dns-boot-check
       and the file named(8) configuration file will be read, and also all of
       the files it refers to.  Various cross checks will be made between the
       files, too.

       If you want to check a named(8) configuration, but without installing
       it first (which can be important if you need to guarantee continuity of
       service) put you new configuration files together in a temporary
       directory, with relative paths.
              dns-boot-check -I. etc/named.boot
       This will access all of the files as if they were below "." (the
       current directory) rather than absolute.  This can simplify
       configuration management issues, too.

       Suggestions for additional checks that dns-boot-check(1) could perform
       are most welcome.

       See the file man1/copyright.so.


       See the file man1/author.so.


                                                             dns-boot-check(1)
