DOINKD.CF(5)              FreeBSD File Formats Manual             DOINKD.CF(5)

NAME
       /usr/local/etc/doinkd/doinkd.cf - doinkd configuration file format


DESCRIPTION
       doinkd, the login monitor daemon, decides how it should act based on
       the file doinkd.cf.  This file consists of a series of specifications
       which each describe an aspect of doinkd's actions.  There are ten types
       of commands:

       1.     Exemption commands specify people that are exempt from doinkd's
              actions.

       2.     Session commands specify people who are restricted in the length
              of time they may remain logged in.

       3.     Timeout defines how long a terminal must be idle before it is
              logged out.

       4.     Refuse commands specify people to immediately log off when they
              are found.

       5.     Sleep sets the number of minutes doinkd should sleep between
              checks.

       6.     Wait sets the number of seconds doinkd should give to an idle
              tty after it warns before it logs it out.

       7.     Conswins specifies how to handle tty's owned by the user logged
              in on console.  It can define special handling for idle logouts,
              session limits, and multiple logins.

       8.     Idlemethod determines if users are considered idle by input
              only, or by output as well.

       9.     Threshold sets the threshold number of users who must be logged
              in before multiple login or session limit controls take effect.

       10.    Multiples specifies the behavior of multiple login logouts to
              control how many multiple logins each user is allowed to keep.

       11.    Maxuser sets the number of sessions per userid, group, tty or
              file allowedi.

       Lines beginning with a hash (#) in column one are comments.  Other
       lines may be indented for readability.


Exemptions
       Exemptions have the form:

              exempt who from

       where who must be one of:

              login username

              host hostname

              group groupname

              tty ttyname

              file filename

       where Username must be a valid login name as in /etc/passwd.  Hostname
       must be identical to the name as displayed by 'finger' when someone is
       logged in from that host and truncated to the length of the ut_host
       field in utmp.h, if necessary.  "localhost" or the truncated version
       (if necessary) allows for specific commands just for users logged in
       locally.  Groupname must be a valid group name as in /etc/group.
       Ttyname is a terminal name as in the utmp file (e.g., “ttyXX”).
       Filename is either a filename/path relative to the working directory
       doinkd was started from, or is a complete path/filename of a file
       listing usernames.  See the Specifying Users Via a File section below
       for more information.

       and from must be one of:

              multiple

              idle

              session

              maxuser

              all

       which specify that who is exempt from being logged off for maintaining
       multiple logins, remaining idle longer than the idle timeout period,
       exceeding a login session limit, or all three, respectively.


Session
       Session commands take the form:

              session refuse minutes

              session default minutes

              session who minutes

       where who is the same as above and minutes is a decimal number.  The
       command indicates the length of time a user may be logged in for before
       they must terminate their session.  Warnings and logouts will be issued
       if the session limit is exceeded.  The default command specifies the
       session limit time that should apply to users that do not have a
       session limit assigned to them by some other session command in the
       doinkd.cf file applying to group, login, or tty.

       The refuse command specifies number of minutes to refuse logins to a
       user who has been warned or logged out from a session limit.  Therfore,
       if the refuse time is set to 5 minutes, users who are warned or
       actually logged out due to a session limit must wait 5 minutes to log
       back in, otherwise their tty will be killed as soon as doinkd awakens.

       Session limits are especially useful for modem lines to prevent users
       from tying up the line for too long.


Timeout
       Timeouts are of the form:

              timeout who minutes

       where who is the same as above, but can also be default and minutes is
       a decimal number.  This command indicates that who will be logged off
       after remaining idle for minutes minutes.  The default idle timeout
       affects anyone not otherwise exempted from timeouts or mentioned in an
       explicit timeout rule.  doinkd determines idleness to be the length of
       time from the last keypress by the user (ie. data throughput alone is
       still considered idle).  For X-Windows, both mouse movements and
       keypresses determine idle time.


Refuse
       Refuse commands take the form:

              refuse who

       where who is the same as above.  minutes As soon as doinkd spots a user
       matching a refuse statement, it will tell the user that the session
       will be terminated, and will actually do so approximately 5 seconds
       later.


Sleep
       Sleep commands are of the form:

              sleep seconds

       and specify that doinkd will sleep seconds seconds between its checks.
       If there is more than one sleep specification, only the last one is
       used.


Warn
       Warn commands are of the form:

              warn seconds

       and specify that doinkd will sleep seconds seconds between warnings and
       logouts.  If there is more than one warn specification, only the last
       one is used.


Conswins -- Console Windows Handling
       Conswins commands are of the form:

              conswins idle option

              conswins session option

              conswins multiple option


       where option is one of:

              number

              normal

              off

       The number specifies the number of minutes allowed for tty's owned by
       the user on console for idle timeouts or session limits.  For multiple,
       it specifies the number of multiple logins that should be allowed for
       the user on console.  These numbers will overide what the timeout,
       session, and multiples settings would otherwise specify for the user.
       normal specifies to use the default timeout, session limits, and number
       of multiple logins for the user on console.  off instructs doinkd to
       not log off any tty's owned by the user on console, despite how long
       they have been idle, how long the tty's have been in session, or how
       many tty's are in use (for idle, session, and multiple, respectively).


Idlemethod
       The idlemethod command is of the form:

              idlemethod userinput

       or

              idlemethod inputoutput

       When set to userinput, doinkd requires that the user interact with (ie.
       type into) the tty to be considered not idle.  If a user, then, has not
       typed anything recently, that user will be considered idle despite
       whether or not the terminal is busy and perhaps displaying output of a
       running program.

       When set to inputoutput, doinkd will only consider a user idle if there
       has been no input or output to the tty recently.  If any program is
       writing output to the tty, then, that tty is not idle.  Note that with
       this setting, a tty is still idle if a program is running without user
       interaction and is not displaying output to the tty.

       If this option is unspecified, it defaults to userinput.


Thresholds
       Threshold commands are of the form:

              threshold type number

       where type must be one of:

              multiple

              session

       For the threshold multiple command, the number specifies the minimum
       number of tty's that must be in use before doinkd begins to limit the
       users on how many tty's they may have.  For example, if the threshold
       is set to 10, and 3 users are logged on 5 times each (each have 5
       tty's), then since 3*5=15 and 15 >= 10, doinkd will limit how many
       tty's they may have.  If the multiples command (see below) specifies
       that users get 3 sessions during this period, then each of the users
       would have to get rid of two of their tty's, or doinkd would kill 2 for
       them.

       For the threshold session command, the number specifies the minimum
       number of tty's that must be in use before doinkd begins to limit the
       length of time users may remain logged on.  If there are at least that
       many tty's in use, then doinkd will perform warnings and kill tty's
       that have been logged in as long as or beyond their maximum allowed
       time (specified in a session command).

       If a threshold is not set, then no checking will be done.

       Multiple login logouts restrict each user to a number of logins based
       on the multiples setting.  See Multiples for more information.


Multiples
       The multiples command is of the form:

              maxuser type name number

       where type should be the type of

       If the number is -1, then the number of logins each user is allowed to
       have is based on how many different users are currently logged in.  It
       is figured as the floor of (multiple threshold)/(num users).  So, if
       the threshold is 10 and there are 2 different users on, each user would
       be allowed to keep 5 logins.  If the threshold is 10 and there are 3
       different users on, then each user would be allowed to keep 3 logins.

       If the number is greater than 0, then it specifies the number of logins
       each user will be allowed to keep, despite the total number of tty's in
       use.

       doinkd guarantees that each user will be allowed to keep at least one
       tty.

       The method in which doinkd chooses which tty's to keep is based on
       login time.  The tty's which were started first will be kept, with the
       later ones being warned and killed.


Maxuser
       The maxuser command is of the form:

              multiples who number

       where who is the same as above.

       number is the number of sessions allowed.

       The method in which doinkd chooses which tty's to keep is based on
       login time.  The tty's which were started first will be kept, with the
       later ones being warned and killed.


Specifying Users Via a File
       As is indicated above, each of the timeout, session, refuse, and exempt
       commands can specify users via a file statement.  Therefore, such lines
       would look like these:

             timeout file <filename> <minutes>
             session file <filename> <minutes>
             refuse file <filename>
             exempt file <filename> <exempt_type>

       The <filename> should be either a filename/path relative to the working
       directory from which doinkd was started, or a complete path to a user
       file (such as /usr/local/lib/users).

       The format of the file is simply one login name per line.  Initial
       spaces on a line is ignored.  Any text beyond the first word on the
       line is also ignored (so comments, if desired, can be placed at the end
       of the lines).  Blank lines are ignored.

       Filenames can contain letters A-Z and a-z, numbers 0-9, '_', '.', and
       '/'.  Therefore,

              /usr/local/lib/doinkd/Session_Users1.list

       is a valid filename.  Any other character than those mentioned above
       are not allowed in the filenames.



EXAMPLE
       A sample doinkd configuration file follows (look in the doinkd
       distribution package for doinkd.cf, an example that shows all
       commands):

          #
          # sleep 2 minutes between checks (specified in seconds)
          #
              sleep 120
          #
          # Give 5 minutes between warning and logout (in seconds)
          #
              warn 300
          #
          # Set conswins to off, so that idle, multiple, and session
          # logouts will be disabled for tty's owned by the user
          # logged in on console.
          #
              conswins idle off
              conswins multiple off
              conswins session off
          #
          # 30 users must be logged on before
          # multiple login checks will begin
          #
              threshold multiple 30
          #
          # Do proportional multiple login allows, based on the multiple
          # threshold and number of different users on.
          #
              multiples -1
          #
          # We want session limits to apply all the time
          #
              threshold session 1
          #
          # idlemethod set to "userinput" (default) requires that user
          # interact with the tty to be determined not idle.  Set it to
          # "inputoutput" to allow tty output to also consider the tty
          # not idle.
          #
          #        idlemethod inputoutput
          #
          # Set the timeout for console to be 15 (plus warntime)
          # before it will log off anyone on console.
          # Set the default idle timeout to 60 minutes.  For the
          # group staff, set the idle timeout to 2 hours.
          # 30 minute timeout for users logged in from dopey.
          #
              timeout tty console 15
              timeout default 60
              timeout group staff 120
              timeout host dopey 30
          #
          # Students must not remain logged in for longer than 45 minutes
          #
              session group student 45
          #
          # Necessary exemptions to make sure the console doesn't
          # get logged off for session limits or multiple logins and
          # staff members don't get logged off at all.
          #
              exempt tty console session
              exempt tty console multiple
              exempt group staff all



SEE ALSO
       doinkd(8), utmp(5)

                                 May 30, 2006                     DOINKD.CF(5)
