DOS2ANSI(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            DOS2ANSI(1)

NAME
     dos2ansi – convert old MS-DOS/ANSI.SYS text files

SYNOPSIS
     dos2ansi -V
     dos2ansi -h
     dos2ansi [-ABCEIPRSTWXabdeklmprsvxy] [-H scrheight] [-c codepage]
              [-o outfile] [-q saucequery] [-t tabwidth] [-u format]
              [-w width] [infile]

DESCRIPTION
     dos2ansi converts MS-DOS text files using ANSI.SYS escape sequences to a
     format a modern terminal can display.  The output will use a Unicode
     encoding of characters and only ANSI SGR escape sequences to set basic
     foreground and background colors, intensity and blinking attribute.  The
     input is expected to use CP-437 or one of the other supported DOS
     codepages.

     The builtin translation tables attempt to match the appearance on VGA as
     close as possible by mapping to Unicode characters looking similar to the
     original IBM PC glyphs in most fonts.  This behavior can be disabled with
     the -X flag, which is helpful when dos2ansi is used to convert some text
     or when using original IBM PC fonts for display.

     The options are as follows:

     -A      Assume full support for ANSI SGR sequences including clearing
             individual attributes.  This gives the shortest possible output
             in most cases, but might not work correctly with some terminals.
             Implies forcing generic ANSI output (-a).

     -B      Disable writing a BOM.

             default:  BOM enabled for UTF-16 and UTF-16LE.

     -C      Disable colors in output.

     -E      Ignore the DOS EOF character (0x1a) and just continue reading.

     -H scrheight
             Set a default screen height.  This is relevant when ANSI.SYS
             sequences for cursor positioning or erasing are used.

             Ignored if the height can be deduced from SAUCE metadata or mode-
             setting ANSI.SYS sequences.

     -I      When using generic ANSI output, don't attempt to explicitly
             select intense colors but rely on the bold attribute for the
             foreground color instead.  For background colors, see -k and -v.

     -P      Force using a normal pipe bar symbol.

             default:  Replace with a broken bar for codepages not having an
                       explicit broken bar.

     -R      Use line endings without CR (Unix format).

             default:  Disabled on Windows, enabled otherwise.

     -S      Don't attempt to read SAUCE metadata.  This enables setting
             options that are otherwise ignored when values are found in
             SAUCE, like the width, whether to use blink or bright colors, and
             the codepage.

     -T      Test mode, instead of reading an input file, use some builtin
             test input that will render a codepage table and a display of all
             foreground and background colors.

     -V      Print version information along with some build-time and OS-
             dependent configuration settings and exit.

     -W      When showing SAUCE (-s), don't attempt to re-wrap the comment but
             show it as is instead.

     -X      Disable the mapping to Unicode codepoints that look more similar
             to the original VGA font in most fonts used nowadays, instead map
             to codepoints identifying the same character.  Use this when
             using some actual IBM-PC font for display.

     -a      Force using the generic ANSI color writer, which defaults to use
             16 explicit colors, but can be configured for just 8 colors as
             well as 256 colors.

             When dos2ansi is built with curses support (non-Windows), it uses
             a terminfo-based writer by default, even when output goes to a
             file, possibly creating terminal-specific output.

             On Windows 10 and later, the terminal supports 256 colors which
             is used by default for output to the console, but can be disabled
             using this flag.  On older Windows versions, only the legacy
             Windows Console API can be used for display, so this flag does
             nothing.

     -b      Force writing a BOM.

             default:  BOM enabled for UTF-16 and UTF-16LE.

     -c codepage
             The MS-DOS codepage used by the input file.  May be prefixed with
             CP (any casing) and an optional space or dash.  When the codepage
             can be found in SAUCE metadata, this flag is ignored.

             supported:
                     437, 708, 720, 737, 775, 819, 850, 852, 855, 857, 860,
                     861, 862, 863, 864, 865, 869, kam, maz, mik
             aliases:
                     858             => 850 with Euro (-e)
                     872             => 855 with Euro (-e)
                     867, 895        => kam
                     667, 790, 991   => maz
                     866             => mik

             default:  437

     -d      Use default terminal colors for VGA's gray on black.

             default:  Explicitly select these colors.

     -e      Use codepage variations with an Euro currency symbol if
             applicable.  For codepages 850, 857, 864 and 869, there are
             specific known places for the Euro symbols.  For other codepages
             that have a generic currency symbol, replace this with the Euro
             currency symbol.

     -h      Print a help text and exit.

     -k      Use blink attribute for intense background colors.  This flag is
             ignored if SAUCE metadata is available.

             Note that blink only works in some terminals.  In any case,
             bright background colors will be disabled.

     -l      Attempt to enforce left-to-right writing direction by wrapping
             the output in a Unicode LTR override region.

     -m      Write some metadata to stderr while rendering.  The output format
             is key=value, this can be used from scripts or for debugging
             purposes.

     -o outfile
             Write output to outfile.  If not given, output is written to the
             standard output.

     -p      Force replacing the pipe bar with a broken bar better matching
             the appearance of most VGA fonts.

             default:  Only replace when the codepage does not have an
                       explicit broken bar.

     -q saucequery
             Query individual SAUCE metadata fields in a machine-readable
             format.  Each field is requested by a single character in
             saucequery and printed on a single line to the standard output,
             converted from CP-437 to UTF-8.

             The following characters are supported in saucequery:

             :       toggle quoting all subsequent fields in single quotes,
                     with literal single quotes translated to '\'' (POSIX
                     shell style)
             T       title
             A       author
             G       group
             D       date (format: YYYYMMDD)
             C       comment, output will be multiple lines, the first line is
                     the number of lines to follow
             t       file and data type
             w       width (in characters)
             h       height (in characters)
             b       background mode (0: blink, 1: bright)
             s       spacing (0: 8px, 1: 9px)
             a       aspect ratio (0: rectangular pixels, 1: square pixels)
             f       font name
             c       codepage

     -r      Use line endings with CR (DOS/Windows format).

             default:  Enabled on Windows, disabled otherwise.

     -s      Show SAUCE metadata instead of actual contents.  If the input
             file does not have SAUCE, dos2ansi will fail.

     -t tabwidth
             Distance of tabstop positions.

             min:      2
             max:      screen width or 255
             default:  8

     -u format
             Unicode output format, one of UTF-8, UTF-16 or UTF-16LE.

             default:  UTF-8, on Windows UTF-16LE when output goes to a file
                       or pipe.

     -v      Use reverse attribute for intense background colors.  With most
             terminals, this will actually result in reversed colors.  It's
             only included for exotic terminals abusing this attribute to
             enable bright background colors.

             Implies disabling explicit intense colors (-I) and conflicts with
             blink (-k).

     -w width
             Width of the virtual screen.  If the width is available from
             SAUCE metadata, this flag is ignored.

             min:      16
             max:      1024
             default:  80

     -x      Attempt to use exact CGA/VGA colors.  This requires a terminal
             capable of 256 colors and is used automatically when dos2ansi is
             built with curses and an appropriate terminal is found, or on
             Windows 10 and later.

     -y      Use exact colors (see -x), but with a "dark yellow" color instead
             of adjusting it to brown, resulting in a palette you would see on
             some CGA machine when using a cheap monitor or a TV set.

     infile  Read input from infile.  If not given, input is read from the
             standard input.

   Additional information
     Version:  dos2ansi v2.0
     License:  BSD 2-clause (all rights reserved)
     WWW:      https://github.com/Zirias/dos2ansi

ENVIRONMENT
     TERM  When dos2ansi is built with curses support (non-Windows only), the
           output by default depends on the current value of TERM, even when
           writing to a file.  This can be used to create files suitable for a
           specific terminal.  To produce generic ANSI output instead, see the
           flags -a and -A.

AUTHORS
     Felix Palmen <felix@palmen-it.de>

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            March 11, 2024            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
