DOSBOX(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              DOSBOX(1)

NAME
       dosbox - an x86/DOS emulator with sound/graphics

SYNOPSIS
       dosbox [-fullscreen] [-startmapper] [-noautoexec] [-securemode]
       [-userconf] [-scaler scaler] [-forcescaler scaler] [-conf configfile]
       [-lang langfile] [file] [-c command] [-exit] [-machine machinetype]

       dosbox -version

       dosbox -editconf program

       dosbox -opencaptures program

       dosbox -printconf

       dosbox -eraseconf

       dosbox -resetconf

       dosbox -erasemapper

       dosbox -resetmapper

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page briefly documents dosbox, an x86/DOS emulator.

       The optional file argument should be a DOS executable or a directory.
       If it is a dos executable (.com .exe .bat) the program will run
       automatically. If it is a directory, a DOS session will run with the
       directory mounted as C:\.

       For an introduction type INTRO inside dosbox.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       -fullscreen
              Start dosbox in fullscreen mode.

       -startmapper
              Start the internal keymapper on startup of dosbox. You can use
              it to change the keys dosbox uses.

       -noautoexec
              Skips the [autoexec] section of the loaded configuration file.

       -securemode
              Same as -noautoexec, but adds config.com  -securemode at the end
              of AUTOEXEC.BAT (which in turn disables any changes to how the
              drives are mounted inside dosbox)

       -userconf
              Load the configuration file located in ~/.dosbox. Can be
              combined with the -conf option.

       -scaler scaler
              Uses the graphical scaler specified by scaler. See the
              configuration file for the available scalers

       -forcescaler scaler
              Similar to the -scaler parameter, but tries to force usage of
              the specified scaler even if it might not fit.

       -c command
              Runs the specified command before running  file.  Multiple
              commands can be specified. Each command should start with  -c
              though. A command can be: an Internal Program, a DOS command or
              an executable on a mounted drive.

       -conf configfile
              Start dosbox with the options specified in  configfile. This
              file has a section in which you can put commands you  wish to
              execute on startup. Multiple configfiles can be present at the
              commandline.

       -lang langfile
              Start dosbox with the language specified in  langfile.

       -exit  dosbox will close itself when the DOS program specified by file
              ends.

       -machine machinetype
              Setup dosbox to emulate a specific type of machine.  Valid
              choices are: hercules, cga, tandy, pcjr, ega, vgaonly,
              svga_s3(default), svga_et3000, svga_et4000, svga_paradise,
              vesa_nolfb, vesa_oldvbe.  The machinetype has influence on both
              the videocard and the available soundcards.

       -version
              Output version information and exit. Useful for frontends.

       -editconf program
              calls program with as first parameter the configuration file.
              You can specify this command more than once. In this case it
              will  move to second program if the first one fails to start.

       -opencaptures program
              calls program with as  first paramater the location of the
              captures folder.

       -printconf
              prints the location of the default configuration file.

       -eraseconf, -resetconf
              removes the default configuration file.

       -erasemapper, -resetmapper
              removes the mapperfile configured in the clean default
              configuration file.

INTERNAL COMMANDS
       dosbox supports most of the DOS commands found in command.com. In
       addition, the following extra commands are available:

       MOUNT [-t type] [-size size] driveletter sourcedirectory [-ioctl]
              [-usecd number] [-label drivelabel] [-freesize freesize]

       MOUNT -cd

       MOUNT -u driveletter

       Program to mount local directories as drives inside dosbox.

              driveletter
                     The driveletter inside dosbox (eg. C).

              sourcedirectory
                     The local directory you want to have inside dosbox.

              -t type
                     Type of the mounted directory. Supported are: dir
                     (standard), floppy, cdrom.

              -size drivesize
                     Sets the size of the drive. See the examples in the
                     README for details.

              -freesize size_in_mb
                     Sets the amount of free space available on a drive in
                     MB's. This is a more simple version of -size.

              -label drivelabel
                     Sets the name of the drive to drivelabel. Needed on some
                     systems if the cd label isn't read correctly. Useful when
                     a program can't find its cdrom. If you don't specify a
                     label and no lowlevel support is selected (-usecd #
                     and/or -ioctl/aspi):

                     For win32: label is extracted from "Real Drive".

                     For Linux: label is set to NO_LABEL.

                     If you do specify a label this label will be kept as long
                     as the drive
                            is mounted. It will not be updated !!

              -ioctl Forces to use ioctl commands.

              -usecd number
                     Forces to use SDL cdrom support for drive number.  Number
                     can be found by  -cd.

              -cd    Displays all detected cdrom drives and their numbers. Use
                     with -usecd.

              -u     Unmounts a mounted drive. Doesn't work on virtual Drives
                     (like Z:\)

       Example:

       To mount your /home/dos/dosgames directory as C drive in dosbox:
              mount c /home/dos/dosgames

       MEM

       Display the amount of free memory

       CONFIG [-writeconf] [-writelang] file

       CONFIG -securemode

       Write the current configuration or language settings to file, which is
       located on the local filesystem. Not a mounted drive in dosbox.

              -securemode
                     Switchesdosbox to a more secure mode. In this mode the
                     internal commands MOUNT, IMGMOUNT and BOOT won´t work.
                     It´s not possible either to create a new configfile or
                     languagefile in this mode.  (Warning you can only undo
                     this mode by restarting dosbox.)

       The configuration file controls various settings of dosbox: The amount
       of emulated memory, the emulated soundcards and many more things. It
       further allows acces to AUTOEXEC.BAT.

       The language file controls all visible output of the internal commands
       and the internal dos.  See the section FILES for more information.

       LOADFIX [-size] [programname] [parameters]

       LOADFIX -f

       Program to reduce the amount of  memory available. Useful for old
       programs which don't expect much memory to be free.

              [programname]
                     The name of the program which is executed after loadfix
                     eats up its memory.

              [parameters]
                     Parameters given to the programname executable.

              -size  The amount of memory to eat up (in kb). Example -32, -64
                     or -128

              -f     Frees all memory eaten up by loadfix.

       RESCAN

       Make dosbox reread the directory structure. Useful if you changed
       something on a mounted drive outside dosbox.(CTRL-F4 does this as
       well!)

       IMGMOUNT

       A utility to mount disk images and CD‐ROM images in dosbox.

       Read the README of dosbox for the full and correct syntax.

       BOOT

       Boot will start floppy images or hard disk images independent of the
       operating system emulation offered by dosbox.  This will allow you to
       play booter floppies or boot to other operating systems inside dosbox.

       Read the README of dosbox for the full and correct syntax.

       IPX

       You need to enable IPX networking in the configuration file of dosbox.
       All of the IPX networking is managed through the internal dosbox
       program IPXNET. For help on the IPX networking from inside dosbox, type
       IPXNET HELP and the program will list out the commands and relevant
       documentation.

       Read the README of dosbox for the full and correct syntax.

       KEYB

       Keyb can change the keyboardlayout and the codepage used inside dosbox.

       Read the README of dosbox for the full and correct syntax.

FILES
       Configuration and language files use a format similar to Windows .ini
       files.  If no configfile is specified at the commandline, a file named
       dosbox.conf (if present in the current directory) will be loaded
       automatically. If a configfile is specified at the commandline that one
       will be used instead. If no configfile is specified or found in the
       current directory  then dosbox will load one from ~/.dosbox/. It will
       try to create  one if there is none.

SPECIAL KEYS
       ALT-ENTER
              Go full screen and back.

       ALT-PAUSE
              Pause emulation.

       CTRL-F1
              Start the keymapper.

       CTRL-ALT-F5
              Start/Stop creating a movie of the screen.

       CTRL-F4
              Swap mounted disk‐image (Only used with imgmount). Update
              directory cache for all drives!

       CTRL-F5
              Save a screenshot.(png)

       CTRL-F6
              Start/Stop recording sound output to a wave file.

       CTRL-ALT-F7
              Start/Stop recording of OPL commands.

       CTRL-ALT-F8
              Start/Stop the recording of raw MIDI commands.

       CTRL-F7
              Decrease frameskip.

       CTRL-F8
              Increase frameskip.

       CTRL-F9
              Kill dosbox.

       CTRL-F10
              Capture/Release the mouse.

       CTRL-F11
              Slow down emulation (Increase dosbox Cycles).

       CTRL-F12
              Speed up emulation (Decrease dosbox Cycles).

       ALT-F12
              Unlock speed (turbo button).

       These are the default keybindings. They can be changed in the
       keymapper.

       Saved/recorded files can be found in current_directory/capture (can be
       changed in the configfile).  The directory has to exist prior to
       starting dosbox else nothing gets saved/recorded !

       Note: Once you increase your dosbox cycles beyond your computer's
       maximum capacity, it will produce the same effect as slowing down the
       emulation.  This maximum will vary from computer to computer, there is
       no standard.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
       Fast machine. My guess would be Pentium-2 400+ to get decent emulation
       of games written for an 286 machine.  For protected mode games a 1 Ghz
       machine is recommended and don't expect them to run fast though!! Be
       sure to read the next section on how to speed it up somewhat.

   To run resource-demanding games
       dosbox emulates the CPU, the sound and graphic cards, and some other
       stuff, all at the same time. You can overclock dosbox by using
       CTRL-F12, but you'll be limited by the power of your actual CPU. You
       can see how much free time your true CPU has by various utils (top).
       Once 100% of your real CPU time is used there is no further way to
       speed up dosbox unless you reduce the load generated by the non-CPU
       parts of dosbox.

       So:

       Close every program but dosbox.

       Overclock  dosbox until 100% of your CPU is used.(CTRL-F12)

       Since VGA emulation is the most demanding part of dosbox in terms of
       actual CPU usage, we'll start here. Increase the number of frames
       skipped (in increments of one) by pressing CTRL-F8. Your CPU usage
       should decrease.  Go back one step and repeat this until the game runs
       fast enough for you.  Please note that this is a trade off: you lose in
       fluidity of video what you gain in speed.

NOTES
       While we hope that, one day, dosbox will run virtually all programs
       ever made for the PC...  we are not there yet. At present, dosbox run
       on a 1.7 Gigahertz PC is roughly the equivalent of a 25MHz 386 PC.
       While the 0.60 release has added support for "protected mode" allowing
       for more complex and recent programs, but note that this support is
       early in development and nowhere near as complete as the support for
       386 real-mode games (or earlier). Also note that "protected mode" games
       need substantially more resources and may require a much faster
       processor for you to run it properly in dosbox.

BUGS
       Not all DOS programs work properly.  dosbox will exit without warning
       if an error occurred.

SEE ALSO
       The README in /usr/local/share/doc/dosbox

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Peter Veenstra
       <H.P.Veenstra@student.rug.nl> and James Oakley <jfunk@funktronics.ca>,
       for the Debian system (but may be used by others).

                                August 30, 2018                      DOSBOX(1)
