drool(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               drool(1)

NAME
       drool - DNS Replay Tool

SYNOPSIS
       drool command [ options ] < arguments >

DESCRIPTION
       drool can replay DNS traffic from packet capture (PCAP) files and send
       it to a specified server, with options such as to manipulate the timing
       between packets, as well as loop packets infinitely or for a set number
       of iterations.  This tool's goal is to be able to produce a high amount
       of UDP packets per second and TCP sessions per second on common
       hardware.

       The purpose can be to simulate Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
       attacks on the DNS and measure normal DNS querying.  For example, the
       tool could enable you to take a snapshot of a DDoS and be able to
       replay it later to test if new code or hardening techniques are useful,
       safe & effective.  Another example is to be able to replay a packet
       stream for a bug that is sequence- and/or timing-related in order to
       validate the efficacy of subsequent bug fixes.

COMMANDS
       drool is divided into various commands for different scenarios.  Each
       command has it's own man-page, may take different arguments and may
       have additional options.

       replay Replay DNS from a PCAP file, see drool-replay(1).

       respdiff
              Replay DNS and store the responses along with the responses
              found in the PCAP for analysis with the respdiff tool-chain, see
              drool-respdiff(1).

OPTIONS
       These options are generic for all drool commands.

       --csv  Output statistics as CSV.

       --json Output statistics as JSON.

       -v --verbose
              Enable verbose logging, can be given multiple times to increase
              verbosity level.

       -h --help
              Print help and exit.

       -V --version
              Print version and exit.

EXIT VALUES
       0 - no error
       1 - generic error

SEE ALSO
       drool-replay(1)

AUTHORS
       Jerry Lundström, DNS-OARC

       Maintained by DNS-OARC

              https://www.dns-oarc.net/

BUGS
       For issues and feature requests please use:

              https://github.com/DNS-OARC/drool/issues

       For question and help please use:

              admin@dns-oarc.net

DNS Replay Tool                      2.0.0                            drool(1)
