dbclient(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            dbclient(1)

NAME
       dbclient - lightweight SSH client

SYNOPSIS
       dbclient [flag arguments] [-p port] [-i id] [-L l:h:p] [-R l:h:p] [-l
       user] host [more_flags] [command]

       dbclient [args] [user1]@host1[^port1],[user2]@host2[^port2],...


DESCRIPTION
       dbclient is the client part of Dropbear SSH

OPTIONS
       command
              A command to run on the remote host. This will normally be run
              by the remote host using the user's shell. The command begins at
              the first hyphen argument after the host argument. If no command
              is specified an interactive terminal will be opened (see -t and
              -T).

       -p port
              Connect to port on the remote host. Alternatively a port can be
              specified as hostname^port.  Default is 22.

       -i idfile
              Identity file.  Read the identity key from file idfile (multiple
              allowed). This file is created with dropbearkey(1) or converted
              from OpenSSH with dropbearconvert(1). The default path
              ~/.ssh/id_dropbear is used

       -L [listenaddress]:listenport:host:port
              Local port forwarding.  Forward listenport on the local host
              through the SSH connection to port on host.

       -R [listenaddress]:listenport:host:port
              Remote port forwarding.  Forward listenport on the remote host
              through the SSH connection to port on host.

       -l user
              Username.  Login as user on the remote host. An alternative is
              to specify user@host.

       -t     Allocate a PTY. This is the default when no command is given, it
              gives a full interactive remote session. The main effect is that
              keystrokes are sent remotely immediately as opposed to local
              line-based editing.

       -T     Don't allocate a PTY. This is the default when a command is
              given. See -t.

       -N     Don't request a remote shell or run any commands. Any command
              arguments are ignored.

       -f     Fork into the background after authentication. A command
              argument (or -N) is required.  This is useful when using
              password authentication.

       -g     Allow non-local hosts to connect to forwarded ports. Applies to
              -L and -R forwarded ports, though remote connections to -R
              forwarded ports may be limited by the ssh server.

       -y     Always accept hostkeys if they are unknown. If a hostkey
              mismatch occurs the connection will abort as normal. If
              specified a second time no host key checking is performed at
              all, this is usually undesirable.

       -A     Forward agent connections to the remote host. dbclient will use
              any OpenSSH-style agent program if available ($SSH_AUTH_SOCK
              will be set) for public key authentication.  Forwarding is only
              enabled if -A is specified.

              Beware that a forwarded agent connection will allow the remote
              server to have the same authentication credentials as you have
              used locally. A compromised remote server could use that to log
              in to other servers.

              In many situations Dropbear's multi-hop mode is a better and
              more secure alternative to agent forwarding, avoiding having to
              trust the intermediate server.

              If the SSH agent program is set to prompt when a key is used,
              the -o DisableTrivialAuth option can prevent UI confusion.


       -W windowsize
              Specify the per-channel receive window buffer size. Increasing
              this may improve network performance at the expense of memory
              use. Use -h to see the default buffer size.

       -K timeout_seconds
              Ensure that traffic is transmitted at a certain interval in
              seconds. This is useful for working around firewalls or routers
              that drop connections after a certain period of inactivity. The
              trade-off is that a session may be closed if there is a
              temporary lapse of network connectivity. A setting if 0 disables
              keepalives. If no response is received for 3 consecutive
              keepalives the connection will be closed.

       -I idle_timeout
              Disconnect the session if no traffic is transmitted or received
              for idle_timeout seconds.

       -z     By default Dropbear will send network traffic with the AF21
              setting for QoS, letting network devices give it higher
              priority. Some devices may have problems with that, -z can be
              used to disable it.

       -J proxy_command

       -J &fd
              Use the standard input/output of the program proxy_command
              rather than using a normal TCP connection. A hostname should be
              still be provided, as this is used for comparing saved hostkeys.
              This command will be executed as "exec proxy_command ..." with
              the default shell.

              The second form &fd will make dbclient use the numeric file
              descriptor as a socket. This can be used for more complex
              tunnelling scenarios. Example usage with socat is

              socat EXEC:'dbclient -J &38 ev',fdin=38,fdout=38
              TCP4:host.example.com:22


       -B endhost:endport
              "Netcat-alike" mode, where Dropbear will connect to the given
              host, then create a forwarded connection to endhost. This will
              then be presented as dbclient's standard input/output.

       -c cipherlist
              Specify a comma separated list of ciphers to enable. Use -c help
              to list possibilities.

       -m MAClist
              Specify a comma separated list of authentication MACs to enable.
              Use -m help to list possibilities.

       -o option
              Can be used to give options in the format used by OpenSSH config
              file. This is useful for specifying options for which there is
              no separate command-line flag.  For full details of the options
              listed below, and their possible values, see ssh_config(5).  The
              following options have currently been implemented:


              BatchMode
                     Disable interactive prompts e.g. password prompts and
                     host key confirmation. The argument must be "yes" or "no"
                     (the default).

              BindAddress
                     Specify address and port on the local machine as the
                     source address of the connection.

              DisableTrivialAuth
                     Disallow a server immediately giving successful
                     authentication (without presenting any password/pubkey
                     prompt).  This avoids a UI confusion issue where it may
                     appear that the user is accepting a SSH agent prompt from
                     their local machine, but are actually accepting a prompt
                     sent immediately by the remote server.

              ExitOnForwardFailure
                     Specifies whether dbclient should terminate the
                     connection if it cannot set up all requested local and
                     remote port forwardings. The argument must be "yes" or
                     "no" (the default).

              ForwardAgent
                     Forward the authentication agent to the remote machine.
                     The argument must be "yes" or "no" (the default).

              GatewayPorts
                     Allow to remote host to connect to local forwarded ports.
                     The argument must be "yes" or "no" (the default).

              IdentityFile
                     Specify an authentication identity file path.

              PasswordAuthentication
                     Allow to prompt a user for a password. If the
                     DROPBEAR_PASSWORD env is specified then it still will be
                     used. The argument must be "yes" (the default) or "no".

              Port   Specify a listening port, like the -p argument.

              ProxyCommand
                     Specify the proxy command to use to connect to the
                     server.

              ServerAliveInterval
                     Sets a timeout interval in seconds between keep-alive
                     messages through the encrypted channel. The default is 0
                     e.g. disabled.

              StrictHostKeyChecking
                     Use "yes" to refuse connection to hosts where the host
                     key is not already correct in known_hosts. Entries must
                     be added to known_hosts manually.

                     Use "no" to skip the known_hosts key checking.

                     Use "accept-new" to add new host keys to the known_hosts
                     and refuse to connect if the host key has changed.

                     "ask" is the default.


              UseSyslog
                     Send dbclient log messages to syslog in addition to
                     stderr.

       -s     The specified command will be requested as a subsystem, used for
              sftp. Dropbear doesn't implement sftp itself but the OpenSSH
              sftp client can be used eg sftp -S dbclient user@host

       -b [address][:port]
              Bind to a specific local address when connecting to the remote
              host. This can be used to choose from multiple outgoing
              interfaces. Either address or port (or both) can be given.

       -V     Print the version


MULTI-HOP
       Dropbear will also allow multiple "hops" to be specified, separated by
       commas. In this case a connection will be made to the first host, then
       a TCP forwarded connection will be made through that to the second
       host, and so on. Hosts other than the final destination will not see
       anything other than the encrypted SSH stream.  A port for a host can be
       specified with a caret (eg matt@martello^44 ).  This syntax can also be
       used with scp or rsync (specifying dbclient as the ssh/rsh command). A
       file can be "bounced" through multiple SSH hops, eg

       scp -S dbclient matt@martello,root@wrt,canyons:/tmp/dump .

       Note that hostnames are resolved by the prior hop (so "canyons" would
       be resolved by the host "wrt") in the example above, the same way as
       other -L TCP forwarded hosts are. Host keys are checked locally based
       on the given hostname.


ESCAPE CHARACTERS
       Typing a newline followed by the  key sequence ~. (tilde, dot) will
       terminate a connection.  The sequence ~^Z (tilde, ctrl-z) will
       background the connection. This behaviour only applies when a PTY is
       used.

       ~R will perform a key re-exchange of ephemeral session keys.


ENVIRONMENT
       DROPBEAR_PASSWORD
              A password to use for remote authentication can be specified in
              the environment variable DROPBEAR_PASSWORD. Care should be taken
              that the password is not exposed to other users on a multi-user
              system, or stored in accessible files.

       SSH_ASKPASS
              dbclient can use an external program to request a password from
              a user.  SSH_ASKPASS should be set to the path of a program that
              will return a password on standard output. This program will
              only be used if either DISPLAY is set and standard input is not
              a TTY, or the environment variable SSH_ASKPASS_ALWAYS is set.


FILES
       ~/.ssh/dropbear_config

       This is the per user configuration file. A very limited subset of the
       keywords for ssh_config(5) is supported, and none of the advanced
       features. The file contains key value pairs on a single line separated
       with space or '='. Empty lines are ignored.  Text starting with '#' is
       a comment, and also ignored.

       The file is not considered if multi-hop connection is used. Values on
       the command line override the respective values in the file.

       The recognized keywords are as follows. Keywords are case insensitive
       and values are case insensitive.


       Host   Defines the options that would be applied if this value matches
              the host specified on the command line. The next Host entry or
              EOF determine the list of applicable options.


       HostName
              Specifies the actual host name to connect to. Can be DNS name or
              IP address.


       Port   Specifies the port number to use to connect to the remote host.


       User   Specifies the user name to login in as.


       IdentityFile
              Specifies the file with the private key used for public key
              authentication with the remote host. The file must be in the
              Dropbear format. See dropbearkey(1) to generate one. A '~/' at
              the start of the path will expanded to the executing user's home
              directory. A path that does not start with '/' will be treated
              relative to this configuration file's directory. Otherwise the
              path will be used as is.

              Because this file contains a secret it must have strict
              permissions to prevent abuse attempts - read/write for the
              executing user, and no access to anyone else.


NOTES
       If compiled with zlib support and if the server supports it, dbclient
       will always use compression.


AUTHOR
       Matt Johnston (matt@ucc.asn.au).
       Mihnea Stoenescu wrote initial Dropbear client support
       Gerrit Pape (pape@smarden.org) wrote this manual page.

SEE ALSO
       dropbear(8), dropbearkey(1)

       https://matt.ucc.asn.au/dropbear/dropbear.html

                                  2023-02-01                       dbclient(1)
