DTRACE_SCHED(4)        FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual        DTRACE_SCHED(4)

NAME
     dtrace_sched – a DTrace provider for tracing CPU scheduling events

SYNOPSIS
     sched:::change-pri(struct thread *, struct proc *, uint8_t);

     sched:::dequeue(struct thread *, struct proc *, void *);

     sched:::enqueue(struct thread *, struct proc *, void *, int);

     sched:::lend-pri(struct thread *, struct proc *, uint8_t,
         struct thread *);

     sched:::load-change(int, int);

     sched:::off-cpu(struct thread *, struct proc *);

     sched:::on-cpu();

     sched:::preempt();

     sched:::remain-cpu();

     sched:::surrender(struct thread *, struct proc *);

     sched:::sleep();

     sched:::tick(struct thread *, struct proc *);

     sched:::wakeup(struct thread *, struct proc *);

DESCRIPTION
     The DTrace sched provider allows the tracing of events related to CPU
     scheduling in the 4BSD and ULE schedulers.

     The sched:::change-pri() probe fires when a thread's active scheduling
     priority is about to be updated.  The first two arguments are the thread
     whose priority is about to be changed, and the corresponding process.
     The third argument is the new absolute priority for the thread, while the
     current value is given by args[0]->td_priority.  The sched:::lend-pri()
     probe fires when the currently-running thread elevates the priority of
     another thread via priority lending.  The first two arguments are the
     thread whose priority is about to be changed, and the corresponding
     process.  The third argument is the new absolute priority for the thread.
     The fourth argument is the currently-running thread.

     The sched:::dequeue() probe fires immediately before a runnable thread is
     removed from a scheduler run queue.  This may occur when the thread is
     about to begin execution on a CPU, or because the thread is being
     migrated to a different run queue.  The latter event may occur in several
     circumstances: the scheduler may be attempting to rebalance load between
     multiple CPUs, the thread's scheduling priority may have changed, or the
     thread's CPU affinity settings may have changed.  The first two arguments
     to sched:::dequeue() are the thread and corresponding process.  The third
     argument is currently always NULL.  The sched:::enqueue() probe fires
     when a runnable thread is about to be added to a scheduler run queue.
     Its first two arguments are the thread and corresponding process.  The
     third argument is currently always NULL.  The fourth argument is a
     boolean value that is non-zero if the thread is enqueued at the beginning
     of its run queue slot, and zero if the thread is instead enqueued at the
     end.

     The sched:::load-change() probe fires after the load of a thread queue is
     adjusted.  The first argument is the cpuid for the CPU associated with
     the thread queue, and the second argument is the adjusted load of the
     thread queue, i.e., the number of elements in the queue.

     The sched:::off-cpu() probe is triggered by the scheduler suspending
     execution of the currently-running thread, and the sched:::on-cpu() probe
     fires when the current thread has been selected to run on a CPU and is
     about to begin or resume execution.  The arguments to sched:::off-cpu()
     are the thread and corresponding process selected to run following the
     currently-running thread.  If these two threads are the same, the
     sched:::remain-cpu() probe will fire instead.

     The sched:::surrender() probe fires when the scheduler is called upon to
     make a scheduling decision by a thread running on a different CPU, via an
     interprocessor interrupt.  The arguments to this probe are the
     interrupted thread and its corresponding process.  This probe currently
     always fires in the context of the interrupted thread.

     The sched:::preempt() probe will fire immediately before the currently-
     running thread is preempted.  When this occurs, the scheduler will select
     a new thread to run, and one of the sched:::off-cpu() or
     sched:::remain-cpu() probes will subsequently fire, depending on whether
     or not the scheduler selects the preempted thread.

     The sched:::sleep() probe fires immediately before the currently-running
     thread is about to suspend execution and begin waiting for a condition to
     be met.  The sched:::wakeup() probe fires when a thread is set up to
     resume execution after having gone to sleep.  Its arguments are the
     thread being awoken, and the corresponding process.

     The sched:::tick() fires before each scheduler clock tick.  Its arguments
     are the currently-running thread and its corresponding process.

ARGUMENTS
     The sched provider probes use the kernel types struct proc and struct
     thread to represent processes and threads, respectively.  These
     structures have many fields and are defined in sys/proc.h.  In a probe
     body, the currently-running thread can always be obtained with the
     curthread global variable, which has type struct thread *.  For example,
     when a running thread is about to sleep, the sched:::sleep() probe fires
     in the context of that thread, which can be accessed using curthread.
     The curcpu global variable contains the cpuid of the CPU on which the
     currently-running thread is executing.

EXAMPLES
     The following script gives a breakdown of CPU utilization by process
     name:

           sched:::on-cpu
           {
                   self->ts = timestamp;
           }

           sched:::off-cpu
           /self->ts != 0/
           {
                   @[execname] = sum((timestamp - self->ts) / 1000);
                   self->ts = 0;
           }

     Here, DTrace stores a timestamp each time a thread is scheduled to run,
     and computes the time elapsed in microseconds when it is descheduled.
     The results are summed by process name.

COMPATIBILITY
     This provider is not compatible with the sched provider found in Solaris.
     In particular, the probe argument types are native FreeBSD types, and the
     sched:::cpucaps-sleep(), sched:::cpucaps-wakeup(),
     sched:::schedctl-nopreempt(), sched:::schedctl-preempt(), and
     sched:::schedctl-yield() probes are not available in FreeBSD.

     The sched:::lend-pri() and sched:::load-change() probes are specific to
     FreeBSD.

SEE ALSO
     dtrace(1), sched_4bsd(4), sched_ule(4), SDT(9), sleepqueue(9)

HISTORY
     The sched provider first appeared in FreeBSD 8.4 and 9.1.

AUTHORS
     This manual page was written by Mark Johnston <markj@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         April 18, 2015         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
