DTRACE_LOCKSTAT(4)     FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual     DTRACE_LOCKSTAT(4)

NAME
     dtrace_lockstat – a DTrace provider for tracing CPU scheduling events

SYNOPSIS
     lockstat:::adaptive-acquire(struct mtx *);

     lockstat:::adaptive-release(struct mtx *);

     lockstat:::adaptive-spin(struct mtx *, uint64_t);

     lockstat:::adaptive-block(struct mtx *, uint64_t);

     lockstat:::spin-acquire(struct mtx *);

     lockstat:::spin-release(struct mtx *);

     lockstat:::spin-spin(struct mtx *, uint64_t);

     lockstat:::rw-acquire(struct rwlock *, int);

     lockstat:::rw-release(struct rwlock *, int);

     lockstat:::rw-block(struct rwlock *, uint64_t, int, int, int);

     lockstat:::rw-spin(struct rwlock *, uint64_t);

     lockstat:::rw-upgrade(struct rwlock *);

     lockstat:::rw-downgrade(struct rwlock *);

     lockstat:::sx-acquire(struct sx *, int);

     lockstat:::sx-release(struct sx *, int);

     lockstat:::sx-block(struct sx *, uint64_t, int, int, int);

     lockstat:::sx-spin(struct sx *, uint64_t);

     lockstat:::sx-upgrade(struct sx *);

     lockstat:::sx-downgrade(struct sx *);

     lockstat:::lockmgr-acquire(struct lock *, int);

     lockstat:::lockmgr-release(struct lock *, int);

     lockstat:::lockmgr-disown(struct lock *, int);

     lockstat:::lockmgr-block(struct lock *, uint64_t, int, int, int);

     lockstat:::lockmgr-upgrade(struct lock *);

     lockstat:::lockmgr-downgrade(struct lock *);

     lockstat:::thread-spin(struct mtx *, uint64);

DESCRIPTION
     The DTrace lockstat provider allows the tracing of events related to
     locking on FreeBSD.

     The dtrace_lockstat provider contains DTrace probes for inspecting kernel
     lock state transitions.  Probes exist for the lockmgr(9), mutex(9),
     rwlock(9), and sx(9) lock types.  The lockstat(1) utility can be used to
     collect and display data collected from the dtrace_lockstat provider.
     Each type of lock has acquire() and release() probes which expose the
     lock structure being operated upon, as well as probes which fire when a
     thread contends with other threads for ownership of a lock.

     The lockstat:::adaptive-acquire() and lockstat:::adaptive-release()
     probes fire when an MTX_DEF mutex(9) is acquired and released,
     respectively.  The only argument is a pointer to the lock structure which
     describes the lock being acquired or released.

     The lockstat:::adaptive-spin() probe fires when a thread spins while
     waiting for a MTX_DEF mutex(9) to be released by another thread.  The
     first argument is a pointer to the lock structure that describes the lock
     and the second argument is the amount of time, in nanoseconds, that the
     mutex spent spinning.  The lockstat:::adaptive-block() probe fires when a
     thread takes itself off the CPU while trying to acquire an MTX_DEF
     mutex(9) that is owned by another thread.  The first argument is a
     pointer to the lock structure that describes the lock and the second
     argument is the length of time, in nanoseconds, that the waiting thread
     was blocked.  The lockstat:::adaptive-block() and
     lockstat:::adaptive-spin() probes fire only after the lock has been
     successfully acquired, and in particular, after the
     lockstat:::adaptive-acquire() probe fires.

     The lockstat:::spin-acquire() and lockstat:::spin-release() probes fire
     when a MTX_SPIN mutex(9) is acquired or released, respectively.  The only
     argument is a pointer to the lock structure which describes the lock
     being acquired or released.

     The lockstat:::spin-spin() probe fires when a thread spins while waiting
     for a MTX_SPIN mutex(9) to be released by another thread.  The first
     argument is a pointer to the lock structure that describes the lock and
     the second argument is the length of the time spent spinning, in
     nanoseconds.  The lockstat:::spin-spin() probe fires only after the lock
     has been successfully acquired, and in particular, after the
     lockstat:::spin-acquire() probe fires.

     The lockstat:::rw-acquire() and lockstat:::rw-release() probes fire when
     a rwlock(9) is acquired or released, respectively.  The first argument is
     a pointer to the structure which describes the lock being acquired.  The
     second argument is 0 if the lock is being acquired or released as a
     writer, and 1 if it is being acquired or released as a reader.  The
     lockstat:::sx-acquire() and lockstat:::sx-release(), and
     lockstat:::lockmgr-acquire() and lockstat:::lockmgr-release() probes fire
     upon the corresponding events for sx(9) and lockmgr(9) locks,
     respectively.  The lockstat:::lockmgr-disown() probe fires when a
     lockmgr(9) exclusive lock is disowned.  In this state, the lock remains
     exclusively held, but may be released by a different thread.  The
     lockstat:::lockmgr-release() probe does not fire when releasing a
     disowned lock.  The first argument is a pointer to the structure which
     describes the lock being disowned.  The second argument is 0, for
     compatibility with lockstat:::lockmgr-release().

     The lockstat:::rw-block(), lockstat:::sx-block(), and
     lockstat:::lockmgr-block() probes fire when a thread removes itself from
     the CPU while waiting to acquire a lock of the corresponding type.  The
     lockstat:::rw-spin() and lockstat:::sx-spin() probes fire when a thread
     spins while waiting to acquire a lock of the corresponding type.  All
     probes take the same set of arguments.  The first argument is a pointer
     to the lock structure that describes the lock.  The second argument is
     the length of time, in nanoseconds, that the waiting thread was off the
     CPU or spinning for the lock.  The third argument is 0 if the thread is
     attempting to acquire the lock as a writer, and 1 if the thread is
     attempting to acquire the lock as a reader.  The fourth argument is 0 if
     the thread is waiting for a reader to release the lock, and 1 if the
     thread is waiting for a writer to release the lock.  The fifth argument
     is the number of readers that held the lock when the thread first
     attempted to acquire the lock.  This argument will be 0 if the fourth
     argument is 1.

     The lockstat:::lockmgr-upgrade(), lockstat:::rw-upgrade(), and
     lockstat:::sx-upgrade() probes fire when a thread successfully upgrades a
     held lockmgr(9), rwlock(9), or sx(9) shared/reader lock to an
     exclusive/writer lock.  The only argument is a pointer to the structure
     which describes the lock being acquired.  The
     lockstat:::lockmgr-downgrade(), lockstat:::rw-downgrade(), and
     lockstat:::sx-downgrade() probes fire when a thread downgrades a held
     lockmgr(9), rwlock(9), or sx(9) exclusive/writer lock to a shared/reader
     lock.

     The lockstat:::thread-spin() probe fires when a thread spins on a thread
     lock, which is a specialized MTX_SPIN mutex(9).  The first argument is a
     pointer to the structure that describes the lock and the second argument
     is the length of time, in nanoseconds, that the thread was spinning.

SEE ALSO
     dtrace(1), lockstat(1), locking(9), mutex(9), rwlock(9), SDT(9), sx(9)

HISTORY
     The dtrace_lockstat provider first appeared in Solaris.  The FreeBSD
     implementation of the dtrace_lockstat provider first appeared in
     FreeBSD 9.

AUTHORS
     This manual page was written by George V. Neville-Neil <gnn@FreeBSD.org>
     and Mark Johnston <markj@FreeBSD.org>.

BUGS
     Probes for rmlock(9) locks have not yet been added.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         August 20, 2019        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
