DUNECONTROL(1)          FreeBSD General Commands Manual         DUNECONTROL(1)

NAME
       dunecontrol - Control program for the Dune build system

SYNOPSIS
       dunecontrol [OPTIONS] COMMANDS [COMMAND-OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       dunecontrol is the control program for the build system of the Dune
       libraries.

       The Dune libraries form a set of modules.  Each can be built
       independently using CMake.  Additionally, though, there are
       dependencies between modules, which are expected to form a directed
       acyclic graph.  These dependencies are set in a file called dune.module
       contained in the main directory of each Dune module.

       The dunecontrol program helps to build sets of inter-dependent modules.
       It allows to construct the entire dependency graph and obtain
       information about it.  Then it allows to run various build-related
       commands for all modules.  These are executed in the order mandated by
       the dependency graph.


COMMANDS
       Colon-separated list of commands. Available commands are:

       help

              Show a help message and exit

       print

              Print the list of modules sorted according to their dependency
              relations

       info

              Same as `print', but including whether it is a dependency or
              suggestion

       printdeps

              Print recursive dependencies of a module

       vcsetup

              Setup version control repository (Git etc.) or working copy
              (SVN)

       update

              Update all modules from the repository from their respective
              version control systems

       configure

              Run cmake for each module

       make

              Run make for each module

       all

              Run the 'configure' and 'make' commands for each module

       exec

              Execute an arbitrary command in each module source directory

       bexec

              Execute an arbitrary command in each module build directory

       status

              Show version control status for each module

       svn

              Run svn command for each svn-managed module

       git

              Run git command for each git-managed module

       export

              Run eval `dunecontrol export` to save the list of dune.module
              files to the DUNE_CONTROL_PATH variable

OPTIONS
       -h, --help

              Show this help

       --debug

              Run with debugging output enabled

       --module=mod

              Apply the actions on module mod and all modules it depends on

       --only=mod

              Only apply the actions on module mod , but not on the modules it
              depends on

       --current

              Only apply the actions on the current module, the one whose
              source tree we are in

       --current-dep

              Apply the actions on the current module, and all modules it
              depends on

       --resume

              Resume a previous run (only consider the modules not built
              successfully on the previous run)

       --skipfirst

              Skip the first module (use with --resume)

       --skipversioncheck

              When looking for Dune modules, do not check whether they have
              the required versions

       --opts=file

              Load default options from file

       --builddir=name

              Make out-of-source builds in a subdir name. This directory is
              created inside each module.

       --[COMMAND]-opts=opts

              Set options for COMMAND (this is mainly useful for the 'all'
              COMMAND)



ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       dunecontrol looks for Dune modules in all directories given in the
       DUNE_CONTROL_PATH variable, and additionally recursively in all
       subdirectories of those directories.  The default for the case that
       DUNE_CONTROL_PATH is empty is the current directory, plus a system-wide
       installation in /usr.


AUTHOR
       Dune was written by the Dune team (https://www.dune-
       project.org/community/people).

       This manual page was written by Oliver Sander.


COPYRIGHT
       Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
       are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
       without any warranty.

                               November 8, 2016                 DUNECONTROL(1)
