DWARFDUMP()                                                        DWARFDUMP()

NAME
       dwarfdump - dumps DWARF debug information of an ELF object

SYNOPSIS
       dwarfdump [options] objectfilename

DESCRIPTION
       The dwarfdump command prints or checks DWARF sections as requested by
       specific options.  With no options (but with the required
       objectfilename ) all sections print (but some sections cannot be
       printed independently safely, so those are only printed at offsets
       where the .debug_info section refers to those sections).

       As of June 2011 the printing options and the checking options are
       mutually exclusive (if checking options are selected the section
       details are not printed). When errors are encountered dwarfdump does
       attempt to print sufficient context so that one can understand exactly
       where the error is in the DWARF.  This change makes checking really
       large object files much easier.

       The format is intended to be human readable.  If a script is to parse
       the output, the -d option is useful.

       Not all sections actually exist in any given object file.

       The format may change from release to release, so it is unwise to
       depend too heavily on the format.

       Frame information (.debug_frame and .eh_frame) is heavily dependent on
       the ABI/ISA of the object file.  By default we use a generic set of
       register names handling up to 100 registers named r0-100.  The '-R'
       option uses a built-in generic register name set handling up to 1200
       registers named r0-r1199.  The '-x abi=<abi>' description below shows
       how to name an abi and use that to guide the -f or -F processing.
       Unless the cpu for the object file being dumped has many registers, do
       not use -R or -x abi=generic as those can be needlessly slow dumping
       frame sections. Instead, use the correct abi (if it exists in
       dwarfdump.conf) or a generic such as -x abi=generic100 or -x
       abi=generic500.  To get MIPS/IRIX register names names and call the old
       version 2 libdwarf frame interface use the option '-x abi=mips'.
       Without '-R' or '-x abi=<abi>' dwarfdump ignores the dwarfdump.conf
       file and uses compiled-in generic set of register names.  If no '-x
       name=<path>' is given, dwarfdump looks for "./dwarfdump.conf",
       "$HOME/.dwarfdump.conf", "<install-prefix>/lib/dwarfdump.conf" and
       takes the first it finds.  If one or more '-x name=<path>' is given the
       last of these is used and all other such files are ignored.

       If '-x nosanitizestrings' is given then unprintable characters are not
       translated to '%xx' (two digit hex preceded by the '%' character)
       (with this option bogus characters in strings could cause terminal
       windows to behave oddly).

       Some -k (checking) options print so-called harmless errors.  These are
       compiler errors that do not cause any known problem and are only
       detected inside libdwarf itself.  These are difficult to properly
       report in dwarfdump and any error strings may not appear close to the
       time the error was encountered.

       If zlib compression was used on the DWARF sections in the object file
       being read the real section names such as .zdebug_info etc will be
       reported by dwarfdump.  When dwarfdump says something is at offset 55
       of .zdebug_info (or the like) keep in mind that the offset applies to
       the uncompressed section (in memory), not the .zdebug_ compressed
       section in objectfilename.

URI STYLE INPUT STRINGS
       The <objectfilename> and the options taking name strings look for URIs
       and translate the URI strings to characters by default (see -x,
       -c<compiler name>, -S, -u).  So any single % character is treated as if
       the following two characters are hex digits representing the underlying
       true character.  Various characters are meaningful to shells (such as
       bash or sh) and to getopt (such as the space character) If the URI
       translation does anything it prints the before and after of the URI
       translation on standard output, so inspection of the first lines of
       output will show if URI did anything.  The actual options themselves
       are assumed to be non-URI.  So in the option '-cS&T' the -c portion
       must be non-URI, but the & character might cause input issues so
       '-cS%26T' could be used instead.  To actually input a single %
       character (in a name, for example), double it to %% on the command
       line.

       Options -U (turning off URI interpretation) and -q (making finding URI
       sequences silent) give finer control of URI interpretation.  PP As an
       example, to get a string'a b' make the string 'a%20b' (here the quote
       (') is for exposition not part of the string, though quote is certainly
       problematic in a name).  Instead of escaping " quotes in the string,
       type %25, as in
        'a "b' should be typed 'a%20%25b' Any characters can be typed in URI
       style, not just characters which are problematic to the shell or
       getopt.  We strongly suggest you not type URI-style characters where
       such are not needed or use the % character itself in command line
       strings unless you must.

PRINTING OPTIONS
       -a     Print each section as independently as possible. Sections that
              can safely be printed independently (like .debug_abbrev) have
              relevant info printed in the report (sometimes dependent on -v).


       -b     Print the .debug_abbrev section. Because the DWARF
              specifications do not rule out garbage data areas in
              .debug_abbrev (if they are not referenced from .debug_info) any
              garbage bytes can result in this print failing.


       -c     Print locations lists.


       -E     Print ELF header information and index, address and size for all
              sections.

       -Eh    Effectively does nothing (use another tool to print the Elf file
              header).

       -El    Print index, address and size for the .debug_line section.

       -Ei    Print index, address and size for the .debug_info section.

       -Ea    Print index, address and size for the .debug_abbrev section.

       -Ep    Print index, address and size for the .debug_pubnames section.

       -Er    Print index, address and size for the .debug_aranges section.

       -Ef    Print index, address and size for the .debug_frame section.

       -Eo    Print index, address and size for the .debug_loc section.

       -ER    Print index, address and size for the .debug_ranges section.

       -Es    Print index, address and size for the .debug_string section.

       -Et    Print index, address and size for the .debug_pubtypes section.

       -Ex    Print index, address and size for the .text section.

       -Ed    Print index, address and size for the .text and .debug_*
              sections.


       -f     Print the .debug_frame section.

       -F     Print the .eh_frame section.


       -h     Print IRIX exception tables (unsupported).


       -i     Print the .debug_info section.


       -I     Print the .gdb_index, .debug_cu_index, .debug_tu_index sections
              if any exist.


       -l     Print the .debug_info section and the associated line section
              data.

       -ls    Print the .debug_info section and the associated line section
              data, but omits the <pc> address. Useful when a comparison is
              required.


       -m     Print the .debug_macinfo section.


       -N     Print .debug_ranges section. Because the DWARF specifications do
              not rule out garbage data areas in .debug_ranges (if they are
              not referenced from .debug_info) any garbage bytes can result in
              this print failing.


       -p     Print the .debug_pubnames section.


       -r     Print the .debug_aranges section.

       -s     Print .debug_string section.


       -ta    Print the IRIX only sections .debug_static_funcs and
              .debug_static_vars.


       -tf    Print the IRIX only section .debug_static_funcs.

       -tv    Print the IRIX only section .debug_static_vars.


       -w     Print the IRIX-only .debug_weaknames section.


       -y     Print the .debug_pubtypes section (and .debug_typenames, an SGI
              IRIX-only section).


       Having dwarfdump print relocations may help establish whether dwarfdump
       understands any relocations that might exist.


       -o     Print all relocation records as well as we can manage.

       -oi    Print .rel*debug_info relocations.

       -ol    Print .rel*debug_line relocation.

       -op    Print .rel*debug_pubnames relocation.

       -oa    Has no effect.

       -or    Print .rel*debug_aranges relocations.

       -of    Print .rel*debug_frame relocations.

       -oo    Print .rel*debug_loc relocations.

       -oR    Print .rel*debug_ranges relocations.


       -g     Normally used only for testing libdwarf, this tells dwarfdump to
              use an older dwarf_loclist() interface function (a function that
              cannot handle all DWARF4 or DWARF5 location lists).  Before
              November 2015 it implied -i, now you should use -i -g to also
              get .debug_info printed.

       -V     Print a dwarfdump date/version string and stop.


CHECKING OPTIONS
       -cg    Restricts checking to compilers whose producer string starts
              with 'GNU' and turns off -cs.


       -cs    Restricts checking to compilers whose producer string starts
              with 'SN' and turns off -cg.

       -cname Restricts checking to compilers whose producer string contains
              'name' (not case sensitive).  The 'name' is read as a URI
              string.


       -ka    Turns on all checking options except -kxe (-kxe might be slow
              enough one mignt not want to use it routinely.)


       -kb    Checks for certain abbreviations section errors when reading
              DIEs.

       -kc    Checks for errors in constants in debug_info.

       -kd    Turns on full reporting of error totals per producer.  (the
              default shows less detail).

       -kD    Turns on reporting of duplicated attributes.  Duplicated
              attributes on a single DW_TAG are improper DWARF, but at least
              one compiler emitted such.

       -ke    Turns on reading pubnames and checking for fde errors.

       -kE    Checks the integer encoding representation in debug_info,
              computing whether these integer values could fit in fewer bytes
              if represented in LEB128.


       -kf    Turns on checking for FDE errors.

       -kF    Turns on checking for line table errors.

       -kg    Turns on checking for unused gaps in .debug_info (these gaps are
              not an error, just a waste of space).

       -kG    Print only unique errors. Error lines are simpified (hex numbers
              removed, for example) and when a given message string would
              otherwise appear again it is suppressed.

       -ki    Causes a summary of checking results per compiler (producer) to
              be printed at the end.

       -kl    Turns on locations list checking.

       -km    Turns on checking of ranges.

       -kM    Turns on checking of aranges.

       -kr    Turns on DIE tag-attr combinations checking.

       -kR    Turns on reading DIEs and checking for forward declarations rom
              DW_AT_specification attributes.  (which are not an error but can
              be a source of inefficiency for debuggers).

       -ks    Turns on extra reporting for some DIE errors checking detects.

       -kS    Turns on checking DIE references for circular references.

       -kt    Turns on tag-tag combinations checking.

       -ku    Print tag-tree and tag-attribute usage (basic format).

       -kuf   Print tag-tree and tag-attribute usage (full format).  For
              standard TAGs and ATtributes this presents an overview of how
              they were used.

       -kx    Turns on check_frames.

       -kxe   Turns off basic check_frames and turns on extended frame
              checking.

       -ky    Turns on type_offset, decl_file checking,


OPTION MODIFIERS
       -C     Normally when checking for tag-tag or tag-attribute combinations
              both the standard combinations and some common extensions are
              allowed.  With -C the extensions are taken out of the allowed
              class of combinations.


       -d     When printing DIEs, put all the attributes for each DIE on the
              same (long) line as the TAG. This makes searching for DIE
              information (as with grep) much simpler as the entire DIE is on
              one line.


       -D     Turns off the display of section offsets and attribute values in
              printed output.  So the .debug_info output is just TAGs and
              Attributes.  For pubnames (and the like) it removes offsets from
              the output.  For locations lists it removes offsets from the
              output, but that is useless since the attribute values don't
              show so neither does the location data.


       -e     Turns on truncation of attribute and tag names. For example
              DW_TAG_foo becomes foo. Not compatible with checking, only
              useful for printing DIEs.


       -G     When printing, add global offsets to the offsets printed.


       -H number
              When printing or checking .debug_info, this terminates the
              search after 'number' compilation units. When printing frame
              information this terminates the FDE reporting after 'number'
              FDEs and the CIE reporting (which occurs if one adds -v) after
              'number' CIEs. Example '-H 1'


       -M     When printing, this means one want to have the FORM show for
              each attribute.  If a -v is also added (or more than one) then
              details of any form indirection are also shown.


       -n     When printing frames, this turns off the search for function
              names.  In a really large object the search can take more time
              than one wants to wait, so this avoids the search.

       -O file=<path>
              The <path> will be used as the file name for output instead of
              writing to stdout (stdout is the default).

       -Q     Suppresses section data printing (set automatically with a
              checking option).


       -R     When printing frames for ABIs with lots of registers, this
              allows up to 1200 registers to be named (like R999) without
              choosing an ABI with, for example '-x abi=ppc'


       -v     Increases the detail shown when printing.  In some sections,
              using more -v options will increase the detail (one to three are
              useful) or may change the report to show, for example, the
              actual line-data-commands instead of the resultant line-table.


SELECTIVE ENTRY PRINTING
       These -S options stand alone and basic print information about the
       compilation unit and DIE where the string(s) appear.  At most one of
       each of the following is effective (so for example one can only have
       one 'match', but one can have a 'match', an 'any', and a 'regex').  Any
       -S causes the .debug_info section to be inspected.  No checking options
       or printing options should be supplied with -S.

       If v is added to the -S option, the number of occurrences is printed.
       (see below for an example).


       -S match=string
              When printing DIEs for each tag value or attribute name that
              matches 'string' exactly print the compilation unit information
              and its section offset.  Any CU with no match is not printed.
              The 'string' is read as a URI string.

       -S any=string
              When printing DIEs for each tag value or attribute name that
              contains 'string' somewhere in the tag or attribute (case
              insensitive) print the compilation unit information and its
              section offset.  Any CU with no match is not printed.  The
              'string' is read as a URI string.

       -S regex=string
              When printing DIEs for each tag value or attribute name where
              the 'string' reqular expression matches print the compilation
              unit information and its section offset.  Any CU with no match
              is not printed.  The 'string' is read as a URI string.


       The string cannot have spaces or other characters which are meaningful
       to getopt(3) and the shell will strip off quotes and other characters.
       So the string is assumed to be in URI style and is translated.  In
       other words, to match 'a b' make the -S string 'a%20b' Instead of
       escaping " quotes in the string, type %25, as in
        'a "b' should be typed 'a%20%25b' (the ' are for exposition here, not
       part of the strings).  Any characters can be typed in URI style, not
       just characters which are problematic to the shell or getopt.

       The -S any= and -S regex= options are only usable if the library
       functions required are found at configure time.

       The -W option is a modifier to the -S option, and increases the amount
       of output -W prints.  An example v modifier to the -S option is shown
       below.  And we show the -W in context with a -S option.


       -S vmatch=string1
              Prints information about the DIEs that -S matches and prints the
              count of occurrences


       -S match=string1 -W
              Prints the parent tree and the children tree for the DIEs that
              -S matches.


       -S match=string2 -Wp
              Prints the parent tree for the DIEs that -S matches.


       -S match=string3 -Wc
              Prints the parent tree for the DIEs that -S matches.


OTHER OPTIONS
       -# number
              This option controls internal debugging output, higher numbers
              mean more debug actions. See the source code.



       -x name=/p/a/t/h.conf
              The file path given is the name of a file assumed to be a
              dwarfdump.conf-like file.  The file path is read as a URI
              string.


       -x abi=ppc
              Selects the abi (from a dwarfdump.conf file) to be used in
              printing frame information (here using ppc as an example).  The
              abi is read as a URI string.


       -x tied=/t/i/depath
              Used when opening a main object that is a .dwo or .dwp file.
              The tied file path names the executable which has the
              .debug_addr section that may be referred to from the main
              object. See Split Objects (aka Debug Fission).

       -x line5=s2l
              Normally used only to test libdwarf interfaces.  There are 4
              different interface function sets and to ensure they all work
              this option lets us choose which to use.  The options are 's2l'
              (default, Allows standard and two-level line tables using the
              latest interface functions), 'std' (Allows standard single level
              line tables using the latest interface functions), 'orig'
              (allows DWARF2,3,4 original line tables using an older interface
              function set), 'orig2l' (allows original line tables and some
              two-level line tables using an older interface set).


       -P     When checking this adds the list of compilation-unit names seen
              for each producer-compiler to the printed checking results.

       -q     When a URI is found and translated while reading the command
              line, be quiet about the URI translation. That is, don't print
              the original and translated option strings.


       -E     Turns on printing object-internal header data for some systems
              (for Unix/Linux does nothing).


       -u cuname
              Turns on selective printing of DIEs (printing like -i).  Only
              the DIEs for a compilation unit that match the name provided are
              printed.  If the compilation unit is ./a/b/c.c the 'cuname' you
              provide should be c.c as the characters through the final path-
              separating / are ignored.  If 'cuname' begins with a / then the
              entire name string of a compilation unit must match 'cuname'.
              The 'cuname' is read as a URI string.


       -U     Turn off the URI interpretation of the command line strings
              entirely. Must be be on the command line before any URI strings
              encountered to be fully effective.


       -z     No longer supported.



FILES
       dwarfdump

        ./dwarfdump.conf

       $(HOME)/.dwarfdump.conf

       $(HOME)/dwarfdump.conf

       <install-prefix>/lib/dwarfdump.conf

NOTES
       In some cases compilers use DW_FORM_data1 (for example) and in such
       cases the signedness of the value must be taken from context. Rather
       than attempt to determine the context, dwarfdump prints the value with
       both signednesses whenever there is ambiguity about the correct
       interpretation.  For example, "DW_AT_const_value           176(as
       signed = -80)".  For normal DWARF consumers that correctly and fully
       evaluate all attributes there is no ambiguity of signedness: the
       ambiguity for dwarfdump is due to dwarfdump evaluating DIEs in a simple
       order and not keeping track of much context.

BUGS
       Support for DWARF3 is being completed but may not be complete.

                                                                   DWARFDUMP()
