DWDIFF(1)                 Delimited word diff program                DWDIFF(1)

NAME
       dwdiff - a delimited word diff program

SYNOPSIS
       dwdiff [OPTIONS] OLD FILE NEW FILE
       dwdiff [OPTIONS] --diff-input [DIFF FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       dwdiff is a diff program that operates at the word level instead of the
       line level. It is different from wdiff in that it allows the user to
       specify what should be considered whitespace, and in that it takes an
       optional list of characters that should be considered delimiters.
       Delimiters are single characters that are treated as if they are words,
       even when there is no whitespace separating them from preceding words
       or delimiters. dwdiff is mostly command-line compatible with wdiff.
       Only the --autopager, --terminal and --avoid-wraps options are not
       supported.

       The default output from dwdiff is the new text, with the deleted and
       inserted parts annotated with markers. Command line options are
       available to change both what is printed, and the markers.

OPTIONS
       dwdiff accepts the following options (Note that all strings will first
       be escape expanded. All standard \-escapes are supported, as well as \u
       and \U Unicode escapes):

       -h, --help
              Display a short help message.

       -v, --version
              Print version and copyright information.

       -d delimiters, --delimiters=delimiters
              Specify a list of characters to be used as delimiters. The
              default is empty.

       -P, --punctuation
              Use punctuation characters as delimiters. The exact set of
              punctuation characters depends on the current locale.

       -W whitespace, --white-space=whitespace
              Specify a list of characters to be used as whitespace. The
              default set of whitespace characters depends on the current
              locale.

       -u, --diff-input
              Interpret the input as the output from diff in the Unified Diff
              format (usually produced by diff -u). In this case only one
              input file is allowed. This option allows reformating diff
              output with dwdiff, and is useful for example to post-process
              the output of svn diff.

       -1, --no-deleted
              Suppress printing of words deleted from the first file.

       -2, --no-inserted
              Suppress printing of words inserted in the second file.

       -3, --no-common
              Suppress printing of words common to both files.

       -L[width], --line-numbers[=width]
              Show line numbers at the start of each line. The line numbers
              displayed are the line number in the old file and the line
              number in the new file respectively. The optional width argument
              is the minimum number of positions per line number.

       -Cnum, --context=num
              Show num lines of context before and after each changes. A line
              with only -- is printed between blocks of changes.

       -s, --statistics
              Print statistics when done. The numbers printed include the
              number of words from in both files, the number of deleted words,
              the number of inserted words, and the number of changed words.
              The number of changed words is counted as the number of words
              that are removed from the first file, and the number of words
              that replace them from the second file. All of these numbers are
              also expressed as a percentage of the total number of words in
              the file the words came from.

       -i, --ignore-case
              Ignore differences in case when comparing words. This option is
              only available if the diff program that is called provides it.

       -I, --ignore-formatting
              Ignore differences in formatting of characters. This option
              switches to using the Unicode compatibility decomposition
              instead of the canonical decomposition.  The compatibility
              decomposition discards formatting information. For example, the
              ligature fi will be decomposed into two separate characters for
              the purposes of comparison. However, also super- and subscript
              will be regarded equal as well as different rotations of the
              same character.

       -c[spec], --color[=spec]
              Color mode. The optional spec can be used to customize the
              colors.  spec consists of [delete],[insert]. If either is omited
              it will be set to its default color (bright red or bright green
              respectively). Both parts of the spec consist of
              [foreground][:background]. To obtain a list of permissible color
              names, use the word ``list'' as spec. Alternatively, you can
              specify any escape sequence to set attributes as a color by
              prepending e:.

              The standard markers for the begin and end of deleted and
              inserted text are suppressed, but any markers specified on the
              command line will still be printed.

       -l, --less-mode
              As -p but also overstrike deleted whitespace.

       -p, --printer
              Use overstriking with an underscore and bold text to emphasize
              changes. This is implemented by first printing the underscore or
              a duplicate of the character to be printed, followed by a
              backspace, followed by the character.  On regular terminals you
              won't see any effect. The less(1) command will however show
              underlined and bold text.

              The standard markers for the begin and end of deleted and
              inserted text are suppressed, but any markers specified on the
              command line will still be printed.

       -mnum, --match-context=num
              Use num words of context before and after words for matching.
              Words in the old text will then only match words in the new text
              if words surrounding them are also equal. This improves the
              output for dwdiff for large changes with frequently occurring
              words. However, using context requires more disk space and more
              processing time. The default value is 1. Set this option to 0 to
              revert to the pre 1.5 behavior.

       --aggregate-changes
              Allow multiple close changes to be treated as one change, if
              context words are used (see --match-context). This option
              reduces the processing time as the changes reported by the diff
              program are not post-processed to give more precise results.

       -A algorithm, --algorithm=algorithm
              Select the algorithm to be used for determining differences.
              There are three possible values for algorithm: best, which tries
              to find the minimal set of changes, normal, which trades some
              optimality for speed, and fast, which assumes that the input is
              large and contains few changes. By default the normal algorithm
              is used.

       -S[marker], --paragraph-separator[=marker]
              Show insertion or deletion of blocks of lines with only
              whitespace characters.  A special marker is inserted into the
              output to indicate these blocks. The default marker is --.

       --wdiff-output
              Create wdiff compatible output. The dwdiff program uses a
              different output algorithm, which provides a more intuitive
              output.

       -w string, --start-delete=string
              Specify a string to mark begin of deleted text. The default is
              [-.

       -x string, --stop-delete=string
              Specify a string to mark end of deleted text. The default is -].

       -y string, --start-insert=string
              Specify a string to mark begin of inserted text. The default is
              {+.

       -z string, --stop-insert=string
              Specify a string to mark end of inserted text. The default is
              +}.

       -R, --repeat-markers
              Repeat the begin and end markers at the start and end of line if
              a change crosses a newline.

       --profile=name
              Load the profile with name name from the .dwdiffrc file in the
              user's home directory. Only the last profile named is actually
              read, unless it is followed by a --no-profile option. By default
              the profile named default is read.

       --no-profile
              Disable reading of profiles, unless followed by another
              --profile option.  This also disables reading the default
              profile.

       A single dash (-) as a file can be used to denote standard input. Only
       one file can be read from standard input. To stop dwdiff from
       interpreting file names that start with a dash as options, one can
       specify a double dash (--) after which dwdiff will interpret any
       following arguments as files to read.

       The exit status of dwdiff indicates the result of the comparison: 0 if
       the files are the same, 1 if the files are different. Should an error
       occur, dwdiff will exit with status 2.

PROFILES
       Since version 2.1.0, dwdiff allows users to create profiles. A profile
       is a set of options that can be loaded using the --profile option.
       Profiles are specified in the .dwdiffrc in the user's home directory.
       The format of the .dwdiffrc file is as follows:

       A line contains either a profile header (a text enclosed in []) or a
       long option name without leading dashes, optionally followed by it's
       argument. Arguments are stripped of whitespace surrounding it. If an
       argument starts and ends with matching double or single quotes, these
       are removed as well. Comments can be included by starting a line with a
       hash mark (#).

       If no profile is specified, the profile named default will be loaded,
       unless the --no-profile option is specified. Here is an example
       .dwdiffrc:

            [default]
            color red,blue
            punctuation

       [html]
       start-delete <span style="color=red">
       stop-delete </span>
       start-insert <span style="color=green">
       stop-insert </span>

       [space-only]
       # Use only a space as whitespace.
       white-space " "

BUGS
       If you think you have found a bug, please check that you are using the
       latest version of dwdiff <http://os.ghalkes.nl/dwdiff.html>. When
       reporting bugs, please include a minimal example that demonstrates the
       problem.

AUTHOR
       G.P. Halkes <dwdiff@ghalkes.nl>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2006-2017 G.P. Halkes and others
       dwdiff is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
       For more details on the license, see the file COPYING in the
       documentation directory. On Un*x systems this is usually
       /usr/share/doc/dwdiff-$VERSION$.

SEE ALSO
       dwfilter(1), wdiff(1), diff(1)

$VERSION$                         2018/12/03                         DWDIFF(1)
