DWM(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 DWM(1)

NAME
       dwm - dynamic window manager

SYNOPSIS
       dwm [-v]

DESCRIPTION
       dwm is a dynamic window manager for X. It manages windows in tiled,
       monocle and floating layouts. Either layout can be applied dynamically,
       optimising the environment for the application in use and the task
       performed.

       In tiled layouts windows are managed in a master and stacking area. The
       master area on the left contains one window by default, and the
       stacking area on the right contains all other windows. The number of
       master area windows can be adjusted from zero to an arbitrary number.
       In monocle layout all windows are maximised to the screen size. In
       floating layout windows can be resized and moved freely. Dialog windows
       are always managed floating, regardless of the layout applied.

       Windows are grouped by tags. Each window can be tagged with one or
       multiple tags. Selecting certain tags displays all windows with these
       tags.

       Each screen contains a small status bar which displays all available
       tags, the layout, the title of the focused window, and the text read
       from the root window name property, if the screen is focused. A
       floating window is indicated with an empty square and a maximised
       floating window is indicated with a filled square before the windows
       title.  The selected tags are indicated with a different color. The
       tags of the focused window are indicated with a filled square in the
       top left corner.  The tags which are applied to one or more windows are
       indicated with an empty square in the top left corner.

       dwm draws a small border around windows to indicate the focus state.

OPTIONS
       -v     prints version information to stderr, then exits.

USAGE
   Status bar
       X root window name
              is read and displayed in the status text area. It can be set
              with the xsetroot(1) command.

       Button1
              click on a tag label to display all windows with that tag, click
              on the layout label toggles between tiled and floating layout.

       Button3
              click on a tag label adds/removes all windows with that tag
              to/from the view.

       Mod1-Button1
              click on a tag label applies that tag to the focused window.

       Mod1-Button3
              click on a tag label adds/removes that tag to/from the focused
              window.

   Keyboard commands
       Mod1-Shift-Return
              Start st(1).

       Mod1-p Spawn dmenu(1) for launching other programs.

       Mod1-, Focus previous screen, if any.

       Mod1-. Focus next screen, if any.

       Mod1-Shift-,
              Send focused window to previous screen, if any.

       Mod1-Shift-.
              Send focused window to next screen, if any.

       Mod1-b Toggles bar on and off.

       Mod1-t Sets tiled layout.

       Mod1-f Sets floating layout.

       Mod1-m Sets monocle layout.

       Mod1-space
              Toggles between current and previous layout.

       Mod1-j Focus next window.

       Mod1-k Focus previous window.

       Mod1-i Increase number of windows in master area.

       Mod1-d Decrease number of windows in master area.

       Mod1-l Increase master area size.

       Mod1-h Decrease master area size.

       Mod1-Return
              Zooms/cycles focused window to/from master area (tiled layouts
              only).

       Mod1-Shift-c
              Close focused window.

       Mod1-Shift-space
              Toggle focused window between tiled and floating state.

       Mod1-Tab
              Toggles to the previously selected tags.

       Mod1-Shift-[1..n]
              Apply nth tag to focused window.

       Mod1-Shift-0
              Apply all tags to focused window.

       Mod1-Control-Shift-[1..n]
              Add/remove nth tag to/from focused window.

       Mod1-[1..n]
              View all windows with nth tag.

       Mod1-0 View all windows with any tag.

       Mod1-Control-[1..n]
              Add/remove all windows with nth tag to/from the view.

       Mod1-Shift-q
              Quit dwm.

   Mouse commands
       Mod1-Button1
              Move focused window while dragging. Tiled windows will be
              toggled to the floating state.

       Mod1-Button2
              Toggles focused window between floating and tiled state.

       Mod1-Button3
              Resize focused window while dragging. Tiled windows will be
              toggled to the floating state.

CUSTOMIZATION
       dwm is customized by creating a custom config.h and (re)compiling the
       source code. This keeps it fast, secure and simple.

SEE ALSO
       dmenu(1), st(1)

ISSUES
       Java applications which use the XToolkit/XAWT backend may draw grey
       windows only. The XToolkit/XAWT backend breaks ICCCM-compliance in
       recent JDK 1.5 and early JDK 1.6 versions, because it assumes a
       reparenting window manager. Possible workarounds are using JDK 1.4
       (which doesn't contain the XToolkit/XAWT backend) or setting the
       environment variable AWT_TOOLKIT=MToolkit (to use the older Motif
       backend instead) or running xprop -root -f _NET_WM_NAME 32a -set
       _NET_WM_NAME LG3D or wmname LG3D (to pretend that a non-reparenting
       window manager is running that the XToolkit/XAWT backend can recognize)
       or when using OpenJDK setting the environment variable
       _JAVA_AWT_WM_NONREPARENTING=1.

BUGS
       Send all bug reports with a patch to hackers@suckless.org.

                                    dwm-6.5                             DWM(1)
