CALENDAR(3)            FreeBSD Library Functions Manual            CALENDAR(3)

NAME
     easterg, easterog, easteroj, gdate, jdate, ndaysg, ndaysj, week, weekday
     – Calendar arithmetic for the Christian era

LIBRARY
     Calendar Arithmetic Library (libcalendar, -lcalendar)

SYNOPSIS
     #include <calendar.h>

     struct date *
     easterg(int year, struct date *dt);

     struct date *
     easterog(int year, struct date *dt);

     struct date *
     easteroj(int year, struct date *dt);

     struct date *
     gdate(int nd, struct date *dt);

     struct date *
     jdate(int nd, struct date *dt);

     int
     ndaysg(struct date *dt);

     int
     ndaysj(struct date *dt);

     int
     week(int nd, int *year);

     int
     weekday(int nd);

DESCRIPTION
     These functions provide calendar arithmetic for a large range of years,
     starting at March 1st, year zero (i.e., 1 B.C.) and ending way beyond
     year 100000.

     Programs should be linked with -lcalendar.

     The functions easterg(), easterog() and easteroj() store the date of
     Easter Sunday into the structure pointed at by dt and return a pointer to
     this structure.  The function easterg() assumes Gregorian Calendar
     (adopted by most western churches after 1582) and the functions
     easterog() and easteroj() compute the date of Easter Sunday according to
     the orthodox rules (Western churches before 1582, Greek and Russian
     Orthodox Church until today).  The result returned by easterog() is the
     date in Gregorian Calendar, whereas easteroj() returns the date in Julian
     Calendar.

     The functions gdate(), jdate(), ndaysg() and ndaysj() provide conversions
     between the common "year, month, day" notation of a date and the "number
     of days" representation, which is better suited for calculations.  The
     days are numbered from March 1st year 1 B.C., starting with zero, so the
     number of a day gives the number of days since March 1st, year 1 B.C.
     The conversions work for nonnegative day numbers only.

     The gdate() and jdate() functions store the date corresponding to the day
     number nd into the structure pointed at by dt and return a pointer to
     this structure.

     The ndaysg() and ndaysj() functions return the day number of the date
     pointed at by dt.

     The gdate() and ndaysg() functions assume Gregorian Calendar after
     October 4, 1582 and Julian Calendar before, whereas jdate() and ndaysj()
     assume Julian Calendar throughout.

     The two calendars differ by the definition of the leap year.  The Julian
     Calendar says every year that is a multiple of four is a leap year.  The
     Gregorian Calendar excludes years that are multiples of 100 and not
     multiples of 400.  This means the years 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100 are not
     leap years and the year 2000 is a leap year.  The new rules were
     inaugurated on October 4, 1582 by deleting ten days following this date.
     Most catholic countries adopted the new calendar by the end of the 16th
     century, whereas others stayed with the Julian Calendar until the 20th
     century.  The United Kingdom and their colonies switched on September 2,
     1752.  They already had to delete 11 days.

     The function week() returns the number of the week which contains the day
     numbered nd.  The argument *year is set with the year that contains (the
     greater part of) the week.  The weeks are numbered per year starting with
     week 1, which is the first week in a year that includes more than three
     days of the year.  Weeks start on Monday.  This function is defined for
     Gregorian Calendar only.

     The function weekday() returns the weekday (Mo = 0 .. Su = 6) of the day
     numbered nd.

     The structure date is defined in <calendar.h>.  It contains these fields:

           int y;          /∗ year (0000 - ????) ∗/
           int m;          /∗ month (1 - 12) ∗/
           int d;          /∗ day of month (1 - 31) ∗/

     The year zero is written as "1 B.C." by historians and "0" by astronomers
     and in this library.

SEE ALSO
     ncal(1), strftime(3)

STANDARDS
     The week number conforms to ISO 8601: 1988.

HISTORY
     The calendar library first appeared in FreeBSD 3.0.

AUTHORS
     This manual page and the library was written by Wolfgang Helbig
     <helbig@FreeBSD.org>.

BUGS
     The library was coded with great care so there are no bugs left.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        November 29, 1997       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
