EDITMAP(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             EDITMAP(8)



NAME
       editmap - query and edit single records in database maps for sendmail

SYNOPSIS
       editmap [-C file] [-N] [-f] [-q|-u|-x] maptype mapname key [ "value
       ..." ]

DESCRIPTION
       Editmap queries or edits one record in database maps used by the keyed
       map lookups in sendmail(8).  Arguments are passed on the command line
       and output (for queries) is directed to standard output.

       Depending on how it is compiled, editmap handles up to three different
       database formats, selected using the maptype parameter.  They may be

       dbm    DBM format maps.  This requires the ndbm(3) library.

       btree  B-Tree format maps.  This requires the new Berkeley DB library.

       hash   Hash format maps.  This also requires the Berkeley DB library.

       If the TrustedUser option is set in the sendmail configuration file and
       editmap is invoked as root, the generated files will be owned by the
       specified TrustedUser.

   Flags
       -C     Use the specified sendmail configuration file for looking up the
              TrustedUser option.

       -N     Include the null byte that terminates strings in the map (for
              alias maps).

       -f     Normally all upper case letters in the key are folded to lower
              case.  This flag disables that behaviour.  This is intended to
              mesh with the -f flag in the K line in sendmail.cf.  The value
              is never case folded.

       -q     Query the map for the specified key.  If found, print value to
              standard output and exit with 0.  If not found then print an
              error message to stdout and exit with EX_UNAVAILABLE.

       -u     Update the record for key with value or inserts a new record if
              one doesn't exist.  Exits with 0 on success or EX_IOERR on
              failure.

       -x     Deletes the specific key from the map.  Exits with 0 on success
              or EX_IOERR on failure.

SEE ALSO
       sendmail(8), makemap(8)

HISTORY
       The editmap command has no history.



                         $Date: 2013-11-22 20:51:26 $               EDITMAP(8)
