EDITSS(6)                    FreeBSD Games Manual                    EDITSS(6)

NAME
       editss itor for XPilot shipshapes.  (V2.1)


SYNOPSIS
       editss [" shipshape "]


DESCRIPTION
       editss is a utility for designing XPilot shipshapes.  The use of this
       editor is simple and straightforward.  Shipshapes can be supplied on
       the command line, or retrieved from the user .xpilotrc or shipshape
       file.  After editing, the shipshape can be printed on the command line,
       or added to the .xpilotrc or shipshape file.  Ship library files can be
       printed on a PostScript printer.  As of version 2.0, the new shipshape
       format for XPilot version 3.2.0 is fully supported.


OPTIONS
       An XPilot shipshape can be specified on the command line as an option,
       enclosed in double quotes.  The format used here is the normal XPilot
       format for shipshapes.



EDITING YOUR SHIP
       You can edit the shipshape in the window with the grid and crosshairs.
       In this window: press the left mouse button (LMB) to perform an action,
       or the right mouse button (RMB) to cancel.

       The ship should be drawn with the nose to the right, unless you wish to
       confuse your enemies (and yourself! :-) ).  You should alse specify the
       MainGun (where bullets will shoot from), and the Engine.

       You should follow these rules: (xpilot version 3.2.0)

       1)   each ship should have at least three different points and not more
            than 16 points.
       2)   at least one point should be eight or more pixels left from the
            origin.
       3)   at least one point should be eight or more pixels right from the
            origin.
       4)   at least one point should be eight or more pixels above the
            origin.
       5)   at least one point should be eight or more pixels below the
            origin.
       6)   at least three points should be eight or more pixels away from the
            origin.
       7)   no point should be more than 15 points away from the x- or y-
            axis.
       8)   attributes like guns, lights etc. should be placed in (or on) the
            ship.
       9)   the width and height of the ship should add up to at least 38.  As
            of Xpilot version 3.2.0 this restriction is not yet enforced.
            Only a warning will be generated.  Later Xpilot versions will
            probably enforce this rule.


       The rectangle on the grid is eight points from the origin.

       The Draw mode works as follows.  If there are no points yet, you can
       use the LMB to add points.  Every new point is connected to the
       previous point.  Press the RMB to stop adding points (You do not have
       to "close" the shipshape ).

       In this mode you can drag lines and attributes around.  If you select
       with the LMB, you will pick up the topmost shipshape point and all
       attributes you are pointing to.  If you use the RMB, you will only pick
       up the topmost attribute.

       Kill mode: If you use the LMB to select a position on the grid, the
       topmost shipshape point here (if any) will be removed.  All attributes
       at the selected gridpoint will be removed as well.  If you use the RMB,
       only the topmost attribute here will be removed.

       In the Split mode, you can select a line with the LMB.  This line will
       be divided into two lines, and then you can position the dividing
       point.  After the dividing point is placed with the LMB, the mode will
       change to Draw.

       To add attributes, simply press the button of the attribute you wish to
       add.  Press the LMB on the grid position where you want the attribute.
       possible attributes are:

       Mgun      the main gun.  You must place this attribute.
       engine    you must place this attribute as well.
       Llight    a flashing navigation light (flashes Red).  Use up to 3 of
                 these
       Rlight    blue or right navigation light.  Use up to 3.
       Lgun      additional guns for wideshots.  Up to 3 of these can be
                 placed on the left side of your ship.
       Rgun      additional guns for the right side of your ship.  Use up to
                 3.
       mrack     a missile rack.  Missiles will be fired from each of these
                 racks in turn.  You can use up to 4 of these.

       The ship is displayed below the buttons, more or less as it appears in
       XPilot.  The number of points on your ship is also displayed.  Below
       this is a box announcing any problems with your design.  All bugs in
       your ship should be removed before you will be able to save or print
       the ship.


IMPORTING / EXPORTING SHIPSHAPES
       You can specify a shipshape on the commandline when starting editss
       (see OPTIONS).  You can also use the Load button to retrieve shipshapes
       from your ship from your shipshape library file, if it exists.  If you
       double click (LMB) on a ship in the directory (the leftmost part of the
       Editss window), that ship will be loaded.  Anything you were editing
       will be lost.



       If you press the Type button, editss will print the shipshape on the
       command line .  You can give this shipshape to xpilot as follows:

       xpilot -shipShape " shipshape "

       Xpilot will start and use your new shipshape.

       If you use the Save button, editss will append the shape and name of
       your ship to the shiplib.

       You can specify a shipshape library file.  If you type the name of a
       file and then press ENTER, the contents of this file will be shown in
       the leftmost part of the Editss window.  To specify a default library
       file, see below.


BUTTON FUNCTIONS
       Quit      quit the program.
       Type      print the shipshape on the command line.
       Save      write the shipshape to the library file.
       Load      load the shipshape with the soecified name from the library
                 file.
       Clear     clear the shipshape.
       Print     print the ships in the current shipshape library file in
                 PostScript format into the file [shiplibname].ps

       Draw      draw or drag points.
       Kill      remove points.
       Split     split a line, adding an extra point.


       Mgun      Set the MainGun.
       Lgun      Set left side extra guns.
       Rgun      Set right side extra guns.
       Llight    Set left navigation lights.
       Rlight    Set right navigation light.
       mrack     Set missile racks.
       engine    Set the engine point.



RESOURCE FILE
       You can specify a number of defaults to Editss, by making a file named

       buttonbox_border    (integer) borderwidth of boxes
       value_border        (integer) borderwidth of value widgets
       buttonbox_f         (string) foreground color of boxes
       buttonbox_b         (string) background color of boxes
       status_f/b          (string) statusbar colors
       button_high_f/b     (string) highlight button colors
       button_toggle_f/b   (string) toggle button colors
       button_actions_f/b  (string) button colors
       smallfont           (string) font for status bars
       shiplib             (string) default shipshape library



SEE ALSO
       xpilot(6), xpilots(6)


                                  august 1994                        EDITSS(6)
