ee(1)                                                                    ee(1)



NAME
       ee - easy editor

SYNOPSIS
       ee [-e] [-i] [-h] [+#] [file ...]
       ree [-e] [-i] [-h] [+#] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The command ee is a simple screen oriented text editor.  It is always
       in text insertion mode unless there is a prompt at the bottom of the
       terminal, or a menu present (in a box in the middle of the terminal).
       The command ree is the same as ee, but restricted to editing the named
       file (no file operations, or shell escapes are allowed).

       An editor with similar user-friendly qualities but more features is
       available and is called aee.

       For ee to work properly, the environment variable TERM must be set to
       indicate the type of terminal being used.  For example, for an HP
       700/92 terminal, the TERM variable should be set to "70092".  See your
       System Administrator if you need more information.

   Options
       The following options are available from the command line:

       -e  Turns off expansion of tab character to spaces.

       -i  Turns off display of information window at top of terminal.

       -h  Turns off highlighting of borders of windows and menus (improves
           performance on some terminals).

       +#  Moves the cursor to line '#' at startup.

   Control keys
       To do anything other than insert text, the user must use the control
       keys (the Control key, represented by a "^",  pressed in conjunction
       with an alphabetic key, e.g., ^a) and function keys available on the
       keyboard (such as Next Page, Prev Page, arrow keys, etc.).

       Since not all terminals have function keys, ee has the basic cursor
       movement functions assigned to control keys as well as more intuitive
       keys on the keyboard when available.  For instance, to move the cursor
       up, the user can use the up arrow key, or ^u.

           ^a            Prompt for the decimal value of a character to insert.
           ^b            Move to the bottom of the text.
           ^c            Get the prompt for a command.
           ^d            Move the cursor down.
           ^e            Prompt for the string to search for.
           ^f            Undelete the last deleted character.
           ^g            Move to the beginning of the line.
           ^h            Backspace.
           ^i            Tab.
           ^j            Insert a newline.
           ^k            Delete the character the cursor is sitting on.
           ^l            Move the cursor left.
           ^m            Insert a newline.
           ^n            Move to the next page.
           ^o            Move to the end of the line.
           ^p            Move to the previous page.
           ^r            Move the cursor to the right.
           ^t            Move to the top of the text.
           ^u            Move the cursor up.
           ^v            Undelete the last deleted word.
           ^w            Delete the word beginning at the cursor position.
           ^x            Search.
           ^y            Delete from the cursor position to the end of line.
           ^z            Undelete the last deleted line.
           ^[ (ESC)      Pop up menu.


   EMACS keys mode
       Since many shells provide an Emacs mode (for cursor movement and other
       editing operations), some bindings that may be more useful for people
       familiar with those bindings have been provided.  These are accessible
       via the settings menu, or via the initialization file (see below).  The
       mappings are as follows:
              ^a            Move to the beginning of the line.
              ^b            Back 1 character.
              ^c            Command prompt.
              ^d            Delete character the cursor is sitting on.
              ^e            End of line.
              ^f            Forward 1 character.
              ^g            Go back 1 page.
              ^h            Backspace.
              ^i            Tab.
              ^j            Undelete last deleted character.
              ^k            Delete line.
              ^l            Undelete last deleted line.
              ^m            Insert a newline.
              ^n            Move to the next line.
              ^o            Prompt for the decimal value of a character to insert.
              ^p            Previous line.
              ^r            Restore last deleted word.
              ^t            Move to the top of the text.
              ^u            Move to the bottom of the text.
              ^v            Move to the next page.
              ^w            Delete the word beginning at the cursor position.
              ^y            Prompt for the string to search for.
              ^z            Next word.
              ^[ (ESC)      Pop up menu.


   Function Keys

           Next Page
                  Move to the next page.

           Prev Page
                  Move to the previous page.

           Delete Char
                  Delete the character the cursor is on.

           Delete Line
                  Delete from the cursor to the end of line.

           Insert line
                  Insert a newline at the cursor position.

           Arrow keys
                  Move the cursor in the direction indicated.

   Commands
       Some operations require more information than a single keystroke can
       provide.  For the most basic operations, there is a menu that can be
       obtained by pressing the ESC key.  The same operations, and more can be
       performed by obtaining the command prompt (^c) and typing in one of the
       commands below.

           !cmd   Execute cmd in a shell.

           0-9    Move to the line indicated.

           case   Make searches case sensitive.

           character
                  Display the ascii value of the character at the cursor.

           exit   Save the edited text, and leave the editor.

           expand Expand tabs to spaces.

           file   Print the name of the file.

           help   Display help screen.

           line   Display the current line number.

           nocase Make searches insensitive to case (the default).

           noexpand
                  Don't expand tab to spaces when the TAB key is pressed.

           quit   Leave the editor without saving changes.

           read file
                  Read the named file.

           write file
                  Write the text to the named file.

   Menu Operations
       Pop-up menus can be obtained by pressing the escape key (or ^[ if no
       escape key is present).  When in the menu, the escape key can be used
       to leave the menu without performing any operations.  Use the up and
       down arrow keys, or ^u for moving up and ^d for moving down to move to
       the desired items in the menu, then press return to perform the
       indicated task.

       To the left of each menu item is a letter, which if the corresponding
       letter is pressed on the keyboard selects that menu entry.

       The main menu in ee is as follows:

           leave editor
                  If changes have been made, the user will get a menu
                  prompting whether or not the changes should be saved.

           help   Displays a help screen, with all of the keyboard operations
                  and commands.

           file operations
                  Pops up a menu for selecting whether to read a file, write
                  to a file, or save the current contents of the editor, as
                  well as send the contents of the editor to a print command
                  (see the section Initializing ee from a file).

           redraw screen
                  Provides a means to repaint the screen if the screen has
                  been corrupted.

           settings
                  Shows the current values of the operating modes, and right
                  margin.  By pressing return when the cursor is on a
                  particular item, the value can be changed.  To leave this
                  menu, press the escape key.  (See Modes below.)

           search
                  Pops up a menu in which the user may choose to enter a
                  string to search for, or search for a string already
                  entered.

           miscellaneous
                  Pops up a menu that allows the user to format the current
                  paragraph, execute a shell command, or check the spelling of
                  the text in the editor.

   Paragraph Formatting
       Paragraphs are defined for ee by a block of text bounded by:


               •      Begin or end of file.

               •      Line with no characters, or only spaces and/or tabs.

               •      Line starting with a period ('.') or right angle bracket
                      ('>').

       A paragraph may be formatted two ways:  explicitly by choosing the
       format paragraph menu item, or by setting ee to automatically format
       paragraphs.  The automatic mode may be set via a menu, or via the
       initialization file.

       There are three states for text operation in ee: free-form, margins,
       and automatic formatting.

       "Free-form" is best used for things like programming.  There are no
       restrictions on the length of lines, and no formatting takes place.

       "Margins" allows the user to type in text without having to worry about
       going beyond the right margin (the right margin may be set in the
       settings menu, the default is for the margin to be the right edge of
       the terminal).  This is the mode that allows the format paragraph menu
       item to work.

       "Automatic formatting" provides word-processor-like behavior.  The user
       may type in text, while ee will make sure the entire paragraph fits
       within the width of the terminal every time the user inserts a space
       after typing or deleting text.  Margin observation must also be enabled
       in order for automatic formatting to occur.

   Modes
       Although ee is a 'modeless' editor (it is in text insertion mode all
       the time), there are modes in some of the things it does.  These
       include:

           tab expansion
                  Tabs may be inserted as a single tab character, or replaced
                  with spaces.

           case sensitivity
                  The search operation can be sensitive to whether characters
                  are upper- or lower-case, or ignore case completely.

           margins observed
                  Lines can either be truncated at the right margin, or extend
                  on forever.

           auto paragraph formatting
                  While typing in text, the editor can try to keep it looking
                  reasonably well within the width of the screen.

           eightbit characters
                  Toggles whether eight bit characters are displayed as their
                  value in angle brackets (e.g. "<220>") or as a character.

           info window
                  A window showing the keyboard operations that can be
                  performed can be displayed or not.

           emacs keys
                  Control keys may be given bindings similar to emacs, or not.

           16 bit characters
                  Toggles whether sixteen bit characters are handled as one
                  16-bit quantity or two 8-bit quantities.  This works
                  primarily with the Chinese Big 5 code set.

       You may set these modes via the initialization file (see below), or
       with a menu (see above).

   Spell Checking
       There are two ways to have the spelling in the text checked from ee.
       One is by the traditional spell(1) command, the other is with the
       optional ispell(1) command.

       Using spell, the words that are not recognized will be placed at the
       top of the file.  For the ispell option, the file is written to disk,
       then ispell run on the file, and the file read back in once ispell has
       completed making changes to the file.

   Printing the contents of the editor
       The user may select a menu item which prints the contents of the
       editor.  ee pipes the text in the editor to the command specified by
       the initialization command printcommand (see the section Initializing
       ee from a file below).  The default is to send the contents to "lp".

       Whatever the user assigns to printcommand must take input from standard
       input.  See your system administrator for more details.

   Shell operations
       Shell commands can be executed from within ee by selecting the shell
       command item in the miscellaneous menu, or by placing an exclamation
       mark ("!") before the command to execute at the command: prompt.
       Additionally, the user may direct the contents of the edit buffer out
       to a shell operation (via a pipe) by using the left angle bracket
       (">"), followed by a "!" and the shell command to execute.  The output
       of a shell operation can also be directed into the edit buffer by using
       a right angle bracket ("<") before the exclamation mark.  These can
       even be used together to send output to a shell operation and read back
       the results into the editor.  So, if the editor contained a list of
       words to be sorted, they could be sorted by typing the following at the
       command prompt:

           ><!sort

       This would send the contents of the editor to be piped into the sort
       utility and the result would be placed into the edit buffer at the
       current cursor location.  The old information would have to be deleted
       by the user.

   Initializing ee from a file
       Since different users have different preferences, ee allows some slight
       configurability.  There are three possible locations for an
       initialization file for ee:  the file /usr/share/misc/init.ee, the file
       .init.ee in the user's home directory, or the file .init.ee in the
       current directory (if different from the home directory).  This allows
       system administrators to set some preferences for the users on a
       system-wide basis (for example, the print command), and the user to
       customize settings for particular directories (like one for
       correspondence, and a different directory for programming).

       The file usr/share/misc/init.ee is read first, then $HOME/.init.ee,
       then .init.ee, with the settings specified by the most recent file read
       taking precedence.

       The following items may be entered in the initialization file:

           case   Sets searches to be case sensitive.

           nocase Sets searches to be insensitive to case (default).

           expand Causes ee to expand tabs to spaces (default).

           noexpand
                  Causes ee to insert tabs as a single character.

           info   A small information window is displayed at the top of the
                  terminal (default).

           noinfo Turns off the display of the information window.

           margins
                  Causes ee to truncate lines at the right margin when the
                  cursor passes beyond the right margin as set by the user
                  while text is being inserted (default).

           nomargins
                  Allows lines to extend beyond the right margin.

           autoformat
                  Causes ee to automatically try to format the current
                  paragraph while text insertion is occurring.

           noautoformat
                  Turns off automatic paragraph formatting (default).

           printcommand
                  Allows the setting of the print command (default: "lp").

           rightmargin
                  The user can select a value for the right margin (the first
                  column on the screen is zero).

           highlight
                  Turns on highlighting border of information window and menus
                  (default).

           nohighlight
                  Turns off highlighting of border of information window and
                  menus.

           eightbit
                  Turns on display of eight bit characters.

           noeightbit
                  Turns off display of eight bit characters (they are
                  displayed as their decimal value inside angle brackets,
                  e.g., "<220>").

           16bit  Turns on handling of 16-bit characters.

           no16bit
                  Turns off handling of 16-bit characters.

           emacs  Turns on emacs key bindings.

           noemacs
                  Turns off emacs key bindings.

   Save Editor Configuration
       When using this entry from the settings menu, the user may choose to
       save the current configuration of the editor (see Initializing ee from
       a file above) to a file named .init.ee in the current directory or the
       user's home directory.  If a file named .init.ee already exists, it
       will be renamed .init.ee.old.

CAVEATS
       THIS MATERIAL IS PROVIDED "AS IS".  THERE ARE NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND
       WITH REGARD TO THIS MATERIAL, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
       IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.  Neither Hewlett-Packard nor Hugh Mahon shall be liable for
       errors contained herein, nor for incidental or consequential damages in
       connection with the furnishing, performance or use of this material.
       Neither Hewlett-Packard nor Hugh Mahon assumes any responsibility for
       the use or reliability of this software or documentation.  This
       software and documentation is totally UNSUPPORTED.  There is no support
       contract available.  Hewlett-Packard has done NO Quality Assurance on
       ANY of the program or documentation.  You may find the quality of the
       materials inferior to supported materials.

       Always make a copy of files that cannot be easily reproduced before
       editing.  Save files early, and save often.

   International Code Set Support
       ee supports single-byte character code sets (eight-bit clean), or the
       Chinese Big-5 code set.  (Other multi-byte code sets may function, but
       the reason Big-5 works is that a two-byte character also takes up two
       columns on the screen.)

WARNINGS
       The automatic paragraph formatting operation may be too slow for slower
       systems.

FILES
       /usr/share/misc/init.ee
       $HOME/.init.ee
       .init.ee

AUTHOR
       The software ee was developed by Hugh Mahon.

       This software and documentation contains proprietary information which
       is protected by copyright.  All rights are reserved.

       Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1996, 2001 Hugh Mahon.

SEE ALSO
       termcap(4), terminfo(4), environ(5), spell(1), ispell(1), lp(1), aee(1)




                                                                         ee(1)
