EBFC(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                EBFC(1)

NAME
       ebfc - ELF Brainfuck compiler

SYNOPSIS
       ebfc [OPTIONS] SRCFILE

DESCRIPTION
       ebfc is a compiler for the Brainfuck programming language, creating
       64-bit ELF files targeted for the Intel x86-64 architecture.

       ebfc can create standalone executables, shared libraries, or object
       files.  Object files can themselves be targeted for a standalone
       executable, a shared library, or a module in a larger program.

COMPILATION TARGET OPTIONS
       The following options control what type of source file is created. It
       is assumed here that the name of the source file is foo.b.

       -x     Compile the source code into a standalone executable file, named
              foo.

       -l     Compile the source code into a shared library file, named
              libfoo.so.  The program will be exported as a function named
              foo().

       -c     Compile the source code into a function, named foo(), in an
              object file, named foo.o.  The object file will be targeted for
              a module in an executable.

       -xc    Compile the source code into an object file, named foo.o, that
              can then be linked as a standalone executable.

       -lc    Compile the source code into a function, named foo(), in an
              object file, named foo.o, that can then be linked as a shared
              library.

       If the SRCFILE argument lacks a .b or .bf suffix, then the entire
       filename will be used when creating the name of the target file and
       function. (In the case of -x, the name of the target file will be a.out
       instead.)

OTHER OPTIONS
       -a, --arg
              Compile the function to take an argument, namely a pointer to
              the byte array. By default, ebfc will compile its code to a
              function that takes no arguments, which will use an internal
              byte array. When this option is used, there is no difference in
              the object file created by -c and -lc.  (This option is not
              applicable to a standalone executable.)

       -f, --function=FUNCTION
              Use FUNCTION as the name of the function to contain the compiled
              program. If this argument is omitted, then the function's name
              will be taken from the source filename, as described in the
              previous section.

       -i, --input=FILE
              Use FILE as the name of the source file to place in the target
              file. This option does not supersede the SRCFILE argument; it
              merely changes what name is stored in the object file.  (This
              option is not meaningful if the target is not an object file, or
              if the --strip option is used.)

       -o, --output=FILE
              Use FILE as the target filename. If this option is omitted, the
              output filename will be generated from the source filename, as
              described in the previous section.

       -s, --strip
              Suppress inclusion of unnecessary data in the target file. By
              default, ebfc includes a .comment section, and includes a symbol
              in the symbol table for the source filename. These items will be
              removed from the output when this option is used. Additionally,
              if the output is a standalone executable, this option will
              suppress inclusion of the section header table.

       -z, --compressed
              Read the source file in compressed Brainfuck format (see below).

       --help Display help and exit.

       --version
              Display version number and exit.

LINKING
       When calling a compiled Brainfuck program from within a C program, the
       C prototype for the function should have the form:

           extern void foo(void);

       or, if the --arg option is specified:

           extern void foo(char *buffer);

       In the latter case, the buffer pointed to by the function parameter
       will be used as the initial state of the Brainfuck buffer when the
       function is invoked, and upon return will contain the final state of
       the buffer.

THE BRAINFUCK PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
       A Brainfuck program has an implicit byte pointer, called "the pointer",
       which is free to move around within an array of bytes, initially all
       set to zero. The pointer itself is initialized to point to the
       beginning of this array. (The size of the array is not constrained by
       the language, but is typically 30000 bytes or more.  ebfc programs are
       given an array of 32768 bytes.)

       The Brainfuck programming language consists of eight commands, each of
       which is represented as a single character.

       >   Increment the pointer.
       <   Decrement the pointer.
       +   Increment the byte at the pointer.
       -   Decrement the byte at the pointer.
       .   Output the byte at the pointer.
       ,   Input a byte and store it in the byte at the pointer.
       [   Jump to the matching ] if the byte at the pointer is zero.
       ]   Jump to the matching [.

       Any other characters in the source code are treated as comments or
       whitespace, and ignored.

       The semantics of the Brainfuck commands can also be succinctly
       expressed in terms of C, as follows (assuming that p has been
       previously defined as a char*):

       >   becomes  ++p;
       <   becomes  --p;
       +   becomes  ++*p;
       -   becomes  --*p;
       .   becomes  putchar(*p);
       ,   becomes  *p = getchar();
       [   becomes  while (*p) {
       ]   becomes  }

       As with C, the generated program's behavior is undefined if the pointer
       is moved outside of the byte array.

COMPRESSED BRAINFUCK
       There is a compressed format for storing and transmitting Brainfuck
       programs, which ebfc can read natively by using the --compressed
       option.

       In compressed Brainfuck, the eight commands are encoded in three bits
       as follows:

       +   000
       -   001
       <   010
       >   011
       [   100
       ]   101
       ,   110
       .   111

       Each byte in a compressed Brainfuck file contains one or more commands.
       The top two bits select between one of four possible readings of the
       lower six bits, as follows:

       Encoding    Bits         Translation
       singleton   00 abc abc   abc
       pair        00 abc def   abc followed by def
       triplet     10 ab cd ef  0ab then 0cd then 0ef
       repetition  01 abc def   def repeated 2 + abc times (2-9)
       repetition  11 abcd ef   0ef repeated 2 + abcd times (2-17)

ERRORS
       The compiler will issue an error message, and the compilation will
       fail, if the program contains unbalanced bracket commands, or if the
       level of nested brackets exceeds the compiler's maximum capacity (which
       is arbitrarily set at 256).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 1999, 2001, 2021 Brian Raiter <breadbox@muppetlabs.com>.

       License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later. This is free software: you
       are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the
       extent permitted by law.

ELF kickers 3.2                    May 2021                            EBFC(1)
