ELK(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 ELK(1)

NAME
       elk, scheme-elk - extensible Scheme interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       elk [ -l file ] [ -h KBytes ] [ -p load-path ] [ -g ] [ -i ] [ -v type
       ] [[ -- ] args]

       elk...

DESCRIPTION
       Elk (Extension Language Kit) is a Scheme implementation designed as a
       general extension language for applications written in C or C++.
       Normally, Elk is linked with the application it serves, but a stand-
       alone version of the Scheme interpreter is installed as well (usually
       under the name elk).  This interpreter, together with the standard
       Scheme toplevel, Elk can be used as an ordinary, stand-alone
       implementation of the Scheme language.

       When called without the -l option, Elk loads the standard “toplevel” to
       start an interactive session.  When called with -l file, the contents
       of the specified file is loaded instead.  If a `-' is given as a
       filename argument, Elk loads from standard input.

       The option -p load-path can be used to override the standard load-path.
       The argument is a colon-separated list of directories.  If this option
       is not present and the environment variable ELK_LOADPATH is defined,
       the value of this variable is used to initialize the load-path.  The
       value of ELK_LOADPATH has the same format as the argument to the -p
       option.

       The -h KBytes option is used to specify a non-standard heap size.  The
       default heap size is 512 KBytes.

       If the option -i is specified, symbols are mapped to lower case.
       Normally, Elk is case-sensitive.

       The -g option causes the interpreter to run the garbage collector each
       time memory is allocated on the heap.  This is useful for writers of
       extensions who want to test the garbage collect behavior of an
       extension.  Running Elk with the -g option is likely to reveal GC-
       related bugs in extensions (such as not properly protected local
       objects), as it triggers a garbage collection each time an object is
       allocated on the Scheme heap.  A dot is written to standard output each
       time a garbage collection is performed when -g has been specified.

       When called with one or more -v type (``verbose'') options, the
       interpreter prints additional informational messages to standard
       output, depending on the value of the type argument.  If type is load,
       the linker command and options are printed each time an object file is
       loaded; if type is init, the names of extension initialization and
       finalization functions are printed as they are called.

       The remaining args are put into a list of strings, and the Scheme
       variable command-line-args is bound to this list in the global
       environment.  If arguments could be interpreted as options, `--´ can be
       used to indicate the end of the options.

FILES
       $TMPDIR/ldXXXXXX           Temporary files

AUTHOR
       Oliver Laumann

4th Berkeley Distribution       15 January 1991                         ELK(1)
