ANSWER(1L)                                                          ANSWER(1L)

NAME
     answer - phone message transcription system

SYNOPSIS
     answer [ -pu ]

DESCRIPTION
     Answer is a part of the Elm mail system and is designed for secretaries
     and the like to allow them to answer phones and|or listen to phone
     message machines and quickly and easily transcribe the messages into
     electronic mail.

     The program will use standard mail addresses or aliases included in the
     standard .elm directory alias files.  It can also use its own alias set
     (usually a subset of the system aliases, with more fields per user (i.e.
     unique first names, unique last names, first-initial last name, and so
     on)).  Note that if you want to use this capability, it means that you
     must create this alias set and then install it, using newalias, as a
     separate alias table for the account this program is to be run from.

     Options are:

       -p      Prompt for phone slip type message fields.

       -u      Allow names that are not in the alias table.  Without this
               option all names must be resolvable as aliases and answer will
               reprompt for a new name if the alias cannot be resolved.

     Interface-wise, the program is a breeze to use - type 'answer' to start
     it up and then merely type a user name at the

          Message to:

     prompt, fill in the requested information (simply type an "x" next to the
     pertinent information - "TELEPHONED", "PLEASE CALL", "URGENT", etc. if
     the -p option was given), and then enter a message, if any, ending with a
     blank line.  If you elect to use the special alias file, names can be
     entered as 'Firstname Lastname' and the system will try to find a mail
     alias based on the first letter of the first name plus the last name.
     For example, 'Dave Taylor' will cause the program to search for an alias
     'd_taylor' in the file (note the transliteration into lower case).   The
     program will loop until killed or quit.

     Answer can be easily exited by typing any of 'quit', 'exit' 'done', or
     'bye' at the 'Message to:' prompt.

AUTHOR
     Elm Development Group

SEE ALSO
     The Elm Alias System Users Guide

     newalias(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), frm(1L), printmail(1L)

FILES
     $HOME/.elm/aliases.text       individual alias source
     $HOME/.elm/aliases.dir        individual alias dbz directory table
     $HOME/.elm/aliases.pag        individual alias dbz hash table
     $HOME/.elm/aliases            individual alias data table
     /tmp/snd.$$                   edit buffer for outgoing mail

BUG REPORTS TO
     Bill Pemberton  flash@virginia.edu

COPYRIGHTS
     Copyright 1988-1995 by The USENET Community Trust
     Derived from Elm 2.0,  Copyright 1986, 1987 by Dave Taylor

USENET Community Trust          Elm Version 2.5                     ANSWER(1L)
