EPS2PNG(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           EPS2PNG(1)


NAME
       eps2png - convert EPS files to PNG, JPG or GIF images

       Converts files from EPS format (Encapsulated PostScript) to some
       popular image formats.

SYNOPSIS
           use App::eps2png;
           App::eps2png->run();        # takes args from @ARGV

       When installed as a program:

           eps2png [ options ] files ...
           eps2gif [ options ] files ...
           eps2jpg [ options ] files ...

DESCRIPTION
       Converts files from EPS format (Encapsulated PostScript) to some
       popular image formats.

       If installed as "eps2png" (the default), it produces PNG images by
       default. Likewise, "eps2gif" defaults to GIF images and "eps2jpg"
       defaults to JPG. Note that the normal installation procedure will only
       install "eps2png".

       It uses GhostScript to produce the images. Since modern GhostScript
       programs do not support GIF anymore, GIF images are produced via the
       Portable PixMap converters (PBM-package). In this case, a temporary
       file is created, named after the output file, with the extension
       replaced by ".ppm". It is deleted upon completion.

ARGUMENTS
       eps2png always requires at least one argument: the name of the EPS file
       to be converted. It is possible to specify more than one file name.
       This will cause all named files to be converted into separate files,
       e.g., ""sample.eps"" will be converted to ""sample.png"" and so on.

       --png --pngmono --pnggray --png16 --png256 --png16m --pngalpha
           Each of these options will instruct Ghostscript to use the
           corresponding bitmap generator, and supply a ".png" default
           extension for output files.

       --jpg --jpggray --jpeg --jpeggray
           Same, but with a ".jpg" default extension for output files.

       --gif --gifmono
           Same, but with a ".gif" default extension for output files.

           Note: Since modern Ghostscript versions no longer support the GIF
           format due to copyright restrictions, eps2png will request
           Ghostscript to produce a Portable Bitmap File (.ppm or .pbm)
           instead and run the ppmtogif converter to produce the actual GIF
           file.

       --mono
           This option will select monochrome (BW or gray) output. It forces
           the Ghostscript driver to "pngmono", "jpeggray", "pbm", or
           "gifmono".

       --nomono
           Produces colour images. This is the default.

       --width NN
           The desired width of the output image.

           If --height is not specified, the image will be scaled
           proportionally.

       --height NN
           The desired height of the output image.

           If --width is not specified, the image will be scaled
           proportionally.

       --resolution NN
           Specifies the resolution for the output image. This is the width,
           in pixels, of the bitmap image for an EPS image of one inch wide
           (72 PostScript points).

           Note that for best results, use the --width and --height options
           instead.

           Default value is 82, which causes the converted image to be of more
           or less the same size as the EPS image. On my screen, that is.

       --scale NN
           Specify a scaling factor. This may be a fractional number.

           For a one-inch EPS image, the resultant bitmap image will be scale
           times resolution.

           Note that for best results, use the --width and --height options
           instead.

       --antialias NN
           Sets the antialiasing depth. NN must be 0 (no antialiasing), 1, 2,
           4, or 8. Default value is 4.

       --noantialias
           Sets the antialiasing depth to 0.

       --pbm
           Forces GIF conversion through the PBM converters.

       --nopbm
           Forces GIF conversion through Ghostscript.

       --output XXX
           Stores the output in this file. Only one input file may be supplied
           if this option is specified.

       --help
           Prints a help message and exits.

       --ident
           Prints the program version before doing anything else.

       --verbose
           Provides more verbose information.

AUTHOR
       Johan Vromans, <jv@cpan.org>.

BUGS
       GhostScript needs to be installed and accessible through the user's
       "PATH".

       If required for GIF images, the "ppmtogif" tool from the PBM package
       needs to be installed and accessible through the user's "PATH".

       GhostScript is assumed to be capable of handling all the image types
       listed above.

       The EPS should be well-behaving.

       Development of this program takes place on GitHub:
       https://github.com/sciurius/eps2png.

       You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

           perldoc eps2png

       Please report any bugs or feature requests using the issue tracker on
       GitHub.

COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER
       This program is Copyright 1992,2008,2020 by Johan Vromans.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-10                        EPS2PNG(1)
