ESMTP(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               ESMTP(1)





NAME
       esmtp - libESMTP to Sendmail compatibility interface


SYNOPSIS
       esmtp [flags] [address ...]
       sendmail [flags] [address ...]

       mailq
       sendmail -bp

       newaliases
       sendmail -bi


DESCRIPTION
       Esmtp is a send-only sendmail emulator for machines which normally
       retrieve their mail from a centralized mailhub using programs such as
       fetchmail.

       Esmtp does not attempt to provide all the functionality of sendmail: it
       is intended to be used by mail user agents as mutt.


OPTIONS
       Most sendmail options are irrelevant to esmtp .  Those marked
       ``ignored'' or ``default'' have no effect on mail transfer.  Those
       marked ``unsupported'' are fatal errors.


       -Ac (ignored)
              Use submit.cf even if the operation mode does not indicate an
              initial mail submission.


       -Am (ignored)
              Use sendmail.cf even if the operation mode indicates an initial
              mail submission.


       -B type
              Set the body type to type.  Current legal values are 7BIT or
              8BITMIME.


       -ba (unsupported)
              Go into ARPANET mode.


       -bd (unsupported)
              Run as a daemon.


       -bD (unsupported)
              Same as -bd except runs in foreground.


       -bh (unsupported)
              Print the persistent host status database.


       -bH (unsupported)
              Purge expired entries from the persistent host status database.


       -bi (ignored)
              Initialize the alias database.


       -bm (default)
              Deliver mail in the usual way.


       -bp    Print a listing of the queue(s).


       -bP (unsupported)
              Print number of entries in the queue(s); only available with
              shared memory support.


       -bs (unsupported)
              Use the SMTP protocol as described in RFC821 on standard input
              and output.


       -bt (unsupported)
              Run in address test mode.


       -bv (unsupported)
              Verify names only - do not try to collect or deliver a message.


       -C file
              Use alternate configuration file.


       -d X (ignored)
              Set debugging value to X.


       -F fullname
              Set the full name of the sender.


       -f name
              Sets the name of the ``from'' person (i.e., the envelope sender
              of the mail).  This address may also be used in the From: header
              if that header is missing during initial submission.  The
              envelope sender address is used as the recipient for delivery
              status notifications and may also appear in a Return-Path:
              header.

              This address is also used to select from different identities in
              the configuration file.

              If no envelope sender is specified in the command line then the
              default identity's address is used.


       -G (ignored)
              Relay (gateway) submission of a message.


       -h N (ignored)
              Set the hop count to N.


       -I (ignored)
              Same as -bi.


       -i (ignored)
              Ignore dots alone on lines by themselves in incoming messages.
              This should be set if you are reading data from a file.


       -L tag (ignored)
              Set the identifier used in syslog messages to the supplied tag.


       -N dsn Set delivery status notification conditions to dsn, which can be
              `never' for no notifications or a comma separated list of the
              values `failure' to be notified if delivery failed, `delay' to
              be notified if delivery is delayed, and `success' to be notified
              when the message is successfully delivered.


       -n (default)
              Don't do aliasing.


       -O option=value (ignored)
              Set option option to the specified value.  This form uses long
              names.


       -o x value (ignored)
              Set option x to the specified value.  This form uses single
              character names only.


       -p protocol (ignored)
              Set the name of the protocol used to receive the message.


       -q[time] (ignored)
              Process saved messages in the queue at given intervals.


       -qp[time] (ignored)
              Similar to -qtime, except that instead of periodically forking a
              child to process the queue, forks a single persistent child for
              each queue that alternates between processing the queue and
              sleeping.


       -qf (ignored)
              Process saved messages in the queue once and do not fork(), but
              run in the foreground.


       -qG name (ignored)
              Process jobs in queue group called name only.


       -q[!]I substr (ignored)
              Limit processed jobs to those containing substr as a substring
              of the queue id or not when ! is specified.


       -q[!]R substr (ignored)
              Limit processed jobs to those containing substr as a substring
              of one of the recipients or not when ! is specified.


       -q[!]S substr (ignored)
              Limit processed jobs to those containing substr as a substring
              of the sender or not when ! is specified.


       -R return
              Set the amount of the message to be returned if the message
              bounces.  The return parameter can be `full' to return the
              entire message or `hdrs' to return only the headers.  In the
              latter case also local bounces return only the headers.


       -r name
              An alternate and obsolete form of the -f flag.


       -t     Read message for recipients.  To:, Cc:, and Bcc: lines will be
              scanned for recipient addresses.  The Bcc: line will be deleted
              before transmission.


       -V envid
              Set the original envelope id.


       -v     Go into verbose mode.


       -X logfile
              Log all traffic in and out of mailers in the indicated log file.


       --     Stop processing command flags and use the rest of the arguments
              as addresses.


FILES
        ~/.esmtprc
              User configuration file. Only read if no configuration file is
              specified on the command line.


       /usr/local/etc/esmtprc
              System configuration file. Only read if no configuration file is
              specified on the command line and there is no user configuration
              file.


SEE ALSO
       esmtprc(5), fetchmail(1)


AUTHOR
       José Fonseca



                                                                      ESMTP(1)
