EVOLVOTRON(1)                     Evolvotron                     EVOLVOTRON(1)



NAME
       evolvotron - Creates generative art by an interactive evolutionary
       process.


SYNOPSIS
       evolvotron [Qt options] [options]


DESCRIPTION
       evolvotron is interactive "generative art" software to evolve
       images/textures/patterns through an iterative process of random
       mutation and user-selection driven evolution.  Basically it displays a
       grid of random images; you click on one you like and the rest of the
       grid is refilled with variants of the one you picked.

       This man page describes only the command line options.  A more complete
       manual fully describing usage via the application's GUI is accessible
       from the application's "Help" menu once it is running.


GENERAL OPTIONS
       -a, --autocool
            Enable autocooling by default.


       -F, --fullscreen
            Start in "fullscreen" mode (window manager permitting).  [Press
            "Esc" key to revert to normal windowed mode].


       -g, --grid
            colsxrows Number of columns in image display grid (defaults to
            5x6).


       -h, --help
            Display a summary of command-line options and exit.


       -j, --jitter
            Enable sample jittering.


       -m, --multisample
            multisample Enables antialiased rendering.  Valid values are
            1,2,3,4.  This specifies the size of the sub-pixel sampling grid,
            so 1 provides the default one-sample-per-pixel behaviour, while 4
            provides 16 samples per pixel on a 4x4 grid.


       -M, --menuhide
            Start with menu and status bars suppressed.  [Press "Esc" key to
            display them].


       -p, -spheremap
            Create spheremaps instead of planar textures.  NB The middle-mouse
            adjustments will not behave as expected in this mode.


       -S, --startup
            filename Specify a function file to be loaded on startup.  This
            option can be used multiple times, and any positional arguments
            will also be interpreted as such.  Loaded functions are placed on
            the grid from left to right, top to bottom; if multiple functions
            in excess of what is needed to fill the grid cells are provided,
            the extras will be ignored.  If the grid is not fully filled with
            startup functions, the remaining cells are filled at random
            normally.  Note that resetting the application will reload the
            specified function files again.  Also note that using this option
            multiple times has the potential to generate a lot of loading
            error dialogs if e.g the path to all the files is wrong.


       -U, --shuffle
            Use in conjunction with -S / --startup options, randomly shuffles
            the order the specified startup images are displayed in.  A fresh
            shuffle will be also be used when the application is reset.


ANIMATION OPTIONS
       -f, --frames
            frames Number of frames to animate (defaults to 1 i.e no animaton)


       -l, --linear
            Vary z linearly with time rather than sinusoidally over animation
            period.


       -s, --fps
            framerate Specify rate at which animations are displayed (as an
            integer number of frames per second).  Defaults to 8.


POWER-USER / DEBUG OPTIONS
       -D, --debug
            Debug mode.  Currently simply sets function weightings so
            virtually all function nodes are FunctionNoiseOneChannel.  This is
            really only useful to developers in conjunction with the -F/-u
            options.


       -E, --enlarement-threadpool
            Use a separate thread pool for computing enlargements.  Using this
            option ensures computation of enlargements continue to make some
            progress even while the main grid is being actively worked on.
            However, this will be at the expense of main grid rendering
            performance.  Without this option, enlargements' final high-
            resolution renderings are invariably lower priority than
            computation for images in the main grid.  See also the -N option
            to control the priority of threads in this pool.


       -n, --nice
            niceness Niceness of compute threads relative to the main
            application thread (defaults to 4).


       -N, --Nice
            niceness Niceness (relative to the main application thread) of
            compute threads dealing with enlargements (defaults to 8).  Only
            effective in conjunction with a separate enlargement threadool
            (--E option).


       QtOptions
            The Qt GUI system recognizes an number of additional options (for
            example, standard X11 things like -geometry <width>x<height>;
            consult the Qt documentation for more information).  Note that
            these don't use the Gnu "double minus" option style used for
            evolvotron options.


       -t, --threads
            threads Number of compute threads in a thread pool (defaults to
            number of CPUs)


       -u, --unwrapped
            Use with the -F option to stop the specified function from being
            wrapped by a random colouring and spatial transform node.


       -v, --verbose
            Verbose mode.  Probably most useful for getting a list of
            supported function names for use with the --F option.


       -x, --favourite
            functionname Force a specific function type to be used at the top
            level of all new image function trees (wrapped by random colour
            and spatial transforms, unless the --unwrapped option is also
            specified).  This can also be controlled from the "Favourite"
            dialog.


EXAMPLES
       evolvotron -F FunctionSpiralLinear

       evolvotron -F FunctionKaleidoscope -u


AUTHOR
       evolvotron was written by Tim Day (www.timday.com) and is released
       under the conditions of the GNU General Public License.  For further
       details see the application's "About" dialog (accessible from the
       "Help" menu), or the file LICENSE supplied with the source code.


SEE ALSO
       evolvotron_mutate(1), evolvotron_render(1)

www.timday.com                    16 Oct 2009                    EVOLVOTRON(1)
