FACTOR(6)                    FreeBSD Games Manual                    FACTOR(6)

NAME
     factor, primes – factor a number, generate primes

SYNOPSIS
     factor [-h] [number ...]
     primes [-h] [start [stop]]

DESCRIPTION
     The factor utility will factor positive integers.  When a number is
     factored, it is printed, followed by a ‘:’, and the list of factors on a
     single line.  Factors are listed in ascending order, and are preceded by
     a space.  If a factor divides a value more than once, it will be printed
     more than once.

     When factor is invoked with one or more arguments, each argument will be
     factored.

     When factor is invoked with no arguments, factor reads numbers, one per
     line, from standard input until end of file or 0 is entered or an error
     occurs.  Leading white-space and empty lines are ignored.

     Numbers may be preceded by a single ‘+’.  Numbers can be either decimal
     or hexadecimal strings where the longest leading substring is used.
     Numbers are terminated by a non-digit character (such as a newline).  If
     the string contains only decimal digits, it is treated as a decimal
     representation for a number.  A hexadecimal string can contain an
     optional 0x or 0X prefix.  After a number is read, it is factored.

     The primes utility prints primes in ascending order, one per line,
     starting at or above start and continuing until, but not including stop.
     The start value must be at least 0 and not greater than stop.  The stop
     value must not be greater than the maximum.  The default and maximum
     value of stop is 18446744073709551615.

     When the primes utility is invoked with no arguments, start is read from
     standard input and stop is taken to be the maximum.  The start value may
     be preceded by a single ‘+’.  The start value is terminated by a non-
     digit character (such as a newline).

DIAGNOSTICS
     negative numbers aren't permitted
     illegal numeric format
     start value must be less than stop value
     Result too large

BUGS
     factor cannot handle the “10 most wanted” factor list, primes will not
     get you a world record.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        January 12, 2020        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
