FAIRYMAX(6)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          FAIRYMAX(6)


NAME
       fairymax - xboard-compatible chess and chess-variant engine 'Fairy-Max'

SYNOPSIS
       fairymax [hashSize] [iniFile]

       shamax [hashSize] [iniFile]

       maxqi [hashSize] [iniFile]

DESCRIPTION
       fairymax is a program that plays chess and chess variants.  It uses the
       xboard/winboard chess-engine protocol to communicate.  Apart from
       'regular' chess (also known as the Mad-Queen variant), it can play
       Capablanca chess, gothic chess, janus chess, knightmate, cylinder
       chess, berolina chess, superchess, makruk (Thai chess, and also some of
       its variants, Cambodian chess (Ouk), asean chess and ai-wok), courier
       chess, Seirawan chess, Spartan chess, falcon chess, great shatranj,
       team-mate chess, charge of the light brigade, king of the hill,
       bifurcator chess, Los-Alamos chess, Mexican chess, Ciccolini's chess,
       grande acedrex, wildebeest chess (almost), shuffle chess without
       castling and chess with different armies (all combinations of the FIDE,
       Clobberers, Nutters and Rookies armies).  Fairy-Max can be easily
       configured by the user to play other variants as well, by modifying the
       ini file.  This ini file describes the rules of movement of the
       participating pieces and the initial board setup.

       Fairy-Max can also play shatranj, but in this case is not aware of the
       shatranj rule that a bare king loses.  So it might play sub-optimally
       in the late end-game.  A version of Fairy-Max adapted to implement the
       baring rule (and the rule that stalemate is a win) is available under
       the name shamax.  Grande Acedrex and Courier Chess might also have had
       a baring rule, so you may want to play these with shamax instead of
       fairymax too.

       Similarly, a version of Fairy-Max adapted to play Xiang Qi (Chinese
       Chess) is included in the fairymax package as well, under the name
       maxqi.

       fairymax is a derivative of the world's (once) smallest chess program
       (source-code wise), micro-Max.  The latter measures less that 2000
       characters, (about 100 code lines), and has a computer rating of around
       2050 on the CCRL rating list.  Although this is about 1000 rating
       points behind the world champion, micro-Max still makes a quite tough
       opponent even for club players, but it is not unbeatable.

       The main difference between micro-Max and Fairy-Max is that the latter
       loads its move-generator tables, which specify how the various pieces
       move, from an external file, so it can be easily adapted to incorporate
       un-orthodox pieces.  For ease of use of the artificial-intelligence,
       Fairy-Max is equipped with I/O routines that allow it to run with the
       xboard graphical user interface.

       See xboard(6) for instructions about how to use fairymax through
       xboard. To start up quickly, you just need the command: xboard -fcp
       fairymax.  Note that to be able to play the chess variants, it is
       recommended to use the latest XBoard version, as some of the recently
       added variants will use features not supported by older XBoard
       versions.

       Fairy-Max supports multi-PV mode: by specifying a non-zero multi-PV
       margin in the Engine-Settings dialog of XBoard, Fairy-Max will not only
       print the principal variation for the best move, but also for every
       move that approaches the score of this best move to within the set
       margin.  (If it does not find the best move on the first try, this
       might lead to printing of a few extra lines below the threshold.)
       Fairy-Max now also supports analysis mode, and exclusion of moves from
       the analysis.

       Amongst the move types supported by Fairy-Max are normal leaper and
       slider moves, (e.g. knight and rook), divergent moves (i.e. capture and
       non-capture moves can be different), hoppers (which jump over other
       pieces, such as the Chinese cannon or the grasshopper), lame leapers
       (the move of which can be blocked on squares they cannot move to, such
       as the Chinese horse and elephant), limited-range sliders (upto range
       5), and any combination thereof, in every possible direction.  The
       board width is configurable upto a width of 14 files, and cylindrical
       boards (where left and right edge connect) are supported as well.  The
       board height can be configured up to 16 ranks.

OPTIONS
       hashSize
               If the first argument to fairymax is numeric, it is taken as an
               indicator for the amount of memory Fairy-Max is allowed to use
               for its internal hash table.  The default value for this
               argument, 22, would result in a memory usage of 48MB.  Each
               next-higher number doubles the memory usage, each next-lower
               halves it.  Running with less than 6MB (i.e. argument 19) is
               not recommended.  When fairymax is running under xboard 4.3.15
               or later the hash-table size can be set through the xboard
               menus, making this argument superfluous.

       iniFile A second or non-numeric first argument is taken as a filename.
               Fairy-Max will use the mentioned file in stead of its default
               fmax.ini file to define the movement of pieces and initial
               setup of the variants.  This makes it easier to define your own
               variants.

       INTERACTIVE OPTIONS
               Fairy-Max also supports some options that can only be set
               interactively, though XBoard's engine settings menu dialog.
               These are listed below:

       Resign Threshold
       Resign  If the Resign option is on, Fairy-Max will resign when its
               score in centiPawns drops below the negated value of Resign
               Threshold.

       Claim draw after
               The value of this option determines how many full moves must
               elapse after a capture or pawn push before Fairy-Max will claim
               a draw.

       Multi-PV Margin
               Moves that ly closer in score to the best move than the value
               of this option (interpreted as centi-Pawn) will be emitted as
               alternative variations in Fairy-Max' thinking output.

       Ini File
               This option sets the name of the file Fairy-Max uses to
               retrieve the game definition from, each time you start a new
               game.

       Variant fairy selects
               Combobox to select what variant Fairy-Max will actually play
               when variant 'fairy' is selected.  Variants defined with names
               fairy/... in the ini file will appear as choices.  The
               introduction of engine-defined variants in XBoard protocol has
               made this option obsolete, but Fairy-Max still uses it for
               selecting the different flavors of chess with different armies.
               This setting takes effect when a new game in variant fairy is
               started.

       Makruk rules
               Obsolete option, which selects whether makruk will be played
               with Cambodian rules (allowing extra initial moves of King and
               Met), or with the Ai-Wok super piece replacing the Met.  With
               recent XBoard version these games would be directly available
               from XBoard's New Variant menu as engine-defined variant.

       Clear Hash
               Pressing this button will clear Fairy-Max' hash table, so that
               it does not have any memory of what it calculated earlier.

       Info    Pressing this button pops up a short description of the current
               variant.

       Save in hash file
               Pressing this button when Fairy-Max is in analysis mode adds
               the current position to the persistent-hash file for the
               current variant, with the latest score reported by the engine.
               Positions in this file are loaded before any game in Fairy-Max'
               hash table, protected from overwrite during the game, to define
               the score Fairy-Max should give to the position at any search
               depth.

       Automatic persistent-hash dialog
               Switching on this option will cause a dialog to pop up in any
               new position you reach during analysis mode, asking you whether
               the position should be saved in the persistent-hash file for
               the current variant.  Pressing OK will save the position with
               the latest score from the analysis, while typing a number will
               assign that number of centi-Pawn to the position instead.

FILES
       fmax.ini
           The fmax.ini file from which Fairy-Max by default takes the piece
           and game definitions is a self-documenting text file, which
           contains instructions for how to define new pieces and chess
           variants.  Next to the definitions of all variants Fairy-Max can
           play, it contains an extensive list of pre-defined pieces, incuding
           many not occurring in any of the pre-defined variants.  The user
           can draw on these to define his own variants.

       Persistent hash
           Some of the interactive options can be used to store the current
           position in a file bearing the name of the variant being played,
           with the extension .hash added to it, during analysis.  Positions
           in that file will be loaded into Fairy-Max' hash table before every
           game, protected from overwrite.  This can be used to create an
           opening or end-game book for the variant.  This can for instance be
           used to discourage opening lines the engine overrates.  The file
           will be created in the current directory, but at the start of a
           game both this file and a similar one in Fairy-Max' private data
           files will be loaded.  The install does contain such a persistent
           hash file for makruk, to help Fairy-Max find the checkmate in the
           difficult corners of the KMMMK and KNMMK (with like M) end-games.

AVAILABILITY
       At http://hgm.nubati.net/cgi-bin/gitweb.cgi the source code can be
       obtained.

SEE ALSO
       xboard(6)

       explanations:
       http://www.chessvariants.org/index/msdisplay.php?itemid=MSfairy-max

       micro-Max: http://home.hccnet.nl/h.g.muller/max-src2.html

       XBoard: http://hgm.nubati.net

STANDARDS
       WinBoard, xboard(6) interface ("Chess Engine Communication Protocol")

AUTHOR
       H.G.Muller <h.g.muller@hccnet.nl>.

       This manual page was generated with pod2man(1).

perl v5.40.2                      2016-03-16                       FAIRYMAX(6)
