FDUPES(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              FDUPES(1)

NAME
       fdupes - finds duplicate files in a given set of directories

SYNOPSIS
       fdupes [ options ] DIRECTORY ...


DESCRIPTION
       Searches the given path for duplicate files. Such files are found by
       comparing file sizes and MD5 signatures, followed by a byte-by-byte
       comparison.


OPTIONS
       -r --recurse
              For every directory given follow subdirectories encountered
              within.

       -R --recurse:
              For each directory given after this option follow subdirectories
              encountered within (note the ':' at the end of option; see the
              Examples section below for further explanation).

       -s --symlinks
              Follow symlinked directories.

       -H --hardlinks
              Normally, when two or more files point to the same disk area
              they are treated as non-duplicates; this option will change this
              behavior.

       -G --minsize=SIZE
              Consider only files greater than or equal to SIZE in bytes.

       -L --maxsize=SIZE
              Consider only files less than or equal to SIZE in bytes.

       -c --cache
              Speed up file comparisons by keeping track of their signatures
              in a database; additional parameters may be provided using one
              or more cache parameters (as indicated below). Please note that
              this option may not be available on some systems.

       -x cache.OPTION
              Supply an optional cache parameter, where OPTION is one of the
              keywords below and multiple options may be supplied via
              successive -x arguments:

                readonly
                  read but do not update file signatures

                prune
                  look through entire cache and delete orphaned entries

                clear
                  clear all entries from cache

                vacuum
                  reduce size of DB file, if possible

              The options prune, clear, and vacuum may be employed without
              supplying a DIRECTORY argument, and will take effect even if
              readonly is also specified. The order of operations is always
              clear, prune, update signatures (unless readonly), and vacuum.

       -n --noempty
              Exclude zero-length files from consideration.

       -A --nohidden
              Exclude hidden files from consideration.

       -f --omitfirst
              Omit the first file in each set of matches.

       -1 --sameline
              List each set of matches on a single line.

       -S --size
              Show size of duplicate files.

       -t --time
              Show modification time of duplicate files.

       -m --summarize
              Summarize duplicate file information.

       -M --quicksummary
              Summarize dupe information quickly, skipping the slower byte-
              for-byte match confirmation.

       -q --quiet
              Hide progress indicator.

       -d --delete
              Prompt user for files to preserve, deleting all others (see
              CAVEATS below).

       -D --deferconfirmation
              In interactive mode, defer byte-for-byte confirmation of
              duplicates until just before file deletion.

       -P --plain
              With --delete, use a line-based prompt (as with older versions
              of fdupes) instead of the new screen-mode interface. On
              installations where the screen-mode interface is not supported,
              fdupes will default to a line-based prompt.

       -N --noprompt
              When used together with --delete, preserve the first file in
              each set of duplicates and delete the others without prompting
              the user.

       -I --immediate
              Delete duplicates as they are encountered, without grouping into
              sets; implies --noprompt.

       -p --permissions
              Don't consider files with different owner/group or permission
              bits as duplicates.

       -o --order=WORD
              Order files according to WORD: time - sort by modification time,
              ctime - sort by status change time, name - sort by filename.

       -i --reverse
              Reverse order while sorting.

       -l --log=LOGFILE
              Log file deletion choices to LOGFILE.

       -v --version
              Display fdupes version.

       -h --help
              Display help.

NOTES
       Unless -1 or --sameline is specified, duplicate files are listed
       together in groups, each file displayed on a separate line. The groups
       are then separated from each other by blank lines.

       When -1 or --sameline is specified, spaces and backslash characters
       (\) appearing in a filename are preceded by a backslash character.


EXAMPLES
       fdupes a --recurse: b
              Will follow subdirectories under b, but not those under a.

       fdupes a --recurse b
              Will follow subdirectories under both a and b.


CAVEATS
       When using -d or --delete, care should be taken to insure against
       accidental data loss.

       When used together with options -s or --symlink, a user could
       accidentally preserve a symlink while deleting the file it points to.

       Furthermore, when specifying a particular directory more than once, all
       files within that directory will be listed as their own duplicates,
       leading to data loss should a user preserve a file without its
       "duplicate" (the file itself!).


AUTHOR
       Adrian Lopez <adrianlopezroche@gmail.com>


                                                                     FDUPES(1)
