ferite(1L)                                                          ferite(1L)





NAME
       builder - ferite programming lanugage command line tool for module c
       code generation.


SYNOPSIS
       builder [options] name_of_script


DESCRIPTION
       This application allows you to parse a number of .fec files and
       generate the necessary c files for the ferite module. It will also
       generate a Makefile.am for use with an autotools project.


       To get a list of options, use 'builder --help'.

OPTIONS
       The builder options are listed below.  In keeping with the freedom-of-
       choice philosophy, options may be eliminated or default values chosen
       at compile-time, so options and defaults listed may not accurately
       reflect the version installed on your system.


       -h,--help
              Show the current for the program


       --version
              Show the current version or the program


       --copyright
              Show the current copyright for the program


       -v,--verbose
              This will cause the builder executable to be verbose, this means
              that it will explain where abouts in the grand scheme of things
              it is, eg. loading a file, compiling it, deleting it.


       -s,--showargs
              This will cause the program to dump the list of arguments it is
              passing to the initialisation of the ferite engine.


       -e script, --execute script
              This will cause builder to, instead of loading a disk file to
              compile and run, use the string script.


       -m name, --module-name name
              This will cause builder to use name.
               as the name of the module


       -a file, --add-file file
              This will cause builder to add file.
               as an extra file to be added to the build process of the
              module.


       -A file, --add-dist-file file
              This will cause builder to add file.
               as an extra file to be installed but not part of the build
              process.


       -i name, --init-name name
              This will cause builder to change the name of the default module
              init function to name.


       -d,--no-deinit
              Tell builder not to generate a module deinit function


       -f,--no-makefile
              Tell builder not to generate a Makefile.am file.


       -k,--force-makefile
              Tell builder to build a Makefile.am even if a Makefile.am
              already exists.


       -nc,--no-configm4
              Tell builder not to generate a config.m4 file.


       -b path, --builder-path path
              This will cause builder to use path.
               as for the builder location in the Makefile.am


       -p path, --source-prefix path
              This will cause builder to use path.
               as for the src prefix in the Makefile.am


       -c,--closed
              Tell builder not to generate code that does not require the
              source files to be run. By default ferite uses the source files
              and the loaded module together.


       -fp path, --file-prefix path
              This will cause builder to use path.
               as the place to put the generated files.


       The following options are specific to the engine and can be used where
       ever the engine is used.


       --fe-debug
              This will turn on internal debugging of the engine. This will
              (if the engine has been compiled with --enable-debug) cause a
              huge amount of data to be outputed onto stdout.  The information
              contained within it is invaluable - tracking of function
              execution flow, all sorts of messages allowing for the very
              quick location of bugs.


       --fe-use-classic
              ferite by default uses's it's own memory suballocator called
              jedi but there are times when it is useful to either access the
              system's malloc directly, or to track when memory is being used.
              If ferite is compiled with debugging, the classic memory manager
              will track memory allocations and dump a table at the end of the
              program's execution to show all allocated memory.  This is vital
              for tracking memory leaks.  WARNING: This mode will cause
              ferite's speed to drop immensily - it's only useful for
              debugging the engine.


       --fe-show-mem-use
              ferite keeps internal counters of memory useage, use this to see
              at the end of a programs execution how much memory is still
              allocated, or has been allocated.


       --fe-use-mm-with-pcre
              Tell ferite to use it's own memory manager with the pcre regular
              expression library


BUGS
       Of course! What software project would be without bugs? Please Please,
       email bug reports to ferite-devel@lists.sourceforge.net - thanks.


AUTHOR
       ferite is designed and implemented by Chris Ross <chris@darkrock.co.uk>


URL(s)
       ferite Home Page -- http://www.ferite.org/
       Author's Home Page -- http://www.darkrock.co.uk/



Yeah!                     ferite programming language               ferite(1L)
