FGALLERY(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            FGALLERY(1)

NAME
     fgallery – static HTML+JavaScript photo album generator

SYNOPSIS
     fgallery [-hvsiotrpdf] [-c methods] [-j N] [--max-full WxH]
              [--max-thumb WxH] [--min-thumb WxH] [--no-sRGB] [--quality Q]
              [--index URL] input-dir output-dir [album name]

DESCRIPTION
     fgallery is a static photo gallery generator with no frills that has a
     stylish, minimalist look.  fgallery shows your photos, and nothing else.
     There is no server-side processing, only static generation.  The
     resulting gallery can be uploaded anywhere without additional
     requirements and works with any modern browser.  JavaScript is required
     to view the gallery.  The gallery will feature a large area for viewing a
     single image, and a scrollable horizontal or vertical bar with
     thumbnails.  The orientation of the thumbnail bar will be automatically
     chosen based on the size of the browser window.  The user can click on
     arrows to go to the next or previous image or use the arrow keys on the
     keyboard to do the same.  The user can also click on the thumbnails to
     quickly go to another image.  Each image has a unique anchor tag, and the
     user can copy&paste the URL from the address bar of the browser which
     will point to the currently displayed image.  Clicking on the previewed
     image will display the original at full resolution, unless th -s option
     is used.

     fgallery reads in JPEG, PNG and TIFF images, and automatically generates
     preview images, backdrops and thumbnails using ImageMagick(1).  It will
     automatically correct the orientation of the generated images using EXIF
     tags in the original images, using either exiftran(1) or exifautotran(1).
     It can also optimize the generation of thumbnails by centering on faces
     if the -f option is used and facedetect(1) is installed.  The generated
     images are automatically optimized using jpegoptim(1) and/or oxipng(1) if
     these programs are installed.  If the original images contain color
     profiles, then the generated images will be converted to the sRGB
     colorspace using tificc(1) if that program is installed, unless the
     --no-sRGB option is used.

     fgallery can also add captions to images. These can either be read from
     the EXIF headers (using the Title, Description and optionally the Comment
     tags), or from an external file (using the same filename as the image but
     with a .txt or .xmp extension).  The -c option can be used to control
     which methods of caption extraction will be used.

     You have to manually specify the directory with the original image files
     and the desired output directory for the web gallery.  Optionally, you
     can specify a title for the gallery.  By default, the gallery will
     include a downloadable ZIP archive with the complete photo album, unless
     either the -d or -s option is used.  After the gallery has been
     generated, you may have to change the file permissions using chmod(1) to
     allow them to be read by others.

OPTIONS
     -h, --help
             Display a list of options.

     -v      Verbose output (show commands as being executed).

     -s      Slim output (no original files and downloads).

     -i      Include individual originals in the generated album.

     -o      Do not auto-orient images.

     -t      Do not sort images on time.

     -r      Reverse the order of the images.

     -p      Do not automatically include full-sized panoramas.

     -d      Do not generate a full album download.

     -f      Improve thumbnail cutting by performing face detection.  Requires
             facedetect(1) to be installed.

     -c methods
             Set the caption extraction method (txt, xmp, exif, cmt or none).
             Multiple methods can be specified by giving a comma-separated
             list.  The default is txt,xmp,exif.

     -j N    Use N threads to process the images.

     --max-full WxH
             Set the maximum full image size to WxH pixels. The default is
             1600x1200 pixels.

     --max-thumb WxH
             Set the maximum size of thumbnails to WxH pixels. The default is
             267x200 pixels.

     --min-thumb WxH
             Set the minimum size of thumbnails to WxH pixels. The default is
             150x112 pixels.

     --no-sRGB
             Do not try to remap preview and thumbnail image color profiles to
             sRGB.

     --quality Q
             Set the JPEG quality of the preview images to Q.  The default is
             90.

     --index URL
             Specify the URL location for the index and back buttons.

SEE ALSO
     ImageMagick(1), exiftran(1), exifautotran(1), jpegoptim(1), oxipng(1),
     tificc(1), facedetect(1) (see
     https://www.thregr.org/~wavexx/software/facedetect/).

AUTHORS
     fgallery was written by Yuri D'Elia ⟨wavexx@thregr.org⟩.

                                  2015-11-30
