fcomp(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               fcomp(1)

NAME
       fcomp - file compare

SYNOPSIS
       fcomp [ option...  ] filename1 filename2

       fcomp -Help

       fcomp -VERSion

DESCRIPTION
       The fcomp program is used to compare text files, similar to the diff(1)
       program.  Its advantage is that it always produces minimal differences,
       and so will never mis‐sync when comparing files.  Its disadvantage is
       that it runs slower due to the extra work required to produce optimal
       differences.  However, for files differing by less than a few thousand
       lines, its performance is adequate.  The algorithms used by this
       utility are also used by the fhist(1) program in order to produce the
       edit history.

       To compare file old to file new, the command:
              fcomp old new
       would be used.  This gives the differences involved in converting from
       file old to file new.  This is analogous to the use of the cp(1)
       command.  Either the old or new file may be a directory, in which case
       the comparison is done to the file in the directory with the same name
       as the other file.  An error is given if old and new are both
       directories.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -BINary This option may be used to compare binary files on a
               byte‐for‐byte basis.  (Each byte is treated as a “line” by the
               algorithm.)  Byte values are displayed in hexadecimal, as are
               the addresses.  Note: this is different behaviour to the
               fhist(1) option of the same name.

       -No_BINary
               This option may be used to avoid comparing binary files.  A
               warnign will be prointed on the standard error, but the program
               will report success without printing andy other output.

       -Blank
               Ignore blank lines in the input files.

       -Context number
               This specifies the number of lines of "context" which is
               displayed.  This shows the specified number of lines before and
               after the actual lines being changed.  This is useful to locate
               and identify the line which is actually being changed, when
               there are many identical copies of the line in the file.

       -Edit
               Output an edit script which is machine readable.

       -Failures number
               This stops the comparison if the number of changes exceeds the
               specified number.  Each change is a delete or insert of a
               single line.  This is useful when you are not interested in the
               results when the files are totally different.  Another use is a
               quick check to see if two files are identical, by using a value
               of zero.

               See the file lib/en/man1/o_help.so.


       -Join number
               This merges together lines which have changed, if they are
               separated by up to the specified number of unchanged lines.
               This makes a change look bigger, but reduces the "choppiness"
               of the output by showing fewer regions being changed.  This is
               particularly effective to suppress worthless matchings of
               single blank lines or comment beginning and ending lines.  A
               useful value for this option is 3 or so.

       -Matching
               Output matching lines, rather then changed lines.

       -Number
               This outputs the line numbers at the left edge of the output.
               This isn't normally needed, since the line numbers are
               displayed in the comment line preceding the lines being
               displayed.  Not outputting the line numbers prevents the
               terminal from needlessly scrolling for long lines.

       -Output filename
               Send the output to this file, rather than the standard output.

       -Quiet
               Output only a quick summary of changes needed.

       -Spaces
               This option ignores differences in the number of spaces in the
               two lines.  That is, two or more adjacent spaces are handled as
               a single space.  Spaces at the beginning or end of a line are
               totally ignored.

       -Upcase
               Uppercase lines before comparing.

               See the file lib/en/man1/o_version.so.


       -What
               This outputs all of both files together, showing what happened
               to each line of the first file in order to change to the line
               in the second file.  This output is in "change bar" format,
               where inserted lines begin with |+, deleted lines begin with
               |−, and unchanged lines begin with spaces.  The presence of the
               vertical bar makes it easy to search for the changed lines.

               See the file lib/en/man1/o__rules.so.


               See the file lib/en/man1/z_fne.so.


               See the file lib/en/man1/z_binary.so.


               See the file lib/en/man1/z_exit.so.


               See the file lib/en/man1/z_ref.so.


               See the file lib/en/man1/z_cr.so.


Reference Manual                     FHist                            fcomp(1)
