FIG2SXD(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             FIG2SXD(1)

NAME
       fig2sxd - utility to convert .fig to .sxd

SYNOPSIS
       fig2sxd [-w] [-l(ine)w(idth)1 l] [-stylebase s] figfile sxdfile

DESCRIPTION
       The program tries to convert the given file in xfig format into a sxd
       file for OpenOffice.org Draw. If figfile ends with .fig or .xfig and
       sxdfile is omitted, the output file will be named like figfile ending
       with .sxd instead of .(x)fig.  Using - for figfile makes the program
       read from stdin so that it is possible to use

              pstoedit -f fig file.ps - | fig2sxd - file.sxd

       to convert ps files. (For files with many objects you might want to use
       something like

              pstoedit -f 'fig:-startdepth 9999' file.ps - | fig2sxd -
              file.sxd

       to get more layers; the output of pstoedit then is no longer a valid
       xfig file, but it makes the z ordering of the objects in OpenOffice.org
       Draw stay correct.) Using - for sxdfile makes the program write to
       stdout. With the -linewidth1 (or -lw1) option, the width of lines with
       thickness 1 in xfig can be set, unit is 1 cm. Using 0 here gives fine
       lines. Example:

              pstoedit -f 'fig:-startdepth 9999' file.ps - | fig2sxd -lw1 0 -
              file.sxd

       With the -w option, out-of-specification values are only warnings but
       will be sanitized.  With the -stylebase option, the prefix of the
       generated style names can be changed.  This might be useful to prevent
       mixing styles from several converted figures that are joined in one
       OpenOffice.org document. The argument to -stylebase must consist of
       4..255 alphanumeric characters.

DEFICIENCIES
       Not all of the .fig objects are converted correctly: splines look quite
       similar, but are not exactly the same; text placement might be a little
       bit wrong, especially for very small font sizes; hatches look different
       in many cases; hollow arrows are not supported and replaced by their
       filled counterparts. There are various other things that could be
       improved.

       It looks like OpenOffice.org cannot read xml attribute values longer
       than 64kB as they might appear for very long polygons/-lines. For
       unfilled polylines, fig2sxd therefore creates several smaller polylines
       of 500 points each and groups them together. Splitting an arbitrary
       filled polygon is not trivial and not implemented.

SEE ALSO
       pstoedit(1), xfig(1) and http://fig2sxd.sourceforge.net/ (for updates).

AUTHOR
       Program and manual page were written by Alexander Bürger
       <acfb@users.sourceforge.net>.

                                                                    FIG2SXD(1)
