WATCHTAB(5)               FreeBSD File Formats Manual              WATCHTAB(5)

NAME
     watchtab – tables for driving filewatcherd

DESCRIPTION
     A watchtab file contains instructions to the filewatcherd(8) daemon of
     the general form: ``run this command when these events happen to the file
     at this path''.

     Blank lines and leading spaces and tabs are ignored.  Lines whose first
     non-space character is a pound-sign (#) are comments, and are ignored.
     Note that comments are not allowed on the same line as watchtab commands,
     since they will be taken to be part of the command.  Similarly, comments
     are not allowed on the same line as environment variable settings.

     An active line of a watchtab will be either an environment setting or a
     command.  An environment setting is of the form

         name = value

     where the spaces around the equal-sign (=) are optional, and any
     subsequent non-leading spaces in value will be part of the value assigned
     to name.  Note that name cannot contain any blackslash or tabulation.

     Several environment variables are set up automatically by the
     filewatcherd(8) daemon.  LOGNAME and USER are set to the command user,
     HOME is set to the home directory of the command user, unless explicitly
     overriden.  TRIGGER is set to the path that has triggered the command
     execution.

     The format of a watchtab command is a tabulation-separated sequence of
     fields, interpreted as follow:

     path     Path of the file to watch.

     events   Set of events which trigger the command. It can either be a
              single star-sign (*), or a punctuation-separated list of names
              among: DELETE, WRITE, EXTEND, ATTRIB, LINK, RENAME and REVOKE.
              Their meaning is defined in kqueue(2) for fflags for
              EVFILT_VNODE.

     delay    Number of seconds, allowing a decimal point, between the trigger
              and when the command is actually run.

     user     User, and optionally group preceded by a colon sign (:), to
              change to before running the command.

     chroot   Path of a directory in which to chroot before running the
              command.

     command  The command to run.

     When less than 6 fields are given in a command line, the chroot value is
     considered omitted, and chroot will be performed.  When less than 5
     fields are given, the user value is considered omitted, and no setuid or
     setgid will be performed.  When less than 4 fields are given, the delay
     value is considered as zero.  It is an error to provide less than 3
     fields.

SEE ALSO
     kqueue(2), crontab(5), filewatcherd(8)

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 20, 2015           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
