filtermail(1)                    User Manuals                    filtermail(1)

NAME
       filtermail - Filters e-mail, gets rid of spam

SYNOPSIS
       filtermail [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       filtermail is a very flexible utility to get rid of unwanted spam
       mails, before having to go through the trouble of downloading them into
       the local computer. It offers support for one or many POP accounts and
       is especially useful for dialup connections via modem, ISDN, etc.

       filtermail connects to any POP mail box and compares part of its
       content to a set of user defined filter rules. That way the spam gets
       deleted directly on the mail server.

       With filtermail you can define your own filters (rules) to determine
       which e-mails should be delivered and which are considered waste. Rules
       are Regular Expressions, so you can make use of familiar options from
       other mail delivery programs such as procmail(1) for example.

RETURN VALUE
       The filtermail program normally returns 0 but -1 if an error occurs.
       However, if it has been invoked with the return-value command line
       switch, it gives back a positive integer in case there are messages on
       the POP server.  Empty POP accounts would then result in a return value
       of 0.  Using the switch, filtermail can be embedded into a shell script
       more easily.

CONFIGURATION
       The behaviour of filtermail is controlled by command-line options and a
       configuration file. The program will not start without it. Example
       configurations can be looked up in the filtermailex(5) man page, in the
       INSTALL document or inside the doc/ directory of the filtermail
       distribution.

       By default filtermail tries to read $HOME/.filtermailrc to get all its
       settings from. This is the place where all changes should be made,
       unless it is explicitly specified otherwise. A comprehensive list of
       all supported options and keywords can be found in the filtermailrc(5)
       man page.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display help information

       -L, --logfile=FILE
              Specify logfile location

       -M, --filtermailrc=FILE
              Specify rcfile location

       -r, --return-value
              Enable additional return values

       -s, --skip-ssl-verify
              Skip verification of SSL certificates (Do not use unless you
              know better!)

       -t, --test
              Simulate deletes

       -i, --ignore-time-stamps
              Ignore invalid Message-ID time stamps (Do not use unless you
              know better!)

       -v, --verbose=LEVEL
              Specify level of verbosity

       -V, --version
              Display version information

SEE ALSO
       filtermailrc(5), filtermailex(5), procmail(1), regex(7)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2000-2022 Andreas Bauer <baueran@gmail.com>

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.

filtermail                       January 2009                    filtermail(1)
