FINFO(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               FINFO(1)

NAME
     finfo – display file information

SYNOPSIS
     finfo [-l] file

DESCRIPTION
     finfo displays potentially useful information about the file specified.
     Options

     -l          Display information on symbolic links

     File  : The resolved physical path to the file.
     Type  : The file's type (regular, character/block special, directory,
             symbolic link, fifo, socket, whiteout, or unknown).
     Inode : The physical inode of the file, as used by utilities like
             clri(8).
     Modes : The User, Group, and Other read/write/execute permissions.
     Links : The number of hard links to this file.
     Size  : The size of the file in bytes, kilobytes, and megabytes.
             Kilobytes and megabytes are rounded to the nearest hundredth.
     Blocks: The number of blocks the file occupies.
     Mt Ma : The major number of the device the file is on.
     Mt Mi : The minor number of the device the file is on.
     IO BS : The ideal input/output block size for the device the file is on.
     User  : The owner of the file.
     Group : The group of the file.
     Last Accessed  : The date and time the file was last accessed.
     Last Modifed   : The date and time the file was last modified.
     Status Changed : The date and time the status of the file last changed.

         If the file is a character or block special device, the following will
     be shown :

     Major : The major number of this device.
     Minor : The minor number of this device.

         If the file has flags such as those set by chflags, the following will
     be shown :

     Flags : The file's user definable flags.  These will be one or more of:
             arch, opaque, nodump, sappnd, schg, sunlnk, uappnd, uchg or uunlnk
             for more on what these mean, please refer to chflags(1).

EXAMPLES
     The following are examples of typical usage :

           % finfo /bin/sh
           % finfo /dev/null
           % finfo -l /sys

DIAGNOSTICS
     Exit status is 0 on success or an error number if the command fails for
     any of the reasons that lstat, stat, or realpath may fail.

COMPATIBILITY
     finfo may not function properly on non FreeBSD systems.

SEE ALSO
     file(1), chflags(1), chflags(2), stat(2), realpath(3)

AUTHORS
     Christine Maxwell ⟨cfm@o-o.org⟩.

BUGS
     Dragonflies are pretty.

FreeBSD                        December 1, 2001                        FreeBSD
