FIST(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                FIST(1)

NAME
       fist - emphatic message generator

SYNOPSIS
       fist [ -c -fpat -l -mtext -n -sfactor -u ]

DESCRIPTION
       fist prints an image of a clenched fist (unless suppressed by the -c
       option), followed by a slogan in block letters, limited to 16
       characters per line (``Television is to news as bumper stickers are to
       philosophy.''-Richard M. Nixon).  Options permit you to scale the fist
       commensurate to the iniquities of the Oppressor (or your printer's
       paper size, whichever is smaller), select right- or left-handed blows
       against the Empire, and various other gimmicks which popped into the
       mind of this Humble Programmer while watching "Ice Station Zebra" over
       and over again and watching his fingernails grow.  Oops...that was
       another megalomaniac.  Anyway, here's the latest incarnation of the
       fist program.  May your banners ever espouse worthy causes, and may
       those truly worthy be achieved.

OPTIONS
       -c        Chill out: no fist is generated, only the message text.

       -fpat     Fill the fist with the text pattern pat, which may be any
                 string of ASCII/ISO characters.  If the pattern contains
                 blanks or characters interpreted by the shell, it should be
                 quoted or escaped appropriately.

       -l        The fist will be left handed.

       -mtext    Supply a line of the text to be printed below the fist on the
                 command line.  If the text contains blank or shell
                 metacharacters it should be quoted or escaped.  Only the
                 first 16 characters of the text will be printed.  You may
                 supply multiple -m options for multi-line text.  Note that
                 you must also specify the -n option if you don't want fist to
                 read additional lines of text from standard input after
                 printing lines supplied by the -m option.

       -n        Do not read text to be printed below the fist from standard
                 input.  Unless you've specified text with one or more -m
                 options, no text at all will be printed, just the fist.  If
                 you specify only the -c and -n options, the only consequence
                 of running fist will be the passage of time.

       -sfactor  Scale the fist by the given percentage factor between 25 and
                 100.

       -u        Print how to call information.

FILES
       Lines of text (limited to 16 characters) are read from standard input
       unless suppressed by the -n option; these lines are printed in block
       letters below the fist.  Input from standard input is terminated by an
       end of file.  Output is written to standard output.  Input and output
       are processed strictly sequentially and hence fist may be used in
       pipelines.

BUGS
       The block character font is a limited subset of ASCII containing only
       upper case letters, numbers, and punctuation with character codes
       between hexadecimal 20 and 5F.  The font was originally created in the
       late 1960's in UNIVAC 1108 six bit FIELDATA code, and re-shuffled into
       ASCII order when the first port was made to an ASCII machine in 1981.
       If you'd like to add lower case letters, ISO codes, or full Unicode, go
       right ahead.

       fist will not work on machines which do not use the ASCII character
       code (for example EBCDIC machines).  You'll need to shuffle the font
       table or translate character codes to ASCII before you index it.  I
       don't have such a machine, so I'm not going to include code I can't
       test.

       Scale factors smaller than about 60 on the -s option produce
       infelicitous results: the fist looks like it's wearing a mitten.

       You can't aggregate options, separate options from their arguments with
       a blank, or other cool getopt features because the program doesn't use
       getopt in order to preserve its retro look.

       Over the last thirty years numerous people have suggested the program
       might be enhanced by adding options to raise two fingers (``peace'') or
       only one finger (well, you know).  Please send me the code if you make
       this decades-long dream a reality.

SEE ALSO
       ascii(7)

AUTHOR
                                     John Walker
                              http://www.fourmilab.ch/

       This software is in the public domain. Permission to use, copy, modify,
       and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
       without fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.
       This software is provided ``as is'' without express or implied
       warranty.

4th Berkeley Distribution         25 NOV 2001                          FIST(1)
