FIXMOUNT(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            FIXMOUNT(8)

NAME
     fixmount – fix remote mount entries

SYNOPSIS
     fixmount [-adervq] [-h name] host ...

DESCRIPTION
     This command is obsolete.  Users are advised to use autofs(5) instead.

     The fixmount utility is a variant of showmount(8) that can delete bogus
     mount entries in remote mountd(8) daemons.  The actions specified by the
     options are performed for each host in turn.

OPTIONS
     -a, -d, -e
             These options work as in showmount(8) except that only entries
             pertaining to the local host are printed.

     -r      Removes those remote mount entries on host that do not correspond
             to current mounts, i.e., which are left-over from a crash or are
             the result of improper mount protocol.  The actuality of mounts
             is verified using the entries in /etc/mtab.

     -v      Verify remote mounts.  Similar to -r except that only a
             notification message is printed for each bogus entry found.  The
             remote mount table is not changed.

     -A      Issues a command to the remote mountd declaring that all of its
             file systems have been unmounted.  This should be used with
             caution, as it removes all remote mount entries pertaining to the
             local system, whether or not any file systems are still mounted
             locally.

     -q      Be quiet.  Suppresses error messages due to timeouts and “Program
             not registered”, i.e., due to remote hosts not supporting RPC or
             not running mountd(8).

     -h name
             Pretend the local hostname is name.  This is useful after the
             local hostname has been changed and rmtab entries using the old
             name remain on a remote machine.  Unfortunately, most mountd's
             will not be able to successfully handle removal of such entries,
             so this option is useful in combination with -v only.

             This option also saves time as comparisons of remotely recorded
             and local hostnames by address are avoided.

FILES
     /etc/mtab       List of current mounts.

     /etc/rmtab      Backup file for remote mount entries on NFS server.

SEE ALSO
     mtab(5), rmtab(5), mountd(8), showmount(8)

     “am-utils” info(1) entry.

     Erez Zadok, Linux NFS and Automounter Administration, Sybex, 2001, ISBN
     0-7821-2739-8.

     http://www.am-utils.org/

     Amd - The 4.4 BSD Automounter.

HISTORY
     The fixmount utility appeared in FreeBSD 3.0.

AUTHORS
     Jan-Simon Pendry ⟨jsp@doc.ic.ac.uk⟩, Department of Computing, Imperial
     College, London, UK.

     Erez Zadok ⟨ezk@cs.columbia.edu⟩, Department of Computer Science,
     Columbia University, New York, USA.

     Other authors and contributors to am-utils are listed in the AUTHORS file
     distributed with am-utils.

AUTHORS
     Andreas Stolcke ⟨stolcke@icsi.berkeley.edu⟩

     Erez Zadok ⟨ezk@cs.sunysb.edu⟩, Computer Science Department, Stony Brook
     University, Stony Brook, New York, USA.

     Other authors and contributors to am-utils are listed in the AUTHORS file
     distributed with am-utils.

BUGS
     No attempt is made to verify the information in /etc/mtab itself.

     Since swap file mounts are not recorded in /etc/mtab, a heuristic
     specific to SunOS is used to determine whether such a mount is actual
     (replacing the string “swap” with “root” and verifying the resulting
     path).

     Symbolic links on the server will cause the path in the remote entry to
     differ from the one in /etc/mtab.  To catch those cases, a file system is
     also deemed mounted if its local mount point is identical to the remote
     entry.  I.e., on a SunOS diskless client,
     server:/export/share/sunos.4.1.1 is actually /usr/share.  Since the local
     mount point is /usr/share as well this will be handled correctly.

     There is no way to clear a stale entry in a remote mountd(8) after the
     local hostname (or whatever reverse name resolution returns for it) has
     been changed.  To take care of these cases, the remote /etc/rmtab file
     has to be edited and mountd(8) restarted.

     The RPC timeouts for mountd(8) calls can only be changed by recompiling.
     The defaults are 2 seconds for client handle creation and 5 seconds for
     RPC calls.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        February 26, 2016       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
