flnews(1)                     flnews 1.3.0 manual                    flnews(1)

NAME
     flnews - Fast and lightweight Usenet client with GUI

SYNOPSIS
     flnews [-display [host]:display] [-geometry WxH[+X+Y]]

     flnews [-h|-v]

DESCRIPTION
     If you don't know what Usenet is, you probably want to read this article
     first:

     https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usenet

     flnews is a client with graphical user interface that uses the NNTP
     protocol defined in RFC 3977 to get Usenet news articles defined in RFC
     5536 from a server via IP network. Version 1 of the NNTP protocol (as
     defined in RFC 977) is supported too and automatically used, if the
     server does not report support for Version 2.

     If compiled with support for ssl(3), the NNTPS protocol (NNTP over
     encrypted TLS connection) is supported. For NNTPS connections the server
     to client authentication via X509 certificate is always performed.
     Optionally the client can authenticate to the server via the AUTHINFO
     USER/PASS extension defined in RFC 4643.

     If compiled with support for compression and zlib(3), the NNTP COMPRESS
     extension is supported. Compression negotiation is disabled by default
     and can be enabled on the 'Edit->Configuration->Misc' tab in the user
     interface.  Because compression in general can weaken the underlaying
     encryption, the optional authentication is always done before compression
     is negotiated.  For the same reason compression negotiation should be
     disabled for reading groups that contain articles with confidential
     information.

     flnews provides full Unicode support, including NFC normalization for
     posting and search/compare operations. Article content is converted to
     ISO 8859-1 before posting (if possible) to be more friendly to old
     clients.  The ability to display Unicode content depends on the GUI
     toolkit fltk(3).  Even if the content could not be correctly displayed,
     it is always possible to correctly quote it in follow-up articles.

     flnews has MIME support according to RFC 2045, RFC 2046, RFC 2047 and RFC
     2231.  Since version 0.18 full MIME conformance according to RFC 2049
     Section 2 was reached.  Posted articles should be fully RFC 5536
     conformant (without postprocessing by the user).

     Additional checks are implemented that create warnings if an article
     violates common Usenet conventions. Conformance to mandatory GNKSA 2.0
     rules was reached with exception of part 4 (the "Reply-To" header field
     can only be modified before the article composer is started):

     https://gnksa.org/

     Currently flnews 1.3.0 provides no support for the following features:

     •  Multiple servers

     •  Offline mode

     •  UUCP

     If you need one of these features, use leafnode(8) or another proxy
     server (consider Hamster for machines with Windows operating system).

OPTIONS
     The following options are supported:

     -4                       Force usage of IPv4 network protocol.

     -confprefix path         Use different configuration directory (specify
                              path without trailing slash).

                              Attention: Never set path to an existing
                              configuration directory for flnews with a
                              different major version number!

     -debug                   Enable debug mode.

                              Additional messages are printed to the terminal
                              via stderr.

                              The network communication with the NNTP server
                              is logged.  See "logfile" in the FILES section.

     -display [host]:display  X display to use. More information about X can
                              be found in X(7).

     -geometry WxH[+X+Y]      Window size and position.

     -h                       Print help message.

     -iconic                  Starts with minimized window.

     -notooltips              Disable tooltip messages.

     -v                       Print version information and compile time
                              options.

                              Compile time options:

                              •  CLB (POSIX.2 C Language Binding)

                              •  FSC (POSIX.1 File Synchronization option)

                              •  IP6 (Internet Protocol V6)

                              •  NLS (National Language Support)

                              •  P2K (POSIX.1-2001 or newer)

                              •  TLS (Transport Layer Security)

                              •  XSI (X/Open System Interface extension)

                              •  ZLIB (DEFLATE compression algorithm)

EXIT STATUS
     Zero on regular exit. All other values indicate an error.

ENVIRONMENT
     DISPLAY                  X display to use. More information about X can
                              be found in X(7).

     FLTK_SCHEME              Selects the FLTK scheme to use. FLTK 1.3.0
                              accepts the following options:

                              •  none (Default style)

                              •  gtk+ (GTK+ style)

                              •  plastic (Aqua style)

                              Newer FLTK versions may accept additional
                              schemes.

     TMPDIR                   Directory used for temporary files (as
                              recommended by POSIX). This value will override
                              the default "/tmp".

     TZ                       The timezone that is used by localtime(3).
                              flnews internally uses this function to convert
                              POSIX timestamps to local time and for creating
                              'date-time' tokens according to RFC 5322.

     XDG_CONFIG_HOME          Prefix for configuration directory path
                              according to XDG Base Directory Specification.
                              This value will override the default
                              "~/.config".  The program name flnews is
                              appended as last path component.

     In addition, flnews honours the following locale related variables:

     LANG                     Used as fallback if LC_* variables are not set.

     LC_ALL                   Overdrives all other LC_* variables.

     LC_CTYPE                 Character classification to use. Only locales
                              with US-ASCII, ISO 8859-1 and UTF-8 codesets are
                              allowed here. Setting this to a locale with
                              UTF-8 codeset is very expensive on some
                              operating systems (e.g. more than an order of
                              magnitude slower on NetBSD 5).  Note that
                              setting this to POSIX or an ISO 8859-1 locale
                              will not completely disable Unicode support! You
                              can at least use Unicode for your name in the
                              identity configuration and you can correctly
                              quote Unicode content for follow-up articles in
                              any case.

     LC_MESSAGES              Locale for user interface language. The codeset
                              is ignored because FLTK internally always use
                              UTF-8 (regardless of the locale settings).  If
                              flnews is compiled without National Language
                              Support (NLS), this variable is ignored.

     As a general rule, POSIX.2 define that all locale sections must use the
     same codeset. More information about NLS can be found in nls(7) or
     locale(7) depending on the operating system.

X RESOURCES
     Information about X resources and how to set them can be found in X(7).

     fltk.background          (String) The value of this ressource is taken as
                              the background color for most widgets (see
                              Text.background if it does not work).

     fltk.foreground          (String) The value of this ressource is taken as
                              the foreground color for most widgets.

     fltk.scheme              (String) See the environment variable
                              FLTK_SCHEME for possible values. The environment
                              variable takes precedence over this ressource.

     Text.background          (String) The value of this ressource is taken as
                              the background color for text, list, and
                              valuator widgets.

     Text.selectBackground    (String) The value of this ressource is taken as
                              the background color for selected text.  Set it
                              to something like "gray" for a more decent
                              selection color.  On machines with 8-bit color
                              depth the highlight color for search results
                              (that is derived from the selection background
                              color) may have little or no contrast. Use a
                              darker color in this case, e.g. "darkgray".

     Xft.antialias            (Boolean) If FLTK uses the X11 backend and is
                              compiled to use Xft (the default), then the
                              value "true" will enable and "false" will
                              disable font anti-aliasing.  The recommended
                              setting is "true".

     Xft.hinting              (Boolean) If FLTK uses the X11 backend and is
                              compiled to use Xft (the default), then the
                              value "true" will enable and "false" will
                              disable font hinting.  The recommended setting
                              is "true".

     Xft.autohint             (Boolean) If FLTK uses the X11 backend, is
                              compiled to use Xft (the default) and Xft is
                              configured with enabled font hinting (resource
                              Xft.hinting set to "true") then this resource
                              controls the hinting algorithm. With setting
                              "false" the BCI algorithm is used, "true"
                              enables the builtin autohinter of Freetype2.
                              The recommended setting is "false".

     Xft.hintstyle            (Integer) If FLTK uses the X11 backend, is
                              compiled to use Xft (the default) and Xft is
                              configured with enabled font hinting (resource
                              Xft.hinting set to "true") then this resource
                              controls the hinting mode. Possible values are
                              "hintnone" (0), "hintslight" (1), "hintmedium"
                              (2) and "hintfull" (3).  The recommended setting
                              is "hintfull" (3).

                              Attention: With some modes it is possible that
                              lines will overlap and characters like
                              underscore are clipped!

FILES
     ~/.signature             The signature from this file is automatically
                              appended to all created articles.
                              This file is not used if another location for
                              the signature file is configured.  See
                              CONFIGURATION section below for details
                              (configfile entry "signature_file").

                              Note: At this (shared) location the file should
                              be US-ASCII encoded. If you want to use Unicode
                              in signatures, a dedicated signature file for
                              flnews should be configured.

     The following files are inside the configuration directory. The default
     location is "~/.config/flnews". The environment variable XDG_CONFIG_HOME
     and the option -confprefix (highest precedence) can be used to modify the
     configuration directory location.

     .cancelsecret            Secret for generating Cancel-Locks/-Keys with
                              scheme SHA256 according to RFC 8315.
                              The secret in this file must be a
                              cryptographically random value according to RFC
                              4086 and should be at least 32 octets in length.

                              flnews must be compiled with support for ssl(3)
                              or this file will be ignored, because the
                              cryptographic functions are shared.

                              If this file is not present, it is automatically
                              created and a new secret is written to it (using
                              random data from the cryptographic PRNG).

                              If this file is present and not empty, and the
                              fqdn entry is set, flnews creates "Cancel-Lock"
                              (always) and "Cancel-Key" header fields when
                              canceling or superseding articles.

                              To use the same secret as another installation
                              of flnews (or another newsreader that use the
                              algorithm recommended by RFC 8315 with HMAC
                              based on SHA256), copy the file with the desired
                              secret to this location.

                              To manually disable this feature, an empty file
                              must be used.

                              Attention: Everybody who get his hands on this
                              secret can cancel articles that were locked
                              using this key in the past! This file should be
                              readable only by the user.

                              The old scheme SHA1 is still supported too. See
                              CONFIGURATION section below for details
                              (configfile entry "cancelkey").

     configfile               Configuration and user interface state of last
                              session. The file format is forward and backward
                              compatible between all versions with same major
                              number.

                              See CONFIGURATION section below for details.

     groupfile                Subscribed groups and already viewed articles
                              database. The data is US-ASCII encoded in newsrc
                              format and can be shared with other newsreaders
                              using the entry newsrc in configfile. It is
                              possible to share the group data over machine
                              borders by using a NFS server (advisory file
                              locking support is required).

                              Attention: In any case all newsreaders that
                              share a groupfile must be configured to use the
                              same server! There is a convention to name such
                              files "newsrc-$HOSTNAME" to make it obvious for
                              which server they can be used.

                              It is allowed to share the groupfile between
                              multiple instances of flnews that run
                              simultaneously. The file will contain the state
                              of the instance that is terminated last.

     headers/*                Cached article header database. The file names
                              correspond to the article watermarks of the
                              current NNTP server. If the server provides the
                              OVER capability defined in RFC 3977, this
                              database is not used.

                              Overview usage can be explicitly disabled. See
                              CONFIGURATION section below for details
                              (configfile entry "nntp_no_over").

     logfile                  Protocol dump of server communication from
                              current/last session. To view this data while
                              the program is running, select 'Tools->Protocol
                              console' in the user interface. This file is
                              overwritten for every new connection.

                              Only enabled in debug mode. See "-debug" in the
                              OPTIONS section.

     scorefile                Scoring rules. The file format is forward and
                              backward compatible between all versions with
                              same major number. The data can be shared using
                              the entry scorerc in configfile. It is possible
                              to share the scoring rules over machine borders
                              by using a NFS server (advisory file locking
                              support is required).

                              It is allowed to share the scorefile between
                              multiple instances of flnews that run
                              simultaneously. The file will contain the state
                              of the instance that is terminated last.

                              See SCORING section below for details.

CONFIGURATION
     This section describes the format of the configfile.

     This file must be a POSIX textfile, this means every line must be
     terminated with a LF line break.

     Any line starting with '#' is treated as a comment (not parsed and
     ignored).  Missing entries are automatically added, unsupported entries
     are ignored.

     The content can have one of two types: Integer or Unicode string. Strings
     use the UTF-8 representation and NFC normalization of Unicode.

     The following entries are supported by version 1.3.0 but can't be
     configured from the GUI. Some have no GUI editor by intent. If you don't
     know what you are doing, consider to not modify them.

     •  cancelkey (String) Secret for generating Cancel-Locks/-Keys with
        scheme SHA1 according to RFC 8315

        flnews must be compiled with support for ssl(3) to make this work,
        because the cryptographic functions are shared.

        If this entry and the fqdn entry are set, flnews creates "Cancel-Lock"
        (always) and "Cancel-Key" header fields when canceling or superseding
        articles.

        Note: The scheme SHA1 is obsolete since RFC 8315. This entry is
        preserved for backward compatibility. After a transition period this
        entry should be left empty and the scheme SHA256 should be used. See
        section above (File "~/.config/flnews/.cancelsecret").

     •  color_xxx (Integer) Text foreground color for xxx.

        The value must be an 8-bit index for the FLTK colormap:

        https://www.fltk.org/doc-1.3/drawing.html#drawing_colors

     •  crl_check (Integer) Enable TLS certificate CRL checks

        A nonzero value means that CRL checks are enabled.

        flnews must be compiled with support for CRL checks to make this work.

     •  crl_upd_c (Integer) TLS certificate CRL update choice

        A nonzero value means that, after the CRL update interval has elapsed,
        the user get a choice to select whether the CRL update should be
        delayed.

     •  crl_upd_iv (Integer) TLS certificate CRL update interval

        The value must be positive and is a period of time in hours. Too large
        values (longer than one year) are clamped to the upper limit. The
        value zero means that new CRLs should be downloaded for every new
        connection (not recommended).

     •  crl_upd_ts (String) TLS certificate CRL update timestamp

        This entry contains a timestamp in ISO 8601 format for the last
        successful CRL update.

     •  dist_suggestions (Integer) Use distribution suggestions

        Setting this to a nonzero value automatically initialize the
        distribution header field in the composer with suggested distribution
        data (if available).  If no distribution suggestions are available for
        the target groups, the header field is initialized to "world" as with
        this option set to zero.

        Any time a distribution suggestion is used, the user is informed with
        a popup window in the GUI.

        With the NNTP protocol the command LIST DISTRIB.PATS is used to
        retrieve the distribution suggestions from the server.

     •  editor (String) Optional external editor for article composition

        The pathname of an executable program must be specified.

        The pathname of a file containing the data is passed as parameter.  If
        the external editor requires additional parameters, a start script
        must be specified (and the script must provide the additonal
        parameters).

        The editor must be able to process Unicode data in UTF-8 format.  The
        specified editor must terminate with exit status zero on success.

        A temporary file is used. Consider to set the TMPDIR environment
        variable.

     •  flowed_insert_crlf (Integer) Add empty line after paragraph

        Only used if "Format=flowed" is declared.

        A value of zero corresponds to the dumb behaviour up to version 0.16
        (if a paragraph ends with an empty line, there is no separation to the
        following text).

        A value of one adds an empty line separator after every paragraph that
        ends with an empty line. This is required to create single line
        paragraphs (allow single line to be rewrapped to smaller width for
        display).  The author of an article can request this behaviour with
        the experimental parameter "InsLine=yes" in addition to
        "Format=flowed".

     •  fqdn (String) Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the machine

        Must be empty or a valid "dot-atom" according to RFC 5322, this means
        the nameless root domain must be omitted (no trailing dot).

        This entry is used to generate Message-IDs. They are only worldwide
        unique for all time if flnews runs on a machine with a FQDN. In
        addition the clock of the machine must be synchronized so that
        timestamps are not ambigous.

        If a FQDN is configured, the header fields "Message-ID", "Injection-
        Date", "Cancel-Lock" and "Cancel-Key" (only when cancelling or
        superseding an article) are created by flnews for all outgoing
        articles. Note that RFC 5537 specifies some nasty details for the
        "Injection-Date" header field (they are the reason to handle it
        internally in this case).

     •  force_unicode (Integer) Force Unicode for outgoing articles

        With the value zero outgoing articles are converted to ISO 8859-1 if
        possible.  With a nonzero value, all articles are sent using Unicode
        (UTF-8 transformation format).

     •  immedauth (Integer) Immediate authentication option

        The value one represents the default behaviour to authenticate
        immediately after a connection was established.

        The value zero switches the behaviour, so that authentication against
        the server is only executed after a request to do so (480 response
        when using NNTP protocol).

     •  inews (String) Pathname of an optional external inews

        The external inews must accept the article on its standard input and
        inject it into the network.  After successful completion of this task
        it must terminate with exit status zero. In the case of an error, it
        must terminate with a nonzero exit status.

        Note that the article feeded into the external inews has canonical
        format (CR+LF line breaks).

        If your inews needs command line parameters or a different input
        format, specify a shell script here (and call the external inews from
        this script).

     •  initial_greeting (String) Greeting line for first article of new
        thread

        The content is automatically inserted into the body of every new
        regular article (that is not a followup, cancel or supersede).

     •  intro (String) Introduction line format

        The name of the cited author can be inserted with "%s".  The
        newsgroups list of the cited article can be inserted with "%g".  Every
        variable is allowed only once.

        The last character should be a colon.

     •  inv_order (Integer) Inverse order

        The value zero is the default behaviour (top down).

        A nonzero value inverts the order of articles or thread branches
        respectively.

     •  kill_threshold (Integer) Threshold score to kill articles

        The score of an article is compared to this threshold when it is added
        to the article tree/list. Articles with a score below this threshold
        are killed (not displayed).

        The minimum value is -49999 and the maximum value is 0 (kill all
        articles with negative score).

        The value -9999 is used as default.

        The default score of an article is 0. See SCORING section below how to
        increase or decrease the score of articles.

     •  newsrc (String) Optional pathname of file to share group states in
        newsrc format

        This file is imported at startup and used as groupfile. At exit the
        local groupfile is copied back to this location. Note that this file
        is replaced with rename(2) and is not modified in place. If the file
        is accessed via NFS, advisory locking must be available.

     •  nntp_no_over (Integer) Disable usage of overview (OVER command) for
        NNTP protocol

        Setting this to a nonzero value disables usage of overview and makes
        the whole newsgroup list usable for scoring rules.

        If the usage of overview is disabled with a nonzero value (or the
        server has offered no OVER capability), then article headers are
        stored in a local database. See "headers/*" in the FILES section.

        In general the default value 0 should be used. There are two scenarios
        for which this option may be useful.

        If the network connection to the server is very slow and no data
        compression is available: In this case the transfer of the (larger)
        overview may be slower than the transfer of a few (smaller) new
        headers, because the older headers can be taken from the local
        database.

        If one or more scoring rules should match other (not the current or
        not subscribed at all) newsgroups in Xposts: Because the newsgroup
        list is not part of the overview, only the current group is available
        if the overview is used.

     •  organization (String) Optional name of the users organization

        The string is inserted as 'Organization' header field in outgoing
        articles.

     •  post_proc (String) Pathname of an optional article postprocessor

        Note: The postprocessor can be used to insert custom header fields.

        The postprocessor must be a filter in Unix sense. It must accept the
        article on its standard input, process it and write the result to its
        standard output.  After successful completion of this task, it must
        terminate with exit status zero. In the case of an error, the
        postprocessor must terminate with a nonzero exit status.

        Note that the article feeded into the postprocessor has canonical
        format (CR+LF line breaks) and use Unicode UTF-8 encoding for the
        body. Modifications must preserve this format.  The Unicode
        normalization, potential conversion to the target character set and
        the application of the transfer encoding to the body is done after the
        postprocessing. Therefore the postprocessor is not allowed to add
        "Content-Type" and "Content-Transfer-Encoding" header fields!

        The header is already in RFC 2047 format. If the postprocessor
        modifies an existing header field, this format must be preserved. If a
        new header field is added, the postprocessor is responsible for
        creating valid RFC 2047 encoding and Unicode normalization to NFC.

     •  refresh_interval (Integer) Group list refresh interval

        The value zero is the default behaviour and disables the autorefresh
        feature.

        A nonzero value refreshes the group list in the specified interval (in
        minutes).

     •  scorerc (String) Optional pathname of file to share scoring rules

        This file is imported at startup and used as scorefile. At exit the
        local scorefile is copied back to this location. Note that this file
        is replaced with rename(2) and is not modified in place. If the file
        is accessed via NFS, advisory locking must be available.

     •  signature_file (String) Pathname of file with signature (relative to
        home directory)

        Default value: ".signature".

        If this file is present, its content is used as signature.  The
        signature separator "dash dash space" plus LF line break is
        automatically prepended if not already present in this file.  The file
        must be a POSIX text file (LF line break after every line, including
        the last one) with Unicode encoding in UTF-8 format (Unicode
        normalization is not important and applied automatically).

        Use an empty string to disable signature generation.

     •  testgrp_ere (String) POSIX.2 Extended Regular Rxpression (Unicode is
        allowed)

        If non US-ASCII characters are used in the regular expression, they
        must be representable in the codeset of the character classification
        locale used at runtime. Otherwise the regular expression from this
        entry is ignored and will never match. See the desciption for the
        LC_CTYPE environment variable above for details.

        Note that this regular expression is used for matching against
        individual group names, not group lists. This means '^' and '$' will
        match start and end of individual group names.

        If a match is detected against a group name, this group is treated as
        a test group that may require special control commands in the
        "Keywords" header field to silence e.g. reflector bots (see entry
        "testgrp_kwords" for keyword configuration).

     •  testgrp_kwords (String) Comma separated list of words

        If a target group of an article is identified as a test group (as
        described for the "testgrp_ere" entry), the header field "Keywords" is
        initialized to the value defined with this entry.

        Attention: Version 1.3.0 of flnews currently only supports US-ASCII
        keywords. Do not use spaces around commas.

     •  timestamp_comment (Integer) Generate Date header field with timezone
        comment

        The value zero represents the default behaviour to append no comment.

        The value one switches the behaviour, so that a comment with the name
        of the timezone is appended to the Date header field. If the operating
        system does not provide timezone information, this entry is ignored.

     •  tls_owncerts (Integer) Use local trust anchors for TLS

        With nonzero value the trust anchor (X.509 root certificate) of a
        certificate chain is searched in the local location only. The system
        wide certificate store of the OpenSSL installation is ignored.

        Local X.509 certificate path: ~/.config/flnews/certs

        Copy the root certificate (in PEM format) to a file with arbitrary
        name in the path specified above. Then run the c_rehash utility to
        create the symlink that OpenSSL uses for searching.

     •  unread_in_next_group (Integer) Skip to next group for unread article

        With zero value searching for next unread article stays in current
        group.

        With nonzero value the next group with unread articles is selected if
        there are no more unread articles in the current group.

SCORING
     This section describes the format of the scorefile.

     This file must be a POSIX textfile, this means every line must be
     terminated with a LF line break.

     Any line starting with '#' is treated as a comment (not parsed and
     ignored).

     Since version 1.3.0 empty lines are ignored. This change is forward
     compatible (older 1.x versions create parse error messages for empty
     lines, but preserve them and handle the other lines as expected).

     All other lines are parsed as rules with four colon-separated fields:

     •  Target The groups to which the rule is associated.

        This must be a wildmat according to RFC 3977. The wildmat "*" will
        match all groups.

     •  Type The header field to which the rule is associated. This field is
        case sensitive.

        All types with suffix "_ere" use pattern matching with a POSIX
        Extended Regular Expression (ERE):

        https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/V1_chap09.html

        The following types (in alphabetical order) are recognized by version
        1.3.0.

        Type "from": The string from the fourth field must match literally
        against the "From" header field body.

        Type "from_ere": The string from the fourth field is interpreted as a
        POSIX.2 ERE  and must match against the "From" header field body.

        Type "group": The string from the fourth field must match literally
        against a group element in the "Newsgroups" header field body.

        Type "msgid_ere": The string from the fourth field is interpreted as a
        POSIX.2 ERE and must match against the "Message-ID" header field body.

        Type "subject": The string from the fourth field must match literally
        against the "Subject" header field body.

        Type "subject_ere": The string from the fourth field is interpreted as
        a POSIX.2 ERE and must match against the "Subject" header field body.

     •  Score The score value that apply if the filter rule matches.

        This must be a signed integer value. If the scorefile is shared
        between multiple instances of flnews, the values must be usable for
        the whole group. The machine with the smallest limits will clamp the
        values if they are too large or too small respectively.

     •  String The rules content string.

        This must always be an Unicode string (in UTF-8 format with NFC
        normalization).

        Attention: If the normalization is wrong, the rule may not match as
        intended!

        The colon has no special meaning inside this field anymore and must
        not be quoted for any of the rule types listed above.

     Note that rules using wildmats (other than "*") and/or regular
     expressions are ignored if flnews is compiled without support for regular
     expressions.

     If non US-ASCII characters are used in a regular expression, they must be
     representable in the codeset of the character classification locale used
     at runtime. Otherwise the regular expression from this entry is ignored
     and will never match. See the desciption for the LC_CTYPE environment
     variable above for details.

     The default score for every article is zero. If a rule matches, the score
     value from the second field will be added to the corresponding article.
     Note that the processing is not stopped after a match, the following
     rules are applied too.

     Articles with nonzero score result are marked with icons in the GUI.
     Articles with negative score result are additionally marked as read.

NOTES
     flnews is based in part on the work of the following projects:

     •  FLTK toolkit for graphical user interface (https://www.fltk.org/)

     •  Unicode standard for text encoding (https://www.unicode.org/)

        Unicode is a registered trademark of Unicode, Inc. in the United
        States and other countries.

     •  OpenSSL cryptographic libraries (https://www.openssl.org/)

        If compiled with support for TLS.

     •  LibreSSL cryptographic libraries (https://www.libressl.org/)

        If compiled with support for TLS (as replacement for OpenSSL).

     •  zlib compression library (https://zlib.net/)

        If compiled with support for compression.

AUTHORS
     To view the list of authors and the license terms, select 'Help->License'
     in the user interface.

BUGS
     To report bugs, select 'Help->Bug report' in the user interface.

STANDARDS
     flnews tries to comply with the following standards:

     ISO 2022, ISO 8601, ISO 8859, RFC 20, RFC 822, RFC 850, RFC 977, RFC
     1468, RFC 1738, RFC 2045, RFC 2046, RFC 2047, RFC 2049, RFC 2104, RFC
     2152, RFC 2183, RFC 2231, RFC 2246, RFC 2368, RFC 2585, RFC 2606, RFC
     2646, RFC 2980, RFC 3174, RFC 3629, RFC 3676, RFC 3977, RFC 3986, RFC
     4346, RFC 4642, RFC 4643, RFC 5198, RFC 5246, RFC 5280, RFC 5322, RFC
     5536, RFC 5537, RFC 5538, RFC 6048, RFC 6066, RFC 6068, RFC 6176, RFC
     6657, RFC 7230, RFC 7231, RFC 7234, RFC 7366, RFC 7507, RFC 7568, RFC
     7627, RFC 7919, RFC 8054, RFC 8089, RFC 8143, RFC 8315, RFC 8446, RFC
     8996, POSIX.2-1992, POSIX.1-1996, POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008,
     POSIX.1-2024, Unicode 17.0.0, XDG Base Directory Specification 0.7

SEE ALSO
     fltk(3), leafnode(8), locale(7), localtime(3), nls(7), ssl(3), zlib(3),
     X(7)

     https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usenet

     https://gnksa.org/

     https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9799919799/basedefs/V1_chap09.html

Unix                              2026-08-01                         flnews(1)
