flruler(1)                     Erco's FLTK Tools                    flruler(1)


NAME
       flruler - a simple onscreen pixel measuring ruler for debugging GUIs

SYNOPSIS
       flruler [no options]

DESCRIPTION
       flruler displays a ruler on your desktop that you can drag around to
       measure elements in GUIs.  Intended for GUI development/debugging to
       verify widget separations and sizes, though may also be used for
       general computer graphics, including measuring pixel distances of
       images, widgets in web applications, etc.

       To move flruler, just click and drag it to where you want it.  Press
       ESC to exit. You can make copies of the ruler by Middle-Clicking or
       hitting C. You can rotate the ruler(s) using the Up/Down/Left/Right
       arrow keys.

OPTIONS
       There are currently no command line options.

KEYBOARD OPERATIONS
           'c'                   Make a copy of the current ruler (in focus)
           'esc'                 Closes current ruler (in focus)
           'q'                   Quit all rulers
           Up,Down,Left,Right    Re-orients ruler (arrow points to where zero will be)
           +                     Increase size of ruler by 10%
           -                     Decrease size of ruler by 10%

MOUSE OPERATIONS
           Left-Drag             Drags current ruler around for positioning
           Left-Double-click     Reverses direction of current ruler's numbers
           Left-Triple-click     Rotates current ruler 90 degrees
           Middle-Click          Makes copy of current ruler

AUTHOR
       flruler Version 1.05 Written by Greg Ercolano.

       The latest version of flruler can be downloaded from
       http://seriss.com/people/erco/fltk/flruler/ To build flruler from
       source, you need FLTK, the multi-platform GPL graphics toolkit (which
       supports Windows, Linux, OSX, IRIX..) from http://www.fltk.org/

BUGS
       To report bugs, send email to erco@seriss.com, and include "flruler bug
       report" in the Subject: of the message, or it will be ignored.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2012, 2006 Greg Ercolano.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO  warranty;  not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE. For more information, see the LICENSE.txt file that came with
       the source.

1.05                              2025-08-10                        flruler(1)
