fntsample(1)                       fntsample                      fntsample(1)

NAME
       fntsample - PDF and PostScript font samples generator


SYNOPSIS
       fntsample [ OPTIONS ] -f FONT-FILE -o OUTPUT-FILE
       fntsample -h

DESCRIPTION
       fntsample program can be used to generate font samples that show
       Unicode coverage of the font and are similar in appearance to Unicode
       charts. Samples can be saved into PDF (default) or PostScript file.

OPTIONS
       fntsample supports the following options.

       --blocks-file, -b BLOCKS-FILE
              Read Unicode blocks information from BLOCKS-FILE.

       --font-file, -f FONT-FILE
              Make samples of FONT-FILE.

       --font-index, -n IDX
              Font index for FONT-FILE specified using --font-file option.
              Useful for files that contain multiple fonts, like TrueType
              Collections (.ttc).  By default font with index 0 is used.

       --output-file, -o OUTPUT-FILE
              Write output to OUTPUT-FILE.

       --other-font-file, -d OTHER-FONT
              Compare FONT-FILE with OTHER-FONT.  Glyphs added to FONT-FILE
              will be highlighted.

       --other-index, -m IDX
              Font index for OTHER-FONT specified using --other-font-file
              option.

       --postscript-output, -s
              Use PostScript format for output instead of PDF.

       --svg, -g
              Use SVG format for output.  The generated document contains one
              page.  Use range selection options to specify which.

       --print-outline, -l
              Print document outlines data to standard output.  This data can
              be used to add outlines (aka bookmarks) to resulting PDF file
              with pdfoutline program.

       --write-outline, -w
              Write document outlines directly (only in PDF output).

       --include-range, -i RANGE
              Show characters in RANGE.

       --exclude-range, -x RANGE
              Do not show characters in RANGE.

       --style, -t "STYLE: VAL"
              Set STYLE to value VAL.  Run fntsample with option --help to see
              list of styles and default values.

       --no-embed, -e
              Draw the outlines of the glyphs instead of embedding them in the
              PDF file.  This can be used when embedding the font is not
              desired or not allowed.

       --help, -h
              Display help text and exit.

       Parameter RANGE for -i and -x can be given as one integer or a pair of
       integers delimited by minus sign (-).  Integers can be specified in
       decimal, hexadecimal (0x...) or octal (0...) format.  One integer of a
       pair can be missing (-N can be used to specify all characters with
       codes less or equal to N, and N- for all characters with codes greather
       or equal to N).  Multiple -i and -x options can be used.

COLORS
       Glyph cells can have one of several background colors.  Meaning of
       those colors is following:

       white  normal glyph present in the font, this includes space glyphs
              that are usually invisible;

       gray   this glyph is defined in Unicode but not present in the font;

       blue   this is a control character;

       black  this glyph is not defined in Unicode;

       yellow this is a new glyph (only when used with -d).

ENVIRONMENT
       SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH
              If $SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH is set, its value is interpreted as Unix
              timestamp to be used for creation date of generated PDF files.
              This is useful for making builds that use fntsample
              reproducible.

EXAMPLES
       Make PDF samples for font.ttf and write them to file samples.pdf:
              fntsample -f font.ttf -o samples.pdf

       Make PDF samples for font.ttf, compare it with oldfont.ttf and
       highlight new glyphs. Write output to file samples.pdf:
              fntsample -f font.ttf -d oldfont.ttf -o samples.pdf

       Make PostScript samples for font.ttf and write output to file
       samples.ps.  Show only glyphs for characters with codes less or equal
       to U+04FF but exclude U+0370-U+03FF:
              fntsample -f font.ttf -s -o samples.ps -i -0x04FF -x 0x0370-0x03FF

       Make PDF samples for font.ttf and save output to file samples.pdf
       adding outlines to it:
              fntsample -f font.ttf -o temp.pdf -l > outlines.txt
              pdfoutline temp.pdf outlines.txt samples.pdf

AUTHOR
       Copyright © Ievgenii Meshcheriakov <eugen@debian.org>
       Homepage: <https://github.com/eugmes/fntsample>

SEE ALSO
       pdfoutline(1)

5.4                               2025-08-10                      fntsample(1)
