fprintd(1)                                                          fprintd(1)


NAME
       fprintd - Fingerprint management daemon, and test applications

SYNOPSIS
       fprintd-enroll [-f finger] [usename]

       fprintd-list username [usernames...]

       fprintd-verify [-f finger] [usename]

       fprintd-delete username [usernames...]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the fprintd command-line utilities.

       The fprintd daemon is accessed through D-Bus by those command-line
       utilities.

ARGUMENTS
       username
               The username for the user for which you want to query or modify
               the fingerprint database.

               Note that fprintd-list and fprintd-delete require at least one
               username to be passed, and support multiple usernames.

               fprintd-enroll and fprintd-verify will use the current username
               if none are passed on the command-line.

       -f finger
               For fprintd-enroll, the finger to enroll. Possible values are:

               left-thumb, left-index-finger, left-middle-finger, left-ring-
               finger, left-little-finger, right-thumb, right-index-finger,
               right-middle-finger, right-ring-finger, right-little-finger.

               The default is to choose automatically, selecting the first
               available finger for swipe devices, or all the enrolled
               fingers, for press devices.

TEST APPLICATIONS
   fprintd-enroll
               Will enroll the user's right index finger into the database.

   fprintd-list
               Will list the user's enrolled fingerprints.

   fprintd-verify
               Will verify the user's fingerprints against the database.

   fprintd-delete
               Will delete the user's right index finger into the database.

AUTHOR
       fprintd was written by Bastien Nocera and Daniel Drake.

DIRECTORIES
       By default, fprintd stores the fingerprints in /var/lib/fprint/

SEE ALSO
       gnome-control-center

freedesktop                       2024-09-05                        fprintd(1)
