GIT-MFC(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             GIT-MFC(1)

NAME
     git mfc – cherry-pick commits from an upstream branch to a stable or
     release branch

SYNOPSIS
     git mfc [-efn] [--ignore-reverts] [--origin branch] [-r remote]
             revision ...
     git mfc --pending [-a author] [--all] [--baking] [--origin branch]
             [-r remote]
     git mfc --dangling [-a author] [--all] [--origin branch] [-r remote]

DESCRIPTION
     The git mfc utility helps with MFCing (merge from CURRENT) commits to
     FreeBSD stable and release branches.  It must be run from a checkout of
     the branch being MFCed to.  The origin branch is determined automatically
     and can be overridden with the --origin option.

     There are three modes of operation:

     1.   In the default mode, one or more revisions are specified on the
          command line.  Each revision is cherry-picked with -x to the current
          branch.  The origin branch is scanned for commits with “Fixes:”,
          “MFC-with:”, or “MFC with:” tags referencing any of the specified
          revisions, and those fixup commits are automatically included in the
          correct order.

          If a specified revision has been reverted on the origin branch, git
          mfc refuses to cherry-pick it unless --ignore-reverts is given.
          Fixup commits that have been reverted are skipped with a warning.

          Commits that have already been cherry-picked to the current branch
          are automatically skipped.  This allows the same git mfc command to
          be re-run after resolving a conflict without re-applying earlier
          commits.  Use -f to override this behavior.

     2.   In --pending mode, no revisions are specified.  Instead, git mfc
          scans the origin branch for commits with “MFC after:” tags whose
          waiting period has elapsed and which have not already been cherry-
          picked to the current branch.  Commits that have been reverted
          upstream are excluded.  By default, only commits authored by the
          current user (as determined by git-config(1)) are shown.

     3.   In --dangling mode, no revisions are specified.  Instead, git mfc
          finds commits in the current branch that have been cherry-picked
          from the origin branch but are missing associated fixup commits.
          Fixup commits that have been reverted upstream are excluded.  By
          default, only cherry-picks authored by the current user (as
          determined by git-config(1)) are considered.

     The following options are available:

     -a author, --author author
                With --pending or --dangling, filter results to commits whose
                author email contains the given string.  By default, the value
                of user.email from git-config(1) is used.

     --all      With --pending or --dangling, show commits from all authors
                instead of only the current user.

     --dangling
                Find cherry-picked commits in the current branch that are
                missing fixup commits from the origin branch.  Cannot be
                combined with --pending or revision arguments.

     -e, --edit
                Open the commit message in an editor before committing each
                cherry-pick.  Passed through to git-cherry-pick(1).

     -f, --force
                Cherry-pick commits even if they appear to have already been
                cherry-picked to the current branch.  By default, git mfc
                skips commits that are already present.

     --ignore-reverts
                Cherry-pick commits even if they have been reverted on the
                origin branch.  Without this flag, git mfc exits with an error
                when a reverted commit is specified.

     --baking   With --pending, also show commits whose “MFC after:” waiting
                period has not yet elapsed.  These are annotated with the date
                they become ready.

     -n         Dry run.  List the commits that would be cherry-picked, but do
                not actually cherry-pick them.  The remote is not fetched in
                this mode.

     --origin branch
                Specify the upstream branch name.  The default is determined
                automatically from sys/conf/newvers.sh: “main” for STABLE
                branches and “stable/major” for RELEASE branches.

     --pending  Show upstream commits with “MFC after:” tags that are ready to
                be cherry-picked.  Cannot be combined with --dangling or
                revision arguments.

     -r remote, --remote remote
                Specify the git remote to fetch from.  The default is the
                currently checked-out branch's upstream remote.

     Before running any operation, git mfc ensures that the origin is up to
     date by fetching it from the specified remote.

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     git mfc is implemented in Python and depends on the gitpython module.

     git mfc uses text strings in commit log messages to establish
     relationships between commits.  It recognizes the following tags in
     commit log messages:

     “Fixes: hash”
                 Indicates that this commit fixes the commit identified by
                 hash.  When MFCing the referenced commit, git mfc will
                 automatically include this fixup commit.

     “MFC-with: hash, “MFC with: hash””
                 Equivalent to “Fixes:”; indicates that this commit should be
                 MFCed together with the referenced commit.

     “MFC after: N unit”
                 Indicates that this commit should be MFCed after the
                 specified waiting period.  Recognized units are “day”,
                 “days”, “week”, “weeks”, “month”, and “months”.  Used by the
                 --pending mode.

     git mfc also looks for strings of the form, “This reverts commit hash”,
     inserted by git-revert(1), and “cherry picked from commit hash”, inserted
     by git-cherry-pick(1).

EXAMPLES
     Cherry-pick a single commit to the current branch, automatically
     including any fixup commits:

           $ git mfc abc123

     Cherry-pick a range of commits:

           $ git mfc abc123~..def456

     Preview which commits would be cherry-picked without actually doing it:

           $ git mfc -n abc123

     Cherry-pick a commit, opening an editor to amend the commit message
     first:

           $ git mfc -e abc123

     List your commits that are ready for MFC:

           $ git mfc --pending

     List pending commits from all authors:

           $ git mfc --pending --all

     Include commits whose MFC-after period has not yet elapsed:

           $ git mfc --pending --baking

     List commits ready for MFC by a specific author:

           $ git mfc --pending -a markj@FreeBSD.org

     Find MFCs in the current branch that are missing fixup commits:

           $ git mfc --dangling

     Cherry-pick a commit that was reverted upstream:

           $ git mfc --ignore-reverts abc123

     Use a different remote and origin branch:

           $ git mfc -r freebsd --origin main abc123

SEE ALSO
     git-cherry-pick(1), git-config(1), git-revert(1), development(7)

AUTHORS
     The git mfc utility was written by Mark Johnston <markj@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4          June 26, 2026                      GIT-MFC(1)
