GIT-ARC(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             GIT-ARC(1)

NAME
     git arc – a wrapper to improve integration between git and arcanist

SYNOPSIS
     git arc create [-dl] [-r reviewer1[,reviewer2 ...]]
             [-s subscriber1[,subscriber2 ...]] [-p parent]
             commit-ref [commit-ref ...]
     git arc list commit-ref [commit-ref ...]
     git arc patch [-bcrs] diff1 [diff2 [...]]
     git arc stage [-b branch] commit-ref [commit-ref ...]
     git arc update [-l] [-m message] commit-ref [commit-ref ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The git arc utility creates and manages FreeBSD Phabricator reviews based
     on git commits.  It is geared towards FreeBSD development.  It requires
     the devel/git, devel/arcanist-lib and textproc/jq packages; these will be
     installed automatically if git arc is installed via the
     devel/freebsd-git-arc package.

     git arc assumes a one-to-one relationship between git commits and
     Differential Revisions, and requires the titles in a pair to match.
     Commit titles must therefore be unique across all open Differential
     Revisions authored by the submitter.  If the title of either a commit or
     its associated Differential Revision is changed, the other must be
     updated manually to maintain the match.

     The first parameter must be a verb.  Most verbs accept one or more git
     commit references: commit hashes, branch names, commit ranges, and so on.
     A branch name refers to the single commit at its tip; use a commit range
     to operate on multiple commits.  See git-rev-parse(1) for details on
     specifying commit references.  The available verbs are:

     create  Create new Differential Revisions from the specified commits.
             Accepts options:

             -d             Create the diff as a draft.  In this mode,
                            notifications are not sent to reviewers and
                            subscribers until the review is published via the
                            web UI.  The draft is still visible to anyone with
                            the URL (or able to guess it), but the review's
                            visibility settings can be modified before
                            publishing.

             -l             Before processing commit(s) display list of
                            commits to be processed and wait for confirmation.

             -r reviewer    Add one or more reviewers, separated by commas, to
                            revision(s) being created.  Each argument must be
                            an existing Phabricator user or group.  Note that
                            group reviewers must be specified using their
                            hashtag (e.g. #jails for the "Jails" group).

             -s subscriber  Add one or more subscribers, separated by commas,
                            to revision(s) being created.  Each argument must
                            be an existing Phabricator user or group.

             -p parent      Specify the parent of the first commit in the
                            list.  This is useful when adding more commits on
                            top of an already existing stack in Phabricator.

     list    Print the associated Differential Revisions for the specified
             commits.

     patch   Try to apply patches from one or more Differential Revision to
             the currently checked out tree.  The following options are
             accepted:

             -b  Switch to a new branch before applying the patches.

             -c  Commit each applied patch to the git checkout.  The commit
                 message and author are taken from the Differential Revision.

             -r  Rather than using the arc command to apply the patch,
                 download the raw patch file and apply it using git-apply(1).
                 This is useful for avoiding some misfeatures of arc,
                 particularly its behavior of trying to update all remotes in
                 the tree in some cases.

             -s  Recursively apply the parent revisions of the specified
                 commit.  This can be used to apply patch stacks by specifying
                 the top-most, i.e., most recent commit in the stack.

     stage   Prepare a series of commits to be pushed to the upstream FreeBSD
             repository.

             First, the target branch is checked out; by default this is the
             main branch but can be overridden with the -b option.  Then, the
             specified commits are cherry-picked with review tags added to the
             commit log message, and the log message is opened in an editor
             for any final updates.  The commits need not have associated
             Differential Revisions.

             This is intended to be used after code review has been completed,
             and the commits are ready to be pushed to an upstream repository.

     update  Synchronize the Differential Revisions associated with the
             specified commits.  Currently only the diff is updated; the
             review description and other metadata are not synchronized.  If a
             message is specified with -m, that message is added as a note to
             the Differential Revision.  If no message is supplied, the user's
             editor will be opened to provide an update message for each
             revision.  If an empty message is supplied via -m, then no notes
             will be added when updating Differential Revisions.

             If -l is used, display list of commits to be updated and wait for
             confirmation of the list rather than prompting for each commit.

CONFIGURATION
     These are manipulated by git-config:

     arc.assume_yes  Assume a “yes” answer to all prompts instead of prompting
                     the user.  Equivalent to the -y flag.  Defaults to false.

     arc.browse      Try to open newly created reviews in a browser tab.
                     Defaults to false.

     arc.list        Always use “list mode” (-l) with create and update.  In
                     this mode, the list of git revisions to use is listed
                     with a single prompt before creating or updating reviews.
                     The diffs for individual commits are not shown.  Defaults
                     to false.

     arc.verbose     Always use verbose output.  Equivalent to the -v flag.
                     Defaults to false.

EXAMPLES
     The typical end-to-end usage looks something like this.

     Commit changes with a message and create a Differential Review:

           $ git commit -m "kern: Rewrite in Rust"
           $ git arc create HEAD

     Make changes to the diff based on review feedback, then amend the changes
     to the existing commit and update the Differential Review:

           $ git commit --amend
           $ git arc update HEAD

     Now that all reviewers are happy, it is time to stage the commit and push
     it:

           $ git arc stage HEAD
           $ git push freebsd HEAD:main

     Create a Phabricator review using the contents of the most recent commit
     in your git checkout:

           $ git arc create -r markj,#jails HEAD

     The commit title is used as the review title, the commit log message is
     used as the review description, and <markj@FreeBSD.org> is added as a
     reviewer.  Also, the “Jails” reviewer group is added using its hashtag.

     Create a series of Phabricator reviews for each of HEAD~2, HEAD~ and
     HEAD:

           $ git arc create HEAD~3..HEAD

     Pairs of consecutive commits are linked into a patch stack.  Note that
     the first commit in the specified range is excluded.

     Create a series of separate reviews for each of the following commits:

           $ git arc create b409afcfedcdda ca03ed1345aff0

     Update the review corresponding to commit b409afcfedcdda:

           $ git arc update b409afcfedcdda

     The title of the commit must be the same as it was when the review was
     created.  Note that the review description is not automatically updated.

     Apply the patch in review D12345 to the currently checked-out tree, and
     stage it:

           $ git arc patch D12345

     Apply the patch in review D23456 to the currently checked-out tree, and
     commit it to the tree with the commit message in the review and make the
     best guess for what to use for author.  If the guess is considered
     unreliable, the user is prompted to see if they wish to use it (or
     abort).

           $ git arc patch -c D23456

     List the status of reviews for all the commits in the branch “feature”:

           $ git arc list main..feature

     Update reviews for all commits in the branch “feature” after rebasing:

           $ git arc update -lm "Rebase" main..feature

SEE ALSO
     build(7), development(7)

HISTORY
     The git arc utility appeared in the src tools collection in FreeBSD 14.0.

AUTHORS
     The git arc utility was written by Mark Johnston <markj@FreeBSD.org> and
     the manual page was written by Daniel Ebdrup Jensen
     <debdrup@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4         April 27, 2026                      GIT-ARC(1)
