EFIBOOTMGR(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          EFIBOOTMGR(8)

NAME
     efibootmgr – manipulate the EFI Boot Manager

SYNOPSIS
     efibootmgr [-v]
     efibootmgr -a -b bootnum
     efibootmgr -A -b bootnum
     efibootmgr -B -b bootnum
     efibootmgr -c -l loader [-aD] [-b bootnum] [-k kernel] [-L label]
                [-e env]
     efibootmgr -E [-d] [-p]
     efibootmgr -F
     efibootmgr -f
     efibootmgr -n -b bootnum
     efibootmgr -N
     efibootmgr -o bootorder
     efibootmgr -t timeout
     efibootmgr -T
     efibootmgr -u unix-path

DESCRIPTION
     The efibootmgr program manipulates how UEFI Boot Managers boot the
     system.  It can create and destroy methods for booting along with
     activating or deactivating them.  It can also change the defined order of
     boot methods.  It can create a temporary boot (BootNext) variable that
     references a boot method to be tried once upon the next boot.

     The UEFI standard defines how hosts may control what is used to bootstrap
     the system.  Each method is encapsulated within a persistent UEFI
     variable, stored by the UEFI BIOS of the form BootXXXX (where XXXX are
     uppercase hexadecimal digits).  These variables are numbered, each
     describing where to load the bootstrap program from, and whether or not
     the method is active (used for booting, otherwise the method will be
     skipped).  The order of these methods is controlled by another variable,
     BootOrder.  The currently booted method is communicated using
     BootCurrent.  A global timeout can also be set.

     efibootmgr requires that the kernel module efirt(9) module be present or
     loaded to get and set these non-volatile variables.

     The following options are available:

     -a --activate
             Activate the given bootnum boot entry, or the new entry when used
             with -c.

     -A --deactivate
             Deactivate the given bootnum boot entry.

     -b --bootnum bootnum
             When creating or modifying an entry, use bootnum as the index.
             When creating a new entry, fail if it already exists.  For
             convenience, if bootnum is prefixed with “boot”, that prefix is
             ignored.

     -B --delete
             Delete the given bootnum boot entry.

     -c --create
             Create a new Boot variable (aka method or entry).

     -D --dry-run
             Process but do not change any variables.

     -e --env
             When creating a Boot variable, include a set of environment
             variables for the loader to set after parsing the command line.
             Variables are of the form “a=b” and separated by spaces.  The
             argument should be quoted.  appends these to the end of the Boot
             environment variable.  Before processing anything else,
             loader.efi(8) will parse this area and set all variables found
             there.

     -E --esp
             Print the FreeBSD path to the ESP device, derived from the EFI
             variables BootCurrent and BootXXXX.  This is the ESP partition
             used by UEFI to boot the current instance of the system.  If -d
             --device-path is specified, the UEFI device path to the ESP is
             reported instead.  If -p --unix-path is specified, the mount
             point of the ESP is reported instead.

     -f --fw-ui, -F --no-fw-ui
             Set or clear the request to the system firmware to stop in its
             user interface on the next boot.

     -k --kernel kernel
             The path to and name of the kernel.

     -l --loader loader
             The path to and name of the loader.

     -L --label label
             An optional description for the method.

     -n --bootnext
             Set bootnum boot entry as the BootNext variable.

     -N --delete-bootnext
             Delete the BootNext optional variable.

     -o --bootorder bootorder
             Set BootOrder variable to the given comma delimited set of
             bootnums.  The numbers are in hex to match BootXXXX, but may omit
             leading zeros.

     -t --set-timeout timeout
             Set the bootmenu timeout value.

     -T --del-timeout
             Delete the BootTimeout variable.

     -u --efidev unix-path
             Displays the UEFI device path of unix-path.

     -v --verbose
             Display the device path of boot entries in the output.

Examples
     To display the current Boot related variables in the system:

           efibootmgr -v

     This will display the optional BootNext (if present), BootCurrent
     (currently booted method), followed by the optional Timeout value, any
     BootOrder that may be set, followed finally by all currently defined Boot
     variables, active or not.  The verbose flag, (-v), augments this output
     with the disk partition uuids, size/offset and device-path of the
     variable.  The flag will also include any unreferenced (by BootOrder)
     variables.

     The efibootmgr program can be used to create new EFI boot variables.  The
     following command may be used to create a new boot method, using the EFI
     partition mounted under /boot/efi, mark the method active, using the
     given loader and label the method "FreeBSD-15":

           efibootmgr -a -c -l /boot/efi/EFI/freebsd/loader.efi -L FreeBSD-15

     This will result in the next available bootnum being assigned to a new
     UEFI boot variable, and given the label "FreeBSD-15" such as:

           Boot0009 FreeBSD-15

     Note newly created boot entries are, by default, created inactive, hence
     the reason -a flag is specified above so that it will be considered for
     booting.  The active state is denoted by a '*' following the BootXXXX
     name in the output.  They are also inserted into the first position of
     current BootOrder variable if it exists.  They must first be set to
     active before being considered available to attempt booting from, else
     they are ignored.

           efibootmgr -B -b 0009

     Will delete the given boot entry Boot0009.

     To set the given boot entry active:

           efibootmgr -a -b 0009

     To set a given boot entry to be used as the BootNext variable,
     irrespective of its active state, use:

           efibootmgr -n -b 0009

     To set the BootOrder for the next reboot use:

           efibootmgr -o 0009,0003,...

SEE ALSO
     efivar(8), gpart(8), loader.efi(8), uefi(8), efirt(9)

STANDARDS
     The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Specification is available from
     www.uefi.org.

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4       September 22, 2024                 EFIBOOTMGR(8)
