FREEVRRPD(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           FREEVRRPD(8)

NAME
     freevrrpd – Virtual Redundancy Router Protocol Daemon

SYNOPSIS
     freevrrpd [-F] [-f config_file] [-c chroot_directory]

DESCRIPTION
     freevrrpd is an RFC2338/5798 compliant daemon.  VRRP can be used with
     multiple interfaces as well as multiple VRIDs.  For each VRID defined in
     the configuration file, freevrrpd creates a thread for managing a poll of
     one or multiple virtual IP addresses.  The daemon currently only supports
     IPv4 but IPv6 is being developed.

     When freevrrpd start, it reads /usr/local/etc/freevrrpd.conf file and
     then daemonizes itself.  All of the options are defined in the config
     file.

     freevrrpd is compatible with FreeBSD.

     Functionality includes :
     •   Support of multiple VRIDs
     •   State announcements are multicast using the bpf(4) device
     •   Changing routes and IP in 3 seconds
     •   Sending gratuitous ARP requests to clean the ARP cache of all hosts
         listening hosts
     •   Election between different backup and master servers with differing
         priorities
     •   The same host can be both a SLAVE and MASTER at the same time for
         different VRIDs
     •   Automatic downgrade to BACKUP state if the MASTER returns to service
     •   Support of netmasks for virtual IP addresses

CONFIGURATION
     freevrrpd reads its configuration data from
     /usr/local/etc/freevrrpd.conf, or the file specified with -f on the
     command line.  The config file contains keyword-argument pairs, one per
     line.  Each VRID definition is defined by the [VRID] keyword.  Lines
     starting with '#' and empty lines are interpreted as comments.

     The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows (note that
     keywords and arguments are case-sensitive):

     serverid
             This keyword is followed by a decimal number between 1 and 255
             and represents the group identifier (Virtual Router Identifier).

     interface
             This keyword is followed by an interface name where multicast
             VRRP announcements of the specified serverid group will be sent.

     useVMAC
             Specifies whether Virtual MAC address (like 00:5E:00:...) is
             permitted.  The default is “yes”.  Note that disabling useVMAC is
             an RFC violation but may be necessary for some specific cases.
             If disabled, “sendgratuitousarp” must be enabled.

     priority
             This keyword can be followed by a decimal number between 0 to
             255.  A priority of 255 means a MASTER server.  A priority
             between 0 to 254 is a BACKUP priority.  If the VRID MASTER fails
             254 becomes MASTER before 253, etc.  A priority of 0 would be the
             last possible failover attempt.

     addr    Specifies all Virtual IP addresses separated by commas of the
             corresponded VRID.  A VIP syntax will be: “xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/yy” or
             “device:xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/yy.” “xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx” representing the
             IP address and “yy” is a netmask in CIDR format.  Device is an
             optional device where the VIP will be configured.

     monitoredcircuits
             Specifies whether NIC monitoring is enabled.  This option uses a
             special ioctl for getting carrier, duplex, and health of the
             network card.  The default is “yes”.  Note that your NIC driver
             must support mii bus functionality.  Some old drivers cannot use
             this option and must be disabled.

     MCClearErrorsCount
             This keyword can be followed by a decimal number that represent
             the number of concurrent valid checks (monitored circuits) before
             nberrors flag will be resetted at 0.  The default is “3600”.
             Note that the default value means that 30 concurrent checks ok on
             a NIC by monitored circuits will reset the error counter for this
             NIC.  If a value of

     masterscript
             This keyword can be followed by a script name with an absolute
             path and will be executed during MASTER transition state.

     backupscript
             This keyword takes the same argument as “masterscript” except
             that this script is executed during BACKUP transition state.

     vridsdep
             This keyword can be followed by a list of VRIDs in decimal format
             separated by commas.  If the VRID becomes BACKUP, all VRIDs
             specified will be preempted and become BACKUP too.

     password
             This keyword can be followed by a password for authenticating
             VRRP packets on a specific VRID.  Note that the password will be
             transmitted in clear with this method.

     AHencryption
             Not implemented yet

     useIKE  Not implemented yet

     presharedkey
             Not implemented yet

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     This utility does not quit properly if you use the -KILL signal.  If you
     want to stop freevrrpd, use kill [PID] and not kill -9 [PID].  This will
     allow it to delete virtual IP addresses and routes properly on shutdown.

BUGS
     freevrrpd is in active development.  Please send bugs report and
     suggestions.

AUTHORS
     George V. Neville-Neil ⟨gnn@FreeBSD.org⟩
     Sebastien Petit ⟨spe@bsdfr.org⟩

HISTORY
     Sebastien Petit ⟨spe@bsdfr.org⟩ was the original author.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            March 24, 2015            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
