NUAGEINIT(7)       FreeBSD Miscellaneous Information Manual       NUAGEINIT(7)

NAME
     nuageinit – initialize a cloud-init environment

DESCRIPTION
     The nuageinit program is used to initialize instances in a cloud
     environment.  nuageinit runs at the first boot after the system
     installation.  It is composed of three rc(8) scripts:

     nuageinit  This script detects the type of cloud environment and gathers
                the configuration data accordingly.  The following cloud
                environments are supported right now:

                ondisk     A cloud agnostic environment where the disk is
                           provided to the system with the configuration data
                           on it.  The disk must be formatted using one of the
                           following filesystems: cd9660(4) or msdosfs(4) and
                           be labelled (via filesystem label) either config-2
                           or cidata.

                OpenStack  The system is running in an OpenStack environment:
                           https://www.openstack.org/. It is detected via the
                           smbios.system.product smbios(4) description
                           available in kenv(2).

                Depending on the cloud environment above, nuageinit will
                attempt to configure the instance.  This script executes early
                after all the local filesystem are mounted but before the
                network is configured.

     nuageinit_post_net
                This script is responsible for processing the configurations
                that are network dependent:

                •   dealing with packages

                •   dealing with users (which can depend on shell provided by
                    packages)

     nuageinit_user_data_script
                This script is responsible for executing everything which
                would have been passed via the configuration to be executed,
                via the configuration or because the user_data provided is a
                script.

     The default user for nuageinit is a user named freebsd with a password
     set to freebsd and a login shell set to /bin/sh.

CONFIGURATION
     The configuration of nuageinit is typically provided as metadata by the
     cloud provider.  The metadata is presented to nuageinit in different
     forms depending on the provider:

     nocloud   If the data is provided via a disk labelled cidata, then the
               metadata is provided in the form of a file named meta-data in
               YAML format.  nuageinit will configure the hostname of the
               instance according to the value of the following variables
               local-hostname or hostname.

     config-2  If the data is provided via a disk labelled config-2 or if it
               is fetched from OpenStack, the metadata is expected in two json
               files:

               The meta_data.json file supports the following keys:

               hostname     Set the hostname of the instance.

               public_keys  Append each entry of the array to nuageinit
                            default user which will be created.

               The network_data.json file supports the following keys:

               links        Array of network interfaces to be configured.

               networks     Array of network configurations to be set.

     Along with the metadata, a user data file is provided, either named
     user_data or user-data.  If this file starts with a "#!", it will be
     executed at the end of the boot via nuageinit_user_data_script.  If this
     file starts with "#!cloud-config", it will be parsed as a YAML
     configuration file.  All other cases will be ignored.

     The "#!cloud-config" configuration entries supported by nuageinit:

     fqdn      Specify a fully qualified domain name for the instance.

     hostname  Specify the hostname of the instance if "fqdn" is not set.

     timezone  Sets the system timezone based on the value provided.

               See also tzfile(3).

     groups    An array of strings or objects to be created:

               •   If the entry is a string, a group using this string as a
                   name will be created.

               •   if the entry is an object, the "key" will be used as the
                   name of the group, the "value" is expected to be a list of
                   members (array), specified by name.

     ssh_keys  An object of multiple key/values, "keys" being in the form
               algo_private or algo_public, "values" being the actual content
               of the files in /etc/ssh.

     ssh_authorized_keys
               Append each entry of the array to nuageinit default user which
               will be created.

     ssh_pwauth
               boolean which determines the value of the
               "PasswordAuthentication" configuration in /etc/ssh/sshd_config

     network   Network configuration parameters.

               Specifying the following parameters from a file named
               network-config takes precedence over their specification from
               the network parameter of user-data.

               ethernets  Mapping representing a generic configuration for
                          existing network interfaces.

                          Each key is an interface name that is only used when
                          no match rule is specified.  If match rules are
                          specified, an arbitrary name can be used (e.g.:
                          id0).

                          match        This selects a subset of available
                                       physical devices by various hardware
                                       properties.  The following
                                       configuration will then apply to all
                                       matching devices, as soon as they
                                       appear.  All specified properties must
                                       match.  The following properties for
                                       creating matches are supported:

                                       macaddress  Device's MAC address in the
                                                   form xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx.
                                                   Letters should be
                                                   lowercase.

                                       name        Current interface name.
                                                   Lua pattern-matching
                                                   expressions are supported.

                                       driver      Interface driver name and
                                                   unit number of the
                                                   interface.  Lua pattern-
                                                   natching expressions are
                                                   supported.

                          set-name     When matching on unique properties such
                                       as MAC, match rules can be written so
                                       that they match only one device.  Then
                                       this property can be used to give that
                                       device a more specific/desirable/nicer
                                       name than the default.

                                       While multiple properties can be used
                                       in a match, macaddress is required for
                                       nuageinit to perform the rename.

                          mtu          The MTU key represents a device's
                                       Maximum Transmission Unit, the largest
                                       size packet or frame.

                          wakeonlan    Enable wake on LAN.  Off by default.

                          dhcp4        Configure the interface to use DHCP.

                                       This takes precedence over addresses
                                       when both are specified.

                          addresses    List of strings representing IPv4 or
                                       IPv6 addresses.

                          gateway4     Set default gateway for IPv4, for
                                       manual address configuration.  This
                                       requires setting addresses too.

                                       Since only one default router can be
                                       configured at a time, this parameter is
                                       applied when processing the first
                                       entry, and any others are silently
                                       ignored.

                          gateway6     Set default gateway for IPv6, for
                                       manual address configuration.  This
                                       requires setting addresses too.

                                       Since only one default router can be
                                       configured at a time, this parameter is
                                       applied when processing the first
                                       entry, and any others are silently
                                       ignored.

                          nameservers  Set DNS servers and search domains, for
                                       manual address configuration.

                                       There are two supported fields:

                                       search     Search list for host-name
                                                  lookup.

                                       addresses  List of IPv4 or IPv6 name
                                                  server addresses that the
                                                  resolver should query.

     runcmd    An array of commands to be run at the end of the boot process

     packages  List of packages to be installed.

     package_update
               Update the remote package metadata.

     package_upgrade
               Upgrade the packages installed to their latest version.

     users     Specify a list of users to be created:

               name                 Name of the user.

               gecos                GECOS for the user.

               homedir              The path of the home directory for the
                                    user.

               primary_group        The main group the user should belong to.

               groups               The list of other groups the user should
                                    belong to.

               no_create_home       A boolean which determines if the home
                                    directory should be created or not.

               shell                The shell that should be used for the
                                    user.

               ssh_authorized_keys  List of SSH keys for the user.

               passwd               The encrypted password for the user.

               plain_text_passwd    The password in plain text for the user.
                                    Ignored if an encrypted password is
                                    already provided.

               locked               Boolean to determine if the user account
                                    should be locked.

               sudo                 A string or an array of strings which
                                    should be appended to
                                    ${LOCALBASE}/etc/sudoers.d/90-nuageinit-users

               doas                 A string or an array of strings which
                                    should be appended to
                                    ${LOCALBASE}/etc/doas.conf

                                    Instead of hardcoding the username, you
                                    can use %u, which will be replaced by the
                                    current username.

               A special case exist: if the entry is a simple string with the
               value "default", then the default user is created.

     chpasswd  Change the passwords for users, it accepts the following keys:

               expire  Boolean to force the user to change their password on
                       first login.

               users   An array of objects:

                       user      Specify the user whose password will be
                                 changed.

                       password  Specify a text line with the new password or
                                 specify the user whose password will be
                                 changed.  "RANDOM" to assign the password
                                 randomly.  If the textline starts with "$x$"
                                 where x is a number, then the password is
                                 considered encrypted, otherwise the password
                                 is considered plaintext.

     write_files
               An array of objects representing files to be created at first
               boot.  The files are being created before the installation of
               any packages and the creation of the users.  The only mandatory
               field is: path.  It accepts the following keys for each
               objects:

               content      The content to be written to the file.  If this
                            key is not existing then an empty file will be
                            created.

               encoding     Specify the encoding used for content.  If not
                            specified, then plain text is considered.  Only
                            b64 and base64 are supported for now.

               path         The path of the file to be created.  (Note
                            intermerdiary directories will not be created).

               permissions  A string representing the permission of the file
                            in octal.

               owner        A string representing the owner, two forms are
                            possible: user or user:group.

               append       A boolean to specify the content should be
                            appended to the file if the file exists.

               defer        A boolean to specify that the files should be
                            created after the packages are installed and the
                            users are created.

EXAMPLES
     Here is an example of a YAML configuration for nuageinit:

     #cloud-config
     fqdn: myhost.mynetwork.tld
     users:
       - default
       - name: user
         gecos: Foo B. Bar
         sudo: ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL
         ssh_authorized_keys:
           - ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAr...
     packages:
       - neovim
       - git-lite
     package_update: true
     package_upgrade: true
     runcmd:
       - logger -t nuageinit "boot finished"
     ssh_keys:
       ed25519_private: |
         -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
         blabla
         ...
         -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
       ed25519_public: ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIK+MH4E8KO32N5CXRvXVqvyZVl0+6ue4DobdhU0FqFd+
     network:
       ethernets:
         vtnet0:
           addresses:
             - 192.168.8.2/24
           gateway4: 192.168.8.1

SEE ALSO
     kenv(2), cd9660(4), msdosfs(4), smbios(4), ssh_config(5), rc(8)

STANDARDS
     nuageinit is believed to conform to the Cloud Init:
     https://cloud-init.io/ specification.

HISTORY
     nuageinit appeared in FreeBSD 14.1

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4          June 26, 2025                    NUAGEINIT(7)
