fsck_ext2fs(8)                   FreeBSD Ports                  fsck_ext2fs(8)



NAME
       fsck_ext2fs - compatibility wrapper for e2fsck

SYNOPSIS
       fsck_ext2fs [-Fpfnyv] [-b block]

DESCRIPTION
       fsck_ext2fs maps the traditional FreeBSD fsck_ffs options to options
       with the same functionality for e2fsck, runs e2fsck and then maps its
       exit status to values that FreeBSD understands.  e2fsck is a utility to
       check and repair ext2 and ext3 file systems.


OPTIONS
       -F     (check foreground mode required) Immediately exits with status 1
              to tell fsck that ext2fs cannot be checked in the background.
              fsck usually runs fsck_* programs twice, first with -F to find
              out if they can do background checking, then either immediately
              without -F for foreground checking or deferred in the background
              with -B.

       -p     (preen mode) This option suppresses adding the -f option (unless
              -f is also given) and adds the -p option to the e2fsck command
              line. This causes e2fsck to automatically fix any filesystem
              problems that can safely be fixed without operator intervention.
              Without this option given, e2fsck will be run with the -f option
              to force a check, since interactive scan and repair mode is the
              default on FreeBSD, but not on Linux where e2fsck comes from.

       -f     (force check) This option forces the check of a clean file
              system while preening and is passed to e2fsck verbatim.

       -n     ("no" mode) This option causes the file system to be opened in
              read-only mode and assume "no" as answer to all questions. This
              is the only way to safely run fsck on a mounted ext2 or ext3
              file system. This option is passed to e2fsck verbatim.

       -y     ("yes" mode) This option is passed verbatim to e2fsck and causes
              it to assume "yes" as answer to all questions. This allows the
              non-interactive use of e2fsck but is rather aggressive. Use with
              care.

       -v     (verbose output) This option is passed verbatim to e2fsck and
              causes it to verbosely report its progress.

       -b block
              (use alternate super block) This option is passed verbatim to
              e2fsck and selects an alternate super block, for use when the
              primary super block has been damaged. Please see the e2fsck(8)
              manual page for details.


EXIT STATUS
       If errors remain after e2fsck, an invalid option or too many options
       have been specified, e2fsck was killed with a signal or the fork system
       call failed, fsck_ext2fs exits with status EXIT_FAILURE (usually 1). If
       e2fsck cannot be started, exits with status 127. If the file system is
       clean after e2fsck operation, exits with status EXIT_SUCCESS (0).


NOTES
       This utility is merely meant as an adaptor so that e2fsck can be run
       during the boot process, it does not support all options that e2fsck
       offers. If you need one of its advanced options, please run e2fsck
       directly.


FILES
       /sbin/e2fsck
              is the location of the e2fsck program to run.


AUTHOR
       Matthias Andree <matthias.andree@gmx.de> wrote the program and this
       manual page.

CONFORMING TO
       The FreeBSD 6.1 command line interface for fsck_ufs(8).

SEE ALSO
       fsck(8), e2fsck(8) and fsck_ufs(8).



Matthias Andree                   2006-07-02                    fsck_ext2fs(8)
