FSTAT(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               FSTAT(1)

NAME
     fstat – identify active files

SYNOPSIS
     fstat [-fmnsv] [-M core] [-N system] [-p pid] [-u user] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The fstat utility identifies open files.  A file is considered open by a
     process if it was explicitly opened, is the working directory, root
     directory, jail root directory, active executable text, or kernel trace
     file for that process.  If no options are specified, fstat reports on all
     open files in the system.

     The following options are available:

     -f         Restrict examination to files open in the same file systems as
                the named file arguments, or to the file system containing the
                current directory if there are no additional filename
                arguments.  For example, to find all files open in the file
                system where the directory /usr/src resides, type ‘fstat -f
                /usr/src’.

     -M core    Extract values associated with the name list from the
                specified core instead of the default /dev/kmem.

     -m         Include memory-mapped files in the listing; normally these are
                excluded due to the extra processing required.

     -N system  Extract the name list from the specified system instead of the
                default, which is the kernel image the system has booted from.

     -n         Numerical format.  Print the device number (maj,min) of the
                file system the file resides in rather than the mount point
                name; for special files, print the device number that the
                special device refers to rather than the filename in /dev; and
                print the mode of the file in octal instead of symbolic form.

     -p pid     Report all files open by the specified process.

     -s         Print socket endpoint information.

     -u user    Report all files open by the specified user.

     -v         Verbose mode.  Print error messages upon failures to locate
                particular system data structures rather than silently
                ignoring them.  Most of these data structures are dynamically
                created or deleted and it is possible for them to disappear
                while fstat is running.  This is normal and unavoidable since
                the rest of the system is running while fstat itself is
                running.

     file ...   Restrict reports to the specified files.

     The following fields are printed:

     USER   The username of the owner of the process (effective uid).

     CMD    The command name of the process.

     PID    The process id.

     FD     The file number in the per-process open file table or one of the
            following special names:

                  jail    jail root directory
                  mmap    memory-mapped file
                  root    root inode
                  text    executable text inode
                  tr      kernel trace file
                  wd      current working directory

            If the file number is followed by an asterisk (‘*’), the file is
            not an inode, but rather a socket, FIFO, or there is an error.  In
            this case the remainder of the line does not correspond to the
            remaining headers— the format of the line is described later under
            SOCKETS.

     MOUNT  If the -n flag was not specified, this header is present and is
            the pathname that the file system the file resides in is mounted
            on.

     DEV    If the -n flag is specified, this header is present and is the
            number of the device that this file resides in.

     INUM   The inode number of the file.

     MODE   The mode of the file.  If the -n flag is not specified, the mode
            is printed using a symbolic format (see strmode(3)); otherwise,
            the mode is printed as an octal number.

     SZ|DV  If the file is a semaphore, prints the current value of the
            semaphore.  If the file is not a character or block special,
            prints the size of the file in bytes.  Otherwise, if the -n flag
            is not specified, prints the name of the special file as located
            in /dev.  If that cannot be located, or the -n flag is specified,
            prints the major/minor device number that the special device
            refers to.

     R/W    This column describes the access mode that the file allows.  The
            letter ‘r’ indicates open for reading; the letter ‘w’ indicates
            open for writing.  This field is useful when trying to find the
            processes that are preventing a file system from being down graded
            to read-only.

     NAME   If filename arguments are specified and the -f flag is not, then
            this field is present and is the name associated with the given
            file.  Normally the name cannot be determined since there is no
            mapping from an open file back to the directory entry that was
            used to open that file.  Also, since different directory entries
            may reference the same file (via ln(1)), the name printed may not
            be the actual name that the process originally used to open that
            file.

SOCKETS
     The formatting of open sockets depends on the protocol domain.  In all
     cases the first field is the domain name, the second field is the socket
     type (stream, dgram, etc.), and the third is the socket flags field (in
     hex).  The remaining fields are protocol dependent.  For TCP, it is the
     address of the tcpcb, and for UDP, the inpcb (socket pcb).  For UNIX-
     domain sockets, its the address of the socket pcb and the address of the
     connected pcb (if connected).  Otherwise the protocol number and address
     of the socket itself are printed.

     For example, the addresses mentioned above are the addresses which the
     ‘netstat -A’ command would print for TCP, UDP, and UNIX-domain.  Note
     that since pipes are implemented using sockets, a pipe appears as a
     connected UNIX-domain stream socket.  A unidirectional UNIX-domain socket
     indicates the direction of flow with an arrow (‘<-’ or ‘->’), and a full
     duplex socket shows a double arrow (‘<->’).

     When the -s flag is used, socket endpoint information is shown after the
     address of the socket.  For internet sockets the local and remote
     addresses are shown, separated with a double arrow (‘<->’).  For
     UNIX/local sockets either the local or remote address is shown, depending
     on which one is available.

SEE ALSO
     fuser(1), netstat(1), nfsstat(1), procstat(1), ps(1), sockstat(1),
     systat(1), tcp(4), unix(4), iostat(8), pstat(8), vmstat(8)

HISTORY
     The fstat command appeared in 4.3BSD-Tahoe.

BUGS
     Since fstat takes a snapshot of the system, it is only correct for a very
     short period of time.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          June 17, 2020         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
