fswatch(7)
        FreeBSD Miscellaneous Information Manual (fswatch file system monitor)

NAME
     fswatch – Ask for notification when the contents of the specified files
     or directory hierarchies are modified.

     This man page is kept for reference but it is not to be considered an
     authoritative or complete source of information.  Please, consult the
     official Info documentation shipped with fswatch.

SYNOPSIS
     fswatch (option)* path+

DESCRIPTION
     The fswatch command receives notifications when the contents of the
     specified files or directories are modified.  fswatch implements seven
     kind of monitors:

     -       A monitor based on the File System Events API of Apple macOS.

     -       A monitor based on kqueue, an event notification interface
             introduces in FreeBSD 4.1 and supported on most *BSD systems
             (including macOS).

     -       A monitor based on the File Events Notification API of the
             Solaris kernel and its derivatives.

     -       A monitor based on inotify, a Linux kernel subsystem that reports
             file system changes to applications.

     -       A monitor based on fanotify, a Linux kernel subsystem that can
             report file system changes with optional process attribution.

     -       A monitor based on the ReadDirectoryChangesW Microsoft Windows
             API.  Native MinGW-w64 builds are the recommended Windows target;
             Cygwin builds are kept for compatibility when the Cygwin path
             conversion API is available.

     -       A monitor which periodically stats the file system, saves file
             modification times in memory and manually calculates changes.

     fswatch writes a record for each event it receives containing:

     -       The timestamp when the event was received (optionally).

     -       The path affected by the current event.

     -       A space-separated list of event types (see EVENT TYPES ).

     By default, fswatch enters an infinite loop and never returns.  When it
     receives a SIGABRT, SIGINT or SIGTERM signal, fswatch closes the
     notification streams and exits gracefully returning 0 to the calling
     process.  (Unless running in [-1, --one-event] mode, in which case it
     sets its return code according to the signal it received, as usual.)

     The following options are available:

     -0, --print0
             Use the ASCII NUL character (\0) as line separator.  Since file
             names can potentially contain any character but NUL, this option
             assures that the output of fswatch can be safely parsed using NUL
             as delimiter, such as using xargs -0 and the shell builtin read
             -d ''.

     -1, --one-event
             Exit fswatch after the first set of events is received.

     --batch-marker marker
             Print a marker at the end of every batch.  An optional marker
             marker can be specified to override its default value `NoOp'.

     --event name
             Filter event with the specified name.  This option can be used
             multiple times, one for each event name that must be included in
             the output.

     -e, --exclude regexp
             Exclude paths matching regexp.  Multiple exclude filters can be
             specified using this option multiple times.  See FILTERING PATHS
             for further information.

     -E, --extended
             Use extended regular expressions.

     -f, --format-time format
             Print the event time using the specified format.  Supported
             formats are specified by strftime(3).

     --format format
             Use the specified event record format.  The format string
             supports path, flag, timestamp, correlation, and monitor-specific
             metadata directives including fanotify process attribution.

     -h, --help
             Show the help message.

     -i, --include regexp
             Include paths matching regexp.  Multiple include filters can be
             specified using this option multiple times.  See FILTERING PATHS
             for further information.

     -I, --insensitive
             Use case insensitive regular expressions.

     -l, --latency latency
             Set the latency in seconds.  The latency is a double value
             greater than 0.1.  Smaller values are currently not allowed in
             order not to compromise the performance of the system.  The
             default latency is 1 second.

     -L, --follow-links
             Follow symbolic links.

     -M, --list-monitors
             List the available monitors.

     -m, --monitor name
             Uses the monitor specified by name.  The list of currently
             available monitors can be obtained using the -h option.

     --no-defer
             Sets the kFSEventStreamCreateFlagNoDefer flag on macOS FSEvents
             monitor, which makes the monitor more responsive.  This flag is
             more appropriate for sessions, while the default behaviour is
             more appropriate for background, daemon or batch processing apps.

     -n, --numeric
             Print the numeric value of the event flag, instead of the array
             of symbolic names.  The numeric value of the event flags are
             system-specific and may vary across different versions of macOS.
             As a consequence, the use of numeric values is discouraged.

     -o, --one-per-batch
             Print a single message with the number of change events.

     -r, --recursive
             Watch subdirectories recursively.  This option may not be
             supported on all systems.

     -t, --timestamp
             Print the event timestamp.

     -u, --utc-time
             Print the event time in UTC format.  When this option is not
             specified, the time is printed using the system local time, as
             defined by localtime (3).

     -v, --verbose
             Print verbose output.

     --version
             Print the version of fswatch and exits.

     -x, --event-flags
             Prints the event flags.

     --event-flag-separator separator
             Print event flags using the specified separator.

MONITORS
     fswatch acts as a front-end to system-specific monitors.  Currently, the
     available monitors are:

     -       The FSEvents monitor, a monitor based on the File System Events
             API of Apple macOS.

     -       The kqueue monitor, a monitor based on kqueue, an event
             notification interface introduced in FreeBSD 4.1 and supported on
             most *BSD systems (including macOS).

     -       The inotify monitor, a Linux kernel subsystem that reports file
             system changes to applications.

     -       The fanotify monitor, a Linux kernel subsystem that can report
             file system changes with optional process attribution.

     -       The poll monitor, a monitor which periodically stats the file
             system, saves file modification times in memory and manually
             calculates file system changes, which can work on any operating
             system where stat(2) can be used.

     Each monitor has its own strengths, weakness and peculiarities.  Although
     fswatch strives to provide a uniform experience no matter which monitor
     is used, it is still important for users to know which monitor they are
     using and to be aware of existing bugs, limitations, corner cases or
     pathological behaviour.

   The FSEvents Monitor
     The FSEvents monitor, available only on Apple macOS, has no known
     limitations and scales very well with the number of files being observed.
     In fact, I observed no performance degradation when testing fswatch
     observing changes on a filesystem of 500 GB over long periods of time.
     On macOS, this is the default monitor.

   The kqueue Monitor
     The kqueue monitor, available on any *BSD system featuring kqueue,
     requires a file descriptor to be opened for every file being watched.  As
     a result, this monitor scales badly with the number of files being
     observed and may begin to misbehave as soon as the fswatch process runs
     out of file descriptors.  In this case, fswatch dumps one error on
     standard error for every file that cannot be opened.  Beware that on some
     systems the maximum number of file descriptors that can be opened by a
     process is set to a very low value (values as low as 256 are not
     uncommon), even if the operating system may allow a much larger value.

     If you are running out of file descriptors when using this monitor and
     you cannot reduce the number of observed items, either:

     -       Consider raising the number of maximum open file descriptors
             (check your OS documentation).

     -       Consider using another monitor.

   The inotify Monitor
     The inotify monitor, available on Linux since kernel 2.6.13, may suffer a
     queue overflow if events are generated faster than they are read from the
     queue.  In any case, the application is guaranteed to receive an overflow
     notification which can be handled to gracefully recover.  fswatch
     currently throws an exception if a queue overflow occurs.  Future
     versions will handle the overflow by emitting proper notifications.
     However, the odds of observing a queue overflow on a default configured
     mainstream GNU/Linux distribution is very low.

     The inotify API sends events for the direct child elements of a watched
     directory and it scales pretty well with the number of watched items.
     For this reason, depending on the number of files to watch, it may
     sometimes be preferable to watch a common parent directory and filter
     received events rather than adding a huge number of file watches.

   The fanotify Monitor
     The fanotify monitor, available on Linux when the build system detects
     the required fanotify headers and symbols, uses file-handle based
     fanotify events.  It is not the default Linux monitor; select it
     explicitly with:

           $ fswatch -m fanotify_monitor path ...

     The fanotify monitor is useful when Linux-specific process attribution is
     required.  Custom format directive %K prints the identifier kind, such as
     `pid' or `tid', and %P prints the reported process or thread identifier.
     The monitor property fanotify.process-id accepts `pid' or `tid'.  The
     fanotify.report-pidfd property requests pidfd reporting when supported by
     the build headers and kernel; the pidfd is exposed through the library
     event metadata only while the callback is executing.

     The fanotify.unlimited-queue and fanotify.unlimited-marks properties
     request FAN_UNLIMITED_QUEUE and FAN_UNLIMITED_MARKS, respectively.  These
     properties are opt-in because they require matching build headers and the
     capability expected by the running kernel, typically CAP_SYS_ADMIN, and
     fanotify initialization fails if the process lacks it.

     Fanotify support depends on kernel, C library, filesystem, and permission
     support for the requested mode.  Some filesystems do not support file
     handles, and some fanotify modes require additional privileges.  Use the
     inotify monitor when broad Linux compatibility is more important than
     process attribution.

     Fanotify directory marks are not equivalent to macOS FSEvents recursive
     tree watches.  With ordinary directory marks, FAN_EVENT_ON_CHILD reports
     events for immediate children only, not grandchildren or deeper
     descendants.  Recursive fanotify monitoring therefore still marks
     subdirectories explicitly.  Avoiding recursive mark expansion requires
     fanotify mount or filesystem marks, which have broader scope and
     different permission constraints.

   The Poll Monitor
     The poll monitor was added as a fallback mechanisms in the cases where no
     other monitor could be used, including:

     -       Operating system without any sort of file events API.

     -       Situations where the limitations of the available monitors cannot
             be overcome (i.e.: observing a number of files greater than the
             available file descriptors on a system using the kqueue monitor).

     The poll monitor, available on any platform, only relies on available CPU
     and memory to perform its task (besides the stat(2) function).  The
     performance of this monitor degrades linearly with the number of files
     being watched.  The authors' experience indicates that fswatch requires
     approximately 150 MB or RAM memory to observe a hierarchy of 500.000
     files with a minimum path length of 32 characters.  A common bottleneck
     of the poll monitor is disk access, since stat()-ing a great number of
     files may take a huge amount of time.  In this case, the latency should
     be set to a sufficiently large value in order to reduce the performance
     degradation that may result from frequent disk access.

   How to Choose a Monitor
     fswatch already chooses the "best" monitor for your platform if you do
     not specify any.  However, a specific monitor may be better suited to
     specific use cases.  Please, read the MONITORS section to get a
     description of all the available monitors and their limitations.

     Usage recommendations are as follows:

     -       On macOS, use only the FSEvents monitor (which is the default
             behaviour).

     -       On Linux, use the inotify monitor (which is the default
             behaviour).

     -       On Linux, use the fanotify monitor only when its Linux-specific
             process attribution or fanotify semantics are required.

     -       If the number of files to observe is sufficiently small, use the
             kqueue monitor.  Beware that on some systems the maximum number
             of file descriptors that can be opened by a process is set to a
             very low value (values as low as 256 are not uncommon), even if
             the operating system may allow a much larger value.  In this
             case, check your OS documentation to raise this limit on either a
             per process or a system-wide basis.

     -       If feasible, watch directories instead of watching files.
             Properly crafting the receiving side of the events to deal with
             directories may sensibly reduce the monitor resource consumption.

     -       If none of the above applies, use the poll monitor.  The authors'
             experience indicates that fswatch requires approximately 150 MB
             or RAM memory to observe a hierarchy of 500.000 files with a
             minimum path length of 32 characters.  A common bottleneck of the
             poll monitor is disk access, since stat()-ing a great number of
             files may take a huge amount of time.  In this case, the latency
             should be set to a sufficiently large value in order to reduce
             the performance degradation that may result from frequent disk
             access.

FILTERING PATHS
     Received events can be filtered by path using regular expressions.
     Regular expressions can be used to include or exclude matching paths.
     The user can specify multiple filter expression in any order and filters
     are processed this way:

     -       If a path matches an including filter, the path is accepted no
             matter any other filter.

     -       If a path matches an excluding filter, the path is rejected.

     -       If a path matches no filters, the path is accepted.
     Said another way:

     -       All paths are accepted @emph{by default}, unless an exclusion
             filter says otherwise.

     -       Inclusion filters may override any other exclusion filter.

     -       The order in the definition of filters in the command line has no
             effect.


     Other options govern how regular expressions are interpreted:

     -       Regular expressions can be extended if option -E is specified.

     -       Regular expressions can be case insensitive if option -I is
             specified.

EVENT TYPES
     Event flags identify the kind of change a file system object has
     undergone. Many of them directly map to common file system operations
     (such as creation, deletion, update, etc.), others are less common (such
     as attribute modification), and others are monitor and platform specific.

     Currently, fswatch maps monitor-specific event flags to 'global' event
     flags acting as a sort of 'greatest common denominator' of all the
     available monitor flags. The following global event flags are available::

     NoOp                  Idle event, optionally issued when no changes were
                           detected.

     PlatformSpecific      This event maps a platform-specific event that has
                           no corresponding flag.

     Created               The object has been created.

     Updated               The object has been updated. The kind of update is
                           monitor-dependent.

     Removed               The object has been removed.

     Renamed               The object has been renamed.

     OwnerModified         The object’s owner has changed.

     AttributeModified     An object’s attribute has changed.

     MovedFrom             The object has moved from this location to a new
                           location of the same file system.

     MovedTo               The object has moved from another location in the
                           same file system into this location.

     IsFile                The object is a regular file.

     IsDir                 The object is a directory.

     IsSymLink             The object is a symbolic link.

     Link                  The object link count has changed.

     Overflow              The monitor has overflowed.

EXAMPLES
   Basic Usage
     fswatch syntax is the following:

           $ fswatch [options] [paths] ...

     fswatch will then output change events to standard output. By default,
     only the affected file name is printed.  However, many options are
     available to format the event record, including:

     -       The possibility of adding the event timestamp.

     -       The possibility of adding the event mask in both textual and
             numerical form.

     The following command listens for changes in the current directory and
     events are delivered every 5 seconds:

           $ fswatch -l 5 .

     The following command listens for changes in the current user home
     directory and /var/log:

           $ fswatch ~ /var/log

   Piping fswatch Output to Another Process
     Very often you wish to not only receive an event, but react to it.  The
     simplest way to do it is piping fswatch output to another process.  Since
     in Unix and Unix-like file system file names may potentially contain any
     character but NUL (\0) and the path separator (/), fswatch has a specific
     mode of operation when its output must be piped to another process.  When
     the [-0] option is used, fswatch will use the NUL character as record
     separator, thus allowing any other character to appear in a path.  This
     is important because many commands and shell builtins (such as read)
     split words and lines by default using the characters in $IFS, which by
     default contains characters which may be present (although rarely) in a
     file name, resulting in a wrong event path being received and processed.

     Probably the simplest way to pipe fswatch to another program in order to
     respond to an event is using xargs:

           $ fswatch -0 [opts] [paths] | xargs -0 -n 1 -I {} [command]

     -       fswatch -0 will split records using the NUL character.

     -       xargs -0 will split records using the NUL character. This is
             required to correctly match impedance with fswatch.

     -       xargs -n 1 will invoke command every record.  If you want to do
             it every x records, then use xargs -n x.

     -       xargs -I {} will substitute occurrences of {} in command with the
             parsed argument.  If the command you are running does not need
             the event path name, just delete this option.  If you prefer
             using another replacement string, substitute {} with yours.

   Bubbling Events
     An often requested feature is being able to receive a single event "per
     batch", instead of receiving multiple events.  This use case is
     implemented by the [-o, --one-per-batch] option which tells fswatch to
     dump a record containing the number of received events, without any other
     detail:

           $ fswatch -or /path/to/watch
           1
           10
           [...]

     This is useful if, for example, you want to respond to change events in a
     way which is (or can easily be) path-independent (because you are not
     receiving any event detail) and you prefer to "bubble" events together to
     reduce the overhead of the command being executed.  A typical case is a
     directory synchronisation job whenever some files change.

   Receiving a Single Event
     Another requested feature is the possibility of receiving a single event
     and exit.  This is most useful when existing scripts processing events
     include the restart logic of fswatch This use case is implemented by the
     [-1, --one-event] option:

           $ fswatch -1 /path/to/watch
           /path/to/watch

Compatibility With fswatch 0.x
     The previous major version of fswatch (v. 0.x) allowed users to run a
     command whenever a set of changes was detected with the following syntax:

           $ fswatch path program

     Starting with fswatch v. 1.x this behaviour is no longer supported.  The
     rationale behind this decision includes:

     -       The old version only allows watching one path.

     -       The command to execute was passed as last argument, alongside the
             path to watch, making it difficult to extend the program
             functionality to add multiple path support

     -       The old version forks and executes /bin/bash, which is neither
             portable, nor guaranteed to succeed, nor desirable by users of
             other shells.

     -       No information about the change events is passed to the forked
             process.

     To solve the aforementioned issues and keep fswatch consistent with
     common UNIX practices, the behaviour has changed and fswatch now prints
     event records to the standard output that users can process further by
     piping the output of fswatch to other programs.

     To fully support the old use, the [-o, --one-per-batch] option was added
     in v. 1.3.3.  When specified, fswatch will only dump 1 event to standard
     output which can be used to trigger another program:

           $ fswatch -o path | xargs -n1 program

     In this case, program will receive the number of change events as first
     argument.  If no argument should be passed to program, then the following
     command could be used:

           $ fswatch -o path | xargs -n1 -I{} program

EXIT STATUS
     fswatch may exit with one of the following exit statuses:

           FSW_OK 0
           FSW_ERR_UNKNOWN_ERROR (1 << 0)
           FSW_ERR_SESSION_UNKNOWN (1 << 1)
           FSW_ERR_MONITOR_ALREADY_EXISTS (1 << 2)
           FSW_ERR_MEMORY (1 << 3)
           FSW_ERR_UNKNOWN_MONITOR_TYPE (1 << 4)
           FSW_ERR_CALLBACK_NOT_SET (1 << 5)
           FSW_ERR_PATHS_NOT_SET (1 << 6)
           FSW_ERR_UNKNOWN_MONITOR (1 << 7)
           FSW_ERR_MISSING_CONTEXT (1 << 8)
           FSW_ERR_INVALID_PATH (1 << 9)
           FSW_ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK (1 << 10)
           FSW_ERR_INVALID_LATENCY (1 << 11)
           FSW_ERR_INVALID_REGEX (1 << 12)
           FSW_ERR_MONITOR_ALREADY_RUNNING (1 << 13)
           FSW_ERR_STALE_MONITOR_THREAD (1 << 14)
           FSW_ERR_THREAD_FAULT (1 << 15)
           FSW_ERR_UNSUPPORTED_OPERATION (1 << 16)
           FSW_ERR_UNKNOWN_VALUE (1 << 17)

DIAGNOSTICS
     fswatch exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

COMPATIBILITY
     fswatch can be built on any system supporting at least one of the
     available monitors.

BUGS
     See https://github.com/emcrisostomo/fswatch/issues for open issues or to
     create a new one.

     Bugs can also be submitted to enrico.m.crisostomo@gmail.com.

portbld freebsd15.0              July 30, 2026                      fswatch(7)
