audio2tape(1)                      Emulators                     audio2tape(1)

NAME
       audio2tape — Sinclair ZX Spectrum audio to tape file converter

SYNOPSIS
       audio2tape [-t type] [-s] [-r] [-k] [-z level] [-c level] infile
       outfile

DESCRIPTION
       audio2tape converts audio files to ZX Spectrum tape images.

OPTIONS
       -t type
              causes type to be used as the level detection trigger. There are
              two triggers implemented; the simple trigger just uses a
              threshold value to convert to a one or zero on output, and the
              schmitt trigger implements a Schmitt trigger which outputs a
              less noisy signal, but requires a stronger signal to noise ratio
              than the simple trigger. The default trigger is “schmitt”.

       -s     causes the display of a frequency graph showing the sound levels
              present in the audio file. This can be useful when selecting
              good crossover points.

       -r     causes any ROM blocks that are recognised to use idealised
              timing figures rather than the exact ones found in the audio
              file.

       -k     causes the tape file that is produced to keep any audio data
              from the original audio file that isn't recognised. This will
              allow unsupported loading schemes, encryption tones etc. to be
              preserved in the file that is produced.

       -z level
              causes level to be used as the zero point in the supplied audio
              file, it allows adjustment for a DC offset in the audio file.
              The default level is 127 from a range of 0–255.

       -c level
              causes level to be used as the Schmitt trigger noise threshold,
              this reduces the sensitivity to noise in the provided file. The
              default level is 8 from a range of 0–127.

       -h, --help
              give brief usage help, listing available options.

       -V, --version
              output version information.

       infile specifies the audio file to be converted. This file can be in
              any of the sound formats supported by libaudiofile.

       outfile
              specifies the output tape file. The format will be determined by
              the file extension and can be in any of the formats
              libspectrum(3) supports for output.

BUGS
       None known.

SEE ALSO
       fuse(1), fuse-utils(1), libspectrum(3), listbasic(1), tapeconv(1),
       tzxlist(1), snap2tzx(1), tape2pulses(1) tape2wav(1)

       The comp.sys.sinclair Spectrum FAQ, at
       http://www.worldofspectrum.org/faq/index.html.

AUTHOR
       Fredrick Meunier (fredm@spamcop.net).

Version 1.4.3                   1st July, 2018                   audio2tape(1)
