FUSER(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               FUSER(1)

NAME
     fuser – list IDs of all processes that have one or more files open

SYNOPSIS
     fuser [-cfkmu] [-M core] [-N system] [-s signal] file ...

DESCRIPTION
     The fuser utility writes to stdout the PIDs of processes that have one or
     more named files open.  For block and character special devices, all
     processes using files on that device are listed.  A file is considered
     open by a process if it was explicitly opened, is the working directory,
     root directory, jail root directory, active executable text, kernel trace
     file or the controlling terminal of the process.  If -m option is
     specified, the fuser utility will also look through mmapped files.

     The following options are available:

     -c      Treat files as mount points and report on any files open in the
             file system.

     -f      The report must be only for named files.

     -k      Send signal to reported processes (SIGKILL by default).

     -M core
             Extract values associated with the name list from the specified
             core instead of the default /dev/kmem.

     -m      Search through mmapped files too.

     -N system
             Extract the name list from the specified system instead of the
             default, which is the kernel image the system has booted from.

     -s signal
             Use given signal name instead of default SIGKILL.

     -u      Write the user name associated with each process to stderr.

     The following symbols, written to stderr will indicate how files are
     used:

     a       The file is open as append only (O_APPEND was specified).
     c       The file is the current workdir directory of the process.
     d       The process bypasses fs cache while writing to this file
             (O_DIRECT was specified).
     e       Exclusive lock is hold.
     j       The file is the jail root of the process.
     m       The file is mmapped.
     r       The file is the root directory of the process.
     s       Shared lock is hold.
     t       The file is the kernel tracing file for the process.
     w       The file is open for writing.
     x       The file is executable text of the process.
     y       The process uses this file as its controlling tty.

EXIT STATUS
     The fuser utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     The command ‘fuser -fu .’ writes to standard output the process IDs of
     processes that are using the current directory and writes to stderr an
     indication of how those processes are using the directory and user names
     associated with the processes that are using this directory.

SEE ALSO
     fstat(1), ps(1), systat(1), iostat(8), pstat(8), vmstat(8)

STANDARDS
     The fuser utility is expected to conform to IEEE Std 1003.1-2004
     (“POSIX.1”).

HISTORY
     The fuser utility appeared in FreeBSD 9.0.

AUTHORS
     The fuser utility and this manual page was written by Stanislav Sedov
     <stas@FreeBSD.org>.

BUGS
     Since fuser takes a snapshot of the system, it is only correct for a very
     short period of time.  When working via kvm(3) interface the report will
     be limited to filesystems the fuser utility knows about (currently only
     cd9660, devfs, nfs, ntfs, nwfs, udf, ufs and zfs).

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          June 18, 2020         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
