FWLOGWATCH(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          FWLOGWATCH(8)



NAME
       fwlogwatch - a firewall log analyzer and realtime response agent


SYNOPSIS
       fwlogwatch [options] [input_files]


DESCRIPTION
       fwlogwatch produces Linux ipchains, Linux netfilter/iptables,
       Solaris/BSD/IRIX/HP-UX ipfilter, ipfw, Cisco IOS, Cisco PIX/ASA,
       NetScreen, Elsa Lancom router and Snort IDS log summary reports in
       plain text and HTML form and has a lot of options to analyze and
       display relevant patterns. It also can run as daemon (with web
       interface) doing realtime log monitoring and reporting anomalies or
       starting attack countermeasures.


GENERAL OPTIONS
       These options are independent from the main modes of operation.

       -h     Show the available options.

       -L     Show time of the first and the last log entry. The input file(s)
              can be compressed or plain log file(s). Summary mode will show
              the time of the first and last packet log entry, this log times
              mode will show the time of the first and last entry overall.

       -V     Show version and copyright information and the options used to
              compile fwlogwatch.


GLOBAL OPTIONS
       The global options for all modes are:

       -b     Show the amount of data in bytes this entry represents, this is
              the sum of total packet lengths of packets matching this rule
              (obviously only available for log formats that contain this
              information).

       -c config
              Use the alternate configuration file config instead of the
              default configuration file /usr/local/etc/fwlogwatch.config
              (which does not need to exist). Only options not specified in
              the files can be overridden by command line options.

       -D     Do not differentiate destination IP addresses. Useful for
              finding scans in whole subnets.

       -d     Differentiate destination ports.

       -E format
              Specific hosts, ports, chains and branches (targets) can be
              selected or excluded, selections an exclusions can be added and
              combined. The format is composed of one of the functions i
              include or e exclude, then one of the parameters h host, p port,
              c chain or b branch. In case of a host or port a third parameter
              for s source or d destination is needed. Finally, the object is
              directly appended, in case of a host this is an IP address
              (networks can be specified in CIDR format), port is a number and
              chain and branch are strings. To show entries with destination
              port 25 you would use -Eipd25 and to exclude entries which have
              the class C network 192.168.1.0 as source or belong to the chain
              INPUT: -Eehs192.168.1.0/24 -EecINPUT

       -g     Enable GeoIP lookups. The country an IP address probably is in
              will be looked up in MaxMind's GeoIP database. The default
              location of the IPv4 and IPv6 database files can be overridden
              in the configuration file.

       -i file
              If your logs contain private IP addresses that are not
              resolvable through DNS but you want reports with meaningful host
              names or you have any other reason to influence the host names
              in reports you can initialize the DNS cache with your own list
              of IP/name pairs. The file should be in the same format as
              /usr/local/etc/hosts and will not be modified.

       -M number
              If you only want to see a fixed maximum amount of entries (e.g.
              the "top 20") this option will trim the output for you.

       -m count
              When analyzing large amounts of data you usually aren't
              interested in entries that have a small count. You can hide
              entries below a certain threshold with this option.

       -N     Enable service lookups. The service name for a specific port
              number and protocol will be looked up in
              /usr/local/etc/services.

       -n     Enable DNS lookups. Host names will be resolved (reverse and
              forward lookup with a warning if they don't match). If this
              makes summary generation very slow (this happens when a lot of
              different hosts appear in the log file) you should use a version
              of fwlogwatch compiled with GNU adns support.  Resolved host
              names are cached in memory for as long as fwlogwatch is running,
              the DNS cache can be initialized with the -i option.

       -O order
              This is the sort order of the summary and packet cache. Since
              entries often are equal in certain fields you can sort by
              several fields one after another (the sort algorithm is stable,
              so equal entries will remain sorted in the order they were
              sorted before). The sort string can be composed of up to 11
              fields of the form ab where a is the sort criteria: c count, t
              start time, e end time, z duration, n target name, p protocol, b
              byte count (sum of total packet lengths), S source host, s
              source port, D destination host and d destination port.  b is
              the direction: a ascending and d descending.  Sorting is done in
              the order specified, so the last option is the primary criteria.
              The default in summary mode is tacd (start with the highest
              count, if two counts match list the one earlier in time first)
              of which ta is built in, so if you specify an empty sort string
              or everything else is equal entries will be sorted ascending by
              time. The realtime response mode default is cd ( ta is not built
              in).

       -P format
              Only use certain parsers, where the log format can be one or a
              combination of: i ipchains, n netfilter, f ipfilter, b ipfw, c
              Cisco IOS, p Cisco PIX/ASA, e NetScreen, l Elsa Lancom and s
              Snort. The default is to use all parsers except the ones for
              NetScreen, Elsa Lancom and Snort logs.

       -p     Differentiate protocols. This is activated automatically if you
              differentiate source and/or destination ports.

       -s     Differentiate source ports.

       -U title
              Set title as title of the report and status page.

       -v     Be verbose. You can specify it twice for more information.  In
              very verbose mode while parsing the log file you will see "."
              for relevant packet filter log entries, "r" for 'last message
              repeated' entries concerning packet filter logs, "o" for packet
              filter log entries that are too old and "_" for entries that are
              not packet filter logs.

       -y     Differentiate TCP options. All packets with a SYN are listed
              separately, other TCP flags are shown in full format if they are
              available (ipchains does not log them, netfilter and ipfilter
              do, Cisco IOS doesn't even log SYNs).


LOG SUMMARY MODE
       This are additional options that are only available in log summary
       mode:

       -C email
              A carbon copy of the summary will be sent by email to this
              address.

       -e     Show timestamp of the last packet logged for this entry. End
              times are only available if there is more than one packet log
              entry with unique characteristics.

       -F email
              Set the sender address of the email.

       -l time
              Process recent events only. See TIME FORMAT below for the time
              options.

       -o file
              Specify an output file.

       -S     Do not differentiate source IP addresses.

       -T email
              The summary will be sent by email to this address. If HTML
              output is selected the report will be embedded as attachment so
              HTML-aware mail clients can show it directly.

       -t     Show timestamp of the first packet logged for this entry.

       -W     Look up information about the source addresses in the whois
              database. This is slow, please don't stress the registry with
              too many queries.

       -w     Produce output in HTML format (XHTML 1.1 with CSS).

       -z     Show time interval between start and end time of packet log
              entries. This is only available if there is more than one packet
              log entry with unique characteristics.


REALTIME RESPONSE MODE
       -R     Enter realtime response mode. This means: detach and run as
              daemon until the TERM signal (kill) is received. The HUP signal
              forces a reload of the configuration file, the USR1 signal
              forces fwlogwatch to reopen and read the input file from the
              beginning (useful e.g. for log rotation). All output can be
              followed in the system log.

       -a count
              Alert threshold. Notify or start countermeasures if this limit
              is reached.  Defaults to 5.

       -l time
              Forget events that happened this long ago (defaults to 1 day).
              See TIME FORMAT below for the time options.

       -k IP/net
              This option defines a host or network in CIDR notation that will
              never be blocked or other actions taken against. To specify more
              than one, use the -k parameter again for each IP address or
              network you want to add.

       -A     The notification script is invoked when the threshold is
              reached. A few examples of possible notifications are included
              in fwlw_notify, you can add your own ones as you see fit.

       -B     The response script is invoked when the threshold is reached.
              Using the example script fwlw_respond this will block the
              attacking host with a new firewall rule. A new chain for
              fwlogwatch actions is inserted in the input chain and block
              rules added as needed. The chain and its content is removed if
              fwlogwatch is terminated normally. The example scripts contain
              actions for ipchains and netfilter, you can modify them or add
              others as you like.

       -X port
              Activate the internal web server to monitor and control the
              current status of the daemon. It listens on the specified port
              and by default only allows connections from localhost. The
              default user name is admin and the default password is fwlogwat
              (since DES can only encrypt 8 characters). All options related
              to the status web server can be changed in the configuration
              file.


INPUT FILES
       You can specify one or more input files (if none is given it defaults
       to /var/log/messages ). Relevant entries are automatically detected so
       combined log files (e.g.  from a log host) are no problem. Compressed
       files are supported (except in realtime response mode where they don't
       make sense anyway). The '-' sign may be used for reading from standard
       input (stdin). In realtime response mode the file needs to be specified
       with an absolute path since the daemon uses the file system root (/) as
       working directory.


TIME FORMAT
       Time is specified as nx where n is a natural number and x is one of the
       following: s for seconds (this is the default), m for minutes, h for
       hours, d for days, w for weeks, M for months and y for years.


FILES
       /usr/local/etc/fwlogwatch.config
              Default configuration file.

       /var/log/messages
              Default input log file.

       /var/run/fwlogwatch.pid
              Default PID file generated by the daemon in realtime response
              mode if configured to do so.


FEATURES ONLY IN CONFIGURATION FILE
       The following features are only available in the configuration file and
       not on the command line, they are presented and explained in more
       detail in the sample configuration file.

       HTML colors and stylesheet
              The colors of the HTML output and status page can be customized,
              an external cascading stylesheet can be referenced.

       Realtime response options
              Verification of ipchains rules, PID file handling, the user
              fwlogwatch should run as, the location of the notification and
              response scripts, which address the status web server listens
              on, which host can connect, the refresh interval of the status
              page and the admin name and password can be configured.


SECURITY
       Since fwlogwatch is a security tool special care was taken to make it
       secure. You can and should run it with user permissions for most
       functions, you can make it setgid for a group /var/log/messages is in
       if all you need is to be able to read this file. Only the realtime
       response mode with activated ipchains rule analysis needs superuser
       permissions but you might also need them to write the PID file, for
       actions in the response script and for binding the default status port.
       However, you can configure fwlogwatch to drop root privileges as soon
       as possible after allocating these resources (the notification and
       response scripts will still be executed with user privileges and log
       rotation might not work).


AUTHOR
       Boris Wesslowski <bw@inside-security.de>

Boris Wesslowski               November 11, 2011                 FWLOGWATCH(8)
