fyi(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 fyi(1)

NAME
       fyi - send desktop notifications

SYNOPSIS
       fyi [OPTION]... TITLE [MESSAGE]
       fyi --close=ID
       fyi --server-info
       fyi --server-capabilities

DESCRIPTION
       fyi is a command line utility to send desktop notifications to the user
       via a notification daemon implementing XDG desktop notifications.

       It is similar to the well-known notify-send(1) utility. Indeed, most of
       the options are identical.

       When used without any options, fyi sends the notification and
       immediately exits, without printing anything on stdout.

       Use --print-id to have fyi print the daemon assigned notification ID on
       stdout, in the format:

           id=ID

       To see why the notification was closed, use --print-reason. The reason
       is printed on stdout, in the format:

           reason=REASON

       fyi can also block until the notification has been closed, using the
       --wait option. Sending SIGINT to the fyi process will force-close the
       notification.

       fyi will also block if the notification has any actions. When an action
       is triggered, fyi prints the name of the action on stdout, in the
       format:

           action=NAME

       Some notification daemons can send an "activation token". This is
       typically done when the user clicks the notification, or triggers the
       default action. The token can be used to focus (activate) a window. To
       see the token, use --print-token. The token is printed on stdout, in
       the format:

           xdgtoken=TOKEN

OPTIONS
       -a,--app-name=NAME
           Application name. Notification daemons will either display it as
           text, or use it to select an icon to show (unless --icon is used).
           Default: fyi

       -i,--icon=ICON
           Icon to display, either as a symbolic icon name (e.g. firefox) or a
           filename. Default: none

       -u,--urgency=low|normal|critical
           Notification urgency. Shortcut for --hint=byte:urgency:0|1|2.
           Default: normal.

       -c,--category=CATEGORY
           Notification category. Shortcut for
           --hint=string:category:CATEGORY. Default: none.

       -A,--action=NAME:LABEL
           Defines an action to display (e.g. as a button, or in a list,
           depending on notification daemon). LABEL is what the notification
           daemon will display for the user. When the user triggers an action,
           fyi will print the corresponding NAME, in the format:

               action=NAME

           This option can be specified multiple times, to define multiple
           actions.

           Using this option implies --wait.

       -H,--hint=TYPE:NAME:VALUE
           Defines a custom hint. How these are interpreted depends on the
           notification daemon. One common use case is to display a progress
           bar of some kind; most notification daemon recognizes
           int:value:<percent>.

           Another common hint is string:x-canonical-private-
           synchronous:<name>. Many notification daemons will replace any
           existing notification with the same name. This is similar to
           --replaces, except you do not need a notification ID.

           fyi recognizes the following types:

           •   boolean
           •   byte
           •   int
           •   double
           •   string

       -r,--replaces=ID
           If there is an existing notification with the specified ID, replace
           it. Otherwise, create a new notification.

       -t,--expire-time=TIME
           The notification will be closed automatically after TIME
           milliseconds.

       --transient
           By-pass the server's persistence capability, if any. Shortcut for
           --hint=boolean:transient=true.

       -C,--close=ID
           If there is an existing notification with the specified ID, close
           it.

       -p,--print-id
           Print the daemon assigned notification ID, in the format id=ID.

       -R,--print-reason
           Print the reason the notification was closed, in the format:

           •   reason=expired
           •   reason=dismissed
           •   reason=force-closed
           •   reason=unknown

           Using this option implies --wait.

       -T,--print-token
           Print the activation token, if any, in the format:

               xdgtoken=TOKEN

           Some notification daemons send an activation token when the
           notification is dismissed; either when the notification is clicked,
           or the default action is invoked. Others will send it regardless of
           which action was invoked. Some will only send it when an action is
           invoked, while others will send it when the notification is
           dismissed, regardless of how.

           The token can be used to focus (activate, raise) a window. It is
           not directly useable by fyi, but programs using fyi as a helper to
           display notifications can use it.

           Using this option implies --wait.

       -w,--wait
           Wait for the notification to be closed before exiting. If the user
           triggered an action, the name of the action will be printed (see
           -A,--action).

           This option is implied when the any of the following options are
           used:

           •   -A,--action
           •   -R,--print-reason
           •   -T,--print-token

       --image-data=FILE
           Sets the image-data hint in the notification, with the raw pixel
           data from FILE. The data is assumed to be raw RGBA data. You must
           also provide the image size, see --image-size.

       --image-size=WIDTHxHEIGHT
           The dimensions of the image loaded by --image-data.

       --server-info
           Display notification daemon name and version.

       --server-capabilities
           Display notification daemon capabilities.

       -v,--version
           Show the version number and quit.

SEE ALSO
       •   notify-send(1)
       •   gdbus(1)

                                  2025-08-10                            fyi(1)
