GENERAND(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            GENERAND(1)

NAME
       generand - Generate random genomics data in various formats




SYNOPSIS
       generand fasta sequences sequence-length
       generand fastq sequences sequence-length
       generand sam chromosomes alignments-per-chromosome sequence-length
       generand vcf chromosomes calls-per-chromosome samples



PURPOSE
       generand is a simple program to rapidly generate random genomics data
       streams in common formats such as FASTA, FASTQ, SAM, and VCF.

       This may be useful for generating very short examples for academic
       purposes or large streams for testing and benchmarking genomics
       programs.


DESCRIPTION
       generand fast[aq] sequences sequence-length generates a FASTA or FASTQ
       stream of "sequences" sequences, each of length "sequence-length".  The
       sequence content is random with a uniform distribution of bases, so
       that GC content should be very close to 50%.

       PHRED scores in FASTQ streams are generated in blocks of equal scores
       and are mostly high-quality.  The last few scores are lower quality and
       independent to simulate Illumina sequencing, where quality tends to
       drop near the end of each read.

       generand sam chromosomes alignments-per-chromosome sequence-length
       generates a SAM stream with chromosomes * alignments-per-chromosome
       total alignments.  It outputs increasing indexes for QNAME and CHROM,
       randomly increasing POS, random QUAL scores, and random sequences and
       PHRED scores as stated for FASTQ above.

       generand vcf chromosomes calls-per-chromosome samples generates a VCF
       stream with chromosomes * calls-per-chromosome calls.  It outputs
       chromosomes with increasing indexes, randomly increasing POS, uniformly
       random REF and ALT, uniformly random QUAL scores, and random sample
       columns including GT (genotype), AD (allelic depth) and DP (depth).
       REF counts are always >= ALT counts in the AD data and DP = REF count +
       ALT count.


SEE ALSO
       bcftools, fastqc, samtools, vcftools


AUTHOR
       J. Bacon

                                                                   GENERAND(1)
