gensiotool(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          gensiotool(1)



NAME
       gensio - Tool for doing gensio connections


SYNOPSIS
       gensiotool [options] io2


DESCRIPTION
       The gensiotool program allows connections to be made using gensios  It
       creates two gensios called io1 and io2.  io1 is by default the local
       terminal and io2 must be specified.

       By default, gensiotool make two normal gensios and establishes
       connections to each of them.  Any data that comes in on one gensio is
       transmitted on the other.

       For a description of how to specify a gensio, see the gensio
       documentation.


OPTIONS
       -i|--input io1
              By default io1 is the local terminal ( /dev/tty ) for a tty
              stdin, or the program's stdin/stdout for a non-tty stdin.  This
              lets another gensio be specified as the device to hook to io2.

       -a|--accepter
              By default io2 makes an outgoing connection.  This modifies io2
              to be a gensio accepter and waits for an incoming connection.
              Once the connection comes in, the accepter is closed and
              operations proceeds as normal.

       --signature
              Serial server signature reported to the remote end.  If an
              accepter is specified (currently only a telnet RFC2217 server)
              the signature given is used instead of "gensiotool".

       -d|--debug
              Generate debugging output.  Specifying more than once increases
              the output.

       -e|--escchar char
              Specify a character to use for the escape character.  Setting it
              to -1 disables the escape character.  This can either be a
              decimal or hexadeximal number or ^x to set a control character.
              By default it is ^\ if io1 is the default and stdin is a tty, or
              disabled otherwise.  See ESCAPES below for more details on the
              escape character.  Only handled on io1.

       -p|--printacc
              If -a is specified, print out all the accept addresses chosen by
              the program.

       -n|--extra-threads <n>
              Spawn <n> extra threads to handle gensio operations.  Useful for
              scalabiity with --server.

       --server
              When an accept happens, don't disable accept, but continue to
              accept connections, and won't close if all the connections go
              away..  If this is not specified, it shut down the accepter when
              a connection comes in and will terminate when that connection
              closes.

       --version
              Print the version number and exit.

       -h|--help
              Help output


ESCAPES
       If the escape character is received on io1, the character is not
       transferred and the program waits for another character.  If the other
       character is also the escape character, a single escape character is
       sent.  If the other character is not recognized as a valid escape, it
       is ignore and not transferred.  Upper and lower case are equivalent.

       Escape characters are:

       q      Quit the program.

       b      Send a break to io2.  Ignored if io2 does not support break.

       d      Dump serial data for io2.  Ignored if io2 is not a serial
              gensio.

       s      Set the serial port (baud) rate for io2.  Ignored if io2 is not
              a serial gensio.  After this, the serial port speed must be
              typed, terminated by a new line.  Invalid speeds are ignore, use
              escchar-d to know if you set it right.

       n, o, e
              Set the parity on io2 to none, odd, or even.  Ignored if io2 is
              not a serial gensio.

       5, 6, 7, 8
              Set the data size on io2 to the number of bits.  Ignored if io2
              is not a serial gensio.

       1, 2   Set the number of stop bits to 1 or 2 on io2 bits.  Ignored if
              io2 is not a serial gensio.

       x, r, f
              Sets flow control to xonxoff, rtscts, or none.


SEE ALSO
       gensio(5)


KNOWN PROBLEMS
       None.


AUTHOR
       Corey Minyard <minyard@acm.org>

Tool for doing gensio connections  01/02/19                      gensiotool(1)
