animate(1gv)                    Geomview Module                   animate(1gv)

NAME
       animate - animate a sequence of geomview files

SYNOPSIS
       animate [-p] [-b] [-s speed] [-o] [-S script] [-hide] [-f file1 file2 ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Animate is an interactive animation tool specifically designed to be
       used with Geomview. It provides several simple animation controls such
       as looping, bouncing, and single frame stepping, as well as adjustable
       speed playing. The program works by telling geomview to read in a
       sequence of geomview files and then telling geomview to display each
       frame of the sequence in order.

       There are two methods that Animate provides for specifying which frames
       one wants to have in the sequence being viewed. The first method is to
       enter the name of every frame into the text input box and press return
       or click on load. The name of each frame must correspond with the name
       of a geomview file existing in the file system.

       EXAMPLES

              pict1 pict2 pict3 pict4
              pict*
              pic??

       The second method of loading frames is to first create an animation
       script file outside of animate and then load the script in by typing
       its name in the input box and clicking on the script button. The
       advantage of this method is that you can more easily specify the exact
       order in which you want the frames to be shown. The format of the
       script file is a list of frame names each followed by a newline.
       Comments prepended by a # sign are allowed.

       EXAMPLE SCRIPT FILE

              # list of frames for
              # my rotating cube movie
              cube.02
              cube.04
              cube.03 # get rid of this frame later
              cube.01
                .
                .
                .
              cube.90


       Loading frames into memory may take a little time, especially if each
       frame is a particularly large file. Be sure the machine you're using
       has sufficient memory to load all the frames you desire. Once all
       frames have been loaded, an 'animate' object will appear in the
       geomview object browser. It is now possible to begin animating.

       Scrolling through frames can be accomplished in several different ways.
       The first, and most obvious way is by 'playing' the frames. Clicking on
       the Play button causes animate to begin playing through the frames in
       order, starting with the first frame or whichever frame has been
       selected.  The corresponding name of each frame being shown is shown in
       the pink text-entry box.  Click on Stop to cease playing.

       Animation speed depends on the size and complexity of the object in
       each frame. Thus different sequences can have considerably different
       top playing speeds. Use the Speed slider to set an upper limit to the
       animation rate.  You can also play slowly through the frames can also
       by clicking repeatedly on either step button.

       Press the Bounce button to enter bounce mode.  While in bounce mode,
       direction of play reverses whenever the first or last frame is reached.
       Clicking on either Step button determines the playing direction.

       Clicking on Once puts animate in 'once' mode.  While in this mode, upon
       reaching the first or last frame (depending on which direction you are
       going) of a specified sequence, animate will stop playing.  Normal
       playing can be resumed by clicking on Once again to exit this mode.

       The Info button will bring up a short menu containing helpful hints for
       program usage. Clicking on the exit button will cause the program to
       exit.

OPTIONS
       -p     Start playing through the frames right away upon startup.

       -b     Go into bounce mode upon startup.

       -s speed
              Set the speed of play upon startup. The value of speed may be an
              integer between 0 and 100 which roughly signifies the percentage
              of top playing speed.

       -o     Set animation to play through only once upon startup.

       -S script
              Specify name of script containing filenames for objects to be
              read in upon startup. Takes precedence over -f option if
              present.

       -hide  Makes animate invisible upon startup. *Warning* all animate
              commands must be specified on the command line when this option
              is used since there is no way to access the main window.

       -f file1 file2 ...
              Specify names of files containing objects to be read in upon
              startup.

BUGS
       When loading sequences one after another, geomview will often not load
       a sequence on the first try. This can often be remedied by telling
       animate to load the sequence yet again.

SEE ALSO
       geomview(1) oogl(5)

AUTHOR
       Daeron Meyer
       The Geometry Center

                               December 12, 1994                  animate(1gv)
