GEOMMAN(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             GEOMMAN(8)

NAME
     geomman – interactive GEOM manager


DESCRIPTION
     The geomman utility (TUI) is used for disk administration tasks such as
     managing partitions, filesystems and labels.

     It must be run with superuser privileges (for example, via sudo ) to be
     able to apply changes.


Description
     Copy    Select a partition to be pasted.

     Paste   Paste the copied partition into a new available space.

     Create  Create a partition with a filesystem (UFS, exFAT, etc) with
             specified size and optionally add a mountpoint.  The Labels menu
             allows to add a label via partition scheme (like GPT label) or
             using glabel(8) from the GEOM framework.  The Encrypt menu allows
             to encrypt the partition using geli(8) from GEOM too.  The
             Options menu shows additional params to create the filesystem.

     Delete  Remove a partition

     Modify  You can change the filesystem type of a partition (removes all
             old data), or keep the same fileystem and grow or shrink if
             allowed (depends on the filesystem).  You may also add a label
             via partition scheme (e.g. GPT label).

     Revert  Undo any modification or pending operations across all
             disks/partitions.

     Check   Check and automatically fix the filesystem.

     Finish  All changes are temporary. You may choose to apply them or drop
             changes.


DEPENDENCIES
     For full functionality, the following packages need to be installed
     depending on the filesystem:

     exfat-utils
             Support for exFAT filesystem. You can run pkg install exfat-utils
             to create and check exFAT filesystems.

     fuse-ntfs
             Support for NTFS filesystem. You can run pkg install fusefs-ntfs
             to create and check NTFS filesystems.


Examples
     To create a partition

     1.   Select Create over a disk or partition. If you select create over a
          slice, you'll create a BSD disklabel.

     2.   Choose a filesystem from the following options: freebsd-ufs,
          freebsd-swap, ext4, ext3, ext2, fat32, fat16, exfat, ntfs

     3.   Size of the partition (may append G, M, or K).

     4.   Select OK , Finish and Commit to apply the change and create the
          partition

     To create an encrypted partition

     1.   Select Create over a disk or partition.

     2.   Select Encrypt

     3.   Select an algorithm for the encryption. AES-XTS is selected by
          default. You can use a passphrase, passfile, passphrase + keyfile or
          passfile + keyfile. The passphrase works as a password. Passfile
          works just as passphrase, but contained in a file. Keyfile is a file
          with random data. You can create one: dd if=/dev/random
          of=/path/to/keyfile.key bs=64 count=1 Finally, the passfile/keyfile
          path should be in its field.

     4.   Encryption will be inmediatly applied (without waiting to commit),
          and the partition will be attached using your configuration. You
          need to detach the encrypted partition running geli detach
          /dev/partition when finished using. You should umount the filesystem
          on it first.

     To create a labeled partition

     1.   Select Create over a disk or partition.

     2.   Select Labels

     3.   Partition Label creates a label using the partition scheme (GPT or
          APM only).  glabel creates a FreeBSD visible-only label using the
          GEOM framework by adding metadata at the end of the partition. You
          must use the label only, or may overwrite this metadata.

     You may label and encrypt a partition too.

     To copy and paste a partition

     1.   Select Copy over the partition to be copied (partition, slice,
          disklabel).

     2.   Select Paste on the desired disk or slice.

     3.   You can now choose where to place the partition. To guide youself,
          there is a start and end number in MiB. Use left/right arrow keys,
          Next Page, Prev Page to move your partition (in blue). If you need
          to move faster, change the step value for bigger jumps.

     To resize a filesystem

     1.   Select Modify over the partition to be resized.

     2.   Change the size field. You can grow a UFS, NTFS, ext4, ext3 and ext2
          filesystems. And you may shrink a NTFS and ext filesystems only.


NOTES
     •   Moving a partition is not implemented yet

     •   To copy and paste a partition, dd(1) is used

     •   Encryption works using geli(8)

     •   Partition labeling either using glabel(8) or the partitioning schemes
         like GPT labels.


SEE ALSO
     sade(8), bsddialog(3)


HISTORY
     geomman is based on sade(8) and aims to add some filesystems, ZFS, label
     and encryption features.


AUTHORS
     Braulio Rivas <brauliorivas@FreeBSD.org>


BUGS

FreeBSD                       September 21, 2025                    GEOMMAN(8)
