GetDP(1)                      GetDP Manual Pages                      GetDP(1)

NAME
       GetDP - a General environment for the treatment of Discrete Problems

SYNOPSIS
       getdp [file] [options]

DESCRIPTION
       GetDP is a general finite element solver using mixed elements to
       discretize de Rham-type complexes in one, two and three dimensions. The
       main feature of GetDP is the closeness between the input data defining
       discrete problems (written by the user in ASCII data files) and the
       symbolic mathematical expressions of these problems.

       GetDP is a command-line program. See Gmsh for a graphical front-end.

WARNING
       This man page does not describe the syntax of the input files: you
       should refer to the info documentation for this (e.g. with info getdp).
       Up-to-date versions of the manual in various formats are available at
       http://getdp.info.

PROCESSING OPTIONS
       file
           is an ASCII file containing the problem definition, i.e., the
           structures the Texinfo documentation will teach you to create. This
           file can include other files, so that only one problem definition
           file should always be given on the command line. The input files
           containing the problem definition structure are usually given the
           .pro extension (if so, there is no need to specify the extension on
           the command line). The name of this file (without the extension) is
           used as a basis for the creation of intermediate files during the
           pre-processing and the processing stages.

       -pre resolution-id
           performs the pre-processing associated with the resolution called
           resolution-id. In the pre-processing stage, GetDP creates the
           geometric database (from the mesh file), identifies the degrees of
           freedom (the unknowns) of the problem and sets up the constraints
           on these degrees of freedom. The pre-processing creates a file with
           a .pre extension. If resolution-id is omitted, the list of
           available choices is displayed.

       -cal
           performs the processing. This requires that a pre-processing has
           been performed previously, or that a -pre option is given on the
           same command line. The performed resolution is the one given as an
           argument to the -pre option. In the processing stage, GetDP
           executes all the operations of the selected resolution (such as
           matrix assemblies, system resolutions, ...). The processing creates
           a file with a .res extension.

       -pos post-operation-id(s)
           performs the post-processing operations selected by the post-
           operation-id(s). This requires that a processing has been performed
           previously, or that a -cal option is given on the same command
           line. If post-operation-id is omitted, the list of available
           choices is displayed.

       -msh filename
           reads the mesh from filename rather than reading it from the
           default problem file name with the .msh extension appended.

       -msh_scaling value
           multiplies the coordinates of all the nodes in the mesh by value.

       -restart
           resumes time loop processing from where it stopped.

       -solve resolution-id
           same as -pre resolution-id -cal.

       -split
           saves processing results in separate files (one for each timestep).

       -res filename(s)
           loads processing results from filename(s) instead of from the
           default problem file name with the .res extension appended.

       -name string
           uses string as the default generic file name for input or output of
           mesh, pre-processing and processing files.

       -adapt filename(s)
           reads adaptation constraints from filename(s).

       -order float
           specifies maximum interpolation order.

LINEAR SOLVER OPTIONS
       -solver filename
           specifies solver parameter file.

       [PETSc options]
           PETSc options (if GetDP was compiled with PETSc support).

LINEAR SOLVER OPTIONS
       -bin
           creates binary output files.  -v2 creates mesh-based Gmsh output
           files when possible

OTHER OPTIONS
       -check
           lets you check the problem structure interactively.

       -v int
           sets the verbosity level. A value of 0 means that no information
           will be displayed during processing. Higher values increase the
           amount of information displayed.

       -p int
           sets the progress update rate. This controls the refreshment rate
           of the counter indicating the progress of the current computation.

       -onelab name address
           communicates with OneLab server through socket.

       -version
           displays the version number.

       -info
           displays detailed version information.

       -help
           displays a message listing basic usage and available options.

AUTHORS
       Patrick Dular (patrick.dular at ulg.ac.be) and Christophe Geuzaine
       (cgeuzaine at ulg.ac.be). See the documentation for a comprehensive
       list of contributors.

SEE ALSO
       gmsh(1), GetDP examples (/usr/share/doc/getdp-*/), GetDP homepage
       (http://getdp.info).

       The full documentation for GetDP is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If
       the info and getdp programs are properly installed at your site, the
       command

              info getdp

       should give you access to the complete manual.

4th Berkeley Distribution        27 April 2022                        GetDP(1)
