GETFACL(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             GETFACL(1)

NAME
     getfacl – get ACL information

SYNOPSIS
     getfacl [-dhinqv] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The getfacl utility writes discretionary access control information
     associated with the specified file(s) to standard output.  If the
     getconf(1) utility indicates that {_POSIX_ACL_EXTENDED} is not in effect
     for a file then the standard discretionary access permissions are
     interpreted as an ACL containing only the required ACL entries.

     The following option is available:

     -d      The operation applies to the default ACL of a directory instead
             of the access ACL.  An error is generated if a default ACL cannot
             be associated with file.  This option is not valid for NFSv4
             ACLs.

     -h      If the target of the operation is a symbolic link, return the ACL
             from the symbolic link itself rather than following the link.

     -i      For NFSv4 ACLs, append numerical ID at the end of each entry
             containing user or group name.  Ignored for POSIX.1e ACLs.

     -n      Display user and group IDs numerically rather than converting to
             a user or group name.  Ignored for POSIX.1e ACLs.

     -q      Do not write commented information about file name and ownership.
             This is useful when dealing with filenames with unprintable
             characters.

     -v      For NFSv4 ACLs, display access mask and flags in a verbose form.
             Ignored for POSIX.1e ACLs.

     The following operand is available:

     file    A pathname of a file whose ACL shall be retrieved.  If file is
             not specified, or a file is specified as -, then getfacl reads a
             list of pathnames, each terminated by one newline character, from
             the standard input.

     For an explanation of the ACL syntax, see the setfacl(1) manual page.

EXIT STATUS
     The getfacl utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
           getfacl /

     Retrieve ACL for the directory /.

           getfacl -d /

     Retrieve the default ACL for the directory /, if any.

SEE ALSO
     setfacl(1), acl(3), getextattr(8), setextattr(8), acl(9), extattr(9)

STANDARDS
     The getfacl utility is expected to be IEEE Std 1003.2c compliant.

HISTORY
     Extended Attribute and Access Control List support was developed as part
     of the TrustedBSD Project and introduced in FreeBSD 5.0.

AUTHORS
     Robert N M Watson

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        September 4, 2009       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
