GLADTEX(1)                       User Commands                      GLADTEX(1)


NAME
       gladtex - generate html with LaTeX equations embedded as images

DESCRIPTION
       Reads a 'htex' file (html with LaTeX maths embedded in <EQ></EQ>) and
       produces html with equations substituted by images.

QUICK START
       Write HTML code as usual, but use LaTeX equations within the tags
       <EQ>..</EQ>. Don't use .html extension, .htex is recommended.  Now,
       run:

          gladtex -v myfile.htex

       Or, to process multiple files:

          gladtex -v *htex

       The -v option is not mandatory, but gives you more feedback. If there
       are no LaTeX errors, this will generate the file myfile.html (or
       similar) and numerous eqn???.png files, which contain images of your
       equations. The HTML file generated is a copy of yours, but the
       equations are substituted by links to the image files.

       If you prefer gif files, add the option "-f gif".

       gladTeX tries to avoid regenerating identical image files. To achieve
       this, a cache file (gladtex.cache) is used, containing the equations
       used for generating each image. If you delete the image files before
       rerunning gladTeX, you should also delete the cache file (gladTeX never
       deletes an image file).

       If your HTML contains more than a couple of equations, it is a good
       idea to place equation images in a separate directory with the -d
       option. With this option turned on, the cache file is also moved to
       that directory.

OPTIONS
       To see an updated list of options, default values and supported image
       formats, in case of changes after the time of writing this, run gladTeX
       with no options.

       -v  Verbose mode, give extra feedback. Gladtex is pretty silent
           without.

       -f format
           Use the specified image format in output files. Formats supported
           may depend on compile-time decisions. At the time of writing, png
           and gif are the ones supported.

       -r dpi
           Set resolution of output images, larger numbers produce larger
           images. 100 dpi is default. This is most often a bit larger than
           surrounding text, but as LaTeX output is really intended for hires
           output, details will often disappear at lower resolutions. Do some
           experimenting. This option can also be set indivdually for each
           equation by writing <EQ DPI="..."> in the htex file.

       -s n
           Set oversampling factor. Larger values will increase antialiasing
           verbosity, but is slower. The default is 4. A value of 1 turns off
           antialiasing, which I don't recommend.

       -d path
           Store image files in the path given. The image links in the
           generated html file(s) will be made relative. If you need absolute
           links, use the -u option in addition.

       -u url
           Set absolute url to the image files folder. Use this together with
           -d option if you can't use relative links for some reason.

       -p string
           Add this string to the LaTeX preamble when generating the
           equations. For example, "string" may be a \usepackage{} command.
           Note that if you need this for only a few equations, you can also
           write <EQ PREAMBLE="..."> in the htex file.

       -c colour
           Set foreground colour in RGB manner. For instance "-c 00FFFF" gives
           yellow text. This option can also be set indivdually for each
           equation by writing <EQ COLOR="..."> in the htex file. See also -b
           option.

       -b colour
           Set background colour in RGB manner. This option can also be set
           indivdually for each equation by writing <EQ BGCOLOR="..."> in the
           htex file.  For PNG format with transparency on, this option has no
           effect. For GIF format (which does not support alpha channel, as
           far as I know), antialiasing is done from the foreground color (-c
           option) to the background colour, so the background colour should
           be set even with transparency on.

       -t  Disable transparent background. With this option, the background
           colour (-b option) is solid.

       -e env
           Use the specified LaTeX environment instead of "displaymath" when
           generating the image. This option can also be set individually for
           each equation by writing <EQ ENV="env">.

       -l class
           Assign the specified CSS class name to images whose environment is
           "displaymath".  Defaults to "displaymath".

       -i class
           Assign the specified CSS class name to images whose environment is
           "math".  Defaults to "inlinemath".

eqn2img UTILITY
       The gladTeX script just parses your html-code and feeds the equations
       to the C program eqn2img. This takes care of running LaTeX, dvi2ps and
       ghostscript. Furthermore, it finds the baseline of the equation (guided
       by a dot that is inserted into the equation), antialiases and writes
       the image in the final format. All this is independent from the gladTeX
       script, for instance you may write

          echo '\sqrt{2}' | eqn2img > sqrt.png

       to produce an image of the squareroot of two. For normal operation of
       gladTeX, you never use this utility directly, but in any case, here are
       (some of) the options.

       -f format
           Use the specified image format in output files. If "format" is just
           a question sign "?", eqn2img will print a list of supported formats
           and quit.

       -s n
           Set oversampling factor (see description of same option for
           gladTeX).

       -o name
           Set output filename. Without this option, the image is written to
           stdout.

       -c colour
           Set foreground colour in RGB manner.

       -b colour
           Set background colour in RGB manner.

       -t  Turn transparency off.

       -v  Verbose mode, give some feedback.

       All messages are written to stderr. Furthermore, a text string
       specifying the dimensions is written to stdout, unless the image is
       being written to stdout. In this case, the dimension string is written
       to stderr.

       Note that eqn2img will only process one file at a time.

PARSING DETAILS
       Gladtex is not case sensitive, so <eQ> is allright. Any <eq> tag must
       be closed by a </eq>. Whitespace between "<eq" and ">" is allowed.
       Certain options (such as "COLOR=...") may be present in the tag, see
       the Options section above. Whitespace is not allowed anywhere else, so
       "< eq>", "<  /eq>" and "</eq >" are all illegal. I'm not quite sure how
       this agrees with html standards/conventions.

THANKS
       I am grateful to all users who have provided feedback. The current
       version of gladTeX incorporates suggestions from a number of helpful
       users.

COPYRIGHT
       Project homepage at http://gladtex.sourceforge.net

       Copyright (C) 1999-2010 Martin G. Gulbrandsen

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

gladtex 1.2                       2013-01-27                        GLADTEX(1)
