glbsp(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               glbsp(1)

NAME
       glbsp - GL Nodes builder for DOOM ports

SYNOPSIS
       glbsp [options]  input.wad ... [-o output.wad]

       glbsp @argfile.rsp

DESCRIPTION
       glBSP is a nodes builder specially designed to be used with OpenGL-
       based DOOM game engines.  It adheres to the "GL-Friendly Nodes"
       specification, which means it adds some new special nodes to a WAD file
       that makes it very easy for an OpenGL DOOM engine to compute the
       polygons needed for drawing the levels.

OPTIONS
       Options begin with a single dash (you can also use two dashes like in
       many GNU programs).  Running glBSP without any options will show an
       informational screen.

       -h -help
              Show a summary of all the options.

       -q -quiet
              Quieter output.  Information about each level (like the number
              of linedefs, blockmap size, etc) is not displayed when this
              option is given, and a few other messages are skipped.
              Important messages, like failure to build a certain level, are
              still shown.

       -f -fast
              Allows glBSP to cheat a bit and re-use the original node
              information to create the GL nodes, doing it much faster.  Use
              this option to enable this feature.  The message "Using original
              nodes to speed things up" will be shown.

              The downside to reusing the original nodes is that they may not
              be as good as the ones glBSP normally creates, e.g. the special
              checks to minimise slime-trails don't kick in, and the -factor
              value doesn't have much effect.

       -w -warn
              Shows extra warning messages, which detail various non-serious
              problems that glBSP has while analysing the level structure.
              Often these warnings show a real problem in the level (e.g. a
              non-closed sector or invalid sidedef), so they are worth
              checking now and then.

       -n -normal
              glBSP usually detects if the normal node info (i.e.  the non-GL
              variety) is present: when yes, it is left untouched, otherwise
              glBSP creates it.  This option forces glBSP to replace the
              normal node data with newly constructed nodes.

       -c -factor <num>
              Sets the cost assigned to seg splits.  Factor can be any number
              from 1 to 32, and larger values make seg splits more costly (and
              thus glBSP tries harder to avoid them), but smaller values
              produce better BSP trees.  The default value is known to be a
              good compromise.

       -p -pack
              Pack sidedefs, by detecting which sidedefs are identical and
              removing the duplicates, producing a smaller PWAD.

              NOTE: this may make your level a lot harder to edit!  Therefore
              this is most useful when producing the final WAD for public
              release.

       -xr -noreject
              Normally glBSP will create an simple REJECT map for each level.
              This options prevents any existing REJECT map, such as one time-
              consumingly built by a dedicated reject builder, from being
              clobbered.

       The following options are rarely needed:

       -v1 .. -v5
              Specify the version of the "GL Nodes" spec to use (either 1, 2,
              3 or 5).  V1 is considered obsolete now.  The default is V2.
              Giving -v3 or -v5 will force certain lumps to use the new
              formats, but is only useful for testing since glBSP will
              automatically switch to V5 format whenever the ordinary limits
              are exceeded.

       -m -mergevert
              Merge duplicate vertices at the same location into a single
              vertex.  This is usually safe, but is not done by default
              because some engines (e.g. Risen3D) need the duplicate vertices
              to stay separate for a special effect.

       -y -windowfx
              Lets glBSP detect and handle the "One-Sided Window" mapping
              trick.  This can cause problems in some engines so it is
              disabled by default.

       -b -maxblock <num>
              Sets the limit of the number of blocks the BLOCKMAP may contain
              before we truncate it.  Default is 16000.  When the level is too
              large to fit, glBSP will truncate the blockmap, so it covers
              less area on the level.  This means that in the parts it doesn't
              cover (at the outer edges) there is no collision detection: you
              can walk through walls and other objects and bullets/missiles
              don't hit anything.  On very large but sparse levels, using a
              larger value (e.g. 30000) may help.

              A more serious problem is when the blockmap overflows.  The
              blockmap created would be invalid, and could crash the DOOM
              engine when used.  glBSP will create an empty blockmap instead,
              causing modern ports to build their own blockmap.

       -xp -noprog
              Turn off the progress indicator.

       -xn -nonormal
              Forces glBSP to not create the normal node information when it
              detects that it is absent.

       -xu -prunesec
              Removes any unused sectors that are found in the level.  This
              has the potential to cause problems, since in certain scripting
              languages (e.g. EDGE's RTS, or Doom Legacy's Fragglescript) some
              commands use sector numbers directly, and pruning unused sectors
              can cause those references to become invalid.

RESPONSE FILES
       New in version 2.20 is support for response files.  These are files
       containing a list of options.  You specify the response file by
       prefixing it with '@'.  For example:

       glbsp @argfile.rsp

       The "@argfile.rsp" on the command line will be replaced with the
       contents of that file.  New-line characters are treated like spaces.
       Recursion (using '@' inside a response file) is not supported.

ZDBSP NODES
       When the normal nodes overflow, older versions of glBSP would simply
       write out the invalid node data.  glBSP 2.20 and higher now write the
       node data in the ZDBSP format (originally created for the ZDoom
       engine).

AUTHORS
       Andrew Apted created glBSP and glBSPX and continues to maintain them.

       Andrew Baker, Janis Legzdinsh, André Majoral and Darren Salt have
       contributed code, and Marc Pullen helped with the documentation.

       glBSP was originally based on BSP 2.3 (C) Colin Reed and Lee Killough,
       which was created from the basic theory stated in DEU5 (OBJECTS.C) by
       Raphael Quinet.

LICENSE
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

SEE ALSO
       The glBSP Homepage: http://glbsp.sourceforge.net/
       <http://glbsp.sourceforge.net/>

                                   July 2007                          glbsp(1)
