GMIRROR(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             GMIRROR(8)

NAME
     gmirror – control utility for mirrored devices

SYNOPSIS
     gmirror label [-Fhnv] [-b balance] [-s slice] name prov ...
     gmirror clear [-v] prov ...
     gmirror create [-Fnv] [-b balance] [-s slice] name prov ...
     gmirror configure [-adfFhnv] [-b balance] [-s slice] name
     gmirror configure [-v] -p priority name prov
     gmirror rebuild [-v] name prov ...
     gmirror resize [-v] [-s size] name
     gmirror insert [-hiv] [-p priority] name prov ...
     gmirror remove [-v] name prov ...
     gmirror activate [-v] name prov ...
     gmirror deactivate [-v] name prov ...
     gmirror destroy [-fv] name ...
     gmirror forget [-v] name ...
     gmirror stop [-fv] name ...
     gmirror dump prov ...
     gmirror list
     gmirror status
     gmirror load
     gmirror unload

DESCRIPTION
     The gmirror utility is used for mirror (RAID1) configurations.  After a
     mirror's creation, all components are detected and configured
     automatically.  All operations like failure detection, stale component
     detection, rebuild of stale components, etc. are also done automatically.
     The gmirror utility uses on-disk metadata (stored in the provider's last
     sector) to store all needed information.  Since the last sector is used
     for this purpose, it is possible to place a root file system on a mirror.

     The first argument to gmirror indicates an action to be performed:

     label           Create a mirror.  The order of components is important,
                     because a component's priority is based on its position
                     (starting from 0 to 255).  The component with the biggest
                     priority is used by the prefer balance algorithm and is
                     also used as a master component when resynchronization is
                     needed, e.g. after a power failure when the device was
                     open for writing.

                     Additional options include:

                     -b balance        Specifies balance algorithm to use, one
                                       of:

                                       load             Read from the
                                                        component with the
                                                        lowest load.  This is
                                                        the default balance
                                                        algorithm.

                                       prefer           Read from the
                                                        component with the
                                                        biggest priority.

                                       round-robin      Use round-robin
                                                        algorithm when
                                                        choosing component to
                                                        read.

                                       split            Split read requests,
                                                        which are bigger than
                                                        or equal to slice size
                                                        on N pieces, where N
                                                        is the number of
                                                        active components.

                     -F                Do not synchronize after a power
                                       failure or system crash.  Assumes
                                       device is in consistent state.

                     -h                Hardcode providers' names in metadata.

                     -n                Turn off autosynchronization of stale
                                       components.

                     -s slice          When using the split balance algorithm
                                       and an I/O READ request is bigger than
                                       or equal to this value, the I/O request
                                       will be split into N pieces, where N is
                                       the number of active components.
                                       Defaults to 4096 bytes.

     clear           Clear metadata on the given providers.

     create          Similar to label, but creates mirror without storing on-
                     disk metadata in last sector.  This special "manual"
                     operation mode assumes some external control to manage
                     mirror detection after reboot, device hot-plug and other
                     external events.

     configure       Configure the given device.

                     Additional options include:

                     -a                 Turn on autosynchronization of stale
                                        components.

                     -b balance         Specifies balance algorithm to use.

                     -d                 Do not hardcode providers' names in
                                        metadata.

                     -f                 Synchronize device after a power
                                        failure or system crash.

                     -F                 Do not synchronize after a power
                                        failure or system crash.  Assumes
                                        device is in consistent state.

                     -h                 Hardcode providers' names in metadata.

                     -n                 Turn off autosynchronization of stale
                                        components.

                     -p priority        Specifies priority for the given
                                        component prov.

                     -s slice           Specifies slice size for split balance
                                        algorithm.

     rebuild         Rebuild the given mirror components forcibly.  If
                     autosynchronization was not turned off for the given
                     device, this command should be unnecessary.

     resize          Change the size of the given mirror.

                     Additional options include:

                     -s size        New size of the mirror is expressed in
                                    logical block numbers.  This option can be
                                    omitted, then it will be automatically
                                    calculated to maximum available size.

     insert          Add the given component(s) to the existing mirror.

                     Additional options include:

                     -h                 Hardcode providers' names in metadata.

                     -i                 Mark component(s) as inactive
                                        immediately after insertion.

                     -p priority        Specifies priority of the given
                                        component(s).

     remove          Remove the given component(s) from the mirror and clear
                     metadata on it.

     activate        Activate the given component(s), which were marked as
                     inactive before.

     deactivate      Mark the given component(s) as inactive, so it will not
                     be automatically connected to the mirror.

     destroy         Stop the given mirror and clear metadata on all its
                     components.

                     Additional options include:

                     -f     Stop the given mirror even if it is opened.

     forget          Forget about components which are not connected.  This
                     command is useful when a disk has failed and cannot be
                     reconnected, preventing the remove command from being
                     used to remove it.

     stop            Stop the given mirror.

                     Additional options include:

                     -f     Stop the given mirror even if it is opened.

     dump            Dump metadata stored on the given providers.

     list            See geom(8).

     status          See geom(8).

     load            See geom(8).

     unload          See geom(8).

     Additional options include:

     -v     Be more verbose.

EXIT STATUS
     Exit status is 0 on success, and 1 if the command fails.

EXAMPLES
     Use 3 disks to setup a mirror.  Choose split balance algorithm, split
     only requests which are bigger than or equal to 2kB.  Create file system,
     mount it, then unmount it and stop device:

           gmirror label -v -b split -s 2048 data da0 da1 da2
           newfs /dev/mirror/data
           mount /dev/mirror/data /mnt
           ...
           umount /mnt
           gmirror stop data
           gmirror unload

     Create a mirror on disk with valid data (note that the last sector of the
     disk will be overwritten).  Add another disk to this mirror, so it will
     be synchronized with existing disk:

           gmirror label -v -b round-robin data da0
           gmirror insert data da1

     Create a mirror, but do not use automatic synchronization feature.  Add
     another disk and rebuild it:

           gmirror label -v -n -b load data da0 da1
           gmirror insert data da2
           gmirror rebuild data da2

     One disk failed.  Replace it with a brand new one:

           gmirror forget data
           gmirror insert data da1

     Create a mirror, deactivate one component, do the backup and connect it
     again.  It will not be resynchronized, if there is no need to do so
     (there were no writes in the meantime):

           gmirror label data da0 da1
           gmirror deactivate data da1
           dd if=/dev/da1 of=/backup/data.img bs=1m
           gmirror activate data da1

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following sysctl(8) variables can be used to configure behavior for
     all mirrors.

     kern.geom.mirror.debug
             Control the verbosity of kernel logging related to mirrors.  A
             value larger than 0 will enable debug logging.

     kern.geom.mirror.timeout
             The amount of time, in seconds, to wait for all copies of a
             mirror to appear before starting the mirror.  Disks that appear
             after the mirror has been started are not automatically added to
             the mirror.

     kern.geom.mirror.idletime
             The amount of time, in seconds, which must elapse after the last
             write to a mirror before that mirror is marked clean.  Clean
             mirrors do not need to be synchronized after a power failure or
             system crash.  A small value may result in frequent overwrites of
             the disks' metadata sectors, and thus may reduce the longevity of
             the disks.

     kern.geom.mirror.disconnect_on_failure
             Determine whether a disk is automatically removed from its mirror
             when an I/O request to that disk fails.

     kern.geom.mirror.sync_requests
             The number of parallel I/O requests used while synchronizing a
             mirror.  This parameter may only be configured as a
             loader.conf(5) tunable.

     kern.geom.mirror.sync_update_period
             The period, in seconds, at which a synchronizing mirror's
             metadata is updated.  Periodic updates are used to record a
             synchronization's progress so that an interrupted synchronization
             may be resumed starting at the recorded offset, rather than at
             the beginning.  A smaller value results in more accurate progress
             tracking, but also increases the number of non-sequential writes
             to the disk being synchronized.  If the sysctl value is 0, no
             updates are performed until the synchronization is complete.

NOTES
     Doing kernel dumps to gmirror providers is possible, but some conditions
     have to be met.  First of all, a kernel dump will go only to one
     component and gmirror always chooses the component with the highest
     priority.  Reading a dump from the mirror on boot will only work if the
     prefer balance algorithm is used (that way gmirror will read only from
     the component with the highest priority).  If you use a different balance
     algorithm, you should add:

           gmirror configure -b prefer data

     to the /etc/rc.early script and:

           gmirror configure -b round-robin data

     to the /etc/rc.local script.  The decision which component to choose for
     dumping is made when dumpon(8) is called.  If on the next boot a
     component with a higher priority will be available, the prefer algorithm
     will choose to read from it and savecore(8) will find nothing.  If on the
     next boot a component with the highest priority will be synchronized, the
     prefer balance algorithm will read from the next one, thus will find
     nothing there.

SEE ALSO
     geom(4), dumpon(8), geom(8), gvinum(8), mount(8), newfs(8), savecore(8),
     sysctl(8), umount(8)

HISTORY
     The gmirror utility appeared in FreeBSD 5.3.

AUTHORS
     Pawel Jakub Dawidek <pjd@FreeBSD.org>

BUGS
     There should be a way to change a component's priority inside a running
     mirror.

     There should be a section with an implementation description.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        November 30, 2017       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
