GMOUNTVER(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           GMOUNTVER(8)

NAME
     gmountver – control utility for disk mount verification GEOM class

SYNOPSIS
     gmountver create [-v] prov ...
     gmountver destroy [-fv] name
     gmountver list
     gmountver status [-s name]
     gmountver load [-v]
     gmountver unload [-v]

DESCRIPTION
     The gmountver utility is used to control the mount verification GEOM
     class.  When configured, it passes all the I/O requests to the underlying
     provider.  When the underlying provider disappears - for example because
     the disk device got disconnected - it queues all the I/O requests and
     waits for the provider to reappear.  When that happens, it attaches to it
     and sends the queued requests.

     The first argument to gmountver indicates an action to be performed:

     create       Enable mount verification for the given provider.  If the
                  operation succeeds, a new GEOM provider will be created
                  using the given provider's name with a ‘.mountver’ suffix.
                  The kernel module geom_mountver.ko will be loaded if it is
                  not loaded already.

     destroy      Destroy name.

     list         See geom(8).

     status       See geom(8).

     load         See geom(8).

     unload       See geom(8).

     Additional options:

     -f      Force the removal of the specified mountver device.

     -v      Be more verbose.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following sysctl(8) variables can be used to control the behavior of
     the MOUNTVER GEOM class.  The default value is shown next to each
     variable.

     kern.geom.mountver.debug: 0
             Debug level of the MOUNTVER GEOM class.  This can be set to a
             number between 0 and 3 inclusive.  If set to 0 minimal debug
             information is printed, and if set to 3 the maximum amount of
             debug information is printed.

     kern.geom.mountver.check_ident: 1
             This can be set to 0 or 1.  If set to 0, gmountver will reattach
             to the device even if the device reports a different disk ID.

EXIT STATUS
     Exit status is 0 on success, and 1 if the command fails.

SEE ALSO
     geom(4), geom(8)

HISTORY
     The gmountver utility appeared in FreeBSD 9.0.

AUTHORS
     Edward Tomasz Napierala <trasz@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          May 18, 2015          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
