GNOTE(1)                     GNOME User's Manuals                     GNOTE(1)



NAME
       gnote - A simple note-taking application for Gnome


SYNOPSIS
       gnote [OPTION] ...


DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the gnote command.

       Gnote is a desktop note-taking application for Linux and Unix. Simple
       and easy to use, but with potential to help you organize the ideas and
       information you deal with every day.

       Gnote's usefulness lies in the ability to relate notes and ideas
       together, using a WikiWiki-like linking system.

       When run without any options, either a Search All Notes window or the
       Gnote note menu appears in the notification tray area depending on
       configuration.  Selecting a note from a list in Search All Notes or
       from the menu from notification area displays the note's spatial
       window.

       Changes to notes are saved automatically.  Links to URLs, files, and
       other notes are detected as you type.  Rich editing such as
       highlighting, bold, italics, undo/redo, and variable font sizes are
       supported.

       Global keybindings exist to allow fast access to Gnote notes and
       dialogs.  These keybindings are set in GSettings (see below) and may be
       activated from any application.


OPTIONS
       The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with options
       starting with two dashes (`--').  A summary of options are included
       below.

       --background
              Run Gnote in background.

       --note-path PATH
              Specify the path of the directory containing the notes.

       --new-note
              Create and display a new note.

       --new-note TITLE
              Create and display a new note with the title given.

       --open-note TITLE/URL
              Display the existing note matching TITLE or URL.

       --search
              Open the search all notes window with the search text.

       --start-here
              Display the "Start Here" note.

       --highlight-search TEXT
              Search and highlight TEXT in the opened note.

       --help
              Show summary of options.

       --version
              Show version of program.


GSETTINGS SETTINGS
       Gnote has several preference settings stored in GSettings.  Changes to
       Settings are applied instantly to any running Gnote instance. A summary
       of the GConf settings and their purpose are described below.

       org.gnome.gnote.global-keybindings
              A GSettings schema for key bindings. Keys are listed below.

       open-start-here
              Global X keybinding for displaying the "Start Here" note.  The
              default keybinding is <Alt>F11.

       show-note-menu
              Global X keybinding for displaying the Gnote applet's note menu.
              The default keybinding is <Alt>F12.

       create-new-note
              Global X keybinding for creating and displaying a new note.

       open-recent-changes
              Global X keybinding for opening the recent changes dialog.

       open-search
              Global X keybinding for opening the note search dialog.


SEE ALSO
       https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Gnote


BUGS
       Please enter bug reports in the Gnome Bugzilla bug tracker
       (http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=Gnote).


AUTHORS
       Hubert Figuiere <hub@figuiere.net>

       Debarshi Ray <debarshir@src.gnome.org>

       Aurimas Cernius <aurisc4@gmail.com>

              This manual page was originally written by Luca Capello
              <luca@pca.it>.  Adapted to Gnote by Hubert Figuiere and Aurimas
              Cernius

gnome                            April 7, 2009                        GNOTE(1)
