APL(1)                              GNU APL                             APL(1)

NAME
       apl - a free APL interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       apl [options]

DESCRIPTION
       GNU APL is an interpreter for the programming language APL with support
       for nested arrays as defined in ISO standard 13751, aka. "Programming
       Language APL, Extended".  This man page only describes the command line
       options of GNU APL; for a complete documentation of GNU APL see the
       info(1) file apl.info that is distributed with GNU APL.

       Before explaining the command line options of GNU APL, it may be
       worthwile to mention how to stop (i.e. exit) it.  Neither ^C nor ^D
       will stop GNU APL; these keys serve other purposes.  Instead, you leave
       GNU APL with the command )OFF (on a separate line) like this:

       )OFF

       If APL is computing an expression (and possibly caught in an endless
       loop), then you may have to press ^C (called ATTENTION in APL) in order
       to return to APL's command mode and then give the )OFF command.

       GNU APL accepts the following command line options:

OPTIONS
       --cfg  show ./configure options used and exit.

       --[no]Color
              start with ]COLOR ON [OFF].

       -d     run the interpreter in the background (i.e. as daemon)

       --emacs
              run in (old) emacs mode.

       --emacs_arg arg
              run in (new) emacs mode with argument arg.

       -f file
              read input from file rather than from the keyboard. When the end
              of the file is reached, input is switched back to the keyboard.
              If you want to terminate the APL interpreter after executing the
              file, then use )OFF as last line in the file.

       --gpl  show GNU APL license (GPL) and exit.

       -h, --help
              print all command line options with a brief hint what they do.

       -L wsname
              )LOAD wsname on start-up.

       --LX expr
              execute expr first (like ⎕LX)

       --id proc
              use processor ID proc for this interpreter. If no ID is
              provided, then the first unused ID > 1000 is taken by this
              interpreter and the ID becomes used as long as the interpreter
              runs. Processor IDs are used by shared variables to identify
              share partners.

       -l num turn logging facility num ON (if dynamic logging is configured).
              The logging facility for startup messages can be turned on even
              when dynamic logging is not configured.

       --echoCIN
              copy the input line (after editing) to stdout. For creating
              session logs.

       --noCIN
              do not echo stdin to stdout. Almost a must for scripting (unless
              you troubleshoot a script).

       --noCONT
              do not load a CONTINUE workspace on start-up.

       -p N   use profile N in preference files

       --[no]SV
              do [not] start APserver (a shared variable server) on start-up.
              This disables communication with other workspaces or auxiliary
              processors through shared variables.

       --par pproc
              use processor parent ID pproc (default: no parent ID).

       -s, --script
              this option is an abbreviation for --silent --noCIN --noCONT -f
              - (a typical combination of options for APL scripts).

       --show_bin_dir
              display the binary directory (where, according to ./configure,

       --show_doc_dir
              display the directory where, according to ./configure,
              documentation files for GNU APL are intalled)

       --show_etc_dir
              display the system configuration directory where, according to
              ./configure, the preferences file for GNU APL is intalled

       --show_lib_dir
              display the system configuration directory where, according to
              ./configure, shared library files and the workspaces shipped
              with GNU APL are intalled.

       --show_src_dir
              display the source directory where, according to ./configure,
              GNU APL was compiled.  This can be used, for example, by native
              functions that are built outside the GNU APL source tree to find
              GNU APL header files needed to compile.

       --show_all_dirs
              display all the directories above.

       -q, --silent
              suppress printing of the GNU APL welcome message. Useful for APL
              scripts.

       -T testcases ...
              run testcases. Testcases are text files that contain both input
              to the APL interpreter and the expected response from the
              interpreter. The output from the interpreter is compared with
              the expected output in the testcase file(s) and differences are
              marked. In addition a summary file is created that tells whether
              or not each of the testcases was successful.

       --TM mode
              test mode. This option how the interpreter shall behave when
              running a number of testcases (as specified with the `-T'
              option)

       --TM 0 (default)
              run all testcases and exit after the last testcase.

       --TM 1 like --TM 0 if no error was detected.  However, if one of the
              testcases has failed, then the interpreter does not exit so that
              the user can investigate the state of APL (SI, variable values,
              etc.).

       --TM 2 like --TM 1, but stay in the interpreter even if all testcases
              have passed. This can be useful in order to quickly bring the
              interpreter into a specific state and continue manual
              troubleshooting from that state.

       --TM 3 like --TM 1, but stop testcase execution after the first failed
              testcase (i.e. do not exit).

       --TM 4 like `--TM 3', but exit after the first failed testcase.  The is
              useful for automatic regression tests, where no errors are
              expected.

       --TR   execute test case files in random order.

       --TS   Normally, when the interpreter is run with the `-T' option, then
              an existing summary.log file is overridden without notice.  This
              option causes new test results to be appended to a possibly
              existing summary.log instead of overriding it.

       -v, --version
              show version information and exit.

       -w milli
              wait milli milliseconds at start-up. Useful to give other
              programs that are started together with this interpreter time to
              initialize themselves.

       --     end of options for the interpreter. There can be more options
              following; these options are ignored by the APL interpreter, but
              are visible in the APL system variable ⎕ARG (which plays the
              role of arguments argc/argv in main(int argc, char * argv[]) in
              C/C++).


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to bug-apl@gnu.org

       GNU APL


AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Jürgen Sauermann, the author and
       maintainer of GNU APL.



apl                              2014 July 28                           APL(1)
