GNU-WATCH(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           GNU-WATCH(1)

NAME
     gnu-watch - execute a program periodically, showing output fullscreen

SYNOPSIS
     gnu-watch [option ...] command

DESCRIPTION
     gnu-watch runs command repeatedly, displaying its output and errors (the
     first screenful). This allows you to watch the program output change over
     time. By default, command is run every 2 seconds and gnu-watch will run
     until interrupted.  A header informs of the start and running time of
     command as well as its exit code.

OPTIONS
     -b, --beep
            Beep if command has a non-zero exit.

     -c, --color
            Interpret ANSI color and style sequences.

     -C, --no-color
            Do not interpret ANSI color and style sequences.

     -d, --differences[=permanent]
            Highlight the differences between successive updates. If the
            optional permanent argument is specified then gnu-watch will show
            all changes since the first iteration. The permanent argument
            needs to be linked to the option, such as -d1 or --differences=1.

     -e, --errexit
            Freeze updates on command error, and exit after a key press. The
            exit code of gnu-watch will be the code command exits with. If
            signal n is the cause of command termination, the exit code will
            be 128 + n.

     -f, --follow
            Instead of clearing the screen at each update, gnu-watch will
            scroll the output similiar to how tail -f works. This option is
            not compatible with any option tracking the output of the screen,
            such as the --differences, --chgexit and --eqexit options.

     -g, --chgexit
            Exit when the visible output of command changes. Changes that are
            off the screen due to small screen size or large output will not
            cause gnu-watch to exit.

     -n, --interval seconds
            Specify update interval. Values smaller than 0.1 and larger than
            2678400 (31 days) are converted into these respective bounds. Both
            '.' and ',' work for any locale. The GNU-WATCH_INTERVAL
            environment variable can be used to persistently set a non-default
            interval (following the same rules and formatting).

     -p, --precise
            Execute command --interval seconds after its previous run started,
            instead of --interval seconds after its previous run finished. If
            it's taking longer than --interval seconds for command to
            complete, it is waited for in either case.

     -q, --equexit <cycles>
            Exit when output of command does not change for the given number
            of cycles.

     -r, --no-rerun
            Do not run the program on terminal resize, the output of the
            program will re-appear at the next regular run time.

     -s, --shotsdir
            Directory to save screenshots into.

     -t, --no-title
            Turn off the header normally shown at the top of the screen.

     -w, --no-wrap
            Turn off line wrapping. Long lines will be truncated instead of
            wrapped to the next line.

     -x, --exec
            Pass command to an exec(3) call instead of sh -c. The program will
            start a bit quicker. Shell features (environment setup, variable
            and pathname expansion, etc.) will be unavailable.

     -h, --help
            Display help text and exit.

     -v, --version
            Display version information and exit.

KEY CONTROL
     spacebar
            Issue command immediately. If it's running at the moment, it is
            not interrupted and its next round will start without delay.

     q      Quit gnu-watch. It currently does not interrupt a running command
            (as opposed to terminating signals, such as the SIGKILL following
            Ctrl+C).

     s      Take a screenshot. It will be saved in the working directory,
            unless specified otherwise by --shotsdir. If command is running at
            the moment, the screenshot will be taken as soon as it finishes.

EXIT STATUS
     0      Success. Does not represent command exit code.

     1      Errors unrelated to command operation.

     2      Errors related to command execution and management (not its exit
            code).

     any non-zero (--errexit)
            With --errexit the last exit code of command is returned.

ENVIRONMENT
     The behavior of gnu-watch is affected by the following environment
     variables.

     GNU-WATCH_INTERVAL
            Update interval, follows the same rules as the --interval command
            line option.

     COLUMNS
            Terminal screen character width. Set to override autodetection.

     LINES  Terminal screen character height. Set to override autodetection.

NOTES
     POSIX option processing is used (i.e., option processing stops at the
     first non-option argument). This means that flags after command don't get
     interpreted by gnu-watch itself.

     Non-printing characters are stripped from program output. Use cat -v as
     part of the command pipeline if you want to see them.

EXAMPLES
     To watch the contents of a directory change, you could use

            gnu-watch -d ls -l

     If you have CPUs with a dynamic frequency and want to observe it change,
     try the following. The command is passed to the shell, which allows you
     to make the pipeline. The quotes are a feature of the shell too.

            gnu-watch -n1 'grep "^cpu MHz" /proc/cpuinfo | sort -nrk4'

     To monitor the up status of your servers, saving a copy of the output of
     each run to a file, you may use this. The -p makes the command execute
     every 10 seconds regardless of how long it took to complete the previous
     run.

            gnu-watch -n10 -p -d '{ date; for i in 10.0.0.31 10.0.0.32
            10.0.0.33; do R=OK; ping -c2 -W2 "$i" &>/dev/null || R=FAIL; echo
            "$i: $R"; done } | tee -a ~/log'

     You can watch for your administrator to install the latest kernel with

            gnu-watch uname -r

BUGS
     When the terminal dimensions change, its contents changes are not
     registered on the next command run. --chgexit will not trigger that turn
     and the counter of --equexit will not restart even if command output
     changes meanwhile. --differences highlighting is reset.

REPORTING BUGS
     Please send bug reports to <procps@freelists.org>.

procps-ng                         2025-04-16                      GNU-WATCH(1)
