ARITHMETIC(1)                    User Commands                   ARITHMETIC(1)

NAME
       Arithmetic - arithmetic operations on images and numbers

SYNOPSIS
       astarithmetic [OPTION...] ASTRdata or number [ASTRdata] OPERATOR ...

DESCRIPTION
       Arithmetic is part of GNU Astronomy Utilities 0.23.  Arithmetic will do
       arithmetic operations on one or multiple images and numbers.  Simply
       put, the name of the image along with the arithmetic operators and
       possible numbers are given as arguments. The extensions of each input
       are specified with (possibly multiple) calls to the '--hdu' option.

       Currently Arithmetic only supports postfix or reverse polish notation.
       For example to get the result of '5+6', you should write '5 6 +', or to
       get the average of two images, you should write 'a.fits b.fits + 2 /'
       (or more simply use the 'average' operator with 'a.fits b.fits
       average'). Please see the manual for more information.

       Arithmetic recognizes a large collection of standard operators,
       including basic arithmetic (e.g., +, -, x, /), mathematical (e.g., abs,
       pow, sqrt, log), statistical (minvalue, min, max, average), comparison
       (e.g., lt, le, gt), logical (e.g., and, or, not), the full set of
       bitwise operators, and numeric type conversion operators to all known
       types. Please run the command below for a complete list describing all
       operators (press the 'SPACE' keyboard key, or arrow keys, to go down
       and 'q' to return to the command-line):

              $ info gnuastro "Arithmetic operators"

       For more information, please run any of the following commands. In
       particular the second contains a very comprehensive explanation of
       Arithmetic's invocation: expected input(s), output(s), and a full
       description of all the options.

       All options and their values:
              $ astarithmetic -P

       Inputs/Outputs and options:
              $ info astarithmetic

       Full section in manual/book:
              $ info Arithmetic

       Full Gnuastro manual/book:
              $ info gnuastro

       If you couldn't find your answer in the manual, you can get direct help
       from experienced Gnuastro users and developers. For more information,
       please run:

              $ info help-gnuastro

       Arithmetic options:

              Input:

       --arguments=STR
              Plain-text file with command-line arguments.

       --envseed
              Use GSL_RNG_SEED env. for mknoise operator.

       -g, --globalhdu=STR
              Use this HDU for all inputs, ignore '--hdu'.

       -h, --hdu=STR/INT
              Nth call, used for HDU of Nth input FITS.

       -I, --ignorecase
              Ignore case in matching/searching columns.

       --searchin=STR
              Select column(s): 'name', 'unit', 'comment'.

       -w, --wcsfile=FITS
              File to use for output's WCS.

       -W, --wcshdu=STR
              HDU/extension to use for output's WCS.

              Tessellation (tile grid):

       --interpmetric=STR
              Interpolation metric (radial, manhattan).

              Output:

       --append
              If output exists, append crop to existing HDUs.

       -a, --writeall
              Write all remaining data in the output.

       -c, --metacomment=STR
              Internal comments (FITS images: COMMENT keyword).

       -D, --dontdelete
              Don't delete output if it exists.

       -K, --keepinputdir
              Keep input directory for automatic output.

       -n, --metaname=STR
              Internal name (FITS images: EXTNAME keyword).

       --outfitsnocommit
              No Git commit in 0-th HDU of output FITS.

       --outfitsnoconfig
              No metadata in 0-th HDU of output FITS.

       --outfitsnodate
              No 'DATE' in 0-th HDU of output FITS.

       --outfitsnoversions
              No versions in 0-th HDU of output FITS.

       -o, --output=STR
              Output file name.

       -O, --onedasimage
              Write 1D outputs as an image, not a table.

       -s, --onedonstdout
              Write 1D output on stdout, not in a table.

       --tableformat=STR
              Table fmt: 'fits-ascii', 'fits-binary', 'txt'.

       -u, --metaunit=STR
              Internal units (FITS images: BUNIT keyword).

       --wcslinearmatrix=STR
              WCS linear matrix of output ('pc' or 'cd').

              Operating modes:

       -?, --help
              give this help list

       --checkconfig
              List all config files and variables read.

       --cite BibTeX citation for this program.

       --config=STR
              Read configuration file STR immediately.

       --config-prefix=STR
              Custom prefix of option names config files.

       --lastconfig
              Do not parse any more configuration files.

       --log  Information about output(s) in a log file.

       --minmapsize=INT
              Min. bytes to avoid RAM automatically.

       -N, --numthreads=INT
              Number of CPU threads to use.

       --onlyversion=STR
              Only run if the program version is STR.

       -P, --printparams
              Print parameter values to be used and abort.

       --quietmmap
              Don't print mmap'd file's name and size.

       -q, --quiet
              Only report errors, remain quiet about steps.

       -S, --setdirconf
              Set default values for this directory and abort.

       --usage
              give a short usage message

       -U, --setusrconf
              Set default values for this user and abort.

       -V, --version
              print program version

       Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or
       optional for any corresponding short options.

       GNU Astronomy Utilities home page:
       http://www.gnu.org/software/gnuastro/

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to bug-gnuastro@gnu.org.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2015-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+:
       GNU General public license version 3 or later.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

       Written/developed by Mohammad Akhlaghi

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for Arithmetic is maintained as a Texinfo
       manual.  If the info and Arithmetic programs are properly installed at
       your site, the command

              info Arithmetic

       should give you access to the complete manual.

GNU Astronomy Utilities 0.23       July 2024                     ARITHMETIC(1)
