GONE(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                GONE(1)

NAME
     gone – a terminal locking utility with many improvements over lock

SYNOPSIS
     gone [-bvpxl] [-y | -n] [-t timeout]

DESCRIPTION
     gone is a utility that locks a terminal with a password chosen by the
     user.  gone will prompt the user for a password, then print the gone
     banner, then drop into the gone shell.  From this shell, only a
     restricted set of commands can be run.  gone will also disallow messages
     by removing permissions on the parent tty.  After the timeout period (10
     minutes by default), gone will automatically log the user out.

     If gone is installed setuid to root, then specifying the -p option will
     instruct gone to read the password from the system password file/database
     instead of prompting the user.  Setuid'ing the program is done by setting
     the environmental variable with_setuid to ``yes'' then running configure.

     Options:

     -b          Supress printing the gone banner.

     -v          Print the version number and exit.

     -p          Read the password from the system password database (must be
                 setuid root at install-time).

     -x          Supress processing of extended shell commands (see the
                 section on shell commands below).

     -l          Prevent VTY switching if supported by the platform.

     -y          By default gone turns messages off (see mesg(1) ).  This
                 option will turn messages on.

     -n          Same as the -y option (deprecated).

     -t timeout  Specify an optional timeout value in minutes.  Default is 10
                 minutes.  If set to 0, gone will lock the terminal
                 indefinitely.

     gone also accepts an optional string that is visible by using the w(1)
     command.  Use this, and other users can see why you are gone.

SHELL COMMANDS
     Commands for the gone shell (these commands can be abbreviated):

     w       Invoke a UNIX w(1) command (extended command).

     finger  Invoke a UNIX finger(1) command.  When you type finger , you will
             be prompted for optional arguments (extended command).

     whoami  Invoke a UNIX whoami(1) command (extended command).

     help    Print the gone banner, and list of valid commands.

     cls     Clear the screen and print the gone banner.

     date    Invoke the UNIX date(1) command (extended command).

     unlock  Unlock the terminal; prompts for unlock password.

FILES
     /usr/local/bin/gone  Gone binary application

MINUTIAE
     * gone will only run if the user is logged into a valid tty.
     * Invoking a SIGINT, a SIGSTP, or a SIGQUIT will cause gone to print the
     time remaining before the user is logged out.

BUGS
     No known bugs, but I welcome any bug reports or comments to
     <marcus@marcuscom.com>

AUTHOR
     Joe Marcus Clarke <marcus@marcuscom.com>

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
     Dr. Burt "THE Doctor" Rosenberg, for motivating, for being a good friend,
     and for having a great jump shot.
     Alexandra Loubeau, for using the damn thing.
     Jason Glick for giving me the quota to do most of the initial work...and
     for Joe Satriani.
     Craig Kolthoff for installing it on jaguar....finally; and for giving me
     a monster quota for FreeBSD.
     Blake Winton <bwinton@iname.com>, for contributing the patch for
     indefinite terminal locking.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 13, 2003           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
