GOTMAIL(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             GOTMAIL(1)


NAME
       gotmail - A script to fetch mail from a Hotmail mailbox.

SYNOPSIS
       gotmail [-u username] [-p password] [--help] [--version] ...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the gotmail script.

       Gotmail is a perl script to fetch mail out of a Hotmail account and
       either place it into the current directory in unix mbox format or
       forward it to another email address.

OPTIONS
       -?, --help, --usage
              Show summary of options.

       -u, --username username
              Specify your hotmail account username.

       -p, --password password
              Specify your hotmail account password. (Warning: using this on
              the command line is insecure. It is suggested that you use a
              configuration file--see below)

       -d, --domain domain
              Specify an acceptable hotmail domain: hotmail.com (default),
              hotmail.com (default), msn.com, charter.com, compaq.net,
              hotmail.co.jp, hotmail.co.uk, hotmail.de, hotmail.fr,
              hotmail.it, messengeruser.com, passport.com, webtv.net

       --version
              Print the version number.

       --debug
              Print and log debug spew.

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose.

       --silent
              Be as quiet as possible.

       -c, --config-file file
              Specifies a different configuration file than the default
              (~/.gotmailrc).  See below.

       --proxy host:port
              Specify an HTTP proxy to use. Format is host:port - eg:
              localhost:3128

       -f, --forward address
              Specify an email address to forward to. If a forwarding address
              is not given, messages will be saved to disk.

       -s, --smtpserver server
              Send email via the specified smtp server, rather than with
              sendmail.  This allows use of Gotmail under Windows 2000, at
              least. May work elsewhere.

       --exclude-folders folders
              Do not get these folders (list of folders in quotes, i.e.:
              "Inbox, Bulk Mail")

       --folders folderlist
              The --folders option only downloads messages from folders that
              are in the list given. eg. gotmail --folders "bulk mail, inbox"
              will get the bulk mail and inbox folders only. The list
              separator should now be a comma, optionally with whitespace on
              either side.

       --folder-dir /my/dir
              Specify which directory to put email folders in. The folders
              will be saved as mbox-compatible files named after the folders
              on Hotmail.

       --only-new
              Only previously unread messages will be retrieved.

       --mark-read
              Mark messages as read once they have been downloaded.

       --delete
              Delete messages once they have been downloaded.  This option is
              being deprecated as of version 0.8.2.  Use the --move <folder>
              command to move downloaded mails to the Trash Can instead.

       --move <folder>
              Move mails to the named folder after downloading.

       --speed-limit
              Add a small delay after each message to stop the local MTA from
              being overloaded.

       --retry-limit num_tries
              Maximum number of times to retry a download.

       --save-to-login
              When this option is specified, saves messages to "username-
              foldername" in the folder-dir directory. The Inbox folder is
              saved to just "username".

       --use-procmail
              This option sends all messages only to procmail(1). Options to
              forward or save to mailboxes are ignored.

       --procmail-bin /path/to/procmail
              Allows user to set location of the procmail binary. Default is
              "/usr/bin/procmail".

       --procmail-option <opt>
              Pass options through to procmail

       --curl-bin /path/to/curl
              Allows user to set location of the curl binary. Default is to
              search the path.

       --use-sa
              Use SpamAssassin to detect junk mail.

       --delete-spam
              Delete junk mail instead of just ignoring it (requires --use-sa
              option).

       --move-spam folder
              Move spam to this folder (requires --use-sa option).

       --spam-score score
              SpamAssassin score to be considered spam.  Default is 4.5.

       --nodownload
              Don't actually download or forward mail. Useful when used with
              the --delete-spam option.

       --summary
              Print the number of messages received one line per folder.

       --remove-header
              Automatically remove X-Message-Info header to not trigger
              X_MESSAGE_INFO rule in SpamAssassin.

EXAMPLES
       Download all the mail from the account of "billyjoe@hotmail.com" with
       password "sEcReT" and forward it to "john@ab.com".

              gotmail -u billyjoe -p sEcReT -f john@ab.com
              (This is insecure!)

       Download, and delete, new mail only in the Inbox and MyMail folders of
       uro_levu's Hotmail account. Save the resulting mail in mbox files named
       after the folders ("Inbox" and "MyMail") under the warmmail/ directory.

              gotmail -u uro_levu -p my_password --delete --only-new \
                   --folder-dir $HOME/warmmail --folders "Inbox, MyMail"
              (This is insecure!)

       Scan the mail in the Inbox and move anything with a SpamAssassin score
       of 5 or better to a folder named Spam, but don't actually download
       anything.

              gotmail --folders "Inbox" -u billyjoe -p sEcReT --use-sa \
                   --nodownload --move-spam Spam --spam-score 5
              (This is insecure!)

Configuration
       You can put the configuration for gotmail in a file. This has the
       significant advantage of not putting your username and password on the
       command line, where it is possible for others on your machine to read
       them. By default, gotmail will look for a file in your home directory
       called ".gotmailrc". You can specify a different one with the
       --config-file option. Options on the command line will override options
       in the configuration file.

       Configuration files may contain comments (Lines beginning with #).
       Options in the file are identical to the long arguments listed above,
       and are assigned values using an = sign. Do not add extra whitespace
       before or after the =.

       This very simple configuration file gets all the mail from the account
       of randomuser@hotmail.com, password "ger0nim34":

              # randomuser's gotmailrc file
              username=randomuser
              password=ger0nim34

       This slightly more complex example causes gotmail to quietly download
       and delete all mail in the account of linux@hotmail.com, and forward it
       to linux@yahoo.com.

              # .gotmailrc

              username=linux
              password=FreesOftwareForever
              forward=linux@yahoo.com
              silent
              delete

AUTHORS
       This manual page was written by Peter Hawkins
       <peter@hawkins.emu.id.au>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be
       used by others). Additions were made by paul cannon <pik@debian.org>
       and James Turnbull <james@lovedthanlost.net>.

       Additional contributions from John Fruetel, Jon Phillips, Guyang Mao,
       Didier CLERC, Leigh Purdie, Sh, Patrick Froede, Herman Mereles, Kamal
       Kantawala, Andrei Popov, Kamal Mahyuddin, Hindu, Joel Mejeur,  Wesley
       Hosking, Max Hales, Brian Almeida, Jens Preikschat, Jonas Smedegaard,
       Robert Lazzurs, Tim Dijkstra, Hari Sundararaghavan, Silas S. Brown,
       Adrian Chung, Lalit Chhabra, Loic TREGOUET, Sean D. True, Timothy Lee,
       stripes, David Holland, Sergio Rua, Lee, William X. Walsh,Chris Ham,
       Angel Luis Jimenez Martinez, James Ascroft-Leigh, Andrea
       Briganti,cageek, Brad Donison, Jens E. Madsen Jr., Paul Howarth,
       Gertjan Harkink, Jos De Laender, jdanwhite, and Manoajv Sridhar.

                                                                    GOTMAIL(1)
