GRACER(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              GRACER(1)

NAME
       GRacer - 3D Motor Sports Simulator

SYNOPSIS
       gracer [glut options]


DESCRIPTION
       GRacer is a 3D motor sports simulator. It's state of the art physical
       simulation engine creates realistic behavior such as drift, wheel spin,
       and even accel turn.


OPTIONS
       gracer accepts usual GLUT command line option. Other runtime options
       can be configured in the program.


CONTROL
       After start GRacer, you may see opening scene, then main menu appears.
       Main menu consists of several buttons. You can browse these buttons by
       TAB key, or Cursor keys.  When you press Return or Space key,
       Highlighted button is invoked. Of course, you can do same by mouse.

       During the race, you can control vehicle through following keys.


       Left    turn steering counter clockwise

       Right   turn steering clockwise

       Space   acceleration

       z       foot break

       a       side break

       v       shift up

       c       shift down


       1       driver's view

       2       overhead view (near)

       3       overhead view (far)


       Esc     abort race


ENVIRONMENT
       GRACER_HOME
               Specify the directory in which data files are stored.  If you
               get binary package and install it in different location, you
               can use this variable. Otherwise, you don't need use this
               variable.

       GRACER_USER
               Specify the directory in which user's high score and setting
               are stored.  Default path is $HOME/.gracer. If you want to
               change the location, you can use this variable.


FILES
       $GRACER_USER/settings
               GRacer runtime options are stored in this file.

       $GRACER_USER/hiscores
               user specific high score data.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright ©  1999 Takashi Matsuda

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
       provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
       both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
       supporting documentation.


OTHER INFO
       The canonical place to find GRacer info is at
       http://gracer.sourceforge.net/.  Here you can find the latest version
       of GRacer and other informations.


AUTHOR
       Takashi Matsuda <matsu@users.sourceforge.net>.

Version 0.1.5                     25 Nov 1999                        GRACER(1)
