GRIG(1)                          User Commands                         GRIG(1)



NAME
       grig - graphical user interface for the Ham Radio Control Libraries
       (hamlib)


SYNOPSIS
       grig [OPTION]...


DESCRIPTION
       Grig is a simple Ham Radio control (CAT) program based on the Ham Radio
       Control Libraries. It is intended to be highly generic presenting the
       user to the same graphical user interface regardless of which radio is
       being controlled.

       Grig does not store any radio configuration, instead it takes a number
       of command line options.

       -m, --model=ID
              select radio model number; see --list

       -r, --rig-file=DEVICE
              set device of the radio, eg. /dev/ttyS0

       -s, --speed=BAUD
              set transfer rate (serial port only)

       -c, --civ-addr=ID
              set CI-V address (decimal, ICOM only)

       -C, --set-conf=par=val[,par2=val2]
              set additional configuration parameters

       -d, --debug=LEVEL
              set hamlib debug level (0..5)

       -D, --delay=VALUE
              set delay between commands in msec (see below)

       -n, --nothread
              use timeout calls instead of thread (see below)

       -l, --list
              list supported radios and exit

       -p, --enable-ptt
              enable ptt control

       -P, --enable-pwr
              enable power status control

       -h, --help
              show a brief help message and exit

       -v, --version
              show version information and exit

       Example: Start grig using YAESU FT-990 connected to the first serial
       port, using 4800 baud and debug level set to warning:

            grig -m 1016 -r /dev/ttyS0 -s 4800 -d 3

       or if you prefer the long options:

            grig --model=1016 --rig-file=/dev/ttyS0 --speed=4800 --debug=3

       It is usually enough to specify the model ID and the DEVICE.

       If you start grig without any options it will use the Dummy backend and
       set the debug level to 0 (RIG_DEBUG_NONE). If you do not specify the
       transfer rate for the serial port, the default serial speed will be
       used by the backend and even if you specify a value, it can be
       overridden by the backend. If you omit the radio device (port) grig
       will use /dev/ttyS0 or localhost if the selected radio is RPC-rig.


DEBUG LEVELS
       0    No debug, keep quiet.
       1    Serious bug.
       2    Error case (e.g. protocol, memory allocation).
       3    Warnings.
       4    Verbose information.
       5    Trace.

       Grig has its own debug message handler, which will manage messages from
       hamlib too.  The messages are printed to STDERR by default but they can
       be redirected to a file.  In bash shell you would write something like:

            grig [options] 2> grig.log

       You can then use the Message Window in the View menu to view these
       messages. The debug messages printed by grig is formatted in a
       structured way with each line containing both time, source and level of
       the message. Each field is separated with ;; so you can also import the
       log file into a spread sheet for further analysis.


FEATURES
       Grig 0.9.1~git supports the most commonly used CAT command implemented
       by hamlib. These include frequency, mode, filter and various level
       settings. Please note that not all features have been thoroughly tested
       since I don't have access to any modern high-end radios. Therefore,
       comments regarding success or failure in using grig will be highly
       appreciated.


KNOWN BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       Buffer Overflow in Radio
              By default, grig tries to execute rig commands as fast as
              possible in order to achieve an almost real-time remote control
              experience. This strategy has turned out to cause problems with
              some radios, probably because these radios acknowledge the
              reception of a command before executing them, whereby the next
              command will be sent before the previous one has terminated. To
              avoid any possible buffer overflow in these situations, one can
              try to experiment with the -D or --delay command line argument,
              which will put the specified delay in between each executed
              command. The default value is 10 milliseconds and the smallest
              possible value is 1 millisecond (if one specifies 0 millisecond
              on the command line, the default value will be used).  If you
              find a value which is better for your radio than the default
              value, please let us know about it.

       Daemon Never Starts on FreeBSD
              There have been reports on that the new, thread-based daemon
              process is never started on FreeBSD, while the old,
              timeout-based daemon worked fine. It is therefore possible to
              choose the two ways to run the daemon process. The default is
              the new thread based daemon, but if you use FreeBSD and nothing
              seems to work after start-up you can select the timeout-based
              daemon with the -n or --nothread command line option.

       Connection Settings
              Once you have started grig you can not change the radio settings
              (model, device, speed). You will have to restart the program if
              you want to change any of these settings.

       Multiple Radios
              Grig can control only one radio at the time. There are, however,
              no problems in starting several instances of grig as long as
              they do not try to control the same radio. An exception to this
              is the RPC-rig backend in which case the rpc rig daemon will act
              as a server while grig or any other hamlib frontends will act as
              a clients.

       Power OFF State
              On some radios, grig does not cope very well with the power off
              state. It is yet not known whether this is a bug in the hamlib
              backend or in grig and we will definitely appreciate your input.
              The situation gets even more complicated due to the fact that
              different radios behave in a different ways when they are
              powered OFF; some of them will continue to respond to remote
              commands, while others will not. Even the same radio, like the
              FT-817, can behave differently depending on whether it is
              powered from internal batteries or external power supply.  Grig
              tries to handle this mess by suspending all rig commands while
              in power OFF state. Only the power ON command will be sent to
              the rig.  By default, the power status control is disabled and
              must explicitly be enabled using the -P or --enable-pwr command
              line switch.

       PTT Control
              Similar to the power state, the PTT has caused strange behaviour
              on some radios.  Consequently, it has been disabled by default
              but can be enabled using the -p or --enable-ptt command line
              arguments.


AUTHOR
       Written by Alexandru Csete, OZ9AEC.


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <groundstation-developer@lists.sourcforge.net>.
       Bugs related to hamlib should be reported directly to the hamlib
       developers at <hamlib-developer@lists.sourceforge.net>.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2001-2006 Alexandru Csete.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.


SEE ALSO
       rigctl(1)


Alexandru Csete                Version 0.9.1~git                       GRIG(1)
