grip(1)                                                                grip(1)

NAME
       grip - A gtk-based cd-player and cd-ripper.

SYNOPSIS
       grip [-d <device>] [-s] [-l]


DESCRIPTION
       Grip is a gtk-based cd-player and cd-ripper. It has the ripping
       capabilities of cdparanoia builtin, but can also use external rippers
       (such as cdda2wav). It also provides an automated frontend for MP3
       encoders, letting you take a disc and transform it easily straight into
       MP3s. The CDDB protocol is supported for retrieving track information
       from disc database servers. Grip works with DigitalDJ to provide a
       unified "computerized" version of your music collection.

       Grip is designed to work closely with DigitalDJ, my SQL-based mp3
       jukebox system (although it does not require it).

OPTIONS
       These are the command-line options for grip:

       -c, --config=CONFIG
              Specify the config file to use (in your home dir)

       -d, --device=DEVICE
              Use <device> as the cd-rom device (default: /dev/cdrom).

       -s, --small
              Launch grip in a "small" (cd-only) mode.

       -l, --local
              "local" mode -- don't try to use CDDB.

       --no-redirect
              Do not do I/O redirection

       -v, --version
              Print version string, and exit.

       --verbose
              Verbose (debug) mode.

USAGE
       The most handy way to launch Grip is from your window manager's doc. A
       dock icon is included with the distribution.

       Grip's operation should be pretty self-explanatory. Tracks to rip are
       selected with the right mouse button. To select all tracks on the disc,
       click the "Rip" column label. When you select "Rip" or "MP3-encode"
       from the "Rip" page, Grip will rip or rip/encode the tracks you have
       selected. If you select "Rip partial track", only the current select of
       the current track will be ripped or encoded. Start/End sector values
       are ignored if partial track ripping is not enabled.

CONFIGURATION
       The "Config" menu allows you to configure your ripping program and your
       CDDB database. Rip/Encode/ID3 options are only available in Grip.

       Here are the options:

CD options:
       Don't interrupt playback on exit/startup
              If this is not selected, Grip will stop play when it starts and
              when it stops.

       Rewind when stopped
              If selected, Grip will rewind to the first track when play is
              stopped.

       Startup with first track if not playing
              If this is not selected, Grip will begin with whatever track the
              cd-player played last.

       Reshuffle before each playback
              If selected, Grip will re-randomize the tracks each time
              playback begins when in shuffle-play mode.

Rip Options:
       Ripper
              This allows you to select one of the preset rippers. This will
              fill in sensible default parameters for calling the ripper. If
              you select "grip (cdparanoia)", Grip will use its builtin
              version of cdparanoia (only available if paranoia has been
              compiled in). If the builtin ripper is selected, the following
              options are available:

       Disable paranoia
              Disables all paranoia checking.

       Disable extra paranoia
              Only cdda2wav-style overlap checking will be done.

       Disable scratch detection
              Do not look for scratches.

       Disable scratch repair
              Disable scratch repair (still detect)

       Ripping executable
              This should be the full path to the program you want to use to
              rip tracks with.

       Ripping command-line
              These are the arguments that will be passed to the ripping
              program. The '%' switches are translated as follows:

       %t     Track to be ripped

       %b     Begin sector to be ripped (0 is start of track)

       %e     End sector of track

       %f     Filename to put .wav data to

       Rip file format
              This specifies the format of the filename to write ripped data
              to.  The '%' switches are translated as follows:

       %n     Name of track being ripped

       %t     Number of track being ripped

       %a     Artist of current track

       %A     Artist of the current disc

       %d     Name of current disc

       %b     Begin sector to be ripped (0 is start of track)

       %e     End sector of track

       %c     cdrom device

       %i     CDDB discid in hex format

       %g     ID3 genre tag as a number

       %G     ID3 genre tag as a word

       Adding a '*' between the '%' and the switch will cause underscoring of
       the field to be skipped.

       Rip 'nice' value
              The 'nice' (priority) level to run the rip at.

       Max non-encoded .wav's
              The maximum number of non-encoded .wav files Grip will keep
              around before pausing ripping.

       Auto-rip on insert
              If selected, Grip will automatically select all tracks and begin
              ripping when a new (ie: no local disc data) disc is inserted.

       Auto-eject after rip
              If selected, Grip will automatically eject the disc when ripping
              is finished.

       Wav filter command
              This command will be run after ripping but before encoding. It
              can be used to call a program to manipulate the .wav file in
              some way (such as doing normalization). It accepts a single
              switch, %f, which translates as the ripped .wav file.

Encode options:
       Encoder
              This allows you to select one of the preset rippers. This will
              fill in sensible default parameters for calling the encoder.

       MP3 executable
              This should be the full path to the program you want to use to
              MP3-encode tracks with.

       MP3 command-line
              These are the arguments that will be passed to the MP3 encoder.
              The '%' switches are translated as follows:

       %b     Encode bitrate (kbits/sec)

       %f     Filename of the .wav data to be encoded

       %o     Filename to save mp3 data to

       MP3 file format
              This specifies the format of the filename to write MP3 data to.
              The '%' switches are the same as those used in the rip file
              format.

       Delete .wav after encoding?
              If selected, this option will (surprise!)  delete the ripped
              .wav file after encoding.

       Insert into SQL database
              If selected, and DigitalDJ is installed, Grip will place the
              song information into DigitalDJ's song database.

       Number of CPUs to use
              This is the number of simultaneous encode processes allowed. If
              you have an SMP system, increase this number to use more
              processes. Note that Grip must be restarted for changes in this
              option to take effect.

       MP3 'nice' value
              The 'nice' (priority) level to run the MP3 encode at.

ID3 options:
       ID3 Executable
              The full path to the program that will add ID3 tags to an MP3
              file

       ID3 Command-line
              The arguments to be passed to the ID3 program. The % switches
              are translated as:

       %n     Name of track

       %t     Number of track

       %a     Artist of current track

       %A     Artist of the current disc

       %d     Name of current disc

       %g     ID3 genre tag as a number

       %G     ID3 genre tag as a word

       %y     Year of track

       %f     Name of the MP3 file

       Add ID3 tags
              If selected this option will cause ID3 tags to be added to each
              MP3 file after it is encoded.

CDDB options:
       Primary/Secondary CDDB server
              These are your servers for looking up disc information over the
              net. If the disc is not found on the primary server, the
              secondary server will be checked.

       DB server
              The address of the CDDB server you wish to use.

       DB CGI path
              The path to the script on the server that handles HTTP requests.
              This is generally "~cddb/cddb.cgi" or "cgi-bin/cddb.cgi".

       Perform CDDB lookup automatically
              If selected, Grip will always try to look up an unknown disc. If
              not selected, lookup must be initiated manually.

Proxy options:
       Use proxy server
              If selected, CDDB requests will be sent through an HTTP proxy
              (useful for people behind firewalls).

       Get server from 'http_proxy' env. var:
              If set, Grip will try to read the http server/port information
              from the environment variable "http_proxy", which should take
              the form "http://server:port".

       Proxy server
              The address of the HTTP proxy server to be used.

       Proxy port
              The port to talk to the proxy on.

Misc options:
       Output directory
              The directory to place WAV and MP3 files in. The same '%'
              switches as in the rip/encode filenames can be used.

       Convert spaces to underscores
              If selected, this will cause all spaces in filenames to
              underscores.

       Also underscore
              A list of characters to replace with underscores when
              constructing filenames.

       Email address
              The email address to be used as a reply address when submitting
              CDDB entries and bug reports.

       CD update program
              This program will be run whenever a disc is put in the drive.
              All sensible '%' switches can be used. I use this to call a
              program that generates a web page that tells what CD I'm
              currently playing.

       Keep application minimum size
              If selected, Grip will always try to keep its window a the
              minimum size possible.

CDDB notes
       I have declined to sign a license agreement with Escient, the company
       who owns "www.cddb.com" and runs the CDDB server "us.cddb.com". Their
       license would (among other things) have required me to place
       advertisements in Grip and restrict you, the user, to use only their
       databases. I am against this commercial use of the track information
       submitted by users such as yourself. For this reason, I encourage you
       to use free servers, such as "gnudb.gnudb.org".

License and Disclaimer
       Grip are Copyright (c) 1998 by Mike Oliphant. Grip may be used and
       distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.  All
       other brand and product names are trademarks, registered trademarks or
       service marks of their respective holders.

       These programs are distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License in a
       file named COPYING along with this distribution; if not, you can
       contact the Free Software Foundation, Inc., https://www.fsf.org/.

Acknowledgments
       Thanks go to:

       *      Everyone involved in GTK development for a wonderful GUI

       *      Tony Arcieri, for libcdaudio, which formed the basis of Grip's
              low-level cd control and CDDB access routines

       *      Monty, for cdparanoia and the paranoia library

       *      Heiko Eissfeldt for cdda2wav

       *      Tord Jansson for BladeEnc

       *      Mike Cheng, Mark Taylor and all the others who have worked on
              LAME

       *      Ti Kan, for the xmcd button bitmaps, many of which I use in
              modified form

       *      Everyone that has contributed code to Grip (see the CREDITS and
              ChangeLog files)

       *      Everyone else who has given me feedback and helped test Grip

BUGS
       If you have trouble with Grip, read the "FAQ" section in the built in
       manual.  If you still have a question after reading through this
       document carefully, or have a feature request, feel free to send an
       email to the mailinglist, or open a bug repport on the bug tracker. Do
       read the file TODO first and skim through the feature request bug
       tracker, to check whether it's already on my list.

CHANGES
       See the ChangeLog file that came with the source code.

AUTHOR
       Grip written by Mike Oliphant (oliphant@gtk.org)
       Documentation formatting by Aaron Sherman (ajs@ajs.com)
       Project manager: Johnny A. Solbu (johnny@solbu.net)

                                  2020-07-14                           grip(1)
