GSMC(1)                          User Manuals                          GSMC(1)

NAME
       gsmc - A GTK Smith Chart Calulator for RF impedance matching



SYNOPSIS
       gsmc


DESCRIPTION
       gsmc is a GTK application that allow to do all the calculation usually
       done on a Smith Chart.  It permits to make calculation for network
       composed by resistor, capacitor, inductance, and trasmission line (also
       as stub).  Network topology is limitated to series, parallel and as
       trasmissive for trasmission line. No series connection are allowed in
       parallel branch, neither parallel connection in series branch.
       Trasmission line can be placed as quadrupole or as a parallel or series
       stub, either opened or shorted at the other end.

       Calculation procedure starts with setting the initial impedance to be
       matched, next network elements are added and tuned to obtain the
       desidered impedance value.

       The network so obtained can be saved in spice format for other
       analisys; current work can be saved for succesive retrieve.

       The initial (start) impedance is thought as "the load" so when adding a
       trasmission line placed as a quadrupole rotation is clockwise, going
       "toward generator"; generator is placed after the last network element,
       as can be seen from spice output.



OPTIONS
       None



INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
       gsmc is a menu based GTK application with as much as possible
       accelerators and mnemonics. Nearly all the command can to be issued as
       a single keystroke or keystroke with modifiers. This is, in the
       author's opinion, the preferable way for very specialistic programs
       that has to be used extensively.


       Ctrl+q Quit the program.


       Ctrl+1 Toggle visualization of impedance (Z) circle


       Ctrl+2 Toggle visualization of admittance (Y) circle


       Ctrl+3 Toggle visualization of reflection coefficient (RHO) circle


       Ctrl+4 Toggle visualization of constant Q circle


       s      Set start point: can be entered as impedance, admittance or
              reflection coefficient


       Ctrl+0 (zero)
              Set characteristic impedance z0


       f      Set frequency (f0)


       r      Add a resistor


       l      Add an inductor


       c      Add a capacitor


       t      Add a transmission line or stub


       Shift+r
              Insert a resistor before the highlighted element


       Shift+l
              Insert an inductor before the highlighted element


       Shift+c
              Insert a capacitor before the highlighted element


       Shift+t
              Insert a transmission line or stub before the highlighted
              element


       d      Delete the currently highligthed element


       Shift+Curs Up
              Highlight previous element


       Shift+Curs Down
              Highlight next element


       Shift+Curs Left
              Decrease the first field of currently highlighted element


       Shift+Curs Rigth
              Increase the first field of currently highlighted element


       Mod+Curs Left
              Decrease the second field of currently highlighted element


       Mod+Curs Rigth
              Increase the second field of currently highlighted element


       Mod+Curs Up
              Increase the tuning step


       Mod+Curs Down
              Decrease the tuning step


       Ctrl+w Write network file in spice format


       Ctrl+n Restart for a new calculation with a clean chart


       =      Change first field of currently highlighted element


       Mod+=  Change second field of currently highlighted element


       Ctrl+a Start autotune procedure (tune goal is characteristic impedance)


       Ctrl+x Toggle lock flag in autotune procedure


       Ctrl+p Write an EPS or PS file


       Ctrl+l Load a previously saved .B gsmc job


       Ctrl+l Save a .B gsmc job


       Ctrl+f Increase frequency


       Shift+Ctrl+f
              Decrease frequency

       Check online keystroke for an updated list of commands.

       DIALOG WIN

       For operation that requires data entry a widget is created; it is
       composed by an text entry field and optionaly some radio button to
       chose the format of data entry.

       The format for data entry can be a single number, or a more complex
       string. First of all every number can be supplyed using standar prefix
       for unit of measure i.e.:

              a      (atto) 1e-18

              f      (femto) 1e-15

              p      (pico) 1e-12

              n      (nano) 1e-9

              u      (micro) 1e-6

              m      (milli) 1e-3

              k      (kilo) 1e3

              M      (mega) 1e6

              G      (giga) 1e9

              T      (tera) 1e12
       Note that for spice output format mega is written as MEG instead of M,
       that will be otherwise recognized by spice as milli.  Unit of measure
       are not allowed to be in the text entered.

       Where a complex number is required both the rectangular and the polar
       format are recognized: the former can be supplied as '12.3-j456m' while
       the latter can be supplied as '34.2 145' meaning a modulus of 34.2 with
       a phase of 145 degrees. If the complex number is purely immaginary only
       something like 'j82' can be supplied, while if immaginary part is zero
       a single number can be given. Immaginary operator can be issued as 'i'
       as well as 'j'.


DATA PRESENTATION
       The single window of gsmc is divided in four parts:

       -      The Smith chart itself in the upper left portion, where arcs and
              constant circle are drawn.


       -      The vertical bar on the rigth of the Smith chart, where initial,
              final and cursor impedance are presented togheter general data.


       -      The horizontal bar on the bottom of Smith chart where the
              network element are listed.


       -      The portion in the lower right portion, for future use...



EXAMPLE OF USE
       Let's try a simple example to understand how gsmc work. Suppose to have
       a load of 10-j35ohm to be matched to 50+j0ohm at an operating frequency
       of 15.5MHz and we can use only concentrated reactive elements, i.e.
       inductances and capacitors.

       So start with setting operating frequency: press 'f' and a dialog win
       will appear. Type in the string '15.5M' and then press enter. Now in
       the vertical bar the frequency entered is displayed.

       Next set the start point impedance: press 's' and a dialog win will
       appear with the title "Start Point"; select the format for start point
       either clicking the "Z" radio buttono or using the menmonic via Mod+Z.
       Now the impedance can be entered as the string '10-j35' followed by
       enter. The starting point is now displayed as a small circle.


       The network has now to be constructed: let start with a series
       inductance of 800nH, so press 'l' and next introduce the value as
       enter. TAB and Shift+TAB is usefull to move across items in dialog win
       without leave hands from keyboard.  This value is really too large, use
       Shft+Left cursor to reduce a bit. Up to where? Let's help you displaing
       the admittance constant circles pressing "Ctrl+2", the arc should
       arrive to the G=1 circle (also called the mirror circle), it's arround
       546nH.

       Now add a capacitor in parallel connection, saying of 200pF: press 'c'
       and insert the string '200p' and select Parallel either with mouse or
       with "Mod+p". Now the admittance circles may confuse, remove it by
       pressing "Ctrl+2" again. The value of 200pF is too small, enlarge it by
       pressing Shift+Left cursor up to get the end point near to the chart's
       center. The point reached with 429pF has nearly zero imaginary but is
       43ohm of real part instead of 50ohm.

       So back to the inductance and try to modify it, with Shift+Cursor up
       move to the first component and then try to change the inductance value
       by pressing cursor left and right. The changes are too large and 50+j0
       cannot be reached. So press "Mod+Cursor down" and the "tunestep" value
       shown in the vertical bar is reduced from 10% to 5%, try again to use
       Shift+Curors left and right. It feel better. Now do the same on the
       capacitor, moving to it by pressing cursor down and than adjusting
       value as for the inductance.

       Final values should be arround 568nH and 408pF. Now you want to see
       what appen using the closest standard commercial values, that is 560nH
       and 390pF in the E12 series. Select (with Shift+Cursor Up), if needed,
       the inductance and then press '=', the dialog window appear (middle
       line is unused) and the string '560n s' has to be introduced. Next move
       to capacitor (Shift+Curs Down) and pressing '=' here insert '390p p'.
       The final result is of SWR=1.14, if it's enough for you...

       Moving the mouse to the point where the two arcs ends you can see that
       the point has an impedance of about 10+j20ohm.

       Trasmission line and resistor can be used similary refer to the section
       INTERACTIVE COMMANDS for knowing how they can be placed.  The major
       difference with transmission line is that they have two parameter, the
       electrical lenght and the caracteristic impedance: the former can be
       adjusted with Shift+Cursor left/rigth as for resistor, inductance and
       capacitor; the latter can be adjusted with Mod+cursor left/right.

       Now the network can be saved either in a gsmc format (.gdt extension)
       by pressing Ctrl+s or in spice format pressing Ctrl+w:  The file so
       generated can be now analized with a spice simulator or gnucap or
       ngspice ; maybe you are interested in simulating it sweeping arround
       15.5MHz, so modify the line

            .ac lin 1  15.50MEG  15.50MEG

       in

            .ac lin 51  10MEG  30MEG

       and run spice or gnucap

       This example should be included in gsmc package an can be retreived by
       pressing Ctrl+l and selecting example1.gdt.

       Autotune algorithm is very primitive and may not reach what is very
       simple to do by hand, do not ask to much from it, work in progress...

       Charts so drawed can be printed to a Postscript or Encapsulated
       Postscript file; in printed file some information are added on the
       chart drawing as well as Circuit Description and some of the Current
       Value are transcripted.  Automatic recognition of filename extension
       .eps or .ps allow to specify if the file has to be in encapsulated
       format or not.


FILES
       gsmc don't use special configuration file, a gtkrc file is supplied and
       can be tuned to user preferences; if present it must be in
       /root/.gsmc/gtkrc.  File describing the network currently analized can
       be generated, it's only needed that a minimum file permission is
       allowed, if not the program will work but data could not be saved.

       Data file (.gdt) contain a copy of internal data structures in a quite
       human readable format; by inspection one can recognize and modify some
       parts using a text editor. For more details compare a .gdt file with
       smcdata struct defined in source file main.h.


LIMITATIONS
       Porting can be very very difficult, since all is based on X windows
       programming and GTK library, but for other platform a plenty of similar
       program are available, free and good one too.


BUGS
       Help me to find.


TODO
       • Improve autotune algorithm

       • Target settting (not alwais one want to match to z0) for autotune.

       • Auxiliary window for error reporting instead of stderr.



COPYING
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.



AUTHOR
        Lapo Pieri  (IK5NAX)

        Home address: via A. dei Corbizi 9  I-50127 Firenze Italy
        Phone: +39 055 410209
        e-mail: ik5nax@amsat.org, lapo_pieri@virgilio.it
        website: www.qsl.net/ik5nax


SEE ALSO
       spice3(?), gnucap(1), ngspice(1)

Linux                           SEPTEMBER 2003                         GSMC(1)
