GSTAT(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               GSTAT(8)

NAME
     gstat – print statistics about GEOM disks

SYNOPSIS
     gstat [-adhospRrS] [-f filter] [-I interval] [-S key]

DESCRIPTION
     The gstat utility can be used to monitor I/O transactions of geom(4)
     devices.

     The options are as follows:

     -a, --auto
             Only display providers that are at least 0.1% busy.

     -d, --delete
             Enable display of statistics for delete (BIO_DELETE) operations.

     -f, --filter filter
             A regular expression that can be used to only show statistics for
             some devices.  Only devices with the names matching filter will
             be displayed.  The format of the regular expression is described
             at https://docs.rs/regex.

     -o, --other
             Enable display of statistics for other operations (BIO_FLUSH).

     -s, --size
             Enable blocks' size statistics.

     -I, --interval interval
             Refresh the gstat display every interval microseconds.  Adding a
             suffix of s, ms, or us (the default) indicates that the update
             interval is specified in seconds, milliseconds, or microseconds,
             respectively.

     -p, --physical
             Only display physical providers (those with rank of 1).

     -R, --reset-config
             Reset the configuration to defaults.

     -r, --reverse
             Reverse the sort order

     -S, --column column
             Sort the devices by column.  The spelling of column should match
             the displayed column header.

     gstat displays information about the performance of GEOM devices.  It can
     be configured from the command line, or on-line by interactive commands.
     In either case, the configuration will be automatically saved between
     invocations.  It is based on the familiar gstat command from FreeBSD, but
     with several notable changes:

     •   It can sort the devices.

     •   It can display or hide arbitrary columns of data.

     •   If the screen has enough space, it will display multiple devices
         side-by-side.

     •   It can pause the display temporarily.

     •   Its settings are automatically persisted to a configuration file.

     •   It does not support batch mod (the -bBC flags).  If you need batch
         mode, you should use iostat(8) instead.

     •   It does not display GEOM consumers, only producers.

INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
     These commands are currently recognized.

     <SPACE>
             Pause/unpause updating the display.

     <DOWN ARROW> <UP ARROW>
             Select one row of the table.  This is purely for visual focus
             purposes.  It has no other effect.

     <DELETE>
             Delete the selected sort column from the display.

     <INSERT>
             Bring up the column selector dialog box.  This can be used to
             control exactly which columns are displayed.

     +       Sort by the next column to the right.

     -       Sort by the next column to the left.

     <       Halve the update interval.

     >       Double the update interval.

     a       Toggle auto mode.  This has the same effect as the --auto command
             line option.

     f       Display only devices with the names matching a regular expression
             (prompt for filter expression).

     F       Remove device filter.

     p       Toggle physical mode.  This has the same effect as the --physical
             command line option.

     q       Quit

     r       Toggle reverse sort.  This has the same effect as the --reverse
             command line option.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variable affects the execution of gstat:

     NO_COLOR  Output will be rendered in black-and-white only, without color.

EXIT STATUS
     The gstat utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     systat(1), geom(4), iostat(8), vmstat(8)

HISTORY
     A gstat utility appeared in FreeBSD 5.0.  It was rewritten in Rust during
     2021 by Alan Somers <asomers@FreeBSD.org> under the sponsorship of
     Axcient.


FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           February 4, 2024           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
