GSTAT(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               GSTAT(8)

NAME
     gstat – print statistics about GEOM disks

SYNOPSIS
     gstat [-abBcdops] [-f filter] [-I interval]

DESCRIPTION
     The gstat utility can be used to monitor I/O transactions of geom(4)
     devices.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Only display providers that are at least 0.1% busy.

     -b      Batch mode.  Collect numbers, print and exit.  Default if stdout
             is not a tty.

     -B      Endless batch mode.  Same as batch mode, but does not exit after
             collecting the first set of data.

     -c      Enable display of geom(4) consumers too.  The default is to show
             statistics only for geom(4) producers.

     -C      CSV output mode.  Implies endless batch mode, but output is in
             the form of comma-separated values, with ISO 8601-like
             timestamps.

     -d      Enable display of statistics for delete (BIO_DELETE) operations.

     -f filter
             A regular expression that can be used to only show statistics for
             some devices.  Only devices with the names matching filter will
             be displayed.  The format of the regular expression is described
             in re_format(7).

     -o      Enable display of statistics for other operations (BIO_FLUSH).

     -s      Enable blocks' size statistics.

     -I interval
             Refresh the gstat display every interval microseconds.  Adding a
             suffix of s, ms, or us (the default) indicates that the update
             interval is specified in seconds, milliseconds, or microseconds,
             respectively.

     -p      Only display physical providers (those with rank of 1).

EXIT STATUS
     The gstat utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     systat(1), geom(4), iostat(8), vmstat(8)

HISTORY
     A gstat utility appeared in FreeBSD 5.0.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 21, 2018        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
