GTKAM(1)                                                              GTKAM(1)

NAME
       gtkam - Graphical front end for gphoto2

COMMANDS
   File Menu
       File->Save Photos
              Gives options to save photos to the computer.




              File->Save Photos->Selected
                     Saves the selected photos from the camera to the
                     computer.


              File->Save Photos->All
                     Saves all photos in the camera to the computer.

       Both menu items open a "Save photos..." dialog box which allows the
       user to select the folder to save the images in, as well as a number of
       other options.



              What to save:



                     This is a set of checkboxes which allows the user to
                     select the forms in which data for the selected image(s)
                     will be saved. Any or all of these options may be
                     selected at once.


                     Save photos
                            This is the default. It causes the photos being
                            saved to be downloaded from the camera and saved
                            to the identified folder.


                     Save raw data
                            FIXME: What to say?


                     Save audio data
                            Causes any audio data associated with the image to
                            be saved to the selected folder.


                     Save thumbnails
                            Saves a small version of the selected images to
                            the identified folder.


                     Save EXIF data
                            Saves the EXIF data associated with the images.

                            FIXME: should we say more about the EXIF format?



              Open image(s) with:
                     This allows the user to specify FIXME ??


              Use filename(s) provided by the camera.
                     Causes the saved files to have the names provided by the
                     camera.


              Filename prefix:
                     Defines a prefix to be used when creating filenames. This
                     prefix is combined with the number starting with the
                     number defined in:


              Start numbering with:
                     Defines the first number of the sequence of photos to be
                     stored.



       File->Delete Photos
              Gives options to delete photos from the camera.



              File->Delete Photos->Selected
                     Deletes selected photos from the camera.


              File->Delete Photos->All
                     Deletes all photos in the camera.


              Both of these menu items open a dialog to confirm the deletion
              of the photos. A list of photos is presented with a checkbox
              beside each photo name. Uncheck the box to prevent a specific
              file from being deleted.



       File->Quit
              Quits gtkam.


   View Menu
       Gives options for previewing photos before downloading them from the
       camera.


       View->View Thumbnails
              This is the same command as the checkbox on the main gtkam
              window. It allows the user to select whether thumbnails of the
              photos are displayed, or just the file names.


       View->Zoom In
              Enlarges the thumbnails.


       View->Zoom 100
              Returns the thumbnails to default size.


       View->Zoom Out
              Reduces the thumbnails.


   Select Menu
       Select->All
              Selects all pictures in the camera.


       Select->Inverse
              Inverts the selections already made so that previously
              unselected images are now selected, and previously selected
              images are now unselected.


       Select->None
              Undoes all selections so that no images are selected.


   Camera Menu
       Camera->Add Camera...
              Opens a window to allow the user to define the camera and
              interface being used.  "Simple" Select Camera Dialog.
              "Enhanced" Select Camera Dialog.  Dialog for explicitly adding a
              path to the port to which the camera is attached.


   Help Menu
       Help->Debug...
              Opens the logging window which allows the user to select the
              type of messages to log.



              Error  causes the logging of any error messages.


              Verbose
                     Increases the amount of information being logged. (I
                     can't see what effect this has. - mjr)


              Debug  Causes the logging of progress reports as the software
                     communicates with the camers.


              Data   Causes the logging of all data being transferred from the
                     camera. This will generate huge quantities of hexadecimal
                     information.


              Save As...
                     opens a dialog to allow the user to save the information
                     logged in the debug window.


              Close  Closes the debug window



       Help->About...
              Opens the about gtKam window. This gives the current version,
              author credits, and contact information.


   Right Click (over directory pane) Menu
       Right Click->Upload File
              Opens a dialog to identify an image file for uploading to the
              camera.


       Right Click->Make directory
              Opens dialog to create new directory.


       Right Click->Remove directory
              Opens a dialog to remove (delete) an existing folder
              (directory).


       Right Click->Capture
              Opens a window to allow the user to trigger the camera to
              acquire an image if the camera and its gphoto2 driver supports
              this feature.. (This feature is not available on my camera, so I
              would appreciate some input on this item. -mjr)


       Right Click->Preferences
              Camera configuration tab.  Driver configuration tab.


       Right Click->Summary
              Displays a window with information about the camera and its
              memory.


       Right Click->Manual
              I'm not sure what this should contain. Anyone? - mjr FIXME: need
              useful image


       Right Click->About
              Displays a window with information about the camera driver and
              its authors.

              This should include contact information for the maintainers of
              the drivers for your camera.


       Right Click->Select Camera
              Opens the Add Camera dialog.


       Right Click->Remove Camera
              Removes the camera from the directory pane.


   Right Click (over list pane) Menu
       Right Click->View with...->Built-in viewer
              Downloads the image under the cursor and displays it in a new
              window. The window automatically resizes the image to fill the
              window.


       Right Click->Info
              Presents file name, type, size, date and permissions information
              about the image under the cursor.


       Right Click->Save
              Downloads the image under the cursor and opens a dialog to allow
              it to be saved to the computer.


       Right Click->Delete
              Opens a dialog to allow the user to delete the image under the
              cursor.


AUTHOR
       The gPhoto2 Team.
       Man page edited by Michael J. Rensing <michael.rensing@shaw.ca>.

                                  August 2002                         GTKAM(1)
