guacenc(1)                     Apache Guacamole                     guacenc(1)

NAME
       guacenc - Guacamole video encoder

SYNOPSIS
       guacenc [-s WIDTHxHEIGHT] [-r BITRATE] [-f] [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       guacenc is a video encoder which accepts Guacamole protocol dumps, such
       as those saved when screen recording is enabled on a Guacamole
       connection, writing standard video files as output.  guacenc is
       essentially an implementation of a Guacamole client which accepts its
       input from files instead of a network connection, and renders directly
       to video instead of to the user's screen.

       Each FILE specified will be encoded as MPEG-4 video to a new file named
       FILE.m4v, encoded according to the other options specified. By default,
       the output video will be 640x480 pixels, and will be saved with a
       bitrate of 2000000 bits per second (2 Mbps). These defaults can be
       overridden with the -s and -r options respectively. Existing files will
       not be overwritten; the encoding process for any input file will be
       aborted if it would result in overwriting an existing file.

       Guacamole acquires a write lock on recordings as they are being
       written. By default, guacenc will check whether the each input file is
       locked and will refuse to read and encode an input file if it appears
       to be an in-progress recording. This behavior can be overridden by
       specifying the -f option. Encoding an in-progress recording will still
       result in a valid video; the video will simply cover the user's session
       only up to the current point in time.

OPTIONS
       -s WIDTHxHEIGHT
              Changes the resolution of the video that guacenc renders. By
              default, this will be 640x480.

       -r BITRATE
              Changes the bitrate that guacenc will use for the saved video.
              This is specified in bits per second. By default, this will be
              2000000 (2 Mbps). Higher values will result in larger but
              higher-quality video files. Lower values will result in smaller
              but lower-quality video files.

       -f     Overrides the default behavior of guacenc such that input files
              will be encoded even if they appear to be recordings of in-
              progress Guacamole sessions.

SEE ALSO
       guaclog(1)

version 1.6.0                     26 Jan 2018                       guacenc(1)
