HAMMER2(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             HAMMER2(8)

NAME
     hammer2 – hammer2 file system utility

SYNOPSIS
     hammer2 -h
     hammer2 [-s path] [-t type] [-u uuid] [-m mem] command [argument ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The hammer2 utility provides miscellaneous support functions for a
     HAMMER2 file system.

     The options are as follows:

     -s path
             Specify the path to a mounted HAMMER2 filesystem.  At least one
             PFS on a HAMMER2 filesystem must be mounted for the system to act
             on all PFSs managed by it.  Every HAMMER2 filesystem typically
             has a PFS called "LOCAL" for this purpose.

     -t type
             Specify the type when creating, upgrading, or downgrading a PFS.
             Supported types are MASTER, SLAVE, SOFT_MASTER, SOFT_SLAVE,
             CACHE, and DUMMY.  If not specified the pfs-create directive will
             default to MASTER if no UUID is specified, and SLAVE if a UUID is
             specified.

     -u uuid
             Specify the cluster UUID when creating a PFS.  If not specified,
             a unique, random UUID will be generated.  Note that every PFS
             also has a unique pfs_id which is always generated and cannot be
             overridden with an option.  The { pfs_clid, pfs_fsid } tuple
             uniquely identifies a component of a cluster.

     -m mem  Specify how much tracking memory to use for certain directives.
             At the moment, this option is only applicable to the bulkfree
             directive, allowing it to operate in fewer passes when given more
             memory.  A nominal value for a 4TB drive with a ton of stuff on
             it would be around a gigabyte '-m 1g'.

     hammer2 directives are as shown below.  Note that most directives require
     you to either be CD'd into a hammer2 filesystem, specify a path to a
     mounted hammer2 filesystem via the -s option, or specify a path after the
     directive.  It depends on the directive.  All hammer2 filesystems have a
     PFS called "LOCAL" which is typically mounted locally on the host in
     order to be able to issue commands for other PFSs on the filesystem.  The
     mount also enables PFS configuration scanning for that filesystem.

     cleanup [path]
             Perform manual cleanup passes on paths or all mounted partitions.

     destroy path...
             Destroy the specified directory entry in a hammer2 filesystem.
             This bypasses all normal checks and will unconditionally destroy
             the directory entry.  The underlying inode is not checked and, if
             it does exist, its nlinks count is not decremented.  This
             directive should only be used to destroy a corrupted directory
             entry which no longer has a working inode.  Unsupported unless
             HAMMER2_INVARIANTS is enabled.

             Note that this command may desynchronize the system namecache for
             the specified entry.  If this happens, you may have to unmount
             and remount the filesystem.

     destroy-inum path...
             Destroy the specified inode in a hammer2 filesystem.  Unsupported
             unless HAMMER2_INVARIANTS is enabled.

     emergency-mode-enable target
             Flag emergency operations mode in the filesystem.  This mode may
             be used as a last resort to delete files and directories from a
             full filesystem.  Inode creation, file writes, and certain meta-
             data cleanups are disallowed while emergency mode is active.
             File and directory removal and mode/attr setting is still
             allowed.  This mode is extremely dangerous and should only be
             used as a last resort.

             This mode allows the filesystem to modify blocks in-place when it
             is unable to allocate a copy.  Thus it is possible to chflags and
             remove files and directories even when the filesystem is
             completely full.  However, there is a price.  This mode of
             operation WILL LIKELY CORRUPT ANY SNAPSHOTS related to this
             filesystem.  The filesystem will report this condition if it
             encounters it but if you are forced to use this mode to fix a
             filesystem full condition your snapshots can get a bit dicey.  It
             is usually safest to delete any related snapshots when using this
             mode.

             You can detect whether related snapshots have been corrupted by
             running a bulkfree pass and checking the console output for
             reported CRC errors.  If no errors are reported, your snapshots
             are fine.  If errors are reported you should delete related
             snapshots until bulkfree reports no further errors.

             The emergency mode will also make meta-data updates unsafe due to
             the lack of copy-on-write, causing potential harm if the system
             unexpectedly panics or loses power.  GREAT CARE MUST BE TAKEN
             WHILE THIS MODE IS ACTIVE.

             1.   Determine that you are unable to recover space with normal
                  file and directory removal commands due to ENOSPC errors
                  being returned by 'rm', or through the removal of snapshots
                  (if any).  The 'bulkfree' directive must be issued to scan
                  the filesystem and free up the actual space, then check with
                  'df'.  Continue if you still have insufficient space and are
                  unable to remove items normally.

             2.   If you need any related snapshots, this is a good time to
                  copy them elsewhere.

             3.   Idle or kill any processes trying to use the filesystem.

             4.   Issue the emergency-mode-enable directive on the filesystem.
                  Once enabled, run 'sync' to update any dirty inodes which
                  may still be dirty due to not being able to flush.  Please
                  remember that this directive is a LAST RESORT, is dangerous,
                  and will likely corrupt any other snapshots you have based
                  on the filesystem you are removing files from.

             5.   Remove file trees as necessary with 'rm -rf' to free space,
                  being cognizant of any warnings issued by the kernel on the
                  console (via 'dmesg') while doing so.

             6.   Issue the 'bulkfree' directive to actually free the space
                  and check that sufficient space has been freed with 'df'.

             7.   If bulkfree reports CHECK errors, or if you have snapshots
                  and insufficient space has been freed, you will need to
                  delete snapshots.  Re-run bulkfree and delete snapshots
                  until no errors are reported.

             8.   Issue the emergency-mode-disable directive when done.  It
                  might also be a good idea to reboot after using this mode,
                  but theoretically you should not have to.

             9.   Restore services using the filesystem.

     emergency-mode-disable target
             Turn off the emergency operations mode on a filesystem, restoring
             normal operation.

     growfs [fspath...]
             After resizing the disk partition you can issue this command on a
             mounted hammer2 filesystem to grow into the new space in the
             partition.  This command is run on a live hammer2 filesystem.

     hash [filename...]
             Compute and print the directory hash for any number of filenames.

     dhash [filename...]
             Compute and print the data hash for long directory entry for any
             number of filenames.

     pfs-list [path...]
             List all PFSs associated with all mounted hammer2 storage
             devices.  The list may be restricted to a particular filesystem
             using -s mount.

             Note that hammer2 PFSs associated with storage devices which have
             not been mounted in any fashion will not be listed.  At least one
             hammer2 label must be mounted for the PFSs on that device to be
             visible.

     pfs-clid label
             Print the cluster id for a PFS specified by name.

     pfs-fsid label
             Print the unique filesystem id for a PFS specified by name.

     pfs-create label
             Create a local PFS on the mounted HAMMER2 filesystem represented
             by the current directory, or specified via -s mount.  If no UUID
             is specified the pfs-type defaults to MASTER.  If a UUID is
             specified via the -u option the pfs-type defaults to SLAVE.
             Other types can be specified with the -t option.

             If you wish to add a MASTER to an existing cluster, you must
             first add it as a SLAVE and then upgrade it to MASTER to properly
             synchronize it.

             The DUMMY pfs-type is used to tie network-accessible clusters
             into the local machine when no local storage is desired.  This
             type should be used on minimal H2 partitions or entirely in ram
             for netboot-centric systems to provide a tie-in point for the
             mount command, or on more complex systems where you need to also
             access network-centric clusters.

             The CACHE or SLAVE pfs-type is typically used when the main store
             is on the network but local storage is desired to improve
             performance.  SLAVE is also used when a backup is desired.

             Generally speaking, you can mount any PFS element of a cluster in
             order to access the cluster via the full cluster protocol.  There
             are two exceptions.  If you mount a SOFT_SLAVE or a SOFT_MASTER
             then soft quorum semantics are employed... the soft slave or soft
             master's current state will always be used and the quorum
             protocol will not be used.  The soft PFS will still be
             synchronized to masters in the background when available.  Also,
             you can use ‘mount -o local’ to mount ONLY a local HAMMER2 PFS
             and not run any network or quorum protocols for the mount.  All
             such mounts except for a SOFT_MASTER mount will be read-only.
             Other than that, you will be mounting the whole cluster when you
             mount any PFS within the cluster.

             DUMMY - Create a PFS skeleton intended to be the mount point for
             a more complex cluster, probably one that is entirely network
             based.  No data will be synchronized to this PFS so it is
             suitable for use in a network boot image or memory filesystem.
             This allows you to create placeholders for mount points on your
             local disk, SSD, or memory disk.

             CACHE - Create a PFS for caching portions of the cluster
             piecemeal.  This is similar to a SLAVE but does not synchronize
             the entire contents of the cluster to the PFS.  Elements found in
             the CACHE PFS which are validated against the cluster will be
             read, presumably a faster access than having to go to the
             cluster.  Only local CACHEs will be updated.  Network-accessible
             CACHE PFSs might be read but will not be written to.  If you have
             a large hard-drive-based cluster you can set up localized SSD
             CACHE PFSs to improve performance.

             SLAVE - Create a PFS which maintains synchronization with and
             provides a read-only copy of the cluster.  HAMMER2 will
             prioritize local SLAVEs for data retrieval after validating their
             transaction id against the cluster.  The difference between a
             CACHE and a SLAVE is that the SLAVE is synchronized to a full
             copy of the cluster and thus can serve as a backup or be staged
             for use as a MASTER later on.

             SOFT_SLAVE - Create a PFS which maintains synchronization with
             and provides a read-only copy of the cluster.  This is one of the
             special mount cases.  A SOFT_SLAVE will synchronize with the
             cluster when the cluster is available, but can still be accessed
             when the cluster is not available.

             MASTER - Create a PFS which will hold a master copy of the
             cluster.  If you create several MASTER PFSs with the same cluster
             id you are effectively creating a multi-master cluster and
             causing a quorum and cache coherency protocol to be used to
             validate operations.  The total number of masters is stored in
             each PFSs making up the cluster.  Filesystem operations will
             stall for normal mounts if a quorum cannot be obtained to
             validate the operation.  MASTER nodes which go offline and return
             later will synchronize in the background.  Note that when adding
             a MASTER to an existing cluster you must add the new PFS as a
             SLAVE and then upgrade it to a MASTER.

             SOFT_MASTER - Create a PFS which maintains synchronization with
             and provides a read-write copy of the cluster.  This is one of
             the special mount cases.  A SOFT_MASTER will synchronize with the
             cluster when the cluster is available, but can still be read AND
             written to even when the cluster is not available.  Modifications
             made to a SOFT_MASTER will be automatically flushed to the
             cluster when it becomes accessible again, and vise-versa.  Manual
             intervention may be required if a conflict occurs during
             synchronization.

     pfs-delete [label...]
             Destroy a PFS by name.  All hammer2 mount points will be checked,
             however this directive will refuse to delete a PFS whos name is
             duplicated on multiple mount points.  A specific mount point may
             be specified to restrict the deletion via the -s mount option.

     recover media path destdir
             Recover a file or directory tree by scanning the raw media
             partition, with minimal requirements for an intact topology.  The
             results are written to the destination directory.

             The recovery path can be anchored at (any) root by prefixing it
             with a "/".  If not anchored, any matching sub-tree will be
             recovered and combined into one place on the destination (not as
             separate sub-trees since that requires topological knowledge that
             might not be available).  Roots include all PFS roots and
             snapshot roots, as well as disconnected roots from COW updates
             (aka to be able to undelete a file or directory sub-tree).

             The path may specify a directory or file to restore.  Note that
             if you specify something like ".cshrc", then all ".cshrc" files
             found in the entire filesystem will be recovered.  Multiple
             references to the same physical inode with the same filename in
             the same directory are filtered out.

             This function is meant for catastrophic recovery or corrupted
             media or recovery for deleted files that are not otherwise
             available in snapshots.  All possible versions of files will be
             recovered and suffixed as "*.%05d" with an iterator.

             The hammer2 recovery function is not meant to generate a fully
             operational filesystem in the target directory.  All files will
             be versioned and contain iteration suffixes.  Many files and sub-
             directory trees may wind up glommed together in one place.
             However, this function will recover mtime, ownership, group,
             modes, and flags.  Recovered files are fully validated and any
             missing data will cause the file to be renamed with a
             ".corrupted" suffix.

             Memory requirements - This function needs to track inodes and
             paths and can eat a considerable amount of ram, and it tends to
             be random-access so while swap can make ends meet, it might slow
             the scan down drastically if it has to eat into it much.  Ram
             consumption scales with the number of inodes found.  Call it a
             few gigabytes up to 500GB of media and approaching 64GB on busy
             4TB media.  Busy meaning, say, 50 million topological inodes
             turning into 1 billion inodes located by the media scan.

     recover-relaxed media path destdir
             This version of the recover directive relaxes bref checks.  Under
             normal operation, only brefs with check codes are allowed because
             we get too many false hits otherwise.  In relaxed mode, bref's
             with the check code disabled are also allowed.

             You should only need to use the relaxed version if you have
             turned off CRCs on the files you want to recover.

     recover-file media path destdir
             This version of recover is the normal strict-mode recover but
             explicitly indicates that the path being recovered is a regular
             file and not a directory.  Prevents junk recursions when entries
             corresponding to the last path element appear to be directories.

     snapshot path [label]
             Create a snapshot of a directory.  The snapshot will be created
             on the same hammer2 storage device as the directory.  This can
             only be used on a local PFS, and is only really useful if the PFS
             contains a complete copy of what you desire to snapshot so that
             typically means a local MASTER, SOFT_MASTER, SLAVE, or SOFT_SLAVE
             must be present.  Snapshots are created simply by flushing a PFS
             mount to disk and then copying the directory inode to the PFS.
             The topology is snapshotted without having to be copied or
             scanned and take no additional space.  However, bulkfree scans
             may take longer.  Snapshots are effectively separate from the
             cluster they came from and can be used as a starting point for a
             new cluster.  So unless you build a new cluster from the
             snapshot, it will stay local to the machine it was made on.

             Snapshots can be maintained automatically with periodic(8).  See
             periodic.conf(5) for details of enabling and configuring the
             functionality.

     snapshot-debug path [label]
             Snapshot without filesystem sync.

     stat [path...]
             Print the inode statistics, compression, and other meta-data
             associated with a list of paths.

     show devpath
             Dump the radix tree for the HAMMER2 filesystem by scanning a
             block device directly.  No mount is required.

     freemap devpath
             Dump the freemap tree for the HAMMER2 filesystem by scanning a
             block device directly.  No mount is required.

     volhdr devpath
             Dump the volume header for the HAMMER2 filesystem by scanning a
             block device directly.  No mount is required.

     volume-list [path...]
             List all volumes associated with all mounted hammer2 storage
             devices.  The list may be restricted to a particular filesystem
             using -s mount.

             Note that hammer2 volumes associated with storage devices which
             have not been mounted in any fashion will not be listed.  At
             least one hammer2 label must be mounted for the volumes on that
             device to be visible.

     setcomp mode[:level] path...
             Set the compression mode as specified for any newly created
             elements at or under the path if not overridden by deeper
             elements.  Available modes are none, autozero, lz4, or zlib.
             When zlib is used the compression level can be set.  The default
             will be 6 which is the best trade-off between performance and
             time.

             newfs_hammer2 will set the default compression to lz4 which
             prioritizes speed over performance.  Also note that HAMMER2
             contains a heuristic and will not attempt to compress every block
             if it detects a sufficient amount of uncompressable data.

             Hammer2 compression is only effective when it can reduce the size
             of dataset (typically a 64KB block) by one or more powers of 2.
             A 64K block which only compresses to 40K will not yield any
             storage improvement.

             Generally speaking you do not want to set the compression mode to
             ‘none’, as this will cause blocks of all-zeros to be written as
             all-zero blocks, instead of holes.  The ‘autozero’ compression
             mode detects blocks of all-zeros and writes them as holes.

     setcheck check path...
             Set the check code as specified for any newly created elements at
             or under the path if not overridden by deeper elements.
             Available codes are default, disabled, crc32, xxhash64, or
             sha192.

             Normally HAMMER2 does not overwrite data blocks on the media in
             order to ensure snapshot integrity.  Replacement data blocks will
             be reallocated.  However, if the compression mode is set to
             ‘none’ and the check code is set to ‘disabled’ HAMMER2 will
             overwrite data on the media in-place.  In this mode of operation,
             snapshots will not be able to snapshot the data against later
             changes made to the file, and de-duplication will no longer
             function on any data related to the file.  However, you can still
             recover the most recent data from previously taken snapshots if
             you accidentally remove the file.

     clrcheck [path...]
             Clear the check code override for the specified paths.  Overrides
             may still be present in deeper elements.

     setcrc32 [path...]
             Set the check code to the ISCSI 32-bit CRC for any newly created
             elements at or under the path if not overridden by deeper
             elements.

     setxxhash64 [path...]
             Set the check code to XXHASH64, a fast 64-bit hash.

     setsha192 [path...]
             Set the check code to SHA192 for any newly created elements at or
             under the path if not overridden by deeper elements.

     bulkfree path
             Run a bulkfree pass on a HAMMER2 mount.  You can specify any PFS
             for the mount, the bulkfree pass is run on the entire partition.
             Note that it takes two passes to actually free space.  By default
             this directive will use up to 1/16 physical memory to track the
             freemap.  The amount of memory used may be overridden with the
             [-m mem] option.

     printinode path
             Dump inode.

     dumpchain [path [chnflags]]
             Dump in-memory chain topology.  Unsupported unless
             HAMMER2_INVARIANTS is enabled.

SYSCTLS
     vfs.hammer2.dedup_enable (default on)
             Enables live de-duplication.  Any recently read data that is on-
             media (already synchronized to media) is tested against pending
             writes for compatibility.  If a match is found, the write will
             reference the existing on-media data instead of writing new data.

     vfs.hammer2.always_compress (default off)
             This disables the H2 compression heuristic and forces H2 to
             always try to compress data blocks, even if they look
             uncompressable.  Enabling this option reduces performance but has
             higher de-duplication repeatability.

     vfs.hammer2.cluster_data_read (default 4)

     vfs.hammer2.cluster_meta_read (default 1)
             Set the amount of read-ahead clustering to perform on data and
             meta-data blocks.

     vfs.hammer2.cluster_write (default 0)
             Set the amount of write-behind clustering to perform in buffers.
             Each buffer represents 64KB.  The default is 0 and higher values
             typically do not improve performance.  A value of 0 disables
             clustered writes.  This variable applies to the underlying media
             device, not to logical file writes, so it should not interfere
             with temporary file optimization.  Generally speaking you want
             this enabled to generate smoothly pipelined writes to the media.

     vfs.hammer2.bulkfree_tps (default 5000)
             Set bulkfree's maximum scan rate.  This is primarily intended to
             limit I/O utilization on SSDs and CPU utilization when the meta-
             data is mostly cached in memory.

EXIT STATUS
     The hammer2 utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     mount_hammer2(8), newfs_hammer2(8), sysctl(8)

HISTORY
     The hammer2 utility first appeared in DragonFly 4.1.

AUTHORS
     Matthew Dillon <dillon@backplane.com>

     The hammer2 utility was ported to FreeBSD, NetBSD and OpenBSD by
     Tomohiro Kusumi <tkusumi@netbsd.org>.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 25, 2024           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
