HARMINV(1)                          harminv                         HARMINV(1)

NAME
       harminv - extract mode frequencies from time-series data

SYNOPSIS
       harminv [OPTION]... [freq-min-freq-max]...

DESCRIPTION
       harminv is a program designed to solve the problem of "harmonic
       inversion": given a time series consisting of a sum of sinusoids
       ("modes"), extract their frequencies and amplitudes.  It can also
       handle the case of exponentially-decaying sinusoids, in which case it
       extracts their decay rates as well.

       harminv is often able to achieve much greater accuracy and robustness
       than Fourier-transform methods, essentially because it assumes a
       specific form for the input.

       It uses a low-storage "filter-diagonalization method" (FDM), as
       described in V. A. Mandelshtam and H. S. Taylor, "Harmonic inversion of
       time signals," J. Chem. Phys. 107, 6756 (1997).  See also erratum, ibid
       109, 4128 (1998).

INPUT
       harminv reads in a sequence of whitespace-separated real or complex
       numbers from standard input, as well as command-line arguments
       indicating one or more frequency ranges to search, and outputs the
       modes that it extracts from the data.  (It preferentially finds modes
       in the frequency range you specify, but may sometimes find additional
       modes outside of that range.)  The data should correspond to equally-
       spaced time intervals, but there is no constraint on the number of
       points.

       Complex numbers in the input should be expressed in the format RE+IMi
       (no whitespace).  Otherwise, whitespace is ignored.  Also, comments
       beginning with "#" and extending to the end of the line are ignored.

       A typical invocation is something like


           harminv -t 0.02 1-5 < input.dat

       which reads a sequence of samples, spaced at 0.02 time intervals (in
       ms, say, corresponding to 50 kHz), and searches for modes in the
       frequency range 1-5 kHz.  (See below on units.)

OUTPUT
       harminv writes six comma-delimited columns to standard output, one line
       for each mode: frequency, decay constant, Q, amplitude, phase, and
       error.  Each mode corresponds to a function of the form:

       amplitude * exp[-i (2 pi frequency t - phase) - decay t]

       Here, i is sqrt(-1), t is the time (see below for units), and the other
       parameters in the output columns are:


       frequency
              The frequency of the mode.  If you don't recognize that from the
              expression above, you should recall Euler's formula: exp(i x) =
              cos(x) + i sin(x).  Note that for complex data, there is a
              distinction between positive and negative frequencies.

       decay constant
              The exponential decay constant, indicated by decay in the above
              formula.  The inverse of this is often called the "lifetime" of
              the mode. The "half-life" is ln(2)/decay.

       Q      A conventional, dimensionless expression of the decay lifetime:
              Q = pi |frequency| / decay.  Q, which stands for "quality
              factor", is the number of periods for the "energy" in the mode
              (the squared amplitude) to decay by exp(-2 pi).  Equivalently,
              if you look at the power spectrum (|Fourier transform|^2), 1/Q
              is the fractional width of the peak at half maximum.

       amplitude
              The (real, positive) amplitude of the sinusoids.  The amplitude
              (and phase) information generally seems to be less accurate than
              the frequency and decay constant.

       phase  The phase shift (in radians) of the sinusoids, as given by the
              formula above.

       error  A crude estimate of the relative error in the (complex)
              frequency.  This is not really an error bar, however, so you
              should treat it more as a figure of merit (smaller is better)
              for each mode.

SPURIOUS MODES
       Typically, harminv will find a number of spurious solutions in addition
       to the desired solutions, especially if your data are noisy.  Such
       solutions are characterized by large errors, small amplitudes, and/or
       small Q (large decay rates / broad linewidths).  You can omit these
       from the output by the error/Q/amplitude screening options defined
       below.

       By default, modes with error > 0.1 and Q < 10 are automatically
       omitted, but it is likely that you will need to set stricter limits.

UNITS
       The frequency (and decay) values, both input and output, are specified
       in units of 1/time, where the units of time are determined by the
       sampling interval dt (the time between consecutive inputs).  dt is by
       default 1, unless you specify it with the -t dt option.

       In other words, pick some units (e.g. ms in the example above) and use
       them to express the time step.  Then, be consistent and use the inverse
       of those units (e.g. kHz = 1/ms) for frequency.

       Note that the frequency is the usual 1/period definition; it is not the
       angular frequency.

OPTIONS
       -h     Display help on the command-line options and usage.

       -V     Print the version number and copyright info for harminv.

       -v     Enable verbose output, printed to standard output as comment
              lines (starting with a "#" character).  Also, any "#" comments
              in the input are echoed to the output.

       -T     Specify period-ranges instead of frequency-ranges on the command
              line (in units of time corresponding to those specified by -t).
              The output is still frequency and not period, however.

       -w     Specify angular frequencies instead of frequencies, and output
              angular frequency instead of frequency.  (Angular frequency is
              frequency multiplied by 2 pi).

       -n     Flip the sign of the frequency (and phase) convention used in
              harminv.  (The sign of the frequency is only important if you
              have complex-valued input data, in which case the positive and
              negative frequency amplitudes can differ.)

       -t dt  Specify the sampling interval dt; this determines the units of
              time used throughout the input and output.  Defaults to 1.0.

       -d d   Specify the spectral "density" d to search for modes, where a
              density of 1 indicates the usual Fourier resolution.  That is,
              the number of basis functions (which sets an upper bound on the
              number of modes) is given by d times (freq-max - freq-min) times
              dt times the number of samples in your dataset.  A maximum of
              300 is used, however, to prevent the matrices from getting too
              big (you can force a larger number with -f, below).

              Note that the frequency resolution of the outputs is not limited
              by the spectral density, and can generally be much greater than
              the Fourier resolution.  The density determines how many modes,
              at most, to search for, and in some sense is the density with
              which the bandwidth is initially "searched" for modes.

              The default density is 0.0, which means that the number of basis
              functions is determined by -f (which defaults to 100).  This
              often corresponds to a much larger density than the usual
              Fourier resolution, but the resulting singularities in the
              system matrices are automatically removed by harminv.

       -f nf  Specify a lower bound nf on the number of spectral basis
              functions (defaults to 100), setting a lower bound on the number
              of modes to search for.  This option is often a more convenient
              way to specify the number of basis functions than the -d option,
              above, which is why it is the default.

              -f also allows you to employ more than 300 basis functions, but
              careful: the computation time scales as O(N nf) + O(nf^3), where
              N is the number of samples, and very large matrices can also
              have degraded accuracy.

       -s sort
              Specify how the outputs are sorted, where sort is one of
              frequency/error/Q/decay/amplitude.  (Only the first character of
              sort matters.)  All sorts are in ascending order.  The default
              is to sort by frequency.

       -e err Omit any modes with error (see above) greater than err times the
              largest error among the computed modes.  Defaults to no limit.

       -E err Omit any modes with error (see above) greater than err.
              Defaults to 0.1.

       -F     Omit any modes with frequencies outside the specified range.
              (Such modes are not necessarily spurious, however.)

       -a amp Omit any modes with amplitude (see above) less than amp times
              the largest amplitude among the computed modes.  Defaults to no
              limit.

       -A amp Omit any modes with amplitude (see above) less than amp.
              Defaults to no limit.

       -Q q   Omit any modes with |Q| (see above) less than q.  Defaults to
              10.

BUGS
       Send bug reports to S. G. Johnson, stevenj@alum.mit.edu.

AUTHORS
       Written by Steven G. Johnson.  Copyright (c) 2005 by the Massachusetts
       Institute of Technology.

harminv                          June 4, 2005                       HARMINV(1)
