HEBCAL(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              HEBCAL(1)

NAME
     hebcal - a Jewish calendar generator

SYNOPSIS
     hebcal [ -8acdDEeFgHhiMoOrSstTWwXxyZ ]
               [ -b minutes ]
               [ --chag-only ]
               [ -C city ]
               [ --geo latitude,longitude ]
               [ -G degrees ]
               [ --help ]
               [ -I input_file ]
               [ --lang language ]
               [ -l latitude -L longitude ]
               [ -m minutes ]
               [ --mevarchim ]
               [ --mishna-yomi ]
               [ --nach-yomi ]
               [ --no-mf ]
               [ --no-modern ]
               [ --no-special ]
               [ --no-julian ]
               [ --daily-learning name ]
               [ --schottenstein ]
               [ --verbose ]
               [ --version ]
               [ -Y yahrtzeit_file ]
               [ --years N ]
               [ --yerushalmi ]
               [ --ykk ]
               [ -z timezone ]
               [[ month [ day ] year | YYYY-MM-DD ]
     hebcal help
     hebcal info
     hebcal cities
     hebcal copying
     hebcal warranty

DESCRIPTION
     With no arguments, hebcal will print to stdout the dates of the Jewish
     holidays in the current secular year.  Each line is prefixed with a
     Gregorian date of the form mm/dd/yyyy.

     By specifying month, day, or year, output can be limited to a particular
     month or date in a particular year.  Note that year is usually a four-
     digit integer, so 92 is during the Roman period, not the late twentieth
     century.  If the Hebrew dates option (-H) is turned on, this number
     represents the Jewish calendar year.  month is a number from 1..12, or
     the name of a Jewish calendar month.  day is a number from 1..31.

     A single day may also be specified as YYYY-MM-DD (ISO 8601 date format).

     For example, the command

          hebcal 10 1992

     will print out the holidays occurring in October of 1992 C.E., while the
     command

          hebcal Tish 5752

     will print dates of interest in the month of Tishrei in Jewish calendar
     year 5752.

     Note: hebcal 92 is not the same as hebcal 1992.  The year is assumed to
     be complete, so the former calendar precedes the latter by nineteen
     centuries.

     A few other bells and whistles include the weekly sedra as well as the
     day of the week, the count of the omer, and the Hebrew date.

     Output from hebcal can be used to drive calendar(1).  Day-to-day use for
     hebcal is provided for in the -T and -t switches, which print out Jewish
     calendar entries for the current date.

     To get a quick-reference online help, run

          hebcal help

     at the command prompt.

OPTIONS
     -8     Use UTF-8 Hebrew (alias for --lang=he).

     -a     Use Ashkenazi Hebrew transliterations.

     -b mins
            Set candle-lighting to occur mins minutes before sundown.  Default
            18 if unspecified (default 40 for Jerusalem, 30 for Haifa, 30 for
            Zichron Ya'akov).

     -c     Add approximate candle-lighting times.  See below.

     --chag-only
            Output only Chag and Erev Chag events (when melakha/labor is
            prohibited)

     -C city
            Set latitude, longitude, and timezone according to city.  This
            option implies the -c option.

     -d     Print the Hebrew date for the entire date range.

     -D     Print the Hebrew date for dates with some events

     -e     Change the output format to European-style dates: dd.mm.yyyy

     -E     Output 24-hour times (e.g., 18:37 instead of 6:37)

     -g     Emit ISO-8601 dates, i.e. YYYY-MM-DD

     -G degrees
            Set Havdalah to occur this many degrees below the horizon.  Use
            8.5 for three small stars or 7.0833 for three medium-sized stars.

     --geo latitude,longitude
            Set location for solar calculations to decimal values latitude and
            longitude.  Requires -z timzeone switch. This switch is preferred
            over the legacy -l and -L switches as it offers more precision and
            follows the standard of negative longitudes being west of the
            Prime Meridian.

     -h     Suppress holidays in output.  User-defined calendar events are
            unaffected by this switch.

     -H     When the -H switch is used, all dates specified on the command
            line are assumed to be Hebrew dates.  So for instance,

                 example% hebcal -H 5754

            will print data for 5754, starting in Tishrei, and ending in Elul.
            Hebcal is smart enough to detect a Hebrew month and infer that you
            want a Hebrew date range, so you could type

                 example% hebcal tish 5754

            The -H switch would be superfluous in this case.  Invoking hebcal
            with just the -H switch by itself will print data for the current
            Hebrew year, starting in Tishrei.

     -i     Use Israeli holiday and sedra schedule.  Defaults to Diaspora if
            unspecified.

     -I file
            Read extra events from file.  These events are printed regardless
            of the -h suppress holidays switch.

            There is one holiday per line in file, each with the format

                 MMMM DD description

            where MMMM is a string identifying the Jewish month in question DD
            is a number from 1 to 30, and description is a newline-terminated
            string describing the holiday.  An example might be

                 Adar 1 Start cleaning kitchen for Passover

     -l deg,min
            Set the latitude for solar calculations to deg degrees and min
            minutes.  Negative values are south.  Deprecated: use --geo
            instead.

     -L deg,min
            Set the longitude for solar calculations to deg degrees and min
            minutes.  Note: Negative values are east.  The -l and -L switches
            must both be used, or not at all, and override the -C (localize to
            city) switch.  Deprecated: use --geo instead.

     --lang lang
            Display calendar in the lang language, which must be specified as
            one of “en”, “ashkenazi”, “he”, “he-x-NoNikud”,
            “ashkenazi_komatz”, “ashkenazi_litvish”, “ashkenazi_poylish”,
            “ashkenazi_romanian”, “ashkenazi_standard”, “de”, “es”, “fi”,
            “fr”, “hu”, “nl”, “pl”, “pt”, “ro”, “ru”, “uk”, “yi”

     -m mins
            Set havdalah to occur mins minutes after sundown (default 72).

     --mevarchim
            Include Shabbat Mevarchim HaChodesh.

     -M     Print the molad on shabbat mevorchim

     --no-mf
            Suppress minor fast days.

     --no-modern
            Suppress modern Israeli holidays.

     --no-special
            Suppress Special Shabbatot.

     --no-julian
            Disable the Julian calendar for dates before September 14, 1752,
            and use the proleptic Gregorian calendar instead.

     -o     Add the count of the omer to the output.

     -O     Output sunrise and sunset times every day.

     -r     Use a tab-delineated format, and somewhat terser strings.  Instead
            of saying “ 13th day of the omer ” hebcal will say “ Omer: 13 ”

     -s     Add the weekly sedra to the output on Saturdays.  See -i.

     -S     Add the weekly sedra to the output every day.  When this option is
            invoked, every time a day is printed, the torah reading for the
            Saturday on or immediately following that date is printed.  If
            there is no reading for the next Saturday, then nothing is
            printed.  See -i.

     -t     Print calendar information for today's date only.  -d and -o are
            asserted with this option.

     -T     Same as -t, only without the Gregorian date.  This option is
            useful in login scripts, just to see what's happening today in the
            Jewish calendar.

     -w     Add the day of the week to the output.

     -W     Weekly view.  Omer, dafyomi, and non-date-specific zemanim are
            shown once a week, on the day which corresponds to the first day
            in the range.

     -x     Suppress Rosh Chodesh

     -X     Exit silently with non-zero status if today is Shabbat or Chag;
            exit with 0 status if today is chol.

     --verbose
            Verbose mode, currently used only for --exit-if-chag (-X).  Print
            the reason today is considered Shabbat or Chag.

     -y     Print only the last two digits of the year.

     --years  n
            Generate events for n years (default 1)

     --ykk  Include Yom Kippur Katan, a minor day of atonement occurring
            monthly on the day preceding each Rosh Chodesh.

     -Y file
            Read a table of yahrtzeit dates from file.  These events are
            printed regardless of the -h suppress holidays switch.

            There is one death-date per line in file, each with the format

                 MM_DD_YYYY_description

            where MM, DD and YYYY form the  Gregorian date of death.
            description is a newline-terminated string to be printed on the
            yahrtzeit.  An example might be

                 12 29 1957 Menachem Mendel's yahrtzeit.
                 5 15 1930 Benjamin's yahrtzeit.

     -z timezone
            Use the specified timezone, overriding the -C (localize to city)
            switch.  For correct DST rules, use a full timezone name (such as
            “America/New_York”) instead of a timezone abbreviation (such as
            “EST”).

     -Z     Add zemanim (Alot HaShachar; Misheyakir; Kriat Shema, sof zeman;
            Tefilah, sof zeman; Chatzot hayom; Mincha Gedolah; Mincha Ketanah;
            Plag HaMincha; Tzait HaKochavim)

     --help Show help text

     --version
            Show version number

   Learning Schedules
     Hebcal can interleave a variety of daily and weekly Torah and Talmud
     learning schedules into the calendar.  The schedules below have dedicated
     options; in addition, any schedule may be requested by name with the
     repeatable --daily-learning option.

     -F ,  --daf-yomi
            Output the Daf Yomi (Bavli) for the entire date range.

     --mishna-yomi
            Output the Mishna Yomi for the entire date range.

     --nach-yomi
            Output the Nach Yomi for the entire date range.

     --yerushalmi
            Output the Yerushalmi Yomi for the entire date range.

     --schottenstein
            Use the Schottenstein edition of Yerushalmi Yomi (default Vilna
            page numbers).  This option implies the --yerushalmi option.

     --daily-learning name
            Output the named learning schedule for the entire date range.  May
            be repeated.  Valid names are: dafYomi (Daf Yomi, Babylonian
            Talmud), mishnaYomi (Mishna Yomi, two Mishnayot per day), nachYomi
            (Nach Yomi, a chapter of Nevi'im and Ketuvim), yerushalmi-vilna
            and yerushalmi-schottenstein (Yerushalmi Yomi, Jerusalem Talmud),
            929 (929, a daily chapter of the Hebrew Bible, Sun–Thu), rambam1
            and rambam3 (Daily Rambam, one or three chapters a day), dafWeekly
            and dafWeeklySunday (Daf-a-Week), perekYomi (one chapter of the
            Mishnah per day), psalms (Daily Psalms / Tehillim, 30-day cycle),
            pirkeiAvotSummer (Pirkei Avot, summer Shabbatot), and tanakhYomi
            (Tanakh Yomi, annual Masoretic seder cycle).

CANDLE-LIGHTING TIMES
     Hebcal's candlelighting times are only approximations.  If you ever have
     any doubts about its times, consult your local halachic authority.  If
     you enter geographic coordinates above the arctic circle or below the
     antarctic circle, the times are guaranteed to be wrong.

     In addition to candle-lighting on Erev Shabbat and Chag, the -c switch
     also generates Havdalah and fast start/end times.

     By default, candle-lighting times are 18 minutes before sunset (see -b
     option above for exceptions).

     Chanukah candle-lighting times are at civil dusk (solar depression of 6
     degrees) on weekdays. Chanukah candles are lit just before Shabbat
     candles on Friday, and immediately after Havdalah on Saturday night.

     Havdalah time defaults to 72 minutes after sunset (Rabbeinu Tam).  Adjust
     with the -m (minutes) option or with -G (havdalah degrees below horizon).

     Minor fasts begin in the morning at alot haShachar (solar depression 16.1
     degrees) and conclude at tzeit for 3 medium sized stars (solar depression
     7.083 degrees).  Major fasts (Yom Kippur and Tish'a B'Av) begin just
     before sunset (at regular candle-lighting time) and conclude at Havdalah
     time.

     Hebcal contains a small database of cities with their associated
     geographic information and time-zone information.  The geographic and
     time information necessary to calculate sundown times can come to hebcal
     any of three ways:

     1)     The default: the system manager sets a default city when the
            program is compiled.

     2)     Hebcal looks in the environment variable HEBCAL_CITY for the name
            of a city in hebcal's database, and if it finds one, hebcal will
            make that the new default city.

     3)     1 and 2 may be overridden by command line arguments, including
            those specified in the HEBCAL_OPTS environment variable.  The most
            natural way to do this is to use the -c city command.  This will
            localize hebcal to city.  A list of the cities hebcal knows about
            can be obtained by typing

                 hebcal cities

            at the command prompt.  If the city you want isn't on that list,
            you can directly control hebcal's geographic information with the
            --geo and -z switches.

     For a status report on customizations, type type

          hebcal info

     at the command prompt.

EXAMPLES
     To find the days of the omer in 1997, printing the days of the week:

            example% hebcal -how 1997
            4/23/97 Wed, 1st day of the Omer
            4/24/97 Thu, 2nd day of the Omer
            4/25/97 Fri, 3rd day of the Omer
             .
             .
             .
            6/9/97 Mon, 48th day of the Omer
            6/10/97 Tue, 49th day of the Omer

     To print only the weekly sedrot of Nisan 5770

            example% hebcal -hs Nisan 5770
            3/20/2010 Parashat Vayikra
            3/27/2010 Parashat Tzav
            4/10/2010 Parashat Shmini


     To find out what's happening in the Jewish calendar today, use

            example% hebcal -TS
            19 of Nisan, 5752
            Parshat Achrei Mot
            Pesach V (CH"M)
            4th day of the Omer

ENVIRONMENT
     Hebcal uses two environment variables:

     HEBCAL_CITY
            Hebcal uses this value as the default city for sunset
            calculations.  A list of available cities is available with from
            hebcal with the command:

                 hebcal cities

     HEBCAL_OPTS
            The value of this variable is automatically processed as if it
            were typed at the command line before any other actual command-
            line arguments.

AUTHORS
     Danny Sadinoff
     Michael J. Radwin

SEE ALSO
     calendar(1), emacs(1), hcal(1), hdate(1), omer(1), remind(1), rise(1)

     The latest version of the code is available on the hebcal project
     homepage <https://github.com/hebcal/hebcal>.

     The original motivation for the algorithms in this program was the Tur
     Shulchan Aruch.

     A well written treatment of the Jewish calendar for the layman can be
     found in Understanding the Jewish Calendar by Rabbi Nathan Bushwick.  A
     more complete bibliography on the topic can be found there, as well as in
     the Encyclopedia Judaica entry on the calendar.

DIAGNOSTICS
     hebcal help
            Prints a shorter version of this manpage, with comments on each
            option.

     hebcal info
            Prints the version number and default values of the program.

     hebcal cities
            Prints a list of cities which hebcal knows about, suitable as
            arguments to the -C city option.  If your city does not appear on
            this list, put the necessary defaults in the HEBCAL_OPTS
             environment variable.

     hebcal copying
            Prints the GNU license, with information about copying the
            program.  See below.

     hebcal warranty
            Tells you how there's NO WARRANTY for hebcal.

DISCLAIMER
     This is just a program I wrote during summer school and while avoiding my
     senior project.  It should not be invested with any sort of halachic
     authority.

HISTORY
     hebcal first appeared in comp.sources.misc on November 4, 1992.

     For version 3, much of the program was rewritten using Emacs 19's
     calendar routines by Edward M. Reingold and Nachum Dershowitz.  Their
     program is extremely clear and provides many instructive examples of fine
     calendar code in emacs LISP.

     In version 4.x (released in 2015), the sunrise/sunset engine (used for
     candle-lighting times and zmanim) was rewritten using Derick Rethans's
     excellent timelib <https://github.com/derickr/timelib>.

     Version 5.x (released 2022) was completely rewritten in Go.

BUGS
     Hebrew dates are only valid before sundown on that secular date.  An
     option to control this will be added in a later release.

     When specifying geographic coordinates with the legacy -l and -L
     switches, negative longitudes are east of Greenwich.

     Some combinations of options produce weird results, e.g.,

          hebcal -dH nisan 5744
          hebcal -dH 5744

     This comes into play when you use the HEBCAL_OPTS environment variable.

     The sunup/sundown routines aren't accurate enough.  If you enter
     geographic coordinates above the artic circle or below the antarctic
     circle, the times are guaranteed to be wrong.

     Hebcal only translates between the Gregorian calendar and the Jewish
     calendar. It does not take into account a correction of eleven days that
     was introduced by Pope Gregory XIII known as the Gregorian Reformation.
     Wednesday, 2 September 1752 was followed by Thursday, 14 September 1752.

     This means that the results will be at least partly useless where and
     when the Gregorian calendar was not used, e.g., before 1752 in Britain
     and before circa 1918 in Russia.  See the Wikipedia page
     <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregorian_calendar#Adoption_by_country>
     for a splendid chart depicting when the changeover from the Julian to the
     Gregorian calendars occurred in various places.

     Hebcal cannot handle date computations before 2 C.E.  Sorry.

BUG REPORTS TO
     <https://github.com/hebcal/hebcal/issues>

COPYING
     Copyright © 1994-2006 Danny Sadinoff
     Portions Copyright © 2022-2026 Michael J. Radwin. All Rights Reserved.

     For a full text of the copyright and lack of warranty information, run

          hebcal copying

     at the command line.

Sadinoff and Radwin            Hebcal @VERSION@                      HEBCAL(1)
