hlmaster(1)                       User Manual                      hlmaster(1)

NAME
       hlmaster - A Half-Life master server daemon (made in switzerland)


SYNOPSIS
       hlmaster [ options ]


DESCRIPTION
       hlmaster is a standalone, automatic master server for Half-Life. It
       accepts heartbeats from gameservers and keeps an actual list of
       gameservers.

       To get a gameserver listet by hlmaster, you'll have to configure it
       accordingly. See hlmaster.gameserver(1) for more information.

       Additionally, you might want to load a list of servers from a file.
       This is not the normal operation for a real master-server, but it's a
       nice feature for your own little master. See hlmaster.list(1) for more
       information.


OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Display version of hlmaster and exit.

       -h, --help
              Print a help screen.

       -n number, --log-level=number
              Set log level of the info-log as numeric value. (0=none,
              1=critical, 2=error, 3=warning, 4=info, 5=debug). The default
              level is 4 (info).

       -d, --no-daemon
              If activated, hlmaster does not go to background at startup.
              This is usefull for debugging and is turned off by default.

       -u user, --user=user
              Run hlmaster as user.

       -g group, --group=group
              Run hlmaster as group.

       -a address, --ip-address=address
              Set the network interface address to listen on. You'll have to
              supply a numeric ip-address, hostnames are not resolved. The
              default is to listen on all interfaces (0.0.0.0).

       -p port, --port=port
              Set the port to listen on. The default is 27010, which is also
              the official port for Half-Life master servers.

       -s name, --master-name=name
              Set the name, the master server will report to clients. Though I
              do not really know, if this feature is used by any client.

       -m number, --max-servers=number
              Set the maximum number of gameservers, that are allowed to fit
              in the list. The default is 200, the absolute maximum 60000.
              fetch more than 230 servers (they use an old protocol).

       -l file, --server-list=file
              Load a list of gameservers (max. 3000) from file.  See
              hlmaster.list(1) for further information.

       -c, --closed
              If activated, the master does not accept any heartbeats. You
              will have to specify a list of gameservers to be loaded,
              otherwise hlmaster would have nothing to do.

       -P file, --pid-file=file
              Write process id (PID) to file.  Remember to use absolute paths,
              if you start hlmaster as daemon process.

       -I file, --info-log=file
              Log informations to file.  Remember to use absolute paths, if
              you start hlmaster as daemon process.

       -A file, --access-log=file
              Log access information to file. Remember to use absolute paths,
              if you start hlmaster as daemon process.


SIGNALS
       SIGTERM
              Abort hlmaster immediatly.

       SIGHUP Reload configuration and logfiles.

       SIGUSR1
              Reload configuration files only. Please note, that the
              configuration files are not reloaded immediatly, but allways
              before the next request.

       SIGUSR2
              Reload logfiles only.


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.


AUTHOR
       Silvan Minghetti <bullet@users.sourceforge.net>.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2001 Silvan Minghetti
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.


LEGAL NOTES
       Half-Life is a trademark of valve software.


SEE ALSO
       hlmaster.list(1), hlmaster.filter(1), hlmaster.gameserver(1)

       Check http://hlmaster.sourceforge.net for newest version.

HLMaster                       22 December 2001                    hlmaster(1)
