HOST-SETUP(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          HOST-SETUP(1)

NAME
     host-setup – System configuration setup/management utility

SYNOPSIS
     host-setup [-hsX]

DESCRIPTION
     The host-setup is a dialog(1) (or Xdialog(1)) based utility for
     configuring your system.  Built on the same safety and reliability of
     sysrc(8) to manage changes to rc.conf(5), host-setup can also activate
     changes to the system in a safe and effective manner.  Functionality
     includes (but may not be limited to):

           - Configuring Time Zone
           - Configuring Hostname/Domain
           - Configuring Network Interfaces
           - Configuring Default Router/Gateway
           - Configuring DNS nameservers

     The following options are available:

     -h       Print a usage message to stderr and exit.

     -X       Use Xdialog(1) in place of dialog(1).

     -s       Secure. Prompt for sudo(8) credentials (used with -X).

     This utility provides either a Terminal (using dialog(1), the default) or
     Graphical (using Xdialog(1), passing -X) User Interface for changing
     certain system settings.

     In many cases, host-setup can also be used to apply rc.conf(5) changes
     made outside this utility, avoiding a reboot.

DEPENDENCIES
     The following standard commands are required by host-setup:

     awk(1), cat(1), chmod(1), chown(8), chsh(1), cmp(1), cp(1), date(1),
     df(1), dhclient(8), dialog(1), find(1), grep(1), hostname(1), id(1),
     ifconfig(8), mktemp(1), mv(1), printf(1), rm(1), route(8), sed(1), sh(1),
     sleep(1), stat(1), strings(1), su(1), sudo(8), tail(1), tzsetup(8),
     uname(1), which(1)

     The following standard commands are optional, based on arguments passed
     and situation, but enhance the abilities of host-setup:

     Xdialog(1), tzdialog(8), xterm(1)

FILES
     /etc/defaults/rc.conf
     /etc/rc.conf
     /etc/rc.conf.local

EXAMPLES
     Below are some simple examples of how host-setup can be used to configure
     and/or manage your system.

     host-setup
           Launches the default console-based user interface (must be root).

     sudo host-setup
           Prompts for sudo(8) credentials if not already root before
           launching the default console-based user interface with escalated
           privileges.

     sudo host-setup -X
           Launches the gaphical user interface as root in a compatible X11
           environment (requires appropriate DISPLAY variable).

     host-setup -sX
           By default, root privileges are required to make the sorts of
           changes that are required during system configuration. This usually
           means launching via sudo(8) as in the above example. However, when
           executing from another X11 application, this utility may need to
           escalate privileges to function properly. The addition of the -s
           flag causes the user to be prompted with Xdialog(1) for sudo(8)
           credentials.

LIMITATIONS
     The host-setup utility is limited in scope to configuring basic
     connectivity and performing routine system tasks. It is not designed to
     be an all-in-one swiss-army knife, kitchen sink, or bike shed.

     Other limitations are self-imposed for safety reasons. For example,
     host-setup will allow you to view and change network settings while NFS
     mounts are active but will not allow you to activate new network settings
     until NFS mounts are no longer active (preventing system hang).

     Another self-imposed limitation is that while you are allowed to view and
     change the hostname while connected via an X11-Forwarded ssh(1) session,
     you are not allowed to activate the new hostname until re-executed from
     either a local terminal or non-X11-Forwarded ssh(1) session (preventing
     the fatal error “X11 connection rejected because of wrong
     authentication”).

SEE ALSO
     rc.conf(5), ssh(1), sudo(8), sysrc(8), xauth(1)

AUTHORS
     Devin E. Teske.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            January 5, 2012           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
