HTTPRY(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              HTTPRY(1)

NAME
       httpry - HTTP logging and information retrieval tool

SYNOPSIS
       httpry [ -dFpq ] [ -b file ] [ -f format ] [ -i device ] [ -m methods ]
       [ -n count ] [ -o file ] [ -P file ] [ -r file ] [ -S bytes ] [ -u user
       ] [ 'expression' ]
       httpry -s [ -l threshold ] [ -t seconds ]
       httpry -h

DESCRIPTION
       httpry is a tool designed for displaying and logging HTTP traffic. It
       is not designed to perform analysis itself, but instead to capture,
       parse and log the traffic for later analysis. It can be run in real-
       time displaying the live traffic on the wire, or as a daemon process
       that logs to an output file.

OPTIONS
       -b file
              Write all processed HTTP packets to a binary pcap dump file.
              Useful for further analysis of logged data.

       -d     Run the program as a daemon process. All program status output
              will be sent to syslog. A pid file is created for the process in
              /var/run/httpry.pid by default. Requires an output file
              specified with -o.

       -f format
              Provide a comma-delimited string specifying the parsed HTTP data
              to output.  See the doc/format-string file for further
              information regarding available options and syntax.

       -F     Disable all output buffering. This may be helpful when piping
              httpry output into another program.

       -h     Display a brief description of these options.

       -i device
              Specify an ethernet interface for the program to listen on. If
              not specified, the program will poll the system for a list of
              interfaces and select the first one found.

       -l threshold
              Specify a requests per second rate threshold value when running
              in rate statistics mode (-s). Only hosts with a rps value
              greater than or equal to this number will be displayed. Defaults
              to 1.

       -m methods
              Provide a comma-delimited string that specifies the request
              methods to parse.  The program defaults to parsing all of the
              standard RFC2616 method strings if this option is not set. See
              the doc/method-string file for more information.

       -n count
              Parse this number of HTTP packets and then exit. Defaults to 0,
              which means loop forever.

       -o file
              Specify an output file for writing parsed packet data.

       -p     Do not put the NIC in promiscuous mode on startup. Note that the
              NIC could already be in that mode for another reason.

       -P file
              Specify a path and filename for creating the PID file in daemon
              mode.

       -q     Suppress non-critical output (startup banner, statistics, etc.).

       -r file
              Provide an input capture file to read from instead of performing
              a live capture. This option does not require root privileges.

       -s     Run httpry in an HTTP request per second display mode. This
              periodically displays the rate per active host and total rate at
              a specified interval.

       -S     Specify a number of bytes to skip in the ethernet header. This
              allows for custom header offsets to be accounted for.

       -t seconds
              Specify the host statistics display interval in seconds when
              running in rate statistics mode (-s). Defaults to 5 seconds.

       -u user
              Specify an alternate user to take ownership of the process and
              any output files. You will need root privileges to do this; it
              will switch to the new user after initialization.

       'expression'
              Specify a bpf-style capture filter, overriding the default. Here
              are a few basic examples starting with the default filter:

               'tcp port 80 or 8080'
               'tcp dst port 80'
               'tcp dst port 80 and src host 192.168.1.1'

              These filters will capture all web traffic both directions on
              two common ports, capture only requests made to port 80, and
              capture requests to port 80 by a particular host, respectively.
              See 'man tcpdump' for further information on the syntax and
              available primitives.

AUTHOR
       httpry was written by Jason Bittel <jason.bittel@gmail.com>. See
       included COPYING file for specific licensing information

                                                                     HTTPRY(1)
