humanzip(1)                      User's Manual                     humanzip(1)

NAME
       humanzip, humanunzip - (un)compress text files in a human readable way

SYNOPSIS
       humanzip [ options ] [ filename ...  ]
       humanunzip [ options ] [ filename ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       humanzip compresses ASCII text files in a human readable way.  It finds
       common words and strings of words, replaces them with single UTF-8
       characters and puts a key at the top. humanunzip can restore zipped
       files to their original state. humanzip is meant to reduce the print
       and screen size of files, not to reduce their size in bytes, although
       that generally happens incidentally.  Reduction is typically on order
       of 10%.

       humanzip replaces each file with one with the extension .hz appended to
       its name.  humanunzip does the reverse, except that if it is given a
       file whose name does not end in .hz it will replace it with a file with
       .out appended to its name.  If given no files, it will read from stdin
       and write to stdout.

       You are encouraged to manually customize the compressed output to suit
       your tastes.  As long as you follow the pattern, the result will still
       be decompressable by humanunzip.

       humanunzip will try to decompress mangled files.  If it detects errors
       which might be recoverable, it will still write the output, but keep
       the input.

       humanzip options are deliberately similar to those of gzip and bzip2.

OPTIONS: Common
       -f     Normally human(un)zip will refuse to overwrite existing files.
              This option forces it to do so.

       -c     Send output to stdout and keep input files unchanged.

       -h     Print short help statement.

       -k     Keep input files instead of deleting them.

       -c     Send output to stdout and keep input files unchanged.  If there
              are several input files to humanzip, the output consists of a
              sequence of independently compressed members.  To obtain better
              compression, concatenate all input files before compressing
              them.

       --     Treat all subsequent arguments as file names, even if they start
              with dashes.

OPTIONS: humanzip only
       -a     Normally, humanzip uses a blacklist of common English words and
              phrases such as "into" and "to the" which would probably be
              annoying to be replaced by symbols.  This option disables this
              blacklist.

       -n number
              Use at most this number of abbreviations.  humanzip may choose
              to use fewer if it cannot find enough that are worth doing.

       -l number
              Look for abbreviations of at most this many words.  Setting this
              too high will cause humanzip to use a very large amount of
              memory.  Higher values of this option do not always result in
              better compression (at least, not in the current version).

       -v     Be verbose.  Outputs information about progress as it is
              compressing.

       -q     Be quiet.  Output only error messages.

RETURN VALUE
       humanzip and humanunzip each return 0 on sucess, 1 if they get bad
       arguments, and the number of failed files if any fail.  If humanunzip
       encounters possibly recoverable errors in its input, it will count that
       file as a failure for this purpose even if the output turns out to be
       correct.

FUTURE VERSIONS
       The newest version can always be found at ???

       humanzip's version number is currently less than 1.  When it becomes 1
       or larger, that means that I promise not to change the file format,
       command line options or return values without warning and/or backwards
       compatibility.  Until then, new versions may break old versions' files
       and your scripts.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007 Matthew Strait <quadongAusers.sf.net>.  This is free
       software.  You may redistribute it under the terms of the GNU General
       Public License version 2 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  There
       is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

humanzip 0.5                     January 2007                      humanzip(1)
