HYPER-V(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             HYPER-V(4)

NAME
     hv_kvp – Hyper-V Key Value Pair Driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in the
     system kernel configuration file:

           device hyperv

DESCRIPTION
     The hv_kvp driver provides the ability to store, retrieve, modify and
     delete key value pairs for FreeBSD guest partitions running on Hyper-V.
     Hyper-V allows administrators to store custom metadata in the form of key
     value pairs inside the FreeBSD guest partition.  Administrators can use
     Windows Powershell scripts to add, read, modify and delete such key value
     pairs.

     The driver is bare bones and merely forwards requests to its counterpart
     user mode daemon, hv_kvp_daemon(8).  The daemon maintains pools of key
     value pairs and does the actual metadata management.

     The same driver and daemon combination are also used to set and get IP
     addresses from a FreeBSD guest.

     The set functionality is particularly useful when the FreeBSD guest is
     assigned a static IP address and is failed over from one Hyper-V host to
     another.  After failover, Hyper-V uses the set IP functionality to
     automatically update the FreeBSD guest's IP address to its original
     static value.

     On the other hand, the get IP functionality is used to update the guest
     IP address in the Hyper-V management console window.

SEE ALSO
     hv_ata_pci_disengage(4), hv_netvsc(4), hv_storvsc(4), hv_utils(4),
     hv_vmbus(4), hv_kvp_daemon(8)

HISTORY
     Support for hv_kvp first appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.  The driver was
     developed through a joint effort between Citrix Incorporated, Microsoft
     Corporation and Network Appliance Incorporated.

AUTHORS
     FreeBSD support for hv_kvp was first added by Microsoft BSD Integration
     Services Team <bsdic@microsoft.com>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2       September 10, 2013       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
