HYPER-V(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             HYPER-V(4)

NAME
     hv_vmbus – Hyper-V Virtual Machine Bus (VMBus) Driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in the
     system kernel configuration file:

           device hyperv
           device pci

DESCRIPTION
     The hv_vmbus provides a high performance communication interface between
     guest and root partitions in Hyper-V.  Hyper-V is a hypervisor-based
     virtualization technology from Microsoft.  Hyper-V supports isolation in
     terms of a partition.  A partition is a logical unit of isolation,
     supported by the hypervisor, in which operating systems execute.

     The Microsoft hypervisor must have at least one parent, or root,
     partition, running Windows Server operating system.  The virtualization
     stack runs in the parent partition and has direct access to the hardware
     devices.  The root partition then creates the child partitions which host
     the guest operating systems.

     Child partitions do not have direct access to other hardware resources
     and are presented a virtual view of the resources, as virtual devices
     (VDevs).  Requests to the virtual devices are redirected either via the
     VMBus or the hypervisor to the devices in the parent partition, which
     handles the requests.

     The VMBus is a logical inter-partition communication channel.  The parent
     partition hosts Virtualization Service Providers (VSPs) which communicate
     over the VMBus to handle device access requests from child partitions.
     Child partitions host Virtualization Service Consumers (VSCs) which
     redirect device requests to VSPs in the parent partition via the VMBus.
     The Hyper-V VMBus driver defines and implements the interface that
     facilitate high performance bi-directional communication between the VSCs
     and VSPs.  All VSCs utilize the VMBus driver.

SEE ALSO
     hv_netvsc(4), hv_storvsc(4), hv_utils(4)

HISTORY
     Support for hv_vmbus first appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.  The driver was
     developed through a joint effort between Citrix Incorporated, Microsoft
     Corporation, and Network Appliance Incorporated.

AUTHORS
     FreeBSD support for hv_vmbus was first added by Microsoft BSD Integration
     Services Team <bsdic@microsoft.com>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2       September 10, 2013       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
