HYPERHOTP(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           HYPERHOTP(1)

NAME
     hyperhotp – program hyperFIDO USB security key HOTP feature

SYNOPSIS
     hyperhotp (check | help | reset)
     hyperhotp program [-6 | -8] serial_number hex_seed

DESCRIPTION
     The hyperhotp utility programs the HOTP feature of hyperFIDO USB security
     keys.  The following commands are implemented:

     check   Check if the security key has already been programmed with a
             token.  If yes, print the serial number of the token.

     help    Print a short help text.

     reset   Clear the token programmed into the security key.  To confirm the
             process, press the button on the security key when it is
             flashing.

     program [-6 | -8] serial_number hex_seed
             Program the security key with a token generated from the given
             40 digit hexadecimal hex_seed.  The token will have the given
             8 digit decimal serial_number.  To confirm the process, press the
             button on the security key when it is flashing.  The options -6
             and -8 select 6-byte or 8-byte tokens respectively with 6-byte
             tokens being the default.

EXIT STATUS
     The hyperhotp utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

DIAGNOSTICS
     Failed to reset device: Device reported failure  In a reset or program
     operation, you did not press the button to confirm the operation.
     Restart the operation and press the button when it flashes.

     Failed to program device: Device is already programmed.  The security key
     has already been programmed with a token.  Erase the token by issuing a
     reset command to reset the device, then retry the program command.

     Device could not be found, perhaps it's not plugged in?
     Failed to claim device from kernel  Plug the device in.  If it is already
     plugged in, try wiggling the device or plug it into a different port.
     Make sure hyperhotp has permissions to access the device.  Elevate
     privileges or adjust udev(7) rules if necessary.

     Failed to send ping
     Failed to check whether key is programmed
     Failed to reset device: Device reported successful reset, but device is
     not actually reset  Either your security key or the hyperhotp program is
     defective.  Please report this error to the author.

SEE ALSO
     libusb(3), udev(7)

HISTORY
     This is an open re-implementation of the programming software for the
     HOTP feature of the hyperFIDO security keys.  It is based on reverse-
     engineering the Windows-based programmer available on Hypersecu's
     website: https://www.hypersecu.com/downloads.

AUTHOR
     Davids Paskevics <davids.paskevics@gmail.com>

CAVEATS
     While I have tested this with my key, I do not know how well it works for
     other models or even other devices of the same model.

     Also, while this only issues FIDO commands to the device which have no
     relation to managing U2F credentials, I cannot claim that this will not
     accidentally wipe your keys or brick your device. As always, no warranty.

BUGS
     Please reports bugs on Github: https://github.com/casept/hyperhotp. If
     possible, recompile with cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug to have hyperhotp
     generate a full trace of the communication with the security key.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE              2022/10/22              FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
