dumpdb(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              dumpdb(1)



NAME
       dumpdb - The Freeze database inspector.


SYNOPSIS
       dumpdb [options] dbenv db


DESCRIPTION
       The FreezeScript tool dumpdb is used to examine a Freeze database. Its
       simplest invocation displays every record of the database, but the tool
       also supports more selective activities. In fact, dumpdb supports a
       scripted mode that shares many of the same XML descriptors as
       transformdb, enabling sophisticated filtering and reporting. Full
       documentation for dumpdb is available online at:
       https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.6/ice-services/freezescript/inspecting-a-
       freeze-database/using-dumpdb


OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Displays help message.


       -v, --version
              Displays the Ice version.


       -DNAME
              Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.


       -DNAME=DEF
              Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.


       -UNAME
              Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.


       -IDIR
              Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include
              directives.


       -E
              Print the preprocessor output on stdout.


       --output-dir DIR
              Place the generated files into directory DIR.


       -d, --debug
              Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice
              parser.


       --ice
              Permit use of the normally reserved prefix Ice for identifiers.
              Use this option only when compiling the source code for the Ice
              run time.


       --underscore
              Permit use of underscores in Slice identifiers.


       --load SLICE
              Loads the Slice definitions contained in the file SLICE. This
              option may be specified multiple times if several files must be
              loaded. However, it is the user's responsibility to ensure that
              duplicate definitions do not occur (which is possible when two
              files are loaded that share a common include file). One strategy
              for avoiding duplicate definitions is to load a single Slice
              file that contains only #include statements for each of the
              Slice files to be loaded. No duplication is possible in this
              case if the included files use include guards correctly.


       --key TYPE

       --value TYPE
              Specifies the Slice type of the database key and value. If these
              options are not specified, and the -e option is not used, dumpdb
              obtains type information from the Freeze catalog.


       -e
              Indicates that a Freeze evictor database is being examined. As a
              convenience, this option automatically sets the database key and
              value types to those appropriate for the Freeze evictor, and
              therefore the --key and --value options are not necessary.
              Specifically, the key type of a Freeze evictor database is
              Ice::Identity, and the value type is Freeze::ObjectRecord.  The
              latter is defined in the Slice file Freeze/EvictorStorage.ice,
              however this file does not need to be explicitly loaded. If this
              option is not specified, and the --key and --value options are
              not used, dumpdb obtains type information from the Freeze
              catalog.


       -o FILE
              Create a file named FILE containing sample descriptors for the
              loaded Slice definitions. If type information is not specified,
              dumpdb obtains it from the Freeze catalog. If the --select
              option is used, its expression is included in the sample
              descriptors. Database traversal does not occur when the -o
              option is used.


       -f FILE
              Execute the descriptors in the file named FILE. The file's
              <database> descriptor specifies the key and value types,
              therefore it is not necessary to supply type information.


       --select EXPR
              Only display those records for which the expression EXPR is
              true. The expression can refer to the symbols key and value.


       -c, --catalog
              Display information about the databases in an environment, or
              about a particular database. This option presents the type
              information contained in the Freeze catalog.


SEE ALSO
       transformdb(1)

                                                                     dumpdb(1)
