ID3TOOL(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             ID3TOOL(1)



NAME
       id3tool - a command line editor for id3 tags.

SYNOPSIS
       id3tool [options] files ...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page is for the id3tool command.

       id3tool is a program that can be used to view and edit id3 tags from
       the command line.

       When invoked from the command line with filenames and no options, it
       will display the used fields of the id3 tags.

       When invoked from the command line with filenames and "set" options, it
       will change the id3 tag fields specified to the specified values on all
       the files.

       Due to limitations in the ID3v1 specification, most fields are limited
       to 30 characters.

       The note field is limited to 28 characters if a track number is in use.

       You can force a tag to be v1.1 by using a specifying a non-zero track
       number, or force a tag to be v1.0 by specifying a track number of zero
       (0).

OPTIONS
       The programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
       options starting with two dashes (`-').  A complete list of options are
       included below.  For a complete description, use the help option.

       -t, --set-title=WORD
              Sets the title to WORD

       -a, --set-album=WORD
              Sets the album to WORD

       -r, --set-artist=WORD
              Sets the artist to WORD

       -y, --set-year=YEAR
              Sets the year to YEAR [4 digits]

       -n, --set-note=WORD
              Sets the note to WORD

       -g, --set-genre=INT
              Sets the genre code to INT (the codes can be acquired from the
              genre list.)

       -G, --set-genre-word=WORD
              Sets the genre to WORD (given that WORD is from the genre list.)

       -c, --set-track=INT
              Sets the track to INT

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -v, --version
              Show version of program.

       -l, --genre-list
              Shows the genre list.

AUTHOR
       id3tool and this manual page were written by Chris Collins
       <xfire@xware.cx>



                                                                    ID3TOOL(1)
