idncheck(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            idncheck(1)

NAME
       idncheck - check an internationalized domain name

SYNOPSIS
       idncheck [options..] name

DESCRIPTION
       idncheck command checks an internationalized domain name.  It tries to
       convert name to A-labels with various checks defined by
       IDNA2008-Protocol.

       If the given name is a valid internationalized domain name, idncheck
       outputs the message:

           passed.

       to standard error and returns with exit code 0.  Note that also
       traditional ASCII domain names are considered valid.

       If the name is not valid, it outputs the reason (e.g. ``invalid
       encoding'') to standard error and returns with exit code 2.  If an
       internal error such as memory exhaustion is caused, idncheck outputs
       the reason to standard error and then returns with exit code 3.

       Unless -noconf (or -C) option is given, idncheck reads a configuration
       file (/usr/local/etc/idn2.conf, ~/.idn2rc or a file specified by an
       option) and performs conversions according to the parameters specified
       in the file.

OPTIONS
       -in in-code, -i in-code
           Specify the encoding name of the domain name specified as an
           argument.  Any of the following encoding names can be recognized.

           • Any encoding names which iconv_open() accepts

           • Punycode

           • UTF-8

           • Any alias names for the above, defined by the encoding alias
             file.


           The encoding defaults to the value of the environment variable
           ``IDN_LOCAL_CODESET'' or, if it is not set, an encoding determined
           from the locale information.

       -conf file, -c file
           Specify the path of idnkit configuration file.  If not specified,
           the default path (/usr/local/etc/idn2.conf or ~/.idn2rc) unless
           -noconf (or -C) option is specified.

       -noconf, -C
           Suppress reading a configuration file.

       -registration, -g (default)
           Use domain name registration protocol.  This is the default
           behavior.

       -lookup, -l
           Use domain name lookup protocol.

       -nomap, -M
           Don't perform the ``map'' action.  This is the same as ``-skip
           map''.

       -skip action,...
           Skip actions. the following action names are recognized:

           map    mappings

           asclower
                  convert ASCII uppercase letters to lowercase

           rtconv conversion from Punycode to Unicode for round trip check

           prohcheck
                  prohibited code point check

           unascheck
                  unassigned code point check

           nfccheck
                  NFC conformance check

           prefcheck
                  ACE prefix check

           hyphcheck
                  hyphen check

           combcheck
                  combining character check

           ctxjcheck
                  CONTEXTJ code point check

           ctxocheck
                  CONTEXTO code point check for domain name registration
                  protocol.

           ctxolitecheck
                  CONTEXTO code point check for domain name lookup protocol.

           bidicheck
                  Bidi check.

           idnconv
                  conversion to Punycode

           lencheck
                  label length check

           rtcheck
                  round trip check

       -localcheck file, -e file
           Also perform code point check using file.  Using the local check
           feature, you can check whether a domain name consists of code
           points allowed by a particular registry.  The format of file is
           explained in idn_setlocalcheckfile(3).

       -quiet, -q
           Suppress a result message; yield exit status only.

       -test, -t
           Print which language, input encoding and output encoding will be
           chosen if the same arguments are gievn to the command, and then
           quit immediately.

       -version, -v
           Print version information and quit.

       -help, -h
           Print help and quit.

LOCAL ENCODING
       idncheck guesses local encoding from locale and environment variables.
       See the ``LOCAL ENCODING'' section in idn2.conf(5) for more details.

SEE ALSO
       idncmp(1), idnconv2(1), iconv(3), idn2.conf(5), idnalias.conf(5),
       idnlang.conf(5)

BUGS
       The automatic input-code selection depends on your system, and
       sometimes it cannot guess or guess wrong.  It is better to explicitly
       specify it using -in option.

                              September 21, 2012                   idncheck(1)
