BCE(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 BCE(4)

NAME
     bce – QLogic NetXtreme II (BCM5706/5708/5709/5716) PCI/PCIe Gigabit
     Ethernet adapter driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device miibus
           device bce

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_bce_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The bce driver supports QLogic's NetXtreme II product family, including
     the BCM5706, BCM5708, BCM5709 and BCM5716 Ethernet controllers.

     The NetXtreme II product family is composed of various Converged NIC (or
     CNIC) Ethernet controllers which support a TCP Offload Engine (TOE),
     Remote DMA (RDMA), and iSCSI acceleration, in addition to standard L2
     Ethernet traffic, all on the same controller.

     The following features are supported in the bce driver under FreeBSD:

           IP/TCP/UDP checksum offload
           Jumbo frames (up to 9022 bytes)
           VLAN tag stripping
           Interrupt coalescing
           10/100/1000Mbps operation in full-duplex mode
           10/100Mbps operation in half-duplex mode

     The bce driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect       Enable autoselection of the media type and options.  The
                      user can manually override the autoselected mode by
                      adding media options to rc.conf(5).

     10baseT/UTP      Set 10Mbps operation.  The ifconfig(8) mediaopt option
                      can also be used to select either full-duplex or
                      half-duplex modes.

     100baseTX        Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.  The ifconfig(8)
                      mediaopt option can also be used to select either
                      full-duplex or half-duplex modes.

     1000baseSX       Sets 1000Mbps operation.  Only full-duplex mode is
                      supported at this speed.

     1000baseT        Set 1000baseT operation over twisted pair.  Only
                      full-duplex mode is supported.

     2500BaseSX       Set 2500Mbps operation.  Only full-duplex mode is
                      supported.

     The bce driver supports the following media options:

     full-duplex      Force full duplex operation.

     half-duplex      Force half duplex operation.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The bce driver provides support for various NICs based on the QLogic
     NetXtreme II family of Gigabit Ethernet controllers, including the
     following:

     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5706 1000Base-SX
     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5706 1000Base-T
     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5708 1000Base-SX
     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5708 1000Base-T
     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5709 1000Base-SX
     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5709 1000Base-T
     •   QLogic NetXtreme II BCM5716 1000Base-T
     •   Dell PowerEdge 1950 integrated BCM5708 NIC
     •   Dell PowerEdge 2950 integrated BCM5708 NIC
     •   Dell PowerEdge R710 integrated BCM5709 NIC
     •   HP NC370F Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC370T Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC370i Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC371i Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC373F PCIe Multifunc Giga Server Adapter
     •   HP NC373T PCIe Multifunction Gig Server Adapter
     •   HP NC373i Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC373m Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC374m PCIe Multifunction Adapter
     •   HP NC380T PCIe DP Multifunc Gig Server Adapter
     •   HP NC382T PCIe DP Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC382i DP Multifunction Gigabit Server Adapter
     •   HP NC382m DP 1GbE Multifunction BL-c Adapter

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     hw.bce.verbose
             Enable/Disable verbose logging and output to the console.  Useful
             for debugging (default 0).

     hw.bce.msi_enable
             Enable/Disable MSI support (default 1).

     hw.bce.tso_enable
             Enable/Disable TSO support (default 1).

     hw.bce.strict_rx_mtu
             Enable/Disable strict RX frame size checking (default 0).

     hw.bce.hdr_split
             Enable/Disable frame header/payload splitting (default 1).

     hw.bce.rx_pages
             Set the number of memory pages assigned to receive packets by the
             driver.  Due to alignment issues, this value can only be of the
             set 1, 2, 4 or 8 (default 2).

     hw.bce.tx_pages
             Set the number of memory pages assigned to transmit packets by
             the driver.  Due to alignment issues, this value can only be of
             the set 1, 2, 4 or 8 (default 2).

     hw.bce.rx_ticks
             Time in microsecond ticks to wait before generating a status
             block updates due to RX processing activity.  Values from 0-100
             are valid.  A value of 0 disables this status block update.
             Cannot be set to 0 if hw.bce.rx_quick_cons_trip is also 0
             (default 18).

     hw.bce.rx_ticks_int
             Time in microsecond ticks to wait during RX interrupt processing
             before generating a status block update.  Values from 0-100 are
             valid.  Valid values are in the range from 0-100.  A value of 0
             disables this status block update (default 18).

     hw.bce.rx_quick_cons_trip
             Number of RX Quick BD Chain entries that must be completed before
             a status block is generated.  Values from 0-256 are valid.  A
             value of 0 disables this status block update.  Cannot be set to 0
             if hw.bce.rx_ticks is also 0 (default 6).

     hw.bce.rx_quick_cons_trip_int
             Number of RX quick BD entries that must be completed before a
             status block is generated duing interrupt processing.  Values
             from 0-256 are valid.  A value of 0 disables this status block
             update (default 6).

     hw.bce.tx_ticks
             Time in microsecond ticks to wait before a status block update is
             generated due to TX activitiy.  Values from 0-100 are valid.  A
             value of 0 disables this status block update.  Cannot be set to 0
             if hw.bce.tx_quick_cons_trip is also 0 (default 80).

     hw.bce.tx_ticks_int
             Time in microsecond ticks to wait in interrupt processing before
             a status block update is generated due to TX activity Values from
             0-100 are valid.  A value of 0 disables this status block update
             (default 80).

     hw.bce.tx_cons_trip
             How many TX Quick BD Chain entries that must be completed before
             a status block is generated.  Values from 0-100 are valid.  A
             value of 0 disables this status block update.  Cannot be set to 0
             if hw.bce.tx_ticks is also 0 (default 20).

     hw.bce.tx_cons_trip_int
             How many TX Quick BD Chain entries that must be completed before
             a status block is generated during an interrupt.  Values from
             0-100 are valid.  A value of 0 disables this status block update
             (default 20).

DIAGNOSTICS
     bce%d: PCI memory allocation failed!  The driver has encountered a fatal
     initialization error.

     bce%d: PCI map interrupt failed!  The driver has encountered a fatal
     initialization error.

     bce%d: Unsupported controller revision (%c%d)  The driver does not
     support the controller revision in use.

     bce%d: Controller initialization failed!  The driver has encountered a
     fatal initialization error.

     bce%d: NVRAM test failed!  The driver could not access the controller
     NVRAM correctly.

     bce%d: DMA resource allocation failed!  The driver could not allocate DMA
     memory to setup the controllers host memory data structures.

     bce%d: Interface allocation failed!  The driver could not create a
     network interface for the controller.

     bce%d: PHY probe failed!  The driver could not access the PHY used by the
     controller.

     bce%d: Failed to setup IRQ!  The driver could not initialize the IRQ
     handler.

     bce%d: Error: PHY read timeout!  The driver could not read a PHY register
     before the timeout period expired.

     bce%d: PHY write timeout!  The driver could not write to the PHY register
     because a timeout occurred.

     bce%d: Timeout error reading NVRAM at offset 0x%08X!  The driver could
     not write to NVRAM because a timeout occurred.

     bce%d: Unknown Flash NVRAM found!  The driver does not recognize the
     NVRAM device being used and therefore cannot access it correctly.

     bce%d: Invalid NVRAM magic value!  The driver cannot read NVRAM or the
     NVRAM is corrupt.

     bce%d: Invalid Manufacturing Information NVRAM CRC!  The driver cannot
     read NVRAM or the NVRAM is corrupt.

     bce%d: Invalid Feature Configuration Information NVRAM CRC!  The driver
     cannot read NVRAM or the NVRAM is corrupt.

     bce%d: DMA mapping error!  The driver was unable to map memory into DMA
     addressable space required by the controller.

     bce%d: Could not allocate parent DMA tag!  The driver could not allocate
     a PCI compatible DMA tag.

     bce%d: Could not allocate status block DMA tag!  The driver could not
     allocate a DMA tag for the controller's status block.

     bce%d: Could not allocate status block DMA memory!  The driver could not
     allocate DMA addressable memory for the controller's status block.

     bce%d: Could not map status block DMA memory!  The driver could not map
     the status block memory into the controller's DMA address space.

     bce%d: Could not allocate statistics block DMA tag!  The driver could not
     allocate a DMA tag for the controller's statistics block.

     bce%d: Could not allocate statistics block DMA memory!  The driver could
     not allocate DMA addressable memory for the controller's statistics
     block.

     bce%d: Could not map statistics block DMA memory!  The driver could not
     map the statistics block memory into the controller's DMA address space.

     bce%d: Could not allocate TX descriptor chain DMA tag!  The driver could
     not allocate a DMA tag for the controller's TX chain.

     bce%d: Could not allocate TX descriptor chain DMA memory!  The driver
     could not allocate DMA addressable memory for the controller's TX chain.

     bce%d: Could not map TX descriptor chain DMA memory!  The driver could
     not map the TX descriptor chain memory into the controller's DMA address
     space.

     bce%d: Could not allocate TX mbuf DMA tag!  The driver could not allocate
     a DMA tag for the controller's TX mbuf memory.

     bce%d: Unable to create TX mbuf DMA map!  The driver could not map the TX
     mbuf memory into the controller's DMA address space.

     bce%d: Could not allocate RX descriptor chain DMA tag!  The driver could
     not allocate a DMA tag for the controller's RX chain.

     bce%d: Could not allocate RX descriptor chain   The driver could not
     allocate DMA addressable memory for the controller's RX chain.

     bce%d: Could not map RX descriptor chain DMA memory!  The driver could
     not map the RX descriptor chain memory into the controller's DMA address
     space.

     bce%d: Could not allocate RX mbuf DMA tag!  The driver could not allocate
     a DMA tag for the controller's RX mbuf memory.

     bce%d: Unable to create RX mbuf DMA map!  The driver could not map the RX
     mbuf memory into the controller's DMA address space.

     bce%d: Firmware synchronization timeout!  The driver was not able to
     synchronize with the firmware running on the controller.  The firmware
     may be stopped or hung.

     bce%d: Invalid Ethernet address!  The driver was not able to read a valid
     Ethernet MAC address from NVRAM.

     bce%d: Reset failed!  The driver has encountered a fatal initialization
     error.

     bce%d: Byte swap is incorrect!  The driver has encountered a fatal
     initialization error.  Contact the author with details of the CPU
     architecture and system chipset in use.

     bce%d: Firmware did not complete initialization!  The driver has
     encountered a fatal initialization error.

     bce%d: Bootcode not running!  The driver has encountered a fatal
     initialization error.

     bce%d: Error mapping mbuf into RX chain!  The driver could not map a RX
     mbuf into DMA addressable memory.

     bce%d: Error filling RX chain: rx_bd[0x%04X]!  The driver was unable to
     allocate enough mbufs to fill the RX chain during initialization.  Try
     increasing the number of mbufs available in the system, increase system
     memory, or if using jumbo frames, make sure enough 9KB mbufs are
     available.

     bce%d: Failed to allocate new mbuf, incoming frame dropped!  The driver
     was unable to allocate a new mbuf for the RX chain and reused the mbuf
     for the received frame, dropping the incoming frame in the process.  Try
     increasing the number of mbufs available in the system or increase system
     memory.

     bce%d: Controller reset failed!  A fatal initialization error has
     occurred.

     bce%d: Controller initialization failed!  A fatal initialization error
     has occurred.

     bce%d: Block initialization failed!  A fatal initialization error has
     occurred.

     bce%d: Error mapping mbuf into TX chain!  The driver could not map a TX
     mbuf into DMA addressable memory.

     bce%d: Error registering poll function!  The driver received an error
     while attempting to register the poll function.

     bce%d: Changing VLAN_MTU not supported.  Changing the VLAN MTU is not
     currently supported by the driver.

     bce%d: Cannot change VLAN_HWTAGGING while management firmware
     (ASF/IPMI/UMP) is running!  Management firmware to support ASF/IPMI/UMP
     requires that VLAN tag stripping be enabled in the controller.

     bce%d: Changing VLAN_HWTAGGING not supported!  Disabling VLAN tag
     stripping is not currently supported by the driver.

     bce%d: Watchdog timeout occurred, resetting!  The device has stopped
     responding to the network, there is a problem with the cable connection,
     or a driver logic problem has occurred..

     bce%d: Fatal attention detected: 0x%08X!  A controller hardware failure
     has occurred.  If the problem continues replace the controller.

SUPPORT
     For support questions please contact your QLogic approved reseller or
     QLogic Technical Support at http://support.qlogic.com, or by E-mail at
     <support@qlogic.com>.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), miibus(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4),
     ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The bce device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 6.1.

AUTHORS
     The bce driver was written by David Christensen <davidch@broadcom.com>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          June 4, 2012          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
