CXGBEV(4)              FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual              CXGBEV(4)

NAME
     cxgbev – Chelsio T4-, T5-, and T6-based 100Gb, 40Gb, 25Gb, 10Gb, and 1Gb
     Ethernet VF driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device cxgbe
           device cxgbev

     To load the driver as a module at boot time, place the following line in
     loader.conf(5):

           if_cxgbev_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The cxgbev driver provides support for Virtual Functions on PCI Express
     Ethernet adapters based on the Chelsio Terminator 4, Terminator 5, and
     Terminator 6 ASICs (T4, T5, and T6).  The driver supports Jumbo Frames,
     Transmit/Receive checksum offload, TCP segmentation offload (TSO), Large
     Receive Offload (LRO), VLAN tag insertion/extraction, VLAN checksum
     offload, VLAN TSO, and Receive Side Steering (RSS).  For further hardware
     information and questions related to hardware requirements, see
     http://www.chelsio.com/.

     The cxgbev driver uses different names for devices based on the
     associated ASIC:

           ASIC    Port Name    Parent Device
           T4      cxgbev       t4vf
           T5      cxlv         t5vf
           T6      ccv          t6vf

     Loader tunables with the hw.cxgbe prefix apply to VFs from all cards.
     The Physical Function driver for Chelsio Terminator adapters shares these
     tunables.  The driver provides sysctl MIBs for both ports and parent
     devices using the names above.  For example, a T5 VF provides port MIBs
     under dev.cxlv and parent device MIBs under dev.t5vf.  References to
     sysctl MIBs in the remainder of this page use dev.<port> for port MIBs
     and dev.<nexus> for parent device MIBs.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The cxgbev driver supports Virtual Functions on 100Gb and 25Gb Ethernet
     adapters based on the T6 ASIC:

     •   Chelsio T6225-CR
     •   Chelsio T6225-SO-CR
     •   Chelsio T62100-LP-CR
     •   Chelsio T62100-SO-CR
     •   Chelsio T62100-CR

     The cxgbev driver supports Virtual Functions on 40Gb, 10Gb and 1Gb
     Ethernet adapters based on the T5 ASIC:

     •   Chelsio T580-CR
     •   Chelsio T580-LP-CR
     •   Chelsio T580-LP-SO-CR
     •   Chelsio T560-CR
     •   Chelsio T540-CR
     •   Chelsio T540-LP-CR
     •   Chelsio T522-CR
     •   Chelsio T520-LL-CR
     •   Chelsio T520-CR
     •   Chelsio T520-SO
     •   Chelsio T520-BT
     •   Chelsio T504-BT

     The cxgbev driver supports Virtual Functions on 10Gb and 1Gb Ethernet
     adapters based on the T4 ASIC:

     •   Chelsio T420-CR
     •   Chelsio T422-CR
     •   Chelsio T440-CR
     •   Chelsio T420-BCH
     •   Chelsio T440-BCH
     •   Chelsio T440-CH
     •   Chelsio T420-SO
     •   Chelsio T420-CX
     •   Chelsio T420-BT
     •   Chelsio T404-BT

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).

     hw.cxgbe.ntxq
             Number of tx queues used for a port.  The default is 16 or the
             number of CPU cores in the system, whichever is less.

     hw.cxgbe.nrxq
             Number of rx queues used for a port.  The default is 8 or the
             number of CPU cores in the system, whichever is less.

     hw.cxgbe.holdoff_timer_idx
             Timer index value used to delay interrupts.  The holdoff timer
             list has the values 1, 5, 10, 50, 100, and 200 by default (all
             values are in microseconds) and the index selects a value from
             this list.  The default value is 1 which means the timer value is
             5us.  Different interfaces can be assigned different values at
             any time via the dev.<port>.X.holdoff_tmr_idx sysctl.

     hw.cxgbe.holdoff_pktc_idx
             Packet-count index value used to delay interrupts.  The packet-
             count list has the values 1, 8, 16, and 32 by default, and the
             index selects a value from this list.  The default value is -1
             which means packet counting is disabled and interrupts are
             generated based solely on the holdoff timer value.  Different
             interfaces can be assigned different values via the
             dev.<port>.X.holdoff_pktc_idx sysctl.  This sysctl works only
             when the interface has never been marked up (as done by ifconfig
             up).

     hw.cxgbe.qsize_txq
             Number of entries in a transmit queue's descriptor ring.  A
             buf_ring of the same size is also allocated for additional
             software queuing.  See ifnet(9).  The default value is 1024.
             Different interfaces can be assigned different values via the
             dev.<port>.X.qsize_txq sysctl.  This sysctl works only when the
             interface has never been marked up (as done by ifconfig up).

     hw.cxgbe.qsize_rxq
             Number of entries in a receive queue's descriptor ring.  The
             default value is 1024.  Different interfaces can be assigned
             different values via the dev.<port>.X.qsize_rxq sysctl.  This
             sysctl works only when the interface has never been marked up (as
             done by ifconfig up).

     hw.cxgbe.interrupt_types
             Permitted interrupt types.  Bit 0 represents INTx (line
             interrupts), bit 1 MSI, and bit 2 MSI-X.  The default is 7 (all
             allowed).  The driver selects the best possible type out of the
             allowed types.  Note that Virtual Functions do not support INTx
             interrupts and fail to attach if neither MSI nor MSI-X are
             enabled.

     hw.cxgbe.fl_pktshift
             Number of padding bytes inserted before the beginning of an
             Ethernet frame in the receive buffer.  The default value of 2
             ensures that the Ethernet payload (usually the IP header) is at a
             4 byte aligned address.  0-7 are all valid values.

     hw.cxgbe.fl_pad
             A non-zero value ensures that writes from the hardware to a
             receive buffer are padded up to the specified boundary.  The
             default is -1 which lets the driver pick a pad boundary.  0
             disables trailer padding completely.

     hw.cxgbe.buffer_packing
             Allow the hardware to deliver multiple frames in the same receive
             buffer opportunistically.  The default is -1 which lets the
             driver decide.  0 or 1 explicitly disable or enable this feature.

     hw.cxgbe.allow_mbufs_in_cluster
             1 allows the driver to lay down one or more mbufs within the
             receive buffer opportunistically.  This is the default.  0
             prohibits the driver from doing so.

     hw.cxgbe.largest_rx_cluster

     hw.cxgbe.safest_rx_cluster
             Sizes of rx clusters.  Each of these must be set to one of the
             sizes available (usually 2048, 4096, 9216, and 16384) and
             largest_rx_cluster must be greater than or equal to
             safest_rx_cluster.  The defaults are 16384 and 4096 respectively.
             The driver never attempts to allocate a receive buffer larger
             than largest_rx_cluster and falls back to allocating buffers of
             safest_rx_cluster size if an allocation larger than
             safest_rx_cluster fails.  Note that largest_rx_cluster merely
             establishes a ceiling -- the driver is allowed to allocate
             buffers of smaller sizes.

     Certain settings and resources for Virtual Functions are dictated by the
     parent Physical Function driver.  For example, the Physical Function
     driver limits the number of queues available to a Virtual Function.  Some
     of these limits can be adjusted in the firmware configuration file used
     with the Physical Function driver.

     The PAUSE settings on the port of a Virtual Function are inherited from
     the settings of the same port on the Physical Function.  Virtual
     Functions cannot modify the setting and track changes made to the
     associated port's setting by the Physical Function driver.

     Receive queues on a Virtual Function always drop packets in response to
     congestion (equivalent to setting hw.cxgbe.cong_drop to 1).

     The VF driver currently depends on the PF driver.  As a result, loading
     the VF driver also loads the PF driver as a dependency.

SUPPORT
     For general information and support, go to the Chelsio support website
     at: http://www.chelsio.com/.

     If an issue is identified with this driver with a supported adapter,
     email all the specific information related to the issue to
     <support@chelsio.com>.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), cxgbe(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The cxgbev device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 11.1 and FreeBSD 11.1.

AUTHORS
     The cxgbev driver was written by Navdeep Parhar <np@FreeBSD.org> and John
     Baldwin <jhb@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2           May 9, 2017          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
