GENET(4)               FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual               GENET(4)

NAME
     genet – Raspberry Pi 4 / BCM2711 Gigabit Ethernet controller driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in the
     kernel configuration file:

           device miibus
           device genet

DESCRIPTION
     The genet driver supports the BCM2711 Ethernet controller as found on the
     Raspberry Pi 4.

     The following features are supported in the genet driver in FreeBSD:

           IP/TCP/UDP checksum offload for IPv4 and IPv6
           10/100/1000Mbps operation in full-duplex mode
           10/100Mbps operation in half-duplex mode

     Note that the operation of transmit checksum offload is coupled for IPv4
     and IPv6; to disable it, both must be disabled even if both address
     families are not in use.

     The genet driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect       Enable autoselection of the media type and options.  The
                      user can manually override the autoselected mode by
                      adding media options to rc.conf(5).

     10baseT/UTP      Set 10Mbps operation.  The ifconfig(8) mediaopt option
                      can also be used to select either full-duplex or
                      half-duplex modes.

     100baseTX        Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.  The ifconfig(8)
                      mediaopt option can also be used to select either
                      full-duplex or half-duplex modes.

     1000baseT        Set 1000baseT operation over twisted pair.  Only
                      full-duplex mode is supported.

     The genet driver supports the following media options set with the
     mediaopt option to the ifconfig(8) command:

     full-duplex      Force full duplex operation.

     half-duplex      Force half duplex operation.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The genet driver supports the Ethernet controller portion of the Broadcom
     BCM2711 on the Raspberry Pi 4 Model B and related systems.  It utilizes
     the BCM54213PE PHY.

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).  The following loader tunable variable is
     available, and is also available as a read-only sysctl(8) variable:

     hw.genet.rx_batch
             The maximum number of packets to pass to the link-layer input
             routine at one time.  The default is 16.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variable is available as a sysctl(8) variable:

     hw.genet.tx_hdr_min
             When the driver is given an output packet in a buffer chain in
             which the first buffer contains only the Ethernet header, the
             number of bytes of the packet to add to the Ethernet header in
             the first buffer.  Certain packets may be lost if this value is
             too small.  The default value is 56, and is sufficient for the
             observed cases to date.

DIAGNOSTICS
     The genet driver has no diagnostics that are likely in normal operation.
     However, when the debug option is set with ifconfig(8), most failures
     that cause packet loss in the transmit and receive paths cause a cryptic
     diagnostic message naming the failure.  These messages generally make
     sense only when looking at the driver source.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), miibus(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4),
     ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The genet device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 13.0.

AUTHORS
     The genet driver was written by Mike Karels <karels@freebsd.org>.
     Portions are derived from the bcmgenet driver in NetBSD by Jared McNeill,
     and parts of the structure and common code are from the awg driver for
     the Allwinner EMAC by Jared McNeill.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        December 8, 2021        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
