TI(4)                  FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                  TI(4)

NAME
     ti – Alteon Networks Tigon I and Tigon II Gigabit Ethernet driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device ti
           options TI_SF_BUF_JUMBO
           options TI_JUMBO_HDRSPLIT

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_ti_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The ti driver provides support for PCI Gigabit Ethernet adapters based on
     the Alteon Networks Tigon Gigabit Ethernet controller chip.  The Tigon
     contains an embedded R4000 CPU, gigabit MAC, dual DMA channels and a PCI
     interface unit.  The Tigon II contains two R4000 CPUs and other
     refinements.  Either chip can be used in either a 32-bit or 64-bit PCI
     slot.  Communication with the chip is achieved via PCI shared memory and
     bus master DMA.  The Tigon I and II support hardware multicast address
     filtering, VLAN tag extraction and insertion, and jumbo Ethernet frames
     sizes up to 9000 bytes.  Note that the Tigon I chipset is no longer in
     active production: all new adapters should come equipped with Tigon II
     chipsets.

     While the Tigon chipset supports 10, 100 and 1000Mbps speeds, support for
     10 and 100Mbps speeds is only available on boards with the proper
     transceivers.  Most adapters are only designed to work at 1000Mbps,
     however the driver should support those NICs that work at lower speeds as
     well.

     Support for jumbo frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit jumbo frames.  Using jumbo
     frames can greatly improve performance for certain tasks, such as file
     transfers and data streaming.

     Header splitting support for Tigon 2 boards (this option has no effect
     for the Tigon 1) can be turned on with the TI_JUMBO_HDRSPLIT option.  See
     zero_copy(9) for more discussion on zero copy receive and header
     splitting.

     The ti driver uses UMA backed jumbo receive buffers, but can be
     configured to use sendfile(2) buffer allocator.  To turn on sendfile(2)
     buffer allocator, use the TI_SF_BUF_JUMBO option.

     Support for vlans is also available using the vlan(4) mechanism.  See the
     vlan(4) man page for more details.

     The ti driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect            Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
                           The user can manually override the autoselected
                           mode by adding media options to the /etc/rc.conf
                           file.

     10baseT/UTP           Set 10Mbps operation.  The mediaopt option can also
                           be used to select either full-duplex or half-duplex
                           modes.

     100baseTX             Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.  The
                           mediaopt option can also be used to select either
                           full-duplex or half-duplex modes.

     1000baseSX            Set 1000Mbps (Gigabit Ethernet) operation.  Only
                           full-duplex mode is supported at this speed.

     The ti driver supports the following media options:

     full-duplex           Force full-duplex operation.

     half-duplex           Force half duplex operation.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The ti driver supports Gigabit Ethernet adapters based on the Alteon
     Tigon I and II chips.  The ti driver has been tested with the following
     adapters:

     •   3Com 3c985-SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter (Tigon 1)
     •   3Com 3c985B-SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter (Tigon 2)
     •   Alteon AceNIC V Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseSX)
     •   Alteon AceNIC V Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseT)
     •   Digital EtherWORKS 1000SX PCI Gigabit adapter
     •   Netgear GA620 Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseSX)
     •   Netgear GA620T Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseT)

     The following adapters should also be supported but have not yet been
     tested:

     •   Asante GigaNIX1000T Gigabit Ethernet adapter
     •   Asante PCI 1000BASE-SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter
     •   Farallon PN9000SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter
     •   NEC Gigabit Ethernet
     •   Silicon Graphics PCI Gigabit Ethernet adapter

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).

     hw.ti.%d.dac
             If this tunable is set to 0 it will disable DAC (Dual Address
             Cycle).  The default value is 1 which means driver will use full
             64bit DMA addressing.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables.  The interface has to be brought down and up again
     before a change takes effect when any of the following tunables are
     changed.  The one microsecond clock tick referenced below is a nominal
     time and the actual hardware may not provide granularity to this level.
     For example, on Tigon 2 (revision 6) cards with release 12.0 the clock
     granularity is 5 microseconds.

     dev.ti.%d.rx_coal_ticks
             This value, receive coalesced ticks, controls the number of clock
             ticks (of 1 microseconds each) that must elapse before the NIC
             DMAs the receive return producer pointer to the Host and
             generates an interrupt.  This parameter works in conjunction with
             the rx_max_coal_bds, receive max coalesced BDs, tunable
             parameter.  The NIC will return the receive return producer
             pointer to the Host when either of the thresholds is exceeded.  A
             value of 0 means that this parameter is ignored and receive BDs
             will only be returned when the receive max coalesced BDs value is
             reached.  The default value is 170.

     dev.ti.%d.rx_max_coal_bds
             This value, receive max coalesced BDs, controls the number of
             receive buffer descriptors that will be coalesced before the NIC
             updates the receive return ring producer index.  If this value is
             set to 0 it will disable receive buffer descriptor coalescing.
             The default value is 64.

     dev.ti.%d.ti_tx_coal_ticks
             This value, send coalesced ticks, controls the number of clock
             ticks (of 1 microseconds each) that must elapse before the NIC
             DMAs the send consumer pointer to the Host and generates an
             interrupt.  This parameter works in conjunction with the
             tx_max_coal_bds, send max coalesced BDs, tunable parameter.  The
             NIC will return the send consumer pointer to the Host when either
             of the thresholds is exceeded.  A value of 0 means that this
             parameter is ignored and send BDs will only be returned when the
             send max coalesced BDs value is reached.  The default value is
             2000.

     dev.ti.%d.tx_max_coal_bds
             This value, send max coalesced BDs, controls the number of send
             buffer descriptors that will be coalesced before the NIC updates
             the send consumer index.  If this value is set to 0 it will
             disable send buffer descriptor coalescing.  The default value is
             32.

     dev.ti.%d.tx_buf_ratio
             This value controls the ratio of the remaining memory in the NIC
             that should be devoted to transmit buffer vs. receive buffer.
             The lower 7 bits are used to indicate the ratio in 1/64th
             increments.  For example, setting this value to 16 will set the
             transmit buffer to 1/4 of the remaining buffer space.  In no
             cases will the transmit or receive buffer be reduced below 68 KB.
             For a 1 MB NIC the approximate total space for data buffers is
             800 KB.  For a 512 KB NIC that number is 300 KB.  The default
             value is 21.

     dev.ti.%d.stat_ticks
             The value, stat ticks, controls the number of clock ticks (of 1
             microseconds each) that must elapse before the NIC DMAs the
             statistics block to the Host and generates a STATS_UPDATED event.
             If set to zero then statistics are never DMAed to the Host.  It
             is recommended that this value be set to a high enough frequency
             to not mislead someone reading statistics refreshes.  Several
             times a second is enough.  The default value is 2000000 (2
             seconds).

IOCTLS
     In addition to the standard socket(2) ioctl(2) calls implemented by most
     network drivers, the ti driver also includes a character device interface
     that can be used for additional diagnostics, configuration and debugging.
     With this character device interface, and a specially patched version of
     gdb(1), the user can debug firmware running on the Tigon board.

     These ioctls and their arguments are defined in the <sys/tiio.h> header
     file.

     TIIOCGETSTATS         Return card statistics DMAed from the card into
                           kernel memory approximately every 2 seconds.  (That
                           time interval can be changed via the TIIOCSETPARAMS
                           ioctl.)  The argument is struct ti_stats.

     TIIOCGETPARAMS        Get various performance-related firmware parameters
                           that largely affect how interrupts are coalesced.
                           The argument is struct ti_params.

     TIIOCSETPARAMS        Set various performance-related firmware parameters
                           that largely affect how interrupts are coalesced.
                           The argument is struct ti_params.

     TIIOCSETTRACE         Tell the NIC to trace the requested types of
                           information.  The argument is ti_trace_type.

     TIIOCGETTRACE         Dump the trace buffer from the card.  The argument
                           is struct ti_trace_buf.

     ALT_ATTACH            This ioctl is used for compatibility with Alteon's
                           Solaris driver.  They apparently only have one
                           character interface for debugging, so they have to
                           tell it which Tigon instance they want to debug.
                           This ioctl is a noop for FreeBSD.

     ALT_READ_TG_MEM       Read the requested memory region from the Tigon
                           board.  The argument is struct tg_mem.

     ALT_WRITE_TG_MEM      Write to the requested memory region on the Tigon
                           board.  The argument is struct tg_mem.

     ALT_READ_TG_REG       Read the requested register from the Tigon board.
                           The argument is struct tg_reg.

     ALT_WRITE_TG_REG      Write to the requested register on the Tigon board.
                           The argument is struct tg_reg.

FILES
     /dev/ti[0-255]      Tigon driver character interface.

DIAGNOSTICS
     ti%d: couldn't map memory  A fatal initialization error has occurred.

     ti%d: couldn't map interrupt  A fatal initialization error has occurred.

     ti%d: no memory for softc struct!  The driver failed to allocate memory
     for per-device instance information during initialization.

     ti%d: failed to enable memory mapping!  The driver failed to initialize
     PCI shared memory mapping.  This might happen if the card is not in a
     bus-master slot.

     ti%d: no memory for jumbo buffers!  The driver failed to allocate memory
     for jumbo frames during initialization.

     ti%d: bios thinks we're in a 64 bit slot, but we aren't  The BIOS has
     programmed the NIC as though it had been installed in a 64-bit PCI slot,
     but in fact the NIC is in a 32-bit slot.  This happens as a result of a
     bug in some BIOSes.  This can be worked around on the Tigon II, but on
     the Tigon I initialization will fail.

     ti%d: board self-diagnostics failed!  The ROMFAIL bit in the CPU state
     register was set after system startup, indicating that the on-board NIC
     diagnostics failed.

     ti%d: unknown hwrev  The driver detected a board with an unsupported
     hardware revision.  The ti driver supports revision 4 (Tigon 1) and
     revision 6 (Tigon 2) chips and has firmware only for those devices.

     ti%d: watchdog timeout  The device has stopped responding to the network,
     or there is a problem with the network connection (cable).

SEE ALSO
     sendfile(2), altq(4), arp(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4),
     ifconfig(8), zero_copy(9)

HISTORY
     The ti device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 3.0.

AUTHORS
     The ti driver was written by Bill Paul <wpaul@bsdi.com>.  The header
     splitting firmware modifications, character ioctl(2) interface and
     debugging support were written by Kenneth Merry <ken@FreeBSD.org>.
     Initial zero copy support was written by Andrew Gallatin
     <gallatin@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        November 14, 2011       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
