VTE(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 VTE(4)

NAME
     vte – Vortex86 RDC R6040 Fast Ethernet driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device miibus
           device vte

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_vte_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The vte device driver provides support for RDC R6040 Fast Ethernet
     controller which is commonly found on Vortex86 System On a Chip (SoC).

     The RDC R6040 has integrated 10/100 PHY for 10/100Mbps support in full or
     half-duplex.  The controller supports interrupt moderation mechanism, a
     64-bit multicast hash filter, VLAN over-size frame and four station
     addresses.  The vte device driver uses three station addresses out of
     four as perfect multicast filter.

     The vte driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect       Enable autoselection of the media type and options.  The
                      user can manually override the autoselected mode by
                      adding media options to rc.conf(5).

     10baseT/UTP      Set 10Mbps operation.

     100baseTX        Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.

     The vte driver supports the following media options:

     full-duplex      Force full duplex operation.

     half-duplex      Force half duplex operation.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The vte device driver provides support for the following Ethernet
     controllers:

     •   DM&P Vortex86 RDC R6040 Fast Ethernet controller

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).

     hw.vte.tx_deep_copy
             The RDC R6040 controller has no auto-padding support for short
             frames and the controller's DMA engine does not have capability
             to handle multiple buffers for a TX frame such that driver has to
             create a single contiguous TX buffer.  This hardware limitation
             leads to poor TX performance since most of CPU cycles are wasted
             on both de-fragmenting mbuf chains and padding.  This tunable
             enables deep copy operation for TX frames such that driver will
             spend less CPU cycles in de-fragmentation with the cost of extra
             TX buffer memory.  The default value is 1 to use deep copy.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     dev.vte.%d.rx_mod
             Maximum number of packets to fire RX completion interrupt.  The
             accepted range is 0 to 15, the default is 15.

     dev.vte.%d.tx_mod
             Maximum number of packets to fire TX completion interrupt.  The
             accepted range is 0 to 15, the default is 15.

     dev.vte.%d.stats
             Show hardware MAC statistics maintained in driver.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), miibus(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4),
     ifconfig(8)

     DM&P Electronics Inc. Vortex86, http://www.dmp.com.tw.

HISTORY
     The vte driver was written by Pyun YongHyeon <yongari@FreeBSD.org>.  It
     first appeared in FreeBSD 8.3.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        December 30, 2010       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
