IGC                                  LOCAL                                 IGC

NAME
     igc – Intel Ethernet Controller I225 driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device iflib
           device igc

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_igc_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The igc driver provides support for any PCI Express adapter or LOM (LAN
     On Motherboard) based on the Intel I225 Multi Gigabit Controller.  The
     driver supports Transmit/Receive checksum offload, Jumbo Frames, MSI/MSI-
     X, TSO, and RSS.

     Support for Jumbo Frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit Jumbo Frames.  The maximum
     MTU size for Jumbo Frames is 9216 bytes.

     This driver version supports VLAN hardware insertion / extraction, and
     VLAN checksum offload.  For information on enabling VLANs, see
     ifconfig(8).  The igc driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect       Enables auto-negotiation for speed and duplex.

     10baseT/UTP      Sets 10Mbps operation.  Use the mediaopt option to
                      select half-duplex mode.

     100baseTX        Sets 100Mbps operation.  Use the mediaopt option to
                      select half-duplex mode.

     1000baseT        Sets 1000Mbps operation.  Only full-duplex mode is
                      supported at this speed.

     2500baseT        Sets 2500Mbps operation.  Only full-duplex mode is
                      supported at this speed.

HARDWARE
     The igc driver supports the following models:

     •   I225-LM
     •   I225-V
     •   I225-IT
     •   I225-K

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).

     hw.igc.igc_disable_crc_stripping
             Disable or enable hardware stripping of CRC field.  This is
             mostly useful on BMC/IPMI shared interfaces where stripping the
             CRC causes remote access over IPMI to fail.  Default 0 (enabled).

     hw.igc.rx_int_delay
             This value delays the generation of receive interrupts in units
             of 1.024 microseconds.  The default value is 0, since adapters
             may hang with this feature being enabled.

     hw.igc.rx_abs_int_delay
             If hw.igc.rx_int_delay is non-zero, this tunable limits the
             maximum delay in which a receive interrupt is generated.

     hw.igc.tx_int_delay
             This value delays the generation of transmit interrupts in units
             of 1.024 microseconds.  The default value is 64.

     hw.igc.tx_abs_int_delay
             If hw.igc.tx_int_delay is non-zero, this tunable limits the
             maximum delay in which a transmit interrupt is generated.

     hw.igc.sbp
             Show bad packets when in promiscuous mode.  Default is false.

     hw.igc.rx_process_limit
             Maximum number of received packets to process at a time.  Default
             is 100.  A value of -1 means unlimited.

     hw.igc.eee_setting
             Disable or enable Energy Efficient Ethernet.  Default 1
             (disabled).

     hw.igc.max_interrupt_rate
             Maximum device interrupts per second.  The default is 8000.

DIAGNOSTICS
     igc%d: Hardware Initialization Failed  A fatal initialization error has
     occurred.

     igc%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: memory  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     igc%d: Invalid MAC address  The MAC address programmed into the EEPROM is
     either empty or a multicast/broadcast address.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), iflib(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The igc device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 14.0.

AUTHORS
     The igc was originally written by Intel Corporation and converted to the
     iflib(4) framework by Netgate.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 10, 2021          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
