igmpproxy.conf(5)         FreeBSD File Formats Manual        igmpproxy.conf(5)

NAME
       igmpproxy.conf - Configuration file for igmpproxy(8) multicast daemon


DESCRIPTION
       igmpproxy.conf contains the configuration for the igmpproxy multicast
       daemon. It defines which network interfaces should be used by the
       routing daemon. Each interface must be give one of the following roles:
       upstream , downstream or disabled

       The upstream network interface is the outgoing interface which is
       responsible for communicating to available multicast data sources.
       There can only be one upstream interface.

       Downstream network interfaces are the distribution interfaces to the
       destination networks, where multicast clients can join groups and
       receive multicast data. One or more downstream interfaces must be
       configured.

       On disabled network interfaces all IGMP or multicast traffic is ignored
       altogether. If multiple IP addresses is used on one single interface
       (ae. eth0:1 ...), all interface aliases not in use should be configured
       as disabled.

       Any line in the configuration file starting with # is treated as a
       comment. Keywords and parameters can be distributed over many lines.
       The configuration file has four main keywords:

       chroot directory
              Changes the apparent root directory to the given path after
              startup, thus denying igmpproxy access to files and commands
              outside that environmental directory tree.


       user username
              Specifies the userid to which igmpproxy will change after
              startup.  igmpproxy must be started as root, but it will drop
              root privileges to the specified user.


       quickleave
              Enables quickleave mode. In this mode the daemon will send a
              Leave IGMP message upstream as soon as it receives a Leave
              message for any downstream interface.  The daemon will then ask
              for Membership reports on the downstream interfaces, and if a
              report is received the group is joined again upstream. Normally
              this is not noticed at all by clients on the downstream
              networks. If it's vital that the daemon should act exactly as a
              real multicast client on the upstream interface, this function
              should not be used. Disabling this function increases the risk
              of bandwidth saturation.


       phyint interface role [ ratelimit limit ] [ threshold ttl ] [ altnet
       networkaddr ...  ]
              Defines the state and settings of a network interface.


PHYINT OPTIONS
       interface
              The name of the interface the settings are for. This option is
              required for phyint settings.

       role
              The role of the interface. This should be either upstream (only
              one interface), downstream (one or more interfaces) or disabled
              . This option is required.

       ratelimit limit
              Defines a ratelimit for the network interface. If ratelimit is
              set to 0 (default), no ratelimit will be applied. This setting
              is optional.

       threshold ttl
              Defines the TTL threshold for the network interface. Packets
              with a lower TTL than the threshols value will be ignored. This
              setting is optional, and by default the threshold is 1.

       altnet networkaddr ...
              Defines alternate sources for multicasting and IGMP data. The
              network address must be on the following format 'a.b.c.d/n'. By
              default the router will accept data from sources on the same
              network as configured on an interface. If the multicast source
              lies on a remote network, one must define from where traffic
              should be accepted.

              This is especially useful for the upstream interface, since the
              source for multicast traffic is often from a remote location.
              Any number of altnet parameters can be specified.

       whitelist networkaddr
              Defines a whitelist for multicast groups. The network address
              must be in the following format 'a.b.c.d/n'. If you want to
              allow one single group use a network mask of /32, i.e.
              'a.b.c.d/32'.

              By default all multicast groups are allowed on any downstream
              interface. If at least one whitelist entry is defined, all igmp
              membership reports for not explicitly whitelisted multicast
              groups will be ignored and therefore not be served by igmpproxy.
              This is especially useful, if your provider does only allow a
              predefined set of multicast groups. These whitelists are only
              obeyed by igmpproxy itself, they won't prevent any other igmp
              client running on the same machine as igmpproxy from requesting
              'unallowed' multicast groups.

              You may specify as many whitelist entries as needed. Although
              you should keep it as simple as possible, as this list is parsed
              for every membership report and therefore this increases igmp
              response times. Often used or large groups should be defined
              first, as parsing ends as soon as a group matches an entry.

              You may also specify whitelist entries for the upstream
              interface. Only igmp membership reports for explicitly
              whitelisted multicast groups will be sent out on the upstream
              interface. This is useful if you want to use multicast groups
              only between your downstream interfaces, like SSDP from a UPnP
              server.

              This option can be combined with blacklist for fine-grained
              control.

       blacklist networkaddr
              Defines a blacklist for multicast groups. Similar to whitelist
              except that if a blacklist entry is defined, all igmp membership
              reports for that multicast group will be ignored and therefore
              not be served by igmpproxy.

              Each time a multicast group is forwarded or requested, whitelist
              and blacklist entries are evaluated in sequential order, from
              first to last. The last matching entry decides what action is
              taken; if no entry matches the multicast group, the default
              action is to serve. Note that, if at least one whitelist entry
              is defined before any blacklist entry, all igmp membership
              reports for not explicitly whitelisted multicast groups will be
              ignored.


EXAMPLE
       ## Enable quickleave quickleave
       ## Define settings for eth0 (upstream)
       phyint eth0 upstream
              altnet 10.0.0.0/8

       ## Disable alternate IP on eth0 (eth0:0)
       phyint eth0:0 disabled

       ## Define settings for eth1 (downstream)
       phyint eth1 downstream ratelimit 0 threshold 1

       ## Define settings for eth2 (also downstream)
       phyint eth2 downstream



SEE ALSO
       igmpproxy(8)


AUTHOR
       Originally written by Johnny Egeland <johnny@rlo.org>

igmpproxy 0.4                                                igmpproxy.conf(5)
