cmalign(1)                      Infernal Manual                     cmalign(1)



NAME
       cmalign - align sequences to a covariance model


SYNOPSIS
       cmalign
              [options] <cmfile> <seqfile>


DESCRIPTION
       cmalign aligns the RNA sequences in <seqfile> to the covariance model
       (CM) in <cmfile>.  The new alignment is output to stdout in Stockholm
       format, but can be redirected to a file <f> with the -o <f> option.


       Either <cmfile> or <seqfile> (but not both) may be '-' (dash), which
       means reading this input from stdin rather than a file.


       The sequence file <seqfile> must be in FASTA or Genbank format.


       cmalign uses an HMM banding technique to accelerate alignment by
       default as described below for the --hbanded option. HMM banding can be
       turned off with the --nonbanded option.


       By default, cmalign computes the alignment with maximum expected
       accuracy that is consistent with constraints (bands) derived from an
       HMM, using a banded version of the Durbin/Holmes optimal accuracy
       algorithm.  This behavior can be changed with the --cyk or --sample
       options.


       cmalign takes special care to correctly align truncated sequences,
       where some nucleotides from the beginning (5') and/or end (3') of the
       actual full length biological sequence are not present in the input
       sequence (see DL Kolbe and SR Eddy, Bioinformatics, 25:1236-1243,
       2009). This behavior is on by default, but can be turned off with
       --notrunc.  In previous versions of cmalign the --sub option was
       required to appropriately handle truncated sequences. The --sub option
       is still available in this version, but the new default method for
       handling truncated sequences should be as good or superior to the sub
       method in nearly all cases.


       The --mapali <s> option allows inclusion of the fixed training
       alignment used to build the CM from file <s> within the output
       alignment of cmalign.


       It is possible to merge two or more alignments created by the same CM
       using the Easel miniapp esl-alimerge (included in the easel/miniapps/
       subdirectory of Infernal). Previous versions of cmalign included
       options to merge alignments but they were deprecated upon development
       of esl-alimerge, which is significantly more memory efficient.


       By default, cmalign will output the alignment to stdout.  The alignment
       can be redirected to an output file <f> with the -o <f> option. With
       -o, information on each aligned sequence, including score and model
       alignment boundaries will be printed to stdout (more on this below).


       The output alignment will be in Stockholm format by default. This can
       be changed to Pfam, aligned FASTA (AFA), A2M, Clustal, or Phylip format
       using the --outformat <s> option, where <s> is the name of the desired
       format.  As a special case, if the output alignment is large (more than
       10,000 sequences or more than 10,000,000 total nucleotides) than the
       output format will be Pfam format, with each sequence appearing on a
       single line, for reasons of memory efficiency. For alignments larger
       than this, using --ileaved will force interleaved Stockholm format, but
       the user should be aware that this may require a lot of memory.
       --ileaved will only work for alignments up to 100,000 sequences or
       100,000,000 total nucleotides.


       If the output alignment format is Stockholm or Pfam, the output
       alignment will be annotated with posterior probabilities which estimate
       the confidence level of each aligned nucleotide.  This annotation
       appears as lines beginning with "#=GR <seq name> PP", one per sequence,
       each immediately below the corresponding aligned sequence "<seq name>".
       Characters in PP lines have 12 possible values: "0-9", "*", or ".". If
       ".", the position corresponds to a gap in the sequence. A value of "0"
       indicates a posterior probability of between 0.0 and 0.05, "1"
       indicates between 0.05 and 0.15, "2" indicates between 0.15 and 0.25
       and so on up to "9" which indicates between 0.85 and 0.95. A value of
       "*" indicates a posterior probability of between 0.95 and 1.0. Higher
       posterior probabilities correspond to greater confidence that the
       aligned nucleotide belongs where it appears in the alignment.  With
       --nonbanded, the calculation of the posterior probabilities considers
       all possible alignments of the target sequence to the CM. Without
       --nonbanded (i.e. in default mode), the calculation considers only
       possible alignments within the HMM bands. Further, the posterior
       probabilities are conditional on the truncation mode of the alignment.
       For example, if the sequence alignment is truncated 5', a PP value of
       "9" indicates between 0.85 and 0.95 of all 5' truncated alignments
       include the given nucleotide at the given position.  The posterior
       annotation can be turned off with the --noprob option. If --small is
       enabled, posterior annotation must also be turned off using --noprob.


       The tabular output that is printed to stdout if the -o option is used
       includes one line per sequence and twelve fields per line: "idx": the
       index of the sequence in the input file, "seq name": the sequence name;
       "length": the length of the sequence; "cm from" and "cm to": the model
       start and end positions of the alignment; "trunc": "no" if the sequence
       is not truncated, "5'" if the beginning of the sequence truncated 5',
       "3'" if the end of the sequence is truncated, and "5'&3'" if both the
       beginning and the end are truncated; "bit sc": the bit score of the
       alignment, "avg pp" the average posterior probability of all aligned
       nucleotides in the alignment; "band calc", "alignment" and "total": the
       time in seconds required for calculating HMM bands, computing the
       alignment, and complete processing of the sequence, respectively; "mem
       (Mb)": the size in Mb of all dynamic programming matrices required for
       aligning the sequence.  This tabular data can be saved to file <f> with
       the --sfile <f> option.


OPTIONS
       -h     Help; print a brief reminder of command line usage and available
              options.


       -o <f> Save the alignment in Stockholm format to a file <f>.  The
              default is to write it to standard output.


       -g     Configure the model for global alignment of the query model to
              the target sequences. By default, the model is configured for
              local alignment. Local alignments can contain large insertions
              and deletions called "local ends" in the structure to be
              penalized differently than normal indels. These are annotated as
              "~" columns in the RF line of the output alignment. The -g
              option can be used to disallow these local ends.  The -g option
              is required if the --sub option is also used.


OPTIONS FOR CONTROLLING THE ALIGNMENT ALGORITHM
       --optacc
              Align sequences using the Durbin/Holmes optimal accuracy
              algorithm. This is the default.  The optimal accuracy alignment
              will be constrained by HMM bands for acceleration unless the
              --nonbanded option is enabled.  The optimal accuracy algorithm
              determines the alignment that maximizes the posterior
              probabilities of the aligned nucleotides within it.  The
              posterior probabilites are determined using (possibly HMM
              banded) variants of the Inside and Outside algorithms.


       --cyk  Do not use the Durbin/Holmes optimal accuracy alignment to align
              the sequences, instead use the CYK algorithm which determines
              the optimally scoring (maximum likelihood) alignment of the
              sequence to the model, given the HMM bands (unless --nonbanded
              is also enabled).


       --sample
              Sample an alignment from the posterior distribution of
              alignments.  The posterior distribution is determined using an
              HMM banded (unless --nonbanded) variant of the Inside algorithm.


       --seed <n>
              Seed the random number generator with <n>, an integer >= 0.
              This option can only be used in combination with --sample.  If
              <n> is nonzero, stochastic sampling of alignments will be
              reproducible; the same command will give the same results.  If
              <n> is 0, the random number generator is seeded arbitrarily, and
              stochastic samplings may vary from run to run of the same
              command.  The default seed is 181.


       --notrunc
              Turn off truncated alignment algorithms.  All sequences in the
              input file will be assumed to be full length, unless --sub is
              also used, in which case the program can still handle truncated
              sequences but will use an alternative strategy for their
              alignment.


       --sub  Turn on the sub model construction and alignment procedure. For
              each sequence, an HMM is first used to predict the model start
              and end consensus columns, and a new sub CM is constructed that
              only models consensus columns from start to end. The sequence is
              then aligned to this sub CM.  Sub alignment is an older method
              than the default one for aligning sequences that are possibly
              truncated. By default, cmalign uses special DP algorithms to
              handle truncated sequences which should be more accurate than
              the sub method in most cases.  --sub is still included as an
              option mainly for testing against this default truncated
              sequence handling.  This "sub CM" procedure is not the same as
              the "sub CMs" described by Weinberg and Ruzzo.


OPTIONS FOR CONTROLLING SPEED AND MEMORY REQUIREMENTS
       --hbanded
              This option is turned on by default. Accelerate alignment by
              pruning away regions of the CM DP matrix that are deemed
              negligible by an HMM.  First, each sequence is scored with a CM
              plan 9 HMM derived from the CM using the Forward and Backward
              HMM algorithms to calculate posterior probabilities that each
              nucleotide aligns to each state of the HMM. These posterior
              probabilities are used to derive constraints (bands) on the CM
              DP matrix. Finally, the target sequence is aligned to the CM
              using the banded DP matrix, during which cells outside the bands
              are ignored. Usually most of the full DP matrix lies outside the
              bands (often more than 95%), making this technique faster
              because fewer DP calculations are required, and more memory
              efficient because only cells within the bands need be allocated.

              Importantly, HMM banding sacrifices the guarantee of determining
              the optimally accurarte or optimal alignment, which will be
              missed if it lies outside the bands. The tau parameter is the
              amount of probability mass considered negligible during HMM band
              calculation; lower values of tau yield greater speedups but also
              a greater chance of missing the optimal alignment. The default
              tau is 1E-7, determined empirically as a good tradeoff between
              sensitivity and speed, though this value can be changed with the
              --tau  <x> option. The level of acceleration increases with both
              the length and primary sequence conservation level of the
              family. For example, with the default tau of 1E-7, tRNA models
              (low primary sequence conservation with length of about 75
              nucleotides) show about 10X acceleration, and SSU bacterial rRNA
              models (high primary sequence conservation with length of about
              1500 nucleotides) show about 700X.  HMM banding can be turned
              off with the --nonbanded option.


       --tau <x>
              Set the tail loss probability used during HMM band calculation
              to <x>.  This is the amount of probability mass within the HMM
              posterior probabilities that is considered negligible. The
              default value is 1E-7.  In general, higher values will result in
              greater acceleration, but increase the chance of missing the
              optimal alignment due to the HMM bands.


       --mxsize <x>
              Set the maximum allowable total DP matrix size to <x> megabytes.
              By default this size is 1024 Mb.  This should be large enough
              for the vast majority of alignments, however if it is not
              cmalign will attempt to iteratively tighten the HMM bands it
              uses to constrain the alignment by raising the tau parameter and
              recalculating the bands until the total matrix size needed falls
              below <x> megabytes or the maximum allowable tau value (0.05 by
              default, but changeable with --maxtau) is reached. At each
              iteration of band tightening, tau is multiplied by a 2.0. The
              band tightening strategy can be turned off with the --fixedtau
              option.  If the maximum tau is reached and the required matrix
              size still exceeds <x> or if HMM banding is not being used and
              the required matrix size exceeds <x> then cmalign will exit
              prematurely and report an error message that the matrix exceeded
              its maximum allowable size. In this case, the --mxsize can be
              used to raise the size limit or the maximum tau can be raised
              with --maxtau.  The limit will commonly be exceeded when the
              --nonbanded option is used without the --small option, but can
              still occur when --nonbanded is not used. Note that if cmalign
              is being run in <n> multiple threads on a multicore machine then
              each thread may have an allocated matrix of up to size <x> Mb at
              any given time.


       --fixedtau
              Turn off the HMM band tightening strategy described in the
              explanation of the --mxsize option above.


       --maxtau <x>
              Set the maximum allowed value for tau during band tightening,
              described in the explanation of --mxsize above, to <x>.  By
              default this value is 0.05.


       --nonbanded
              Turns off HMM banding. The returned alignment is guaranteed to
              be the globally optimally accurate one (by default) or the
              globally optimally scoring one (if --cyk is enabled).  The
              --small option is recommended in combination with this option,
              because standard alignment without HMM banding requires a lot of
              memory (see --small ).


       --small
              Use the divide and conquer CYK alignment algorithm described in
              SR Eddy, BMC Bioinformatics 3:18, 2002. The --nonbanded option
              must be used in combination with this options.  Also, it is
              recommended whenever --nonbanded is used that --small is also
              used  because standard CM alignment without HMM banding requires
              a lot of memory, especially for large RNAs.  --small allows CM
              alignment within practical memory limits, reducing the memory
              required for alignment LSU rRNA, the largest known RNAs, from
              150 Gb to less than 300 Mb.  This option can only be used in
              combination with --noprob, --nonbanded, --notrunc, and --cyk.


OPTIONAL OUTPUT FILES
       --sfile <f>
              Dump per-sequence alignment score and timig information to file
              <f>.  The format of this file is described above (it's the same
              data in the same format as the tabular stdout output when the -o
              option is used).


       --tfile <f>
              Dump tabular sequence tracebacks for each individual sequence to
              a file <f>.  Primarily useful for debugging.


       --ifile <f>
              Dump per-sequence insert information to file <f>.  The format of
              the file is described by "#"-prefixed comment lines included at
              the top of the file <f>.  The insert information is valid even
              when the --matchonly option is used.


       --elfile <f>
              Dump per-sequence EL state (local end) insert information to
              file <f>.  The format of the file is described by "#"-prefixed
              comment lines included at the top of the file <f>.  The EL
              insert information is valid even when the --matchonly option is
              used.


OTHER OPTIONS
       --mapali <f>
              Reads the alignment from file <f> used to build the model aligns
              it as a single object to the CM; e.g. the alignment in <f> is
              held fixed.  This allows you to align sequences to a model with
              cmalign and view them in the context of an existing trusted
              multiple alignment.  <f> must be the alignment file that the CM
              was built from. The program verifies that the checksum of the
              file matches that of the file used to construct the CM. A
              similar option to this one was called --withali in previous
              versions of cmalign.


       --mapstr
              Must be used in combination with --mapali <f>.  Propagate
              structural information for any pseudoknots that exist in <f> to
              the output alignment. A similar option to this one was called
              --withstr in previous versions of cmalign.


       --informat <s>
              Assert that the input <seqfile> is in format <s>.  Do not run
              Babelfish format autodection. This increases the reliability of
              the program somewhat, because the Babelfish can make mistakes;
              particularly recommended for unattended, high-throughput runs of
              Infernal.  Acceptable formats are: FASTA, GENBANK, and DDBJ.
              <s> is case-insensitive.


       --outformat <s>
              Specify the output alignment format as <s>.  Acceptable formats
              are: Pfam, AFA, A2M, Clustal, and Phylip.  AFA is aligned fasta.
              Only Pfam and Stockholm alignment formats will include consensus
              structure annotation and posterior probability annotation of
              aligned residues.


       --dnaout
              Output the alignments as DNA sequence alignments, instead of RNA
              ones.


       --noprob
              Do not annotate the output alignment with posterior
              probabilities.


       --matchonly
              Only include match columns in the output alignment, do not
              include any insertions relative to the consensus model. This
              option may be useful when creating very large alignments that
              require a lot of memory and disk space, most of which is
              necessary only to deal with insert columns that are gaps in most
              sequences.


       --miss In the output alignment, use missing data characters ('~')
              before the first residue and after the final residue of each
              sequence to indicate the sequence was aligned with a truncated
              alignment algorithm. The aligned sequences would be considered
              fragments if the alignment was used subsequently as input to
              cmbuild with the --fraggiven option. This option has no effect
              if --notrunc is also used.


       --ileaved
              Output the alignment in interleaved Stockholm format of a fixed
              width that may be more convenient for examination. This was the
              default output alignment format of previous versions of cmalign.
              Note that cmalign requires more memory when this option is used.
              For this reason, --ileaved will only work for alignments of up
              to 100,000 sequences or a total of 100,000,000 aligned
              nucleotides.


       --flanktoins <x1>
              Change the transition probabilities from the ROOT_S state to the
              ROOT_IL and ROOT_IR states, and from the ROOT_IL to the ROOT_IR
              state to <x1>.  This option is meant to be helpful only when
              aligning sequences that include extra sequence at the 5' and/or
              3' ends. Without using this option cmalign tends to mess up
              alignments at the end, especially for models with zero
              basepairs. This option should not be necessary when aligning
              sequences identified by cmsearch or cmscan because they should
              not include extra sequence at the ends.  This option must be
              used in combination with the --flankselfins <x2> option.
              Recommended values to use are 0.1 for <x1> and 0.8 for <x2> ,
              but the best performing pair of values may vary for different
              models.  <x1> must be greater than 0.0 and less than 0.4, and
              the sum of <x1> and <x2> must be less than 0.95.


       --flankselfins <x2>
              Change the self-transition probabilities for the ROOT_IL and
              ROOT_IR states to <x2>.  This option must be used in combination
              with the --flanktoins <x1> option. See the explanation of that
              option above for more information.


       --regress <s>
              Save an additional copy of the output alignment with no author
              information to file <s>.


       --verbose
              Output additional information in the tabular scores output
              (output to stdout if -o is used, or to <f> if --sfile <f> is
              used). These are mainly useful for testing and debugging.


       --cpu <n>
              Set the number of parallel worker threads to <n>.  On multicore
              machines, the default is 4.  You can also control this number by
              setting an environment variable, INFERNAL_NCPU.  There is also a
              master thread, so the actual number of threads that Infernal
              spawns is <n>+1.  This option is not available if Infernal was
              compiled with POSIX threads support turned off.


       --mpi  Run as an MPI parallel program. This option will only be
              available if Infernal has been configured and built with the
              "--enable-mpi" flag (see the Installation section of the user
              guide for more information).



SEE ALSO
       See infernal(1) for a master man page with a list of all the individual
       man pages for programs in the Infernal package.


       For complete documentation, see the user guide that came with your
       Infernal distribution (Userguide.pdf); or see the Infernal web page
       (http://eddylab.org/infernal/).



COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2023 Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
       Freely distributed under the BSD open source license.

       For additional information on copyright and licensing, see the file
       called COPYRIGHT in your Infernal source distribution, or see the
       Infernal web page (http://eddylab.org/infernal/).


AUTHOR
       http://eddylab.org

Infernal 1.1.5                     Sep 2023                         cmalign(1)
