INIT(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                INIT(8)

NAME
     init – process control initialization

SYNOPSIS
     init
     init [0 | 1 | 6 | c | q]

DESCRIPTION
     The init utility is the last stage of the boot process.  It normally runs
     the automatic reboot sequence as described in rc(8), and if this
     succeeds, begins multi-user operation.  If the reboot scripts fail, init
     commences single-user operation by giving the super-user a shell on the
     console.  The init utility may be passed parameters from the boot program
     to prevent the system from going multi-user and to instead execute a
     single-user shell without starting the normal daemons.  The system is
     then quiescent for maintenance work and may later be made to go to multi-
     user by exiting the single-user shell (with ^D).  This causes init to run
     the /etc/rc start up command file in fastboot mode (skipping disk
     checks).

     If the console entry in the ttys(5) file is marked “insecure”, then init
     will require that the super-user password be entered before the system
     will start a single-user shell.  The password check is skipped if the
     console is marked as “secure”.  Note that the password check does not
     protect from variables such as init_script being set from the loader(8)
     command line; see the SECURITY section of loader(8).

     If the system security level (see security(7)) is initially nonzero, then
     init leaves it unchanged.  Otherwise, init raises the level to 1 before
     going multi-user for the first time.  Since the level cannot be reduced,
     it will be at least 1 for subsequent operation, even on return to single-
     user.  If a level higher than 1 is desired while running multi-user, it
     can be set before going multi-user, e.g., by the startup script rc(8),
     using sysctl(8) to set the kern.securelevel variable to the required
     security level.

     If init is run in a jail, the security level of the “host system” will
     not be affected.  Part of the information set up in the kernel to support
     a jail is a per-jail security level.  This allows running a higher
     security level inside of a jail than that of the host system.  See
     jail(8) for more information about jails.

     In multi-user operation, init maintains processes for the terminal ports
     found in the file ttys(5).  The init utility reads this file and executes
     the command found in the second field, unless the first field refers to a
     device in /dev which is not configured.  The first field is supplied as
     the final argument to the command.  This command is usually getty(8);
     getty opens and initializes the tty line and executes the login(1)
     program.  The login program, when a valid user logs in, executes a shell
     for that user.  When this shell dies, either because the user logged out
     or an abnormal termination occurred (a signal), the cycle is restarted by
     executing a new getty for the line.

     The init utility can also be used to keep arbitrary daemons running,
     automatically restarting them if they die.  In this case, the first field
     in the ttys(5) file must not reference the path to a configured device
     node and will be passed to the daemon as the final argument on its
     command line.  This is similar to the facility offered in the AT&T
     System V UNIX /etc/inittab.

     Line status (on, off, secure, getty, or window information) may be
     changed in the ttys(5) file without a reboot by sending the signal SIGHUP
     to init with the command “kill -HUP 1”.  On receipt of this signal, init
     re-reads the ttys(5) file.  When a line is turned off in ttys(5), init
     will send a SIGHUP signal to the controlling process for the session
     associated with the line.  For any lines that were previously turned off
     in the ttys(5) file and are now on, init executes the command specified
     in the second field.  If the command or window field for a line is
     changed, the change takes effect at the end of the current login session
     (e.g., the next time init starts a process on the line).  If a line is
     commented out or deleted from ttys(5), init will not do anything at all
     to that line.

     The init utility will terminate multi-user operations and resume single-
     user mode if sent a terminate (TERM) signal, for example, “kill -TERM 1”.
     If there are processes outstanding that are deadlocked (because of
     hardware or software failure), init will not wait for them all to die
     (which might take forever), but will time out after 30 seconds and print
     a warning message.

     The init utility will cease creating new processes and allow the system
     to slowly die away, if it is sent a terminal stop (TSTP) signal, i.e.
     “kill -TSTP 1”.  A later hangup will resume full multi-user operations,
     or a terminate will start a single-user shell.  This hook is used by
     reboot(8) and halt(8).

     The init utility will terminate all possible processes (again, it will
     not wait for deadlocked processes) and reboot the machine if sent the
     interrupt (INT) signal, i.e. “kill -INT 1”.  This is useful for shutting
     the machine down cleanly from inside the kernel or from X when the
     machine appears to be hung.

     The init utility will do the same, except it will halt the machine if
     sent the user defined signal 1 (USR1), or will halt and turn the power
     off (if hardware permits) if sent the user defined signal 2 (USR2).

     When shutting down the machine, init will try to run the /etc/rc.shutdown
     script.  This script can be used to cleanly terminate specific programs
     such as innd (the InterNetNews server).  If this script does not
     terminate within 120 seconds, init will terminate it.  The timeout can be
     configured via the sysctl(8) variable kern.init_shutdown_timeout.

     init passes “single” as the argument to the shutdown script if return to
     single-user mode is requested.  Otherwise, “reboot” argument is used.

     The role of init is so critical that if it dies, the system will reboot
     itself automatically.  If, at bootstrap time, the init process cannot be
     located, the system will panic with the message “panic: init died (signal
     %d, exit %d)”.

     If run as a user process as shown in the second synopsis line, init will
     emulate AT&T System V UNIX behavior, i.e., super-user can specify the
     desired run-level on a command line, and init will signal the original
     (PID 1) init as follows:

     Run-level    Signal     Action
     0            SIGUSR1    Halt
     0            SIGUSR2    Halt and turn the power off
     0            SIGWINCH   Halt and turn the power off and then back on
     1            SIGTERM    Go to single-user mode
     6            SIGINT     Reboot the machine
     c            SIGTSTP    Block further logins
     q            SIGHUP     Rescan the ttys(5) file

KERNEL ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
     The following kenv(2) variables are available as loader(8) tunables:

     init_chroot
             If set to a valid directory in the root file system, it causes
             init to perform a chroot(2) operation on that directory, making
             it the new root directory.  That happens before entering single-
             user mode or multi-user mode (but after executing the init_script
             if enabled).  This functionality has generally been eclipsed by
             rerooting.  See reboot(8) -r for details.

     init_exec
             If set to a valid file name in the root file system, instructs
             init to directly execute that file as the very first action,
             replacing init as PID 1.

     init_script
             If set to a valid file name in the root file system, instructs
             init to run that script as the very first action, before doing
             anything else.  Signal handling and exit code interpretation is
             similar to running the /etc/rc script.  In particular, single-
             user operation is enforced if the script terminates with a non-
             zero exit code, or if a SIGTERM is delivered to the init process
             (PID 1).  This functionality has generally been eclipsed by
             rerooting.  See reboot(8) -r for details.

     init_shell
             Defines the shell binary to be used for executing the various
             shell scripts.  The default is “/bin/sh”.  It is used for running
             the init_exec or init_script if set, as well as for the /etc/rc
             and /etc/rc.shutdown scripts.  The value of the corresponding
             kenv(2) variable is evaluated every time init calls a shell
             script, so it can be changed later on using the kenv(1) utility.
             In particular, if a non-default shell is used for running an
             init_script, it might be desirable to have that script reset the
             value of init_shell back to the default, so that the /etc/rc
             script is executed with the standard shell /bin/sh.

FILES
     /dev/console       system console device
     /dev/tty*          terminal ports found in ttys(5)
     /etc/ttys          the terminal initialization information file
     /etc/rc            system startup commands
     /etc/rc.shutdown   system shutdown commands
     /var/log/init.log  log of rc(8) output if the system console device is
                        not available

DIAGNOSTICS
     getty repeating too quickly on port %s, sleeping.  A process being
     started to service a line is exiting quickly each time it is started.
     This is often caused by a ringing or noisy terminal line.  Init will
     sleep for 30 seconds, then continue trying to start the process.

     some processes would not die; ps axl advised.  A process is hung and
     could not be killed when the system was shutting down.  This condition is
     usually caused by a process that is stuck in a device driver because of a
     persistent device error condition.

SEE ALSO
     kill(1), login(1), sh(1), ttys(5), security(7), getty(8), halt(8),
     jail(8), rc(8), reboot(8), shutdown(8), sysctl(8)

HISTORY
     An init utility appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

CAVEATS
     Systems without sysctl(8) behave as though they have security level -1.

     Setting the security level above 1 too early in the boot sequence can
     prevent fsck(8) from repairing inconsistent file systems.  The preferred
     location to set the security level is at the end of /etc/rc after all
     multi-user startup actions are complete.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 6, 2019         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
