IAVF(4)                FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                IAVF(4)

NAME
     iavf – Intel(R) Ethernet Adaptive Virtual Function Driver for the
     FreeBSD* operating system

SYNOPSIS
     device iavf

DESCRIPTION
     The iavf driver provides virtualization support for Intel(R) Ethernet
     devices based on the Intel(R) Ethernet 800 Series and Intel(R) Ethernet
     700 Series.

     For questions related to hardware requirements, refer to the
     documentation supplied with your adapter.

     Support for Jumbo Frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit Jumbo Frames.  The maximum
     MTU setting for Jumbo Frames is 9706. This value coincides with the
     maximum Jumbo Frames size of 9728.  This driver version supports VLANs.
     For information on enabling VLANs, see the README.  NOTE that The iavf
     Driver is only used by means of SR-IOV, normally in a VM on a hosting
     server.

     Offloads are also controlled via the interface, for instance,
     checksumming for both IPv4 and IPv6 can be set and unset, TSO4 and/or
     TSO6, and finally LRO can be set and unset.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).  See the iflib(4).  man page for more
     information on using iflib sysctl variables as tunables.

     hw.iavf.ringsz
             Set the number of descriptors in the rings. Note that this
             changes BOTH the TX and RX rings; they cannot be set
             independently.  This tunable isn't available if using iflib.

     hw.iavf.max_queues
             Set the number of queues (each a TX/RX pair) for the port. This
             allows one to override the autocalculation if it's set to 0.
             This tunable isn't available if using iflib.

     hw.iavf.txbrsz
             Set the size of the buff ring used by the transmit side of the
             stack. We have found that it is necessary to have it quite large
             to get UDP to perform well.

     hw.iavf.dynamic_rx_itr
             The dynamic RX interrupt control. Set to 1 to enable.

     hw.iavf.dynamic_tx_itr
             The dynamic TX interrupt control. Set to 1 to enable.

     hw.iavf.rx_itr
             The RX interrupt rate value.

     hw.iavf.tx_itr
             The TX interrupt rate value.

SUPPORT
     For additional information regarding building and installation, see the
     README included with the driver.  For general information, go to the
     Intel support website at: http://www.intel.com/support/


     If an issue is identified with the released source code on a supported
     kernel with a supported adapter, email the specific information related
     to the issue to freebsd@intel.com

SEE ALSO
     arp(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The iavf device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 11.1.

AUTHORS
     The iavf driver was written by Intel Corporation ⟨freebsd@intel.com⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            March 14, 2022            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
