IGB(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 IGB(4)

NAME
     igb – Intel(R) Ethernet Driver for the FreeBSD* operating system

SYNOPSIS
     device igb

DESCRIPTION
     The igb driver provides support for Intel(R) Ethernet devices based on
     the Intel 82575 Ethernet controller chips.

     For questions related to hardware requirements, refer to the
     documentation supplied with your adapter.

     Support for Jumbo Frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit Jumbo Frames.  The maximum
     MTU setting for Jumbo Frames is 9216. This value coincides with the
     maximum Jumbo Frames size of 9238.  This driver version supports VLANs.
     For information on enabling VLANs, see the README.  The igb driver
     supports the following media types:

     autoselect   Enables auto-negotiation for speed and duplex.

     10baseT/UTP  Sets 10Mbps operation.  Use the mediaopt option to select
                  full-duplex mode.

     100baseTX    Sets 100Mbps operation.  Use the mediaopt option to select
                  full-duplex mode.

     1000baseSX   Sets 1000Mbps operation.  Only full-duplex mode is supported
                  at this speed.

     1000baseTX   Sets 1000Mbps operation.  Only full-duplex mode is supported
                  at this speed.

     The igb driver supports both full-duplex and half-duplex. Use mediaopt to
     force the driver to either of these settings. Note that the only valid
     parameter for mediaopt is full-duplex; to force the driver to half-duplex
     when running at less than gibabit speed, leave mediaopt unspecified.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

DIAGNOSTICS
     igb%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: memory  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     igb%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: interrupt  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     igb%d: watchdog timeout -- resetting  The device has stopped responding
     to the network, or there is a problem with the network connection
     (cable).

SUPPORT
     For additional information regarding building and installation, see the
     README included with the driver.  For general information, go to the
     Intel support website at: http://www.intel.com/support/


     If an issue is identified with the released source code on a supported
     kernel with a supported adapter, email the specific information related
     to the issue to freebsd@intel.com

SEE ALSO
     arp(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The igb device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 4.4.

AUTHORS
     The igb driver was written by Intel Corporation ⟨freebsd@intel.com⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             June 10, 2019            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
