IXL(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 IXL(4)

NAME
     ixl – Intel(R) Ethernet Driver for the FreeBSD* operating system

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device ixl

     To load the driver as a module at boot time, place the following lines in
     loader.conf(5):

           if_ixl_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The ixl driver provides support for Intel(R) Ethernet devices based on
     the Intel(R) Ethernet 700 Series. The driver supports Jumbo Frames, TX/RX
     checksum offload, TCP segmentation offload (TSO), Large Receive Offload
     (LRO), VLAN tag insertion/extraction, VLAN checksum offload, VLAN TSO,
     and Receive Side Steering (RSS), all for both IPv4 and IPv6.

     For questions related to hardware requirements, refer to the
     documentation supplied with your adapter.

     Support for Jumbo Frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit Jumbo Frames.  The maximum
     MTU setting for Jumbo Frames is 9706. This value coincides with the
     maximum Jumbo Frames size of 9728.  This driver version supports VLANs.
     For information on enabling VLANs, see the README.

     Offloads are also controlled via the interface, for instance,
     checksumming for both IPv4 and IPv6 can be set and unset, TSO4 and/or
     TSO6, and finally LRO can be set and unset.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

LOADER TUNABLES
     Tunables can be set at the loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel or
     stored in loader.conf(5).  See the iflib(4).  man page for more
     information on using iflib sysctl variables as tunables.

     hw.ixl.enable_msix
             Allows one to enable/disable MSIX, thus forcing MSI instead.

     hw.ixl.ringsz
             Set the number of descriptors in the rings. Note that this
             changes BOTH the TX and RX rings; they cannot be set
             independently.

     hw.ixl.max_queues
             Set the number of queues (each a TX/RX pair) for the port. This
             allows one to override the autocalculation if it's set to 0.

     hw.ixl.dynamic_rx_itr
             The dynamic RX interrupt control. Set to 1 to enable.

     hw.ixl.dynamic_tx_itr
             The dynamic TX interrupt control. Set to 1 to enable.

     hw.ixl.rx_itr
             The RX interrupt rate value.

     hw.ixl.tx_itr
             The TX interrupt rate value.

SYSCTL PROCEDURES
     hw.ixl.fc
             Allows one to set the flow control value. A value of 0 disables
             flow control, 3 enables full, 1 is RX, and 2 is TX pause.

     hw.ixl.advertise_speed
             Allows one to set advertised link speeds, this will then cause a
             link renegotiation. With the appropriate adapter this can cause a
             link at 10GB, 1GB, or 100MB.

     hw.ixl.current_speed
             This is a display of the current setting.

     hw.ixl.fw_version
             This is a display of the Firmware version.

Interrupt Storms
     It is important to note that 40G operation can generate high numbers of
     interrupts, often incorrectly being interpreted as a storm condition in
     the kernel.  It is suggested that this be resolved by setting:

     hw.intr_storm_threshold: 0

DIAGNOSTICS
     ixl%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: memory  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     ixl%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: interrupt  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     ixl%d: watchdog timeout -- resetting  The device has stopped responding
     to the network, or there is a problem with the network connection
     (cable).

SUPPORT
     For additional information regarding building and installation, see the
     README included with the driver.  For general information, go to the
     Intel support website at: http://www.intel.com/support/


     If an issue is identified with the released source code on a supported
     kernel with a supported adapter, email the specific information related
     to the issue to freebsd@intel.com

SEE ALSO
     arp(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), vlan(4), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The ixl device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 10.1.

AUTHORS
     The ixl driver was written by Intel Corporation ⟨freebsd@intel.com⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            March 19, 2020            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
