IW_IXL(4)              FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual              IW_IXL(4)

NAME
     ixgbe – Intel® Ethernet Driver for the FreeBSD* operating system

SYNOPSIS
     device ixgbe

DESCRIPTION
     The ixgbe driver provides support for Intel(R) Ethernet devices based on
     the Intel 82598EB, 82599 and X540-based Intel(R) Network Connections.
     The driver supports TSO and Jumbo Frames.

     For questions related to hardware requirements, refer to the
     documentation supplied with your adapter.

     Support for Jumbo Frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit Jumbo Frames.  The maximum
     MTU setting for Jumbo Frames is 16114. This value coincides with the
     maximum Jumbo Frames size of 16136.  This driver version supports VLANs.
     For information on enabling VLANs, see the README.

DIAGNOSTICS
     ixgbe%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: memory  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     ixgbe%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: interrupt  A fatal
     initialization error has occurred.

     ixgbe%d: watchdog timeout -- resetting  The device has stopped responding
     to the network, or there is a problem with the network connection
     (cable).

SUPPORT
     For additional information regarding building and installation, see the
     README included with the driver.  For general information, go to the
     Intel support website at: http://www.intel.com/support/

     If an issue is identified with the released source code on a supported
     kernel with a supported adapter, email the specific information related
     to the issue to freebsdnic@mailbox.intel.com

SEE ALSO
     arp(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), polling(4), vlan(4), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The ixgbe device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 5.3.

AUTHORS
     The ixgbe driver was written by Intel Corporation ⟨freebsd@intel.com⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            published date            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
