scramble(1)                      Staden io_lib                     scramble(1)



NAME
     scramble - Converts between the SAM, BAM and CRAM file formats.


SYNOPSIS
     scramble  [options] [input_file [output_file]]


DESCRIPTION
     scramble converts between various next-gen sequencing alignment file
     formats, including SAM, BAM and CRAM. It can either act as a pipe reading
     stdin and writing to stdout, or on named files.

     When operating as a pipe the input type defaults to SAM or BAM, requiring
     the -I cram option to indicate input is in CRAM format is appropriate.
     The output defaults to BAM, but can be adjusted by using the -O format
     option. When given filenames the file type is automatically chosen based
     on the filename suffix.


OPTIONS
     -I format
            Selects the input format, where format is one of sam, bam or cram.
            Use this when reading via a pipe to avoid input bytes being
            consumed when attempting to detect if the input is in SAM or BAM
            format.


     -O format
            Selects the output format, where format is one of sam, bam or
            cram.


     -1 to -9
            Sets the compression level from 1 (low compression, fast) to 9
            (high compression, slow) when writing in BAM or CRAM format. This
            is only used during writing.


     -0 or -u
            Writes uncompressed data. In BAM this still uses BGZF containers,
            but with no internal compression. In CRAM it stores blocks in RAW
            format instead. The option has no effect on SAM output.


     -j     CRAM encoding only.  Add bzip2 to the list of compression codes
            potentially used during CRAM creation.


     -Z     CRAM encoding only.  Add lzma to the list of compression codes
            potentially used during CRAM creation.  Given the slow compression
            speed of lzma, this may only be used where it gives a significant
            advantage over zlib or bzip2, but with higher compression levels
            (-7) this weighting is ignored as LZMA decompression speed is
            acceptable, albeit still slower than zlib.


     -m     CRAM decoding only. Generate MD:Z: and NM:I: auxiliary fields
            based on the reference-based compression.


     -M     CRAM encoding only.  Forcibly pack sequences from multiple
            references into the same slice.  Normally CRAM will start a new
            slice when changing from one reference to another, but will still
            automatically switch to multi-reference slices if the number of
            sequences per slice becomes too small.


     -R range
            Currently for CRAM input only, but SAM/BAM support is pending.
            This indicates a reference sequence name and optionally a start
            and end location within that reference, using the syntax ref_name
            or ref_name:start-end. For efficient operation the CRAM file needs
            a .crai format index (built using the cram_index program).


     -r ref.fa
            CRAM encoding only.  Use this to specify the reference fasta file.
            Note that if the input SAM or BAM file a file: or local file
            system based URI specified in the @SQ headers then this option may
            not be necessary.


     -s number
            CRAM encoding only.  Specifies the number of sequecnes per slice.
            Defaults to 10000.


     -S number
            CRAM encoding only.   Specifies the number of slices per
            container.  Defaults to 1.


     -t     BAM and CRAM only.  Specifies the number of compression or
            decompression threads, adaptively shared between both encoding and
            decoding.  Defaults to 1 (no threading).


     -V version_string
            CRAM encoding only.  Sets the CRAM file format version. Supported
            values are "2.0", "2.1" and "3.0".


     -e     CRAM encoding only. Embed snippets of the reference sequence in
            every slice.  This means the files can be decoded without needing
            to specify the reference fasta file.


     -E     CRAM encoding only. Embed snippets of the consensus sequence in
            every slice.  This operates as per the -e option, but the
            consensus is generated from the aligned data.  This does not
            therefore require a reference to be known during encode (although
            it is still a mandatory part of the specification that the SQ SAM
            headers have an M5 field).  It also means the files can be decoded
            without needing to specify the reference fasta file.


     -x     CRAM encoding only.  Omit reference based compression and instead
            store details of every base verbatim.


     -B     Experimental, encoding only.  When storing quality values, bin
            into 8 discrete values (plus 0), as typically used by modern
            Illumina instruments.  (Note that the bins may not be precisely
            the same ranges.)


     -!     CRAM v3.0 and above decoding only. Do not check CRCs.  This option
            should only be used when attempting to recover from a data
            corruption.


     -q     Do not append @PG header lines with the scramble program name and
            arguments.


     -X mode
            Encode CRAM using a set of predefined parameters defined by mode.
            This are one of fast, normal / default, small or archive.

            fast (param: -1 -s 1000)
                   Lightweight compression for speed and small slice size for
                   quick fine-grained random access.

            normal (param: none)
                   Default mode.  This is the same as not specifying -X.  For
                   version 3.1 onwards this enables the name tokeniser ("-T").

            small (param v3.0: -j -s 25000,  param v3.1 or v4: -Tf -s 25000)
                   Optimise for smaller files, with larger slices.

            archive (param v3.0: -j -s 100000,  param v3.1 or v4: -Tfa -s
            100000)
                   Optimised for smallest files, intended for data archival.
                   This uses a large slice size and will have poorer random
                   access. At level 7 onwards this also enables lzma
                   compression if compiled in ("-Z").


     -d tag-list
            Discard all auxiliary tags except those listed in tag-list.  The
            list is comma separated and contains the two letter tag codes
            specified as-is or with simplified regular expressions.  Character
            classes such as "[A-W]" are permitted, but not with the negation
            code "^". Also "." is a synonym for any legal tag character.
            Hence "[A-Z][A-Z0-9]" represents all tag types belonging to the
            official namespace.

            The option may be specified more than once, but it cannot be mixed
            with -D.


     -D tag-list
            Discard auxiliary tags listed in tag-list, keeping everything
            else.  The list is comma separated and contains only the two
            letter tag codes.  As with -d tag-list can be specified using a
            simplified regular expression.  This means -D .. removes all
            auxiliary tags.

            The option may be specified more than once, but it cannot be mixed
            with -d.


EXAMPLES
     To convert a BAM file from stdin to CRAM on stdout, using reference
     MT.fa.

         some_command | scramble -I bam -O cram -r MT.fa | some_command


     The default CRAM output format is version 3.0.  The command below enables
     the experimental newer compression codecs (NB: do not use this in
     production) using the "small" profile, while also removing all tag types
     reserved for local/private use.  (Also consider -d [A-Z][A-Z0-9] instead
     of the -D arguments.)

         scramble -V 3.1 -X small -D [a-zXYZ]. -D.[a-z] in.cram out.cram


AUTHOR
     James Bonfield, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute

                                December 6 2022                    scramble(1)
