IOVCTL(8)               FreeBSD System Manager's Manual              IOVCTL(8)

NAME
     iovctl – PCI SR-IOV configuration utility

SYNOPSIS
     iovctl -C -f config-file [-n]
     iovctl -D [-f config-file | -d device] [-n]
     iovctl -S [-f config-file | -d device]

DESCRIPTION
     The iovctl utility creates or destroys PCI Single-Root I/O Virtualization
     (SR-IOV) Virtual Functions (VFs).  When invoked with the -C flag, iovctl
     creates VFs as children of the Physical Function (PF) configured in the
     specified configuration file.  When invoked with the -D flag, iovctl
     destroys all VFs that are children of the specified device.  Available PF
     devices can be seen in /dev/iov/.

     The following options are available:

     -C      Enable SR-IOV on the specified PF device and create VF children.
             This operation will fail if the PF already has VF children.  This
             option must be used in conjunction with the -f option.

     -d device
             Specify the PF device to use for the given operation.  device may
             either be the name of a PF device, or a full path name to a node
             in /dev/iov/.  This option may not be used with the -C option.

     -D      Delete all VF children of the specified PF device.  This
             operation will fail if SR-IOV is not currently enabled on the
             specified device.

     -f config-file
             Specify the pathname of the configuration file.  For the -C
             option, this file will be used to specify all configuration
             values.  For the -D and -S options, this file will only be used
             to specify the name of the PF device.

             See iovctl.conf for a description of the config file format and
             documentation of the configuration parameters that apply to all
             PF drivers.  See the PF driver manual page for configuration
             parameters specific to particular hardware.

     -n      Perform a dry-run.  Perform all validation of the specified
             action and print what would be done, but do not perform the
             actual creation or destruction of VFs.  This option may not be
             used with the -S flag.

     -S      Read the configuration schema from the specified device and print
             its contents to stdout.  This action may be used to discover the
             configuration parameters supported on a given PF device.

SEE ALSO
     iovctl.conf(5), rc.conf(5)

AUTHORS
     This manual page was written by Ryan Stone <rstone@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          May 31, 2020          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
