total(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               total(1)



NAME
       total - total and subtotal numeric columns in a text file according to
       field keys


SYNOPSIS
       total [-Ndv] <key-cols> <data-columns> <file>



DESCRIPTION
       total reads a text file of columnar data in text and numeric format.
       By default, columns are separated by one or more whitespace characters.
       The -F option allows on to choose a separation character.  In this case
       exactly one separation character lies between columns.

       total forms data keys from combinations of text and numeric columns.
       and for each key value it can summarize numeric columns, either by
       average, sum, minimum or maximum.  After reading the file it prints a
       summary of each key combination found in the file along with the
       summarized data.  Optionally, you can summarize entire columns without
       regard to key values.


OUTPUT
       total prints one line of output for each key combination.  Each line
       contains 0 or more key fields, and 1 or more summarization fields (if
       there are 0 keys, then all records are summarized together - they are
       not broken down by key).


EXAMPLE
       Consider the following data file where the five columns represent city,
       state, month, precipitation and average temp.

          columbus ohio  jan   3  25
          columbus ohio  feb   2  20
          columbus ohio  mar   5  32
          akron ohio  jan   5  22
          akron ohio  feb   8  18
          akron ohio  mar   3  28
          bridgeport ct jan 5 29
          bridgeport ct feb 1 32
          bridgeport ct mar 3 41

       suppose we want the average temperature for these three cities over
       Jan, Feb, Mar.  The command would be this,

          total 1,2 5a state.fil

       total uses columns 1 and 2 as data keys.  Then for each unique
       combination of city (column 1) and state (column 2) it takes the
       average temperature.  The output looks like this (note that output is
       sorted by key)

          akron ohio 2.266667e+01
          bridgeport connecticut 34
          columbus ohio 2.566667e+01


       If we want total precipitation for each city,

          total 1,2 4 state.fil

       and the output is

          akron ohio 16
          bridgeport connecticut 9
          columbus ohio 10

       If we want average temperature across each state we could try

          total 2 5a state.fil

       and get

          ohio 2.416667e+01
          connecticut 34

       Finally, if we want the maximum temperature for the entire file we
       could do

          total - 5x state.fil

       and get

          41



KEY COLUMNS
       The first parameter specifies the key columns.  This is a comma
       delimited list of columns numbers with no whitespace.  The columns are
       numbered starting at column 1.  In the first example above we used
       columns 1 and 2 (city and state) for our keys.

       There is also a special value '-' which tells total not to separate
       values into keys, but to summarize the entire file.


DATA COLUMNS
       The second parameter specifies data columns and the action on the data
       column.  This is a comma delimited list with no white space.  Each data
       column specification consists of a column number and an optional
       command in the form of a single letter.  The default command is to sun
       the column.  The letter commands perform the following operations on
       the column.

          s  Sum (the default).
          a  Average.
          d  Standard deviation.
          m  Minimum.
          x  Maximum.
          n  Number of rows.
          f  Column value from first row.
          l  Column value from last row.


OUTPUT COLUMNS
       For every key column and data column total produce an output column.
       The order in which the columns are written is the same as the order in
       which the key columns, and then data columns are specified on the
       command line.  For example, if you use the command

           total 3,1  5,6,8,7  data.fil

       the output file will have 6 columns, the first output column is carried
       from column 3 of the input file, the second output column is carried
       from column 1 of the input file, the third output column from column 5
       of the input file, and so on.


OPTIONS
       -v     Prints version and number of default hash table slots (actual
              number of slots adjustable via -n option).


       -d     Enter debugging mode, writes out various info.


       -N <nslots>
              Set number of hash table slots.



BUGS
       Report any to jon.rifkin@uconn.edu.


AUTHOR
       j rifkin <jon.rifkin@uconn.edu>
       http://ipaudit.sourceforge.net


VERSION
       1.0 Oct 13, 2005

total 1.0                        October 2005                         total(1)
