IPCRM(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               IPCRM(1)

NAME
     ipcrm – remove the specified message queues, semaphore sets, and shared
     segments

SYNOPSIS
     ipcrm [-W] [-v] [-q msqid] [-m shmid] [-s semid] [-Q msgkey] [-M shmkey]
           [-S semkey] ...

DESCRIPTION
     The ipcrm utility removes the specified message queues, semaphores and
     shared memory segments.  These System V IPC objects can be specified by
     their creation ID or any associated key.

     The following options are generic:

     -v      If specified once with -W or with -1 for an object, it will show
             all removed objects.  If specified twice with -W or with -1 for
             an objects, it will show all removed objects and all failed
             removals.

     -W      Try to wipe all specified message queues, semaphores and shared
             memory segments.

     -y      Use the kvm(3) interface instead of the sysctl(3) interface to
             extract the required information.  If ipcrm is to operate on the
             running system, using kvm(3) will require read privileges to
             /dev/kmem.

     The following options are used to specify which IPC objects will be
     removed.  Any number and combination of these options can be used:

     -q msqid
             Remove the message queue associated with the ID msqid from the
             system.

     -m shmid
             Mark the shared memory segment associated with ID shmid for
             removal.  This marked segment will be destroyed after the last
             detach.

     -s semid
             Remove the semaphore set associated with ID semid from the
             system.

     -Q msgkey
             Remove the message queue associated with key msgkey from the
             system.

     -M shmkey
             Mark the shared memory segment associated with key shmkey for
             removal.  This marked segment will be destroyed after the last
             detach.

     -S semkey
             Remove the semaphore set associated with key semkey from the
             system.

     The identifiers and keys associated with these System V IPC objects can
     be determined by using ipcs(1).  If the identifier or the key is -1, it
     will remove all these objects.

SEE ALSO
     ipcs(1)

HISTORY
     The wiping of all System V IPC objects was first implemented in
     FreeBSD 6.4 and 7.1.

AUTHORS
     The original author was Adam Glass.  The wiping of all System V IPC
     objects was thought up by
     Callum Gibson and extended and implemented by
     Edwin Groothuis.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        December 12, 2007       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
