IPCS(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                IPCS(1)

NAME
     ipcs – report System V interprocess communication facilities status

SYNOPSIS
     ipcs [-abcmopqstMQSTy] [-C core] [-N system] [-u user]

DESCRIPTION
     The ipcs utility provides information on System V interprocess
     communication (IPC) facilities on the system.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Show the maximum amount of information possible when displaying
             active semaphores, message queues, and shared memory segments.
             (This is shorthand for specifying the -b, -c, -o, -p, and -t
             options.)

     -b      Show the maximum allowed sizes for active semaphores, message
             queues, and shared memory segments.  The “maximum allowed size”
             is the maximum number of bytes in a message on a message queue,
             the size of a shared memory segment, or the number of semaphores
             in a set of semaphores.

     -c      Show the creator's name and group for active semaphores, message
             queues, and shared memory segments.

     -m      Display information about active shared memory segments.

     -o      Show outstanding usage for active message queues, and shared
             memory segments.  The “outstanding usage” is the number of
             messages in a message queue, or the number of processes attached
             to a shared memory segment.

     -p      Show the process ID information for active semaphores, message
             queues, and shared memory segments.  The “process ID information”
             is the last process to send a message to or receive a message
             from a message queue, the process that created a semaphore, or
             the last process to attach or detach a shared memory segment.

     -q      Display information about active message queues.

     -s      Display information about active semaphores.

     -t      Show access times for active semaphores, message queues, and
             shared memory segments.  The access times is the time of the last
             control operation on an IPC object, the last send or receive of a
             message, the last attach or detach of a shared memory segment, or
             the last operation on a semaphore.

     -C core
             Extract values associated with the name list from the specified
             core instead of the default /dev/kmem.  Implies -y.

     -M      Display system information about shared memory.

     -N system
             Extract the name list from the specified system instead of the
             default /boot/kernel/kernel.  Implies -y.

     -Q      Display system information about messages queues.

     -S      Display system information about semaphores.

     -T      Display system information about shared memory, message queues
             and semaphores.

     -y      Use the kvm(3) interface instead of the sysctl(3) interface to
             extract the required information.  If ipcs is to operate on the
             running system, using kvm(3) will require read privileges to
             /dev/kmem.

     -u user
             Display information about IPC mechanisms owned by user.  User
             specification can be in the form of a numeric UID or a login
             name.

     If none of the -M, -m, -Q, -q, -S, or -s options are specified,
     information about all active IPC facilities is listed.

RESTRICTIONS
     System data structures may change while ipcs is running; the output of
     ipcs is not guaranteed to be consistent.

FILES
     /dev/kmem            default kernel memory
     /boot/kernel/kernel  default system name list

SEE ALSO
     ipcrm(1)

AUTHORS
     Thorsten Lockert <tholo@sigmasoft.com>

BUGS
     This manual page is woefully incomplete, because it does not at all
     attempt to explain the information printed by ipcs.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         March 24, 2004         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
