IPGRAB(8)               FreeBSD System Manager's Manual              IPGRAB(8)



NAME
       ipgrab - A Verbose Packet Sniffer


SYNOPSIS
       ipgrab [ -ablmnPprTtwx ] [ -c cnt ] [ -i if ] [ expr ]


DESCRIPTION
       ipgrab reads and parses packets from the link layer through the
       application layer, dumping explicit header information along the way.
       It is a lot like tcpdump except that it prints almost every header
       field.


   Options
       -a     Do not display application layer data.

       -b     Buffer standard output. Useful when you're redirecting output to
              a file.

       -c cnt, --count cnt
              Terminate after receiving cnt packets.

       -C proto, --CCP proto
              Assume a particular CCP protocol, such as MPPC. MPPC is the only
              one supported as yet.

       -d     Dump extra padding in packets. For example, according to an IP
              header, the packet ends at a certain point, but the link layer
              may have padded it beyond that. This option displays the
              padding. Not valid in minimal mode.

       -h, --help
              Display usage screen with a brief description of the command
              line options.

       -i if, --interface if
              Makes ipgrab listen to packets on interface if, e.g., eth0. If
              this option is not used, the default interface will be assumed.

       -l     Don't display link-layer headers. The following protocols are
              considered to be link layer: ARP, CHAP, Ethernet, IPCP, LCP,
              LLC, Loopback, PPP, PPPoE, Raw, Slip.

       -m     Minimal mode output. When operating in this mode, ipgrab
              displays only brief header information.

       -n     Don't display network-layer headers. The following protocols are
              considered to be network layer: AH, ESP, GRE, ICMP, ICMPv6,
              IGMP, IP, IPv6, IPX, IPXRIP.

       -P string
              Initiate a dynamic port mapping. This option must be followed by
              a string of the form `<protocol>=<port>', such as `http=8080'.

       -p     Dump packet payloads beyond what IPgrab parses. In other words,
              if IPgrab does not parse a particular application, this option
              will dump application data in hex and text format.

       -r FILE
              Read packets from a file, rather than an interface. The file
              shoule be created in "raw" format, such as with '-w' option.

       -T     Do not display timestamps in minimal mode.

       -t     Don't display transport layer headers. The following protocols
              are considered to be transport layer: SPX, TCP, UDP.

       -v, --version
              Display version number and then quit.

       -w FILE
              Write the raw packets to a file, rather than the screen. The
              packets will not be parsed. The file can be read with the '-r'
              option.

       -x     Hex dump mode. After processing each layer, dump out the
              contents of that layer in hex and text. Only valid in main mode.

       expr   Berkeley packet filter expression.  See tcpdump(8) man page for
              details and examples.


SEE ALSO
       tcpdump(8)


NOTES
       Requires libpcap version 0.3 or greater to be installed.


AUTHOR
       Michael S. Borella
       http://www.borella.net/mike/
       mike@borella.net


                                 07 March 2007                       IPGRAB(8)
