IPNAT(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               IPNAT(8)



NAME
       ipnat - user interface to the NAT subsystem

SYNOPSIS
       ipnat [ -dhlnrsvCF ] [ -M core ] [ -N system ] -f <filename>

DESCRIPTION
       ipnat opens the filename given (treating "-" as stdin) and parses the
       file for a set of rules which are to be added or removed from the IP
       NAT.

       Each rule processed by ipnat is added to the kernels internal lists if
       there are no parsing problems.  Rules are added to the end of the
       internal lists, matching the order in which they appear when given to
       ipnat.

       Note that if ipf(8) is not enabled when NAT is configured, it will be
       enabled automatically, as the same kernel facilities are used for NAT
       functionality.  In addition, packet forwarding must be enabled.

OPTIONS
       -C     delete all entries in the current NAT rule listing (NAT rules)

       -d     Enable printing of some extra debugging information.

       -F     delete all active entries in the current NAT translation table
              (currently active NAT mappings)

       -h     Print number of hits for each MAP/Redirect filter.

       -l     Show the list of current NAT table entry mappings.

       -n     This flag (no-change) prevents ipf from actually making any
              ioctl calls or doing anything which would alter the currently
              running kernel.

       -p     This flag is used with the -r flag to cause any active NAT
              sessions that were created by the rules being removed and that
              are currently active to also be removed.

       -r     Remove matching NAT rules rather than add them to the internal
              lists.

       -s     Retrieve and display NAT statistics.

       -v     Turn verbose mode on.  Displays information relating to rule
              processing and active rules/table entries.

FILES
       /dev/ipnat
       /usr/share/examples/ipfilter  Directory with examples.

SEE ALSO
       ipnat(5), ipf(8), ipfstat(8)



                                                                      IPNAT(8)
