IPAGGCREATE(1)                                                  IPAGGCREATE(1)

NAME
     ipaggcreate - produce aggregate statistics of network traffic or trace

SYNOPSIS
     ipaggcreate [-r | -i | --netflow-summary] [--src, --dst, --sport,
     --dport, ...] [other options] [files or interfaces]

DESCRIPTION
     The ipaggcreate program reads IP packets from one or more data sources,
     maps each packet to a label (such as "source address 192.4.10.9" or
     "length 10"), and outputs a simply-formatted "aggregate" file reporting
     the number of packets or bytes observed per label.  The resulting file is
     easy to process with text-based tools.  (But see the --binary option,
     which generates a compressed, quick-to-process binary file.)

     Here are a couple lines of ipaggcreate output, from `ipaggcreate -s
     /home/kohler/largedump.gz':

       !IPAggregate 1.0
       !creator "src/ipaggcreate -s /home/kohler/largedump.gz"
       !counts packets
       !times 976937726.638704 977337361.804592 399635.165888
       !num_nonzero 1437
       !ip
       4.2.49.2 1
       4.2.49.4 1
       4.17.143.9 1
       4.21.203.29 104

     The `-s' option, which is equivalent to `--src', tells ipaggcreate to
     categorize each packet by its source IP address.
     `/home/kohler/largedump.gz' is a compressed tcpdump(1) file.  Each data
     line represents a label; the first field is the label number (here, an IP
     source address), and the second field the number of packets that had that
     label.  Labels with 0 counts are not reported.

OPTIONS
   Data Sources
     Data source options tell ipaggcreate what kind of data source to use:
     tcpdump(1) raw-packet files (--tcpdump), live network interfaces
     (--interface), NetFlow summary files (--netflow-summary), ipsumdump
     output files (--ipsumdump), DAG or NLANR-formatted files (--dag,
     --nlanr), or others.

     Non-option arguments specify the files, or interfaces, to read. For
     example, `ipaggcreate -r eth0 eth1' will read two tcpdump(1) files, named
     "eth0" and "eth1"; `ipaggcreate -i eth0 eth1' will read from two live
     network interfaces, "eth0" and "eth1".

     Options that read files read from the standard input when you supply a
     single dash "-" as a filename, or when you give no filenames at all.

     --tcpdump, -r
         Read from one or more files produced by tcpdump(1)'s -w option (also
         known as "pcap files"). Stop when all the files are exhausted. This
         is the default. Files (except for standard input) may be compressed
         by gzip(1) or bzip2(1); ipsumdump will uncompress them on the fly.

     --interface, -i
         Read from live network interfaces. When run this way, ipsumdump will
         continue until interrupted with SIGINT or SIGHUP. When stopped,
         ipsumdump appends a comment to its output file, indicating how many
         packets were dropped by the kernel before output.

     --ipsumdump
         Read from one or more ipsumdump files. Any packet characteristics not
         specified by the input files are set to 0.

     --format=format
         Read from one or more ipsumdump files, using the specified default
         format.  The format should be a space-separated list of content
         types; see ToIPSummaryDump(n) for a list.

     --dag[=encap]
         Read from one or more DAG-formatted trace files.  For new-style ERF
         dumps, which contain encapsulation type information, just say --dag.
         For old-style dumps, you must supply the right encap argument: "ATM"
         for ATM RFC-1483 encapsulation (the most common), "ETHER" for
         Ethernet, "PPP" for PPP, "IP" for raw IP, "HDLC" for Cisco HDLC,
         "PPP_HDLC" for PPP HDLC, or "SUNATM" for Sun ATM.  See
         <http://dag.cs.waikato.ac.nz/>.

     --nlanr
         Read from one or more NLANR-formatted trace files (fr, fr+, or tsh
         format).  See <http://pma.nlanr.net/Traces/>.

     --ip-addresses
         Read files containing IP addresses, one address per line.  The label
         must be either --src or --dst.

     --tu-summary
         Read TCP/UDP summary files.  Each line represents one packet, and
         carries the following information: timestamp, source address, source
         port, destination address, destination port, protocol, payload
         length.  For example:

           976937735.345744 18.26.4.9 22 64.55.139.202 26876 T 0
           976937770.197008 128.10.5.110 63749 64.55.139.202 113 T 5

     --bro-conn-summary
         Read Bro connection summary files.  Each line represents one
         connection attempt, and carries the following information: timestamp,
         source address, destination address, direction (inbound/outbound).

     --netflow-summary
         Read from one or more NetFlow summary files. These are line-oriented
         ASCII files; blank lines, and lines starting with '!' or '#', are
         ignored. Other lines should contain 15 or more fields separated by
         vertical bars '|'.  Ipsumdump pays attention to some of these fields:

           Field  Meaning                       Example
           -----  ----------------------------  ----------
           0      Source IP address             192.4.1.32
           1      Destination IP address        18.26.4.44
           5      Packet count in flow          5
           6      Byte count in flow            10932
           7      Flow timestamp (UNIX-style)   998006995
           8      Flow end timestamp            998006999
           9      Source port                   3917
           10     Destination port              80
           12     TCP flags (OR of all pkts)    18
           13     IP protocol                   6
           14     IP TOS bits                   0

     --tcpdump-text
         Read from one or more files containing tcpdump(1) textual output.
         It's much better to use the binary files produced by 'tcpdump -w',
         but if someone threw those away and all you have is the ASCII output,
         you can still make do.  Only works with tcpdump versions 3.7 and
         earlier.

   Label
     These options determine how packets are labeled; you can supply at most
     one.

     --src, -s
         Label by IP source address; all packets with the same source address
         form an aggregate.

     --dst, -d
         Label by IP destination address.  This is the default.

     --length, -l
         Label by IP length.

     --ip field
         Label by the named IP field.  Examples include "ip src" (equivalent
         to --src), "ip ttl", "ip off", "udp sport", and so forth.  See
         AggregateIP(1) for a full list.

     --flows
         Label by TCP or UDP flow, or, essentially, by end-to-end transport-
         level connection.  Two packets have the same label if and only if
         they are part of the same TCP or UDP connection.  Each flow is
         assigned its own label.  The label number is not meaningful;
         non-TCP/UDP packets are ignored.

     --unidirectional-flows
         Label by unidirectional TCP or UDP flow.  Like --flows, but packets
         from a single connection but heading in different directions are
         assigned different labels.

     --address-pairs
         Label by address pair.  Two packets have the same label if and only
         if they involve the same pair of IP addresses.  The label number is
         not meaningful.

     --unidirectional-address-pairs
         Label by unidirectional address pair.  Two packets have the same
         label if and only if their source addresses match and their
         destination address match.

   Measurement Options
     These options specify whether ipaggcreate should count packets or bytes.

     --packets
         Count packets: the output file will report the number of packets per
         label.  This is the default.

     --bytes, -B
         Count bytes: the output file will report the number of bytes per
         label.  This number includes IP and transport headers, but not any
         link headers.

   Limit and Split Options
     These options select portions of the trace file, and allow the user to
     split trace data into multiple aggregate files.

     --time-offset=time, -T time
         Ignore the first time worth of packets in the input trace.  If the
         first packet has timestamp T, then all packets (including the first)
         with timestamp less than T+time are ignored.  The time argument can
         be an absolute number of seconds (938.42), or use suffixes such as
         "100s", "12ms", "1.5min", "2hr", and so forth.

     --start-time=time
         Ignore packets with timestamps less than time.

     --interval=time, -t time
         Stop after recording aggregate information for time worth of packets.
         That is, if the first recorded packet has timestamp T, then
         ipaggcreate will exit just before the first packet with timestamp
         T+time, or the end of the trace, whichever comes first.

     --limit-labels=count
         Stop after recording information for count distinct labels.  That is,
         exit just before encountering a packet with the count+1 different
         label, or at the end of the trace, whichever comes first.

     The four --split options generate multiple aggregate output files based
     on characteristics of the input.  To use --split, you must supply an
     explicit --output filename containing a "%d"-style template; a file
     number is plugged in to that template.  For example, the template
     "file%03d.txt" will generate files "file001.txt", "file002.txt", and so
     forth.

     --split-time=time
         Start a new output file every time period.  That is, each file will
         contain data for at most time worth of packets.

     --split-labels=count
         Start a new output file every count distinct labels.  That is, each
         file will contain at most count different labels.

     --split-packets=count
         Start a new output file every count packets.

     --split-bytes=count
         Start a new output file every count bytes.

   Other Options
     --output=file, -o file
         Write the summary dump to file instead of to the standard output.

     --binary, -b
         Write the summary dump in binary format. See below for more
         information.

     --write-tcpdump=file, -w file
         Write processed packets to a tcpdump(1) file -- or to the standard
         output, if file is a single dash "-" -- in addition to the usual
         summary output.

     --filter=filter, -f filter
         Only include packets and flows matching a tcpdump(1) filter. For
         example, `ipsumdump -f "tcp && src net 18/8"' will summarize data
         only for TCP packets from net 18. (The syntax for filter is currently
         a subset of tcpdump's syntax.)

     --anonymize, -A
         Anonymize IP addresses in the output. The anonymization preserves
         prefix and class. This means, first, that two anonymized addresses
         will share the same prefix when their non-anonymized counterparts
         share the same prefix; and second, that anonymized addresses will be
         in the same class (A, B, C, or D) as their non-anonymized
         counterparts. The anonymization algorithm comes from tcpdpriv(1); it
         works like `tcpdpriv -A50 -C4'.

         If --anonymize and --write-tcpdump are both on, the tcpdump output
         file will have anonymized IP addresses. However, the file will
         contain actual packet data, unlike tcpdpriv output.

     --no-promiscuous
         Do not place interfaces into promiscuous mode. Promiscuous mode is
         the default.

     --sample=p
         Sample packets with probability p. That is, p is the chance that a
         packet will cause output to be generated. The actual probability may
         differ from the specified probability, due to fixed point arithmetic;
         check the output for a `"!sampling_prob"' comment to see the real
         probability.  Strictly speaking, this option samples records, not
         packets, so for NetFlow summaries without --multipacket, it will
         sample flows.

     --multipacket
         Supply this option if you are reading NetFlow or IP summaries --
         files where each record might represent multiple packets -- and you
         would like the output summary to have one line per packet, instead of
         the default one line per record. See also --packet-count, above.

     --collate
         Sort output packets by increasing timestamp. Use this option when
         reading from multiple tcpdump(1) files to ensure that the output has
         sorted timestamps. Combine --collate with --write-tcpdump to collate
         overlapping tcpdump(1) files into a single, sorted tcpdump(1) file.

     --random-seed=seed
         Set the random seed deterministically to seed, an unsigned integer.
         By default, the random seed is initialized to a random value using
         /dev/random, if it exists, combined with other data. The random seed
         indirectly determines which packets are sampled, and the values of
         anonymized IP addresses.

     --quiet, -q
         Do not print a progress bar to standard error. This is the default
         when ipsumdump isn't running interactively.

     --config
         Do not produce a summary. Instead, write the Click configuration that
         ipsumdump would run to the standard output.

     --verbose, -V
         Produce more verbose error messages.

     --help, -h
         Print a help message to the standard output, then exit.

     --version, -v
         Print version number and license information to the standard output,
         then exit.

SIGNALS
     When killed with SIGTERM or SIGINT, ipaggcreate will exit cleanly (and
     generate an output file).  If you want it to flush its buffers without
     exiting, kill it with SIGHUP.

BINARY FORMAT
     Binary ipaggcreate files begin with several ASCII lines, just like
     regular ipaggcreate files.  A line `"!packed_be"' or `"!packed_le"'
     indicates that the rest of the file, starting immediately after the
     newline, consists of binary records (in big-endian or little-endian
     order, respectively).  Each record is 8 bytes long, and looks like this:

        +---------------+---------------+
        |     label     |     count     |
        +---------------+---------------+
         <---4 bytes---> <---4 bytes--->

     The initial word of data contains the label number, the second the count.

CLICK
     The ipaggcreate program uses the Click modular router, an extensible
     system for processing packets.  Click routers consist of C++ components
     called elements.  While some elements run only in a Linux kernel, most
     can run either in the kernel or in user space, and there are user-level
     elements for reading packets from libpcap or from tcpdump files.

     Ipaggcreate creates and runs a user-level Click configuration.  However,
     you don't need to install Click to run ipsumdump; the libclick directory
     contains all the relevant parts of Click, bundled into a library.

     If you're curious, try running `ipaggcreate --config' with some other
     options to see the Click configuration ipsumdump would run.

     This is, I think, a pleasant way to write a packet processor!

SEE ALSO
     tcpdump(1), tcpdpriv(1), click(1), ipsumdump(1)

     See http://www.pdos.csail.mit.edu/click/ for more on Click.

AUTHOR
     Eddie Kohler <kohler@cs.ucla.edu>, based on the Click modular router.

     Anonymization algorithm from tcpdpriv(1) by Greg Minshall.

Version 1.86                      2014-05-02                    IPAGGCREATE(1)
