iverilog(1)                  Version 12.0 (stable)                 iverilog(1)

NAME
       iverilog - Icarus Verilog compiler


SYNOPSIS
       iverilog [-EiRSuVv] [-Bpath] [-ccmdfile|-fcmdfile] [-Dmacro[=defn]]
       [-Pparameter=value] [-pflag=value] [-dname]
       [-g1995|-g2001|-g2005|-g2005-sv|-g2009|-g2012|-g<feature>]
       [-Iincludedir] [-Lmoduledir] [-mmodule] [-M[mode=]file] [-Nfile]
       [-ooutputfilename] [-stopmodule] [-ttype] [-Tmin/typ/max] [-Wclass]
       [-ypath] [-lfile] sourcefile


DESCRIPTION
       iverilog is a compiler that translates Verilog source code into
       executable programs for simulation, or other netlist formats for
       further processing. The currently supported targets are vvp for
       simulation, and fpga for synthesis. Other target types are added as
       code generators are implemented.


OPTIONS
       iverilog accepts the following options:

       -Bbase  The iverilog program uses external programs and configuration
               files to preprocess and compile the Verilog source. Normally,
               the path used to locate these tools is built into the iverilog
               program. However, the -B switch allows the user to select a
               different set of programs. The path given is used to locate
               ivlpp, ivl, code generators and the VPI modules.

       -cfile -ffile
               These flags specify an input file that contains a list of
               Verilog source files. This is similar to the command file of
               other Verilog simulators, in that it is a file that contains
               the file names instead of taking them on the command line. See
               Command Files below.

       -Dmacro Defines macro macro with the string `1' as its definition. This
               form is normally only used to trigger ifdef conditionals in the
               Verilog source.

       -Dmacro=defn
               Defines macro macro as defn.

       -Pparameter=value
               Override (i.e. defparam) a parameter in a root module. This
               allows the user to override at compile time (defparam) a
               parameter in a root module instance. For example, -Pmain.foo=2
               overrides the parameter foo in the root instance main with the
               value 2.

       -dname  Activate a class of compiler debugging messages. The -d switch
               may be used as often as necessary to activate all the desired
               messages.  Supported names are scopes, eval_tree, elaborate,
               and synth2; any other names are ignored.

       -E      Preprocess the Verilog source, but do not compile it. The
               output file is the Verilog input, but with file inclusions and
               macro references expanded and removed. This is useful, for
               example, to preprocess Verilog source for use by other
               compilers.

       -g1995|-g2001|-g2001-noconfig|-g2005|-g2005-sv|-g2009|-g2012
               Select the Verilog language generation to support in the
               compiler.  This selects between IEEE1364-1995, IEEE1364-2001,
               IEEE1364-2005, IEEE1800-2005, IEEE1800-2009, or IEEE1800-2012.
               Icarus Verilog currently defaults to the IEEE1364-2005
               generation of the language. This flag is used to restrict the
               language to a set of keywords/features, this allows simulation
               of older Verilog code that may use newer keywords and for
               compatibility with other tools. Much of the IEEE1800
               generations functionality is not currently supported.  The
               IEEE1800 generations do parse all the keywords, so they can be
               used to verify that IEEE1364 compliant Verilog code does not
               use any of the new IEEE1800 keywords.

       -gverilog-ams|-gno-verilog-ams
               Enable or disable (default) support for Verilog-AMS.  Very
               little Verilog-AMS specific functionality is currently
               supported.

       -gassertions|-gsupported-assertions|-gno-assertions
               Enable (default) or disable SystemVerilog assertions. When
               enabled, assertion statements are elaborated. When disabled,
               assertion statements are parsed but ignored. The -gsupported-
               assertions option only enables assertions that are currently
               supported by the compiler.

       -gspecify|-gno-specify
               Enable or disable (default) specify block support. When
               enabled, specify block code is elaborated. When disabled,
               specify blocks are parsed but ignored. Specify blocks are
               commonly not needed for RTL simulation, and in fact can hurt
               performance of the simulation. However, disabling specify
               blocks reduces accuracy of full-timing simulations.

       -gstd-include|-gno-std-include
               Enable (default) or disable the search of a standard
               installation include directory after all other explicit include
               directories. This standard include directory is a convenient
               place to install standard header files that a Verilog program
               may include.

       -grelative-include|-gno-relative-include
               Enable or disable (default) adding the local files directory to
               the beginning of the include file search path. This allows
               files to be included relative to the current file not the more
               common files are only found in the working directory or in the
               specified include file search path.

       -gxtypes|-gno-xtypes
               Enable (default) or disable support for extended types.
               Enabling extended types allows for new types that are supported
               by Icarus Verilog as extensions beyond the baseline Verilog. It
               may be necessary to disable extended types if compiling code
               that clashes with the few new keywords used to implement the
               type system.

       -gio-range-error|-gno-io-range-error
               The standards requires that a vectored port have matching
               ranges for its port declaration as well as any net/register
               declaration. It was common practice in the past to only specify
               the range for the net/register declaration and some tools still
               allow this. By default any mismatch is reported as a error.
               Using -gno-io-range-error will produce a warning instead of a
               fatal error for the case of a vectored net/register and a
               scalar port declaration. This warning is included in the
               anachronisms category.

       -gstrict-ca-eval|-gno-strict-ca-eval
               The standard requires that if any input to a continuous
               assignment expression changes value, the entire expression is
               re-evaluated. By default, parts of the expression that do not
               depend on the changed input value(s) are not re-evaluated. If
               an expression contains a call to a function that doesn't depend
               solely on its input values or that has side effects, the
               resulting behavior will differ from that required by the
               standard. Using -gstrict-ca-eval will force standard compliant
               behavior (with some loss in performance).

       -gstrict-expr-width|-gno-strict-expr-width
               Enable or disable (default) strict compliance with the standard
               rules for determining expression bit lengths. When disabled,
               the RHS of a parameter assignment is evaluated as a lossless
               expression, as is any expression containing an unsized constant
               number, and unsized constant numbers are not truncated to
               integer width.

       -gshared-loop-index|-gno-shared-loop-index
               Enable (default) or disable the exclusion of for-loop control
               variables from implicit event_expression lists. When enabled,
               if a for-loop control variable (loop index) is only used inside
               the for-loop statement, the compiler will not include it in an
               implicit event_expression list it calculates for that statement
               or any enclosing statement. This allows the same control
               variable to be used in multiple processes without risk of
               entering an infinite loop caused by each process triggering all
               other processes that use the same varaible. For strict
               compliance with the standards, this behaviour should be
               disabled.

       -Iincludedir
               Append directory includedir to list of directories searched for
               Verilog include files. The -I switch may be used many times to
               specify several directories to search, the directories are
               searched in the order they appear on the command line.

       -i      Ignore missing modules. Normally it is an error if a module
               instantiation refers to an undefined module. This option causes
               the compiler to skip over that instantiation. It will also stop
               the compiler returning an error if there are no top level
               modules. This allows the compiler to be used to check
               incomplete designs for errors.

       -Lpath  This flag adds a directory to the path list used to locate VPI
               modules. The default path includes only the install directory
               for the system.vpi module, but this flag can add other
               directories. Multiple paths are allowed, and the paths will be
               searched in order.

       -lfile  Add the specified file to the list of source files to be
               compiled, but mark it as a library file. All modules contained
               within that file will be treated as library modules, and only
               elaborated if they are instantiated by other modules in the
               design.

       -Mpath  This is equivalent to -Mall=path. Preserved for backwards
               compatibility.

       -Mmode=path
               Write into the file specified by path a list of files that
               contribute to the compilation of the design. If mode is all or
               prefix, this includes files that are included by include
               directives and files that are automatically loaded by library
               support as well as the files explicitly specified by the user.
               If mode is include, only files that are included by include
               directives are listed. If mode is module, only files that are
               specified by the user or that are automatically loaded by
               library support are listed. The output is one file name per
               line, with no leading or trailing space. If mode is prefix,
               files that are included by include directives are prefixed by
               "I " and other files are prefixed by "M ".

       -mmodule
               Add this module to the list of VPI modules to be loaded by the
               simulation. Many modules can be specified, and all will be
               loaded, in the order specified. The system module is implicit
               and always included (and loaded last).

               If the specified name includes at least one directory
               character, it is assumed to be prefixed by the path to the
               module, otherwise the module is searched for in the paths
               specified by preceding -L options, and if not found there, in
               the iverilog base directory.

       -Npath  This is used for debugging the compiler proper. Dump the final
               netlist form of the design to the specified file. It otherwise
               does not affect operation of the compiler. The dump happens
               after the design is elaborated and optimized.

       -o filename
               Place output in the file filename. If no output file name is
               specified, iverilog uses the default name a.out.

       -pflag=value
               Assign a value to a target specific flag. The -p switch may be
               used as often as necessary to specify all the desired flags.
               The flags that are used depend on the target that is selected,
               and are described in target specific documentation. Flags that
               are not used are ignored.

       -S      Synthesize. Normally, if the target can accept behavioral
               descriptions the compiler will leave processes in behavioral
               form. The -S switch causes the compiler to perform synthesis
               even if it is not necessary for the target. If the target type
               is a netlist format, the -S switch is unnecessary and has no
               effect.

       -s topmodule
               Specify the top level module to elaborate. Icarus Verilog will
               by default choose modules that are not instantiated in any
               other modules, but sometimes that is not sufficient, or
               instantiates too many modules. If the user specifies one or
               more root modules with -s flags, then they will be used as root
               modules instead.

       -Tmin|typ|max
               Use this switch to select min, typ or max times from
               min:typ:max expressions. Normally, the compiler will simply use
               the typ value from these expressions (printing a warning for
               the first ten it finds) but this switch will tell the compiler
               explicitly which value to use. This will suppress the warning
               that the compiler is making a choice.

       -ttarget
               Use this switch to specify the target output format. See the
               TARGETS section below for a list of valid output formats.

       -u      Treat each source file as a separate compilation unit (as
               defined in SystemVerilog). If compiling for an IEEE1364
               generation, this will just reset all compiler directives
               (including macro definitions) before each new file is
               processed.

       -v      Turn on verbose messages. This will print the command lines
               that are executed to perform the actual compilation, along with
               version information from the various components, as well as the
               version of the product as a whole.  You will notice that the
               command lines include a reference to a key temporary file that
               passes information to the compiler proper.  To keep that file
               from being deleted at the end of the process, provide a file
               name of your own in the environment variable IVERILOG_ICONFIG.

               If the selected target is vvp, the -v switch is appended to the
               shebang line in the compiler output file, so directly executing
               the compiler output file will turn on verbose messages in vvp.
               This extra verbosity can be avoided by using the vvp command to
               indirectly execute the compiler output file.

       -V      Print the version of the compiler, and exit.

       -R      Print the runtime paths of the compiler, and exit.

       -Wclass Turn on different classes of warnings. See the WARNING TYPES
               section below for descriptions of the different warning groups.
               If multiple -W switches are used, the warning set is the union
               of all the requested classes.

       -ylibdir
               Append the directory to the library module search path. When
               the compiler finds an undefined module, it looks in these
               directories for files with the right name.

       -Ysuffix
               Add suffix to the list of accepted file name suffixes used when
               searching a library for cells. The list defaults to the single
               entry .v.


MODULE LIBRARIES
       The Icarus Verilog compiler supports module libraries as directories
       that contain Verilog source files.  During elaboration, the compiler
       notices the instantiation of undefined module types. If the user
       specifies library search directories, the compiler will search the
       directory for files with the name of the missing module type. If it
       finds such a file, it loads it as a Verilog source file, then tries
       again to elaborate the module.

       Library module files should contain only a single module, but this is
       not a requirement. Library modules may reference other modules in the
       library or in the main design.


TARGETS
       The Icarus Verilog compiler supports a variety of targets, for
       different purposes, and the -t switch is used to select the desired
       target.


       null    The null target causes no code to be generated. It is useful
               for checking the syntax of the Verilog source.

       vvp     This is the default. The vvp target generates code for the vvp
               runtime. The output is a complete program that simulates the
               design but must be run by the vvp command. The -pfileline=1
               option can be used to add procedural statement debugging
               opcodes to the generated code. These opcodes are also used to
               generate file and line information for procedural warning/error
               messages. To enable the debug command tracing us the trace
               command (trace on) from the vvp interactive prompt.

       fpga    This is a synthesis target that supports a variety of fpga
               devices, mostly by EDIF format output. The Icarus Verilog fpga
               code generator can generate complete designs or EDIF macros
               that can in turn be imported into larger designs by other
               tools. The fpga target implies the synthesis -S flag.

       vhdl    This target produces a VHDL translation of the Verilog netlist.
               The output is a single file containing VHDL entities
               corresponding to the modules in the Verilog source code. Note
               that only a subset of the Verilog language is supported.  See
               the wiki for more information.


WARNING TYPES
       These are the types of warnings that can be selected by the -W switch.
       All the warning types (other than all) can also be prefixed with no- to
       turn off that warning. This is most useful after a -Wall argument to
       suppress isolated warning types.


       all     This enables the anachronisms, implicit, macro-replacement,
               portbind, select-range, timescale, and sensitivity-entire-array
               warning categories.


       anachronisms
               This enables warnings for use of features that have been
               deprecated or removed in the selected generation of the Verilog
               language.


       implicit
               This enables warnings for creation of implicit declarations.
               For example, if a scalar wire X is used but not declared in the
               Verilog source, this will print a warning at its first use.


       macro-redefinition | macro-replacement
               This enables preprocessor warnings when a macro is being
               redefined.  The first variant prints a warning any time a macro
               is redefined.  The second variant only prints a warning if the
               macro text changes.  Use no-macro-redefinition to turn off all
               warnings of this type.


       portbind
               This enables warnings for ports of module instantiations that
               are not connected but probably should be. Dangling input ports,
               for example, will generate a warning.


       select-range
               This enables warnings for constant out of bound selects. This
               includes partial or fully out of bound selects as well as a
               select containing a 'bx or 'bz in the index.


       timescale
               This enables warnings for inconsistent use of the timescale
               directive. It detects if some modules have no timescale, or if
               modules inherit timescale from another file. Both probably mean
               that timescales are inconsistent, and simulation timing can be
               confusing and dependent on compilation order.


       infloop This enables warnings for always statements that may have
               runtime infinite loops (has paths with no or zero delay). This
               class of warnings is not included in -Wall and hence does not
               have a no- variant.  A fatal error message will always be
               printed when the compiler can determine that there will
               definitely be an infinite loop (all paths have no or zero
               delay).

               When you suspect an always statement is producing a runtime
               infinite loop use this flag to find the always statements that
               need to have their logic verified. It is expected that many of
               the warnings will be false positives, since the code treats the
               value of all variables and signals as indeterminate.


       sensitivity-entire-vector
               This enables warnings for when a part select within an "always
               @*" statement results in the entire vector being added to the
               implicit sensitivity list. Although this behaviour is
               prescribed by the IEEE standard, it is not what might be
               expected and can have performance implications if the vector is
               large.


       sensitivity-entire-array
               This enables warnings for when a word select within an "always
               @*" statement results in the entire array being added to the
               implicit sensitivity list. Although this behaviour is
               prescribed by the IEEE standard, it is not what might be
               expected and can have performance implications if the array is
               large.


VPI MODULES
       If the source file name has a .vpi or .vpl suffix, then it is taken to
       be a VPI module. VPI modules supplied by the user are scanned to
       determine the return types of any system functions they provide. This
       is necessary because the compiler needs this information to elaborate
       expressions that contain these system functions. The module path/name
       is passed on to the target to allow the VPI module to be automatically
       loaded at the start of simulation.

       VPI modules may also be supplied using the -L and -m options.


SYSTEM FUNCTION TABLE FILES [deprecated]
       If the source file name has a .sft suffix, then it is taken to be a
       system function table file. A system function table file is the old
       method used to describe to the compiler the return types for system
       functions.  Users are encouraged to switch to the new method of simply
       supplying the VPI module.

       The format of the table is ASCII, one function per line. Empty lines
       are ignored, and lines that start with the '#' character are comment
       lines. Each non-comment line starts with the function name, then the
       vpi type (i.e. vpiSysFuncReal). The following types are supported:


       vpiSysFuncReal
               The function returns a real/realtime value.


       vpiSysFuncInt
               The function returns an integer.


       vpiSysFuncSized <wid> <signed|unsigned>
               The function returns a vector with the given width, and is
               signed or unsigned according to the flag.


       vpiSysFuncString
               The function returns a string. This is an Icarus-specific
               extension, not available in the VPI standard.


COMMAND FILES
       The command file allows the user to place source file names and certain
       command line switches into a text file instead of on a long command
       line. Command files can include C or C++ style comments, as well as #
       comments, if the # starts the line.


       file name
               A simple file name or file path is taken to be the name of a
               Verilog source file. The path starts with the first non-white-
               space character. Variables are substituted in file names.


       -c cmdfile -f cmdfile
               A -c or -f token prefixes a command file, exactly like it does
               on the command line. The cmdfile may be on the same line or the
               next non-comment line.


       -l file -v file
               A -l token prefixes a library file in the command file, exactly
               like it does on the command line. The parameter to the -l flag
               may be on the same line or the next non-comment line. -v is an
               alias for -l, provided for compatibility with other simulators.

               Variables in the file are substituted.


       -y libdir
               A -y token prefixes a library directory in the command file,
               exactly like it does on the command line. The parameter to the
               -y flag may be on the same line or the next non-comment line.

               Variables in the libdir are substituted.


       +incdir+includedir
               The +incdir+ token in command files gives directories to search
               for include files in much the same way that -I flags work on
               the command line. The difference is that multiple +includedir
               directories are valid parameters to a single +incdir+ token,
               although you may also have multiple +incdir+ lines.

               Variables in the includedir are substituted.


       +libext+ext
               The +libext token in command files lists file extensions to try
               when looking for a library file. This is useful in conjunction
               with -y flags to list suffixes to try in each directory before
               moving on to the next library directory.


       +libdir+dir
               This is another way to specify library directories. See the -y
               flag.


       +libdir-nocase+dir
               This is like the +libdir statement, but file names inside the
               directories declared here are case insensitive. The missing
               module name in a lookup need not match the file name case, as
               long as the letters are correct. For example, "foo" matches
               "Foo.v" but not "bar.v".


       +define+NAME=value
               The +define+ token is the same as the -D option on the command
               line. The value part of the token is optional.


       +parameter+NAME=value
               The +parameter+ token is the same as the -P option on the
               command line.


       +timescale+value
               The +timescale+ token is used to set the default timescale for
               the simulation. This is the time units and precision before any
               `timescale directive or after a `resetall directive. The
               default is 1s/1s.


       +toupper-filename
               This token causes file names after this in the command file to
               be translated to uppercase. This helps with situations where a
               directory has passed through a DOS machine, and in the process
               the file names become munged.


       +tolower-filename
               This is similar to the +toupper-filename hack described above.


       +integer-width+value
               This allows the programmer to select the width for integer
               variables in the Verilog source. The default is 32, the value
               can be any desired integer value.


       +width-cap+value
               This allows the programmer to select the width cap for unsized
               expressions.  If the calculated width for an unsized expression
               exceeds this value, the compiler will issue a warning and limit
               the expression width to this value.


VARIABLES IN COMMAND FILES
       In certain cases, iverilog supports variables in command files. These
       are strings of the form "$(varname)" or "${varname}", where varname is
       the name of the environment variable to read. The entire string is
       replaced with the contents of that variable. Variables are only
       substituted in contexts that explicitly support them, including file
       and directory strings.

       Variable values come from the operating system environment, and not
       from preprocessor defines elsewhere in the file or the command line.


PREDEFINED MACROS
       The following macros are predefined by the compiler:

       __ICARUS__ = 1
               This is always defined when compiling with Icarus Verilog.


       __ICARUS_SYNTH__ = 1
               This is defined when synthesis is enabled.


       __VAMS_ENABLE__ = 1
               This is defined when Verilog-AMS is enabled.


ENVIRONMENT
       iverilog also accepts some environment variables that control its
       behavior. These can be used to make semi-permanent changes.


       IVERILOG_ICONFIG=file-name
               This sets the name used for the temporary file that passes
               parameters to the compiler proper, and prevents that file being
               deleted after the compiler has exited.


       IVERILOG_VPI_MODULE_PATH=/some/path:/some/other/path
               This adds additional components to the VPI module search path.
               Paths specified in this way are searched after paths specified
               with -L, but before the default search path. Multiple paths can
               be separated with colons (semicolons if using Windows).


EXAMPLES
       These examples assume that you have a Verilog source file called
       hello.v in the current directory

       To compile hello.v to an executable file called a.out:

            iverilog hello.v

       To compile hello.v to an executable file called hello:

            iverilog -o hello hello.v

       To compile and run explicitly using the vvp runtime:

            iverilog -ohello.vvp -tvvp hello.v


AUTHOR
       Steve Williams (steve@icarus.com)


SEE ALSO
       vvp(1), <http://iverilog.icarus.com/>

       Tips on using, debugging, and developing the compiler can be found at
       <http://iverilog.wikia.com/>


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright ©  2002-2021 Stephen Williams

       This document can be freely redistributed according to the terms of the
       GNU General Public License version 2.0

                                Jan 14th, 2021                     iverilog(1)
