IXGBE(4)               FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual               IXGBE(4)

NAME
     ixgbe – Intel(R) 10Gb Ethernet driver for the FreeBSD operating system

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device iflib
           device ixgbe

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_ixgbe_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The ixgbe driver provides support for PCI 10Gb Ethernet adapters based on
     the Intel 82598EB Intel(R) Network Connections.  The driver supports
     Jumbo Frames, MSIX, TSO, and RSS.

     For questions related to hardware requirements, refer to the
     documentation supplied with your Intel 10GbE adapter.  All hardware
     requirements listed apply to use with FreeBSD.

     Support for Jumbo Frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit Jumbo Frames.  The maximum
     MTU size for Jumbo Frames is 16114.

     This driver version supports VLANs.  For information on enabling VLANs,
     see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The ixgbe driver supports the following cards:

     •   Intel(R) 10 Gigabit XF SR/AF Dual Port Server Adapter
     •   Intel(R) 10 Gigabit XF SR/LR Server Adapter
     •   Intel(R) 82598EB 10 Gigabit AF Network Connection
     •   Intel(R) 82598EB 10 Gigabit AT CX4 Network Connection

DIAGNOSTICS
     ixgbe%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: memory  A fatal initialization
     error has occurred.

     ixgbe%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: interrupt  A fatal
     initialization error has occurred.

     ixgbe%d: watchdog timeout -- resetting  The device has stopped responding
     to the network, or there is a problem with the network connection
     (cable).

SUPPORT
     For general information and support, go to the Intel support website at:
     http://support.intel.com.

     If an issue is identified with the released source code on the supported
     kernel with a supported adapter, email the specific information related
     to the issue to <freebsd@intel.com>.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), iflib(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), polling(4), vlan(4),
     ifconfig(8)

HISTORY
     The ixgbe device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 7.0.

AUTHORS
     The ixgbe driver was written by Intel Corporation <freebsd@intel.com>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          July 17, 2019         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
