DVI2TTY(Local)                                                  DVI2TTY(Local)

NAME
       dvi2tty - preview a TeX DVI-file on an ordinary ascii terminal

SYNOPSIS
       dvi2tty [ options ] dvi-file

DESCRIPTION
       dvi2tty converts a TeX DVI-file to a format that is appropriate for
       terminals and line printers. The program is intended to be used for
       preliminary proofreading of TeX-ed documents.  By default the output is
       directed to the terminal, possibly through a pager (depending on how
       the program was installed), but it can be directed to a file or a pipe.

       The output leaves much to be desired, but is still useful if you want
       to avoid walking to the laser printer (or whatever) for each iteration
       of your document.
       Since dvi2tty produces output for terminals and line printers the
       representation of documents is naturally quite primitive.  In principle
       Font Changes are totally ignored, but dvi2tty recognizes a few
       mathematical and special symbols that can be be displayed on an
       ordinary ascii terminal, such as the '+' and '-' symbol.

       If the width of the output text requires more columns than fits in one
       line (c.f. the -w option) it is broken into several lines by dvi2tty
       although they will be printed as one line on regular TeX output devices
       (e.g. laser printers). To show that a broken line is really just one
       logical line an asterisk (``*'') in the last position means that the
       logical line is continued on the next physical line output by dvi2tty.
       Such a continuation line is started with a a space and an asterisk in
       the first two columns.

       Options may be specified in the environment variable DVI2TTY.  Any
       option on the command line, conflicting with one in the environment,
       will override the one from the environment.

       Options:

       -o file
              Write output to file ``file''.

       -p list
              Print the pages chosen by list.  Numbers refer to TeX-page
              numbers (known as \count0).  An example of format for list is
              ``1,3:6,8'' to choose pages 1, 3 through 6 and 8.  Negative
              numbers can be used exactly as in TeX, e g -1 comes before -4 as
              in ``-p-1:-4,17''.

       -P list
              Like -p except that page numbers refer to the sequential
              ordering of the pages in the dvi-file.  Negative numbers don't
              make a lot of sense here...

       -w n   Specify terminal width n.  Legal range 16-132.  Default is 80.
              If your terminal has the ability to display in 132 columns it
              might be a good idea to use -w132 and toggle the terminal into
              this mode as output will probably look somewhat better.

       -v     Specify height of lines. Default value 450000. Allows to adjust
              linespacing.

       -q     Don't pipe the output through a pager.  This may be the default
              on some systems (depending on the whims of the person installing
              the program).

       -e n   This option can be used to influence the spacing between words.
              With a negative value the number of spaces between words becomes
              less, with a positive value it becomes more.  -e-11 seems to
              worked well.

       -f     Pipe through a pager, $PAGER if defined, or whatever the
              installer of the program compiled in (often ``more''). This may
              be the default, but it is still okay to redirect output with
              ``>'', the pager will not be used if output is not going to a
              terminal.

       -F     Specify the pager program to be used.  This overrides the $PAGER
              and the default pager.

       -Fprog Use ``prog'' as program to pipe output into. Can be used to
              choose an alternate pager (e g ``-Fless'').

       -t     \tt fonts were used (instead of cm) to produce dvi file.
              (screen.sty is a powerfull mean to do that with LaTeX).

       -a     Dvi2tty normally tries to output accented characters. With the
              -a option, accented characters are output without the accent
              sign.

       -l     Mark page breaks with the two-character sequence ``^L''. The
              default is to mark them with a form-feed character.

       -u     Don't make any attempts to find special Scandinavian characters.
              If such characters are in the text they will map to ``a'' and
              ``o''.  This is probably the default outside of Scandinavia.
              (The installer makes this decision when  the program is
              installed.)

       -s     Try to find the special Scandinavian characters that on most (?)
              terminals in Scandinavia are mapped to ``{|}[\]''.  This can be
              the default, and output from files not containing these special
              characters will be identical regardless of this option.

FILES
       /usr/ucb/more      probably the default pager.

ENVIRONMENT
       PAGER              the pager to use.
       DVI2TTY             can be set to hold command-line options.

SEE ALSO
       TeX, dvi2ps

AUTHOR
       Svante Lindahl, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm
       Improved C version: Marcel Mol
       {seismo, mcvax}!enea!ttds!zap
       marcel@duteca.et.tudelft.nl

BUGS
       Blanks between words get lost quite easy. This is less likely if you
       are using a wider output than the default 80.

       Only one file may be specified on the command line.


                               13 November 1990                 DVI2TTY(Local)
