JMAN(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                JMAN(1)

NAME
     jman – format and display the on-line Japanese and/or original (English)
     manual pages

SYNOPSIS
     jman [-adfhktow] [-m system] [-p string] [-M path] [-P pager] [-S list]
          [section] name ...

DESCRIPTION
     Jman formats and displays the on-line Japanese manual pages.  This
     version knows about the MANPATH and PAGER environment variables, so you
     can have your own set(s) of personal man pages and choose whatever
     program you like to display the formatted pages.  If section is
     specified, jman only looks in that section of the manual.  You may also
     specify the order to search the sections for entries and which
     preprocessors to run on the source files via command line options or
     environment variables.  If enabled by the system administrator, formatted
     man pages will also be compressed with the `/usr/bin/gzip -nf -9' command
     to save space.  You have to set the environment variable LC_CTYPE (or
     LANG) to ja_JP.eucJP if you prefer to consult Japanese manual pages.

     The options are as follows:

     -M path     Specify an alternate manpath.  By default, jman uses jmanpath
                 to determine the path to search.  This option overrides the
                 MANPATH environment variable.

     -P pager    Specify which pager to use.  By default, jman uses jless -s,
                 This option overrides the PAGER environment variable.

     -S list     List is a colon separated list of manual sections to search.
                 This option overrides the MANSECT environment variable.

     -a          By default, jman will exit after displaying the first manual
                 page it finds.  Using this option forces jman to display all
                 the manual pages that match name, not just the first.

     -d          Don't actually display the man pages, but do print gobs of
                 debugging information.

     -f          Equivalent to whatis.

     -h          Print a one line help message and exit.

     -k          Equivalent to apropos.

     -m system   Specify an alternate set of man pages to search based on the
                 system name given.

     -o          Restrain from searching and displaying non-original (non-
                 English) man pages, regardless of the value of the
                 environment variavble LC_CTYPE (or LANG).

     -p string   Specify the sequence of preprocessors to run before nroff or
                 troff.  Not all installations will have a full set of
                 preprocessors.  Some of the preprocessors and the letters
                 used to designate them are: eqn (e), grap (g), pic (p), tbl
                 (t), vgrind (v), refer (r).  This option overrides the
                 MANROFFSEQ environment variable.

     -t          Use /usr/local/bin/groff -S -man -dlang=ja_JP.eucJP to format
                 the manual page, passing the output to stdout.  The output
                 from /usr/local/bin/groff -S -man -dlang=ja_JP.eucJP may need
                 to be passed through some filter or another before being
                 printed.

     -w          Don't actually display the man pages, but do print the
                 location(s) of the files that would be formatted or
                 displayed.

ENVIRONMENT
     MANPATH     If MANPATH is set, its value is used as the path to search
                 for manual pages.
     LC_CTYPE
     LANG        LC_CTYPE or LANG specify the language of the manual pages you
                 prefer to consult.
     MACHINE     As some manual pages are intended only for specific
                 architectures, jman searches any subdirectories, with the
                 same name as the current architecture, in every directory
                 which it searches.  Machine specific areas are checked before
                 general areas.  The current machine type may be overridden by
                 setting the environment variable MACHINE to the name of a
                 specific architecture.
     MANROFFSEQ  If MANROFFSEQ is set, its value is used to determine the set
                 of preprocessors run before running nroff or troff.  By
                 default, pages are passed through the table preprocessor
                 before nroff.
     MANSECT     If MANSECT is set, its value is used to determine which
                 manual sections to search.
     PAGER       If PAGER is set, its value is used as the name of the program
                 to use to display the man page.  By default, jless -s is
                 used.

EXAMPLES
     Normally, to look at the relevant manpage information for getopt, one
     would use:
           man getopt

     However, when referring to a specific section of the manual, such as
     getopt(3), one would use:
           man 3 getopt

SEE ALSO
     japropos(1), jmanpath(1), jwhatis(1), jless(1), groff(1), man(7), mdoc(7)

BUGS
     The -t option only works if a troff-like program is installed.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             June 11, 2001            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
