TEXPROF(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             TEXPROF(1)

NAME
       texprof - A profiler for TeX source files

SYNOPSIS
       texprof [options] [&format] [file|\commands]

DESCRIPTION
       Run the TeX profiler on file, usually creating file.dvi and file.tprof.
       If the file argument has no extension, ".tex" will be appended to it.
       Instead of a file name, a list of TeX commands can be given, the first
       of which must start with a backslash.  With a &format argument, the TeX
       profiler uses a different set of precompiled commands, contained in
       format.fmt; it is usually better to use the -fmt format option instead.

       The TeX profiler is a version of TeX that measures the time TeX needs
       to execute individual input lines or macros.  It writes the collected
       data to a file with extension .tprof.  A separate program, texprofile
       (see texprofile(1)), is used to display the content of a .tprof file in
       a readable form.


       The typical use of the TeX profiler is with pre generated formats.  The
       texprof command uses the equivalent of the plain TeX format, and the
       latexprof command uses the equivalent of the LaTeX format. To
       investigate the timing of macros targeted to pdftex or pdflatex, you
       can use pdftexprof or pdflatexprof.


       The TeX profiler's handling of its command-line arguments is similar to
       that of the other TeX programs in the web2c implementation.


OPTIONS
       This version of the TeX profiler understands the following command line
       options.

       -cnf-line_string
              Parse string as a texmf.cnf configuration line.  See the
              Kpathsea manual.

       -etex  Enable the e-TeX extensions.  This option is only effective in
              combination with -ini.  See etex(1).

       -file-line-error
              Print error messages in the form file:line:error which is
              similar to the way many compilers format them.

       -no-file-line-error
              Disable printing error messages in the file:line:error style.

       -fmt_format
              Use format as the name of the format to be used, instead of the
              name by which the TeX profiler was called or a %& line.

       -help  Print help message and exit.

       -ini   Start in INI mode, which is used to dump formats.  The INI mode
              can be used for typesetting, but no format is preloaded, and
              basic initializations like setting catcodes may be required.

       -interaction_mode
              Sets the interaction mode.  The mode can be either batchmode,
              nonstopmode, scrollmode, and errorstopmode.  The meaning of
              these modes is the same as that of the corresponding \commands.

       -jobname_name
              Use name for the job name, instead of deriving it from the name
              of the input file.

       -kpathsea-debug_bitmask
              Sets path searching debugging flags according to the bitmask.
              See the Kpathsea manual for details.

       -ltx   Enable the LaTeX extensions.  This option is only effective in
              combination with -ini.  See latex(1).

       -mktex_fmt
              Enable mktexfmt, where fmt must be either tex, tfm, fmt, or pk.

       -no-mktex_fmt
              Disable mktexfmt, where fmt must be either tex, tfm, fmt, or pk.

       -output-directory_directory
              Write output files in directory instead of the current
              directory.  Look up input files in directory first, then along
              the normal search path.

       -parse-first-line
              If the first line of the main input file begins with %& parse it
              to look for a dump name.

       -no-parse-first-line
              Disable parsing of the first line of the main input file.

       -pdf   Enable the simulation of common pdftex primitives.  This option
              requires the -ini option and implies the -ltx option.  See
              pdftex(1).

       -prof  Enable profiling as soon as TeX enters the main loop. If tis
              option it not used, profiling needs to switched on using the
              \profileon primitive. Profiling can be switched of with the
              \profileoff primitive.

       -progname_name
              Pretend to be program name.  This affects both the format used
              and the search paths.

       -version
              Print version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       See the Kpathsea library documentation (e.g., the `Path specifications'
       node) for precise details of how the environment variables are used.
       The kpsewhich utility can be used to query the values of the variables.

       TEXMFOUTPUT
              Normally, TeX puts its output files in the current directory.
              If any output file cannot be opened there, it tries to open it
              in the directory specified in the environment variable
              TEXMFOUTPUT.  There is no default value for that variable.  For
              example, if you say texprof paper and the current directory is
              not writable and TEXMFOUTPUT has the value /tmp, TeX attempts to
              create /tmp/paper.log , /tmp/paper.dvi , and /tmp/paper.tprof .
              TEXMFOUTPUT is also checked for input files, as TeX often
              generates files that need to be subsequently read; for input, no
              suffixes (such as ``.tex'') are added by default, the input name
              is simply checked as given.

       TEXINPUTS
              Search path for \input and \openin files.  This normally starts
              with ``.'', so that user files are found before system files.
              An empty path component will be replaced with the paths defined
              in the texmf.cnf file.  For example, set TEXINPUTS to
              ".:/home/user/tex:" to prepend the current directory and
              ``/home/user/tex'' to the standard search path.

       TEXFORMATS
              Search path for format files.

       TFMFONTS
              Search path for font metric (.tfm) files.

       SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH
              If set, its value, taken to be in epoch-seconds, will be used
              for the creation date and as the reference moment for the time
              related primitives of LaTeX. This is useful for making
              reproducible builds.

       FORCE_SOURCE_DATE
              If set to the value "1", the time-related TeX primitives (\year,
              \month, \day, \time) are also initialized from the value of
              SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH.  This is not recommended if there is any
              viable alternative.

       Many, many more environment variables may be consulted related to path
       searching.  See the Kpathsea manual.

FILES
       The location of the files mentioned below varies from system to system.
       Use the kpsewhich utility to find their locations.

       *.tfm  Metric files for TeX's fonts.

       *.fmt  Predigested TeX format files.

       *.pk *.pfb
              Font files used by TeX.

NOTES
       This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete
       documentation for the TeX profiler can be found in texprof.pdf.
       Further information can be found in the  manual of the Kpathsea
       library.

BUGS
       This version of the TeX profiler does not implement all of the
       primitives that pdftex provides, and further, it will not produce the
       same side effects.

AVAILABILITY
       The TeX profiler should compile on a large variety of machine
       architectures and operating systems. The function to obtain timing
       information id POSIX specific.

       The sources of the TeX profiler are hosted at
       https://github.com/ruckertm/HINT

SEE ALSO
       texprofiler(1), tex(1), latex(1), pdftex(1), pdflatex(1),and
       kpsewhich(1).

AUTHORS
       The primary author of the TeX profiler is Martin Ruckert, with eTeX
       extensions by Peter Breitenlohner, LaTeX extensions by Thierry Laronde,
       and the kpathsearch library by Karl Berry.

       TeX was designed by Donald E. Knuth, who implemented it using his Web
       system for Pascal programs.

       Many, many more contributed to the typesetting system now known as TeX;
       far too many to name all of them here.

Version 1.0                    2 September 2024                     TEXPROF(1)
