ja2(6)                           ja2 man page                           ja2(6)

NAME
       ja2 - JA2 Stracciatella

SYNOPSIS
       ja2 [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       JA2 Stracciatella is a cross-platform implementation of Jagged Alliance
       2 game.  This is only the game engine.  Game resources from the
       original JA2 are required to play the game.

       When you first start the game, file ~/.ja2/ja2.json is created.  You
       should edit this file, so that game_dir points to the directory of the
       original JA2 game.

       You can also use ja2-launcher to comfortably configure the game.

OPTIONS
       -gamedir /opt/ja2
              Path to the original JA2 game

       -res WxH
              Screen resolution, e.g. 800x600. Default value is 640x480

       -brightness GAMMA
              Screen brightness (gamma multiplier) value to set where 0.0 is
              completely dark and 1.0 is normal brightness. Set to a negative
              value to disable brightness adjustment. Default value is -1
              NOTE: some video drivers do not support setting the gamma value
              and this option may not have any effect in those cases

       -resversion VERSION
              Version of the game resources.  Possible values are: DUTCH,
              ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN, ITALIAN, POLISH, RUSSIAN, RUSSIAN_GOLD.
              Default value is ENGLISH.  Use RUSSIAN for the "BUKA Agonia
              Vlasty" release.  Use RUSSIAN_GOLD for the Russian Gold release.


       -mod NAME
              Start one of the game modifications, bundled into the game.
              NAME is the name of modification, e.g. 'from-russia-with-love'.
              See folder mods for possible options

       -debug Show debug messages

       -unittests
              Perform unit tests.  ja2 -unittests [gtest options] E.g. ja2
              -unittests --gtest_output="xml:report.xml" --gtest_repeat=2

       -editor
              Start the map editor (Editor.slf is necessary)

       -fullscreen
              Start the game in the fullscreen mode

       -help  Display this information

       -nosound
              Turn the sound and music off

       -window
              Start the game in a window

AUTHOR
       The JA2 Stracciatella Team

1.0                            30 November 2017                         ja2(6)
