JALV(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                JALV(1)

NAME
     jalv – run an LV2 plugin with a command-line interface

SYNOPSIS
     jalv [-dhipstx] [-b size] [-c symbol=value] [-U ui_uri] [-l dir]
          [-n name] plugin_state

DESCRIPTION
     jalv is a simple LV2 host that runs one plugin.  It has several versions,
     this one has an interactive command-line interface.

     jalv has one positional argument, which can be a plugin URI, preset URI,
     or the path to a bundle or data file that describes one.

     The options are as follows:

     -b bytes
          Buffer size for communication between plugin and UI.  The default
          value should be enough, but if there are overflows, this option can
          be used to allocate more space.

     -c symbol=value
          Set control value, for example, -c vol=1.4 where “vol” is the symbol
          of a control port on the plugin.

     -d   Dump communication between plugin and UI to stdout.  Note that this
          may print an extreme amount of text, piping the output to a pager or
          file is recommended.

     -h   Print the command line options and exit.

     -i   Ignore input on stdin and run non-interactively.

     -l frames
          Length of an audio block.

     -n name
          Use the given JACK client name.  Note that JACK may adjust the name
          if necessary unless -x is also given.

     -p   Print control output changes to stdout.

     -s   Show plugin UI if possible.  This option only works when plugins
          provide a UI that uses the non-embeddable showHide interface.  For
          embeddable UIs, use jalv.gtk3(1) instead.

     -t   Print debug trace messages.  This enables the “trace” LV2 log, which
          is used by some plugins to print debugging output.  Some extra
          internal error messages are also enabled.  Note that this may print
          in the audio thread, which can cause dropouts.

     -U uri
          Load the UI with the given URI.  Usually only one suitable UI is
          available on a given platform, which is used by default.  If there
          are several, this option can be used to select which is loaded.

     -V   Print version information and exit.

     -x   Use only the exact JACK client name given by -n or exit if it's
          unavailable.

COMMANDS
     The Jalv prompt supports several commands for interactive control:

     help              Display help message.
     controls          Print settable control values.
     monitors          Print output control values.
     presets           Print available presets.
     preset uri        Ic preset Ar path Load and apply preset.
     quit              Quit program.
     set index value   Set control value by port index (a non-negative
                       integer).
     set symbol value  Set control value by symbol (a simple string
                       identifier).

ENVIRONMENT
     LV2_PATH  Search path for LV2 bundles, in PATH format.

SEE ALSO
     jalv.gtk3(1), jalv.qt5(1), lv2ls(1)

AUTHORS
     jalv was written by David Robillard <d@drobilla.net>, with contributions
     by Robin Gareus, Hanspeter Portner, and others.

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4         August 1, 2025                         JALV(1)
