JANET(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               JANET(1)

NAME
       janet - run the Janet language abstract machine

SYNOPSIS
       janet [-hvsrpnqik] [-e SOURCE] [-E SOURCE ...ARGUMENTS] [-l MODULE] [-m
       PATH] [-c MODULE JIMAGE] [-w LEVEL] [-x LEVEL] [--] script args...

DESCRIPTION
       Janet is a functional and imperative programming language and bytecode
       interpreter.  It is a Lisp-like language, but lists are replaced by
       other data structures (arrays, tables, structs, tuples). The language
       also features bridging to native code written in C, meta-programming
       with macros, and bytecode assembly.

       There is a repl for trying out the language, as well as the ability to
       run script files.  This client program is separate from the core
       runtime, so Janet could be embedded into other programs. Try Janet in
       your browser at https://janet-lang.org.

       Implemented in mostly standard C99, Janet runs on Windows, Linux and
       macOS.  The few features that are not standard C99 (dynamic library
       loading, compiler specific optimizations), are fairly straight forward.
       Janet can be easily ported to most new platforms.


REPL KEY-BINDINGS
       Home            Move cursor to the beginning of input line.


       End             Move cursor to the end of input line.


       Left/Right      Move cursor in input line.


       Up/Down         Go backwards and forwards through history.


       Tab             Complete current symbol, or show available completions.


       Delete          Delete one character after the cursor.


       Backspace       Delete one character before the cursor.


       Ctrl-A          Move cursor to the beginning of input line.


       Ctrl-B          Move cursor one character to the left.


       Ctrl-D          If on a newline, indicate end of stream and exit the
                       repl.


       Ctrl-E          Move cursor to the end of input line.


       Ctrl-F          Move cursor one character to the right.


       Ctrl-H          Delete one character before the cursor.


       Ctrl-K          Delete everything after the cursor on the input line.


       Ctrl-L          Clear the screen.


       Ctrl-N/Ctrl-P   Go forwards and backwards through history.


       Ctrl-U          Delete everything before the cursor on the input line.


       Ctrl-W          Delete one word before the cursor.


       Ctrl-G          Show documentation for the current symbol under the
                       cursor.


       Ctrl-Q          Clear the current command, including already typed
                       lines.


       Alt-B/Alt-F     Move cursor backwards and forwards one word.


       Alt-D           Delete one word after the cursor.


       Alt-,           Go to earliest item in history.


       Alt-.           Go to last item in history.


       The repl keybindings are loosely based on a subset of GNU readline,
       although Janet does not use GNU readline internally for the repl. It is
       a limited substitute for GNU readline, and does not handle utf-8 input
       or other mutlibyte input well.

       To disable the built-in repl input handling, pass the -s option to
       Janet, and use a program like rlwrap with Janet to provide input.

       For key bindings that operate on words, a word is considered to be a
       sequence of characters that does not contain whitespace.


DOCUMENTATION
       For more complete API documentation, run a REPL (Read Eval Print Loop),
       and use the doc macro to see documentation on individual bindings.


OPTIONS
       -h     Shows the usage text and exits immediately.


       -v     Shows the version text and exits immediately.


       -s     Read raw input from stdin and forgo prompt history and other
              readline-like features.


       -e code
              Execute a string of Janet source. Source code is executed in the
              order it is encountered, so earlier arguments are executed
              before later ones.


       -E code arguments...
              Execute a single Janet expression as a Janet short-fn, passing
              the remaining command line arguments to the expression. This
              allows more concise one-liners with command line arguments.

              Example: janet -E '(print $0)' 12 is equivalent to '((short-fn
              (print $0)) 12)', which is in turn equivalent to `((fn [k]
              (print k)) 12)`

              See docs for the `short-fn` function for more details.


       -d     Enable debug mode. On all terminating signals as well the debug
              signal, this will cause the debugger to come up in the REPL.
              Same as calling (setdyn :debug true) in a default repl.


       -n     Disable ANSI colors in the repl. Has no effect if no repl is
              run.


       -N     Enable ANSI colors in the repl. Has no effect if no repl is run.


       -r     Open a REPL (Read Eval Print Loop) after executing all sources.
              By default, if Janet is called with no arguments, a REPL is
              opened.


       -R     If using the REPL, disable loading the user profile from the
              JANET_PROFILE environment variable.


       -p     Turn on the persistent flag. By default, when Janet is executing
              commands from a file and encounters an error, it will
              immediately exit after printing the error message. In persistent
              mode, Janet will keep executing commands after an error.
              Persistent mode can be good for debugging and testing.


       -q     Hide the logo in the repl.


       -k     Don't execute a script, only compile it to check for errors.
              Useful for linting scripts.


       -m syspath
              Set the dynamic binding :syspath to the string syspath so that
              Janet will load system modules from a directory different than
              the default. The default is set when Janet is built, and
              defaults to /usr/local/lib/janet on Linux/Posix, and
              C:/Janet/Library on Windows. This option supersedes JANET_PATH.


       -c source output
              Precompiles Janet source code into an image, a binary dump that
              can be efficiently loaded later.  Source should be a path to the
              Janet module to compile, and output should be the file path of
              resulting image. Output should usually end with the .jimage
              extension.


       -i     When this flag is passed, a script passed to the interpreter
              will be treated as a janet image file rather than a janet source
              file.


       -l lib Import a Janet module before running a script or repl. Multiple
              files can be loaded in this manner, and exports from each file
              will be made available to the script or repl.

       -w level
              Set the warning linting level for Janet.  This linting level
              should be one of :relaxed, :none, :strict, :normal, or a Janet
              number. Any linting message that is of a greater lint level than
              this setting will be displayed as a warning, but not stop
              compilation or execution.

       -x level
              Set the error linting level for Janet.  This linting level
              should be one of :relaxed, :none, :strict, :normal, or a Janet
              number. Any linting message that is of a greater lint level will
              cause a compilation error and stop compilation.

       --     Stop parsing command line arguments. All arguments after this
              one will be considered file names and then arguments to the
              script.


ENVIRONMENT
       JANET_PATH
              The location to look for Janet libraries. This is the only
              environment variable Janet needs to find native and source code
              modules. If no JANET_PATH is set, Janet will look in the default
              location set at compile time. This should be a list of as well
              as a colon separate list of such directories.

       JANET_PROFILE
              Path to a profile file that the interpreter will load before
              entering the REPL. This profile file will not run for scripts,
              though. This behavior can be disabled with the -R option.

       JANET_HASHSEED
              To disable randomization of Janet's PRF on start up, one can set
              this variable. This can have the effect of making programs
              deterministic that otherwise would depend on the random seed
              chosen at program start.  This variable does nothing in the
              default configuration of Janet, as PRF is disabled by default.
              Also, JANET_REDUCED_OS cannot be defined for this variable to
              have an effect.

       NO_COLOR
              Turn off color by default in the repl and in the error handler
              of scripts. This can be changed at runtime via dynamic bindings
              *err-color* and *pretty-format*, or via the command line
              parameters -n and -N.


AUTHOR
       Written by Calvin Rose <calsrose@gmail.com>

                                                                      JANET(1)
