JLS(8)                  FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                 JLS(8)

NAME
     jls – list jails

SYNOPSIS
     jls [--libxo] [-dhNnqsv] [-j jail] [parameter ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The jls utility lists all active jails, or the specified jail.  Each jail
     is represented by one row which contains space-separated values of the
     listed parameters, including the pseudo-parameter all which will show all
     available jail parameters.  A list of available parameters can be
     retrieved via “sysctl -d security.jail.param”.  See jail(8) for a
     description of some core parameters.

     If no parameters or any of the options -hns are given, the following four
     columns will be printed: jail identifier (jid), IP address (ip4.addr),
     hostname (host.hostname), and path (path).

     The following options are available:

     --libxo
             Generate output via libxo(3) in a selection of different human
             and machine readable formats.  See xo_parse_args(3) for details
             on command line arguments.

     -d      List dying as well as active jails.

     -h      Print a header line containing the parameters listed.  If no
             parameters are given on the command line, all is assumed.

     -N      In the standard display mode, print each jail's name instead of
             its numeric ID.  If the jail does not have a name, the numeric ID
             is printed instead.

     -n      Print parameters in “name=value” format, where each parameter is
             preceded by its name.  If no parameters are given on the command
             line, all is assumed.

     -q      Put quotes around parameters if they contain spaces or quotes, or
             are the empty string.

     -s      Print parameters suitable for passing to jail(8), skipping read-
             only and unused parameters.  Implies -nq.

     -v      Extend the standard display with a multiple-line summary per
             jail, containing the following parameters: jail identifier (jid),
             hostname (host.hostname), path (path), jail name (name), jail
             state (dying), cpuset ID (cpuset), IP address(es) (ip4.addr and
             ip6.addr).

     -j jail
             The jid or name of the jail to list.  Without this option, all
             active jails will be listed.

SEE ALSO
     jail_get(2), libxo(3), xo_parse_args(3), jail(8), jexec(8)

HISTORY
     The jls utility was added in FreeBSD 5.1.  Extensible jail parameters
     were introduced in FreeBSD 8.0.  libxo support was added in FreeBSD 11.0.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          July 20, 2012         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
