JPEGOPTIM(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           JPEGOPTIM(1)

NAME
       jpegoptim - utility to optimize/compress JPEG/JFIF files.



SYNOPSIS
       jpegoptim [ options ] [ filenames ]


DESCRIPTION
       jpegoptim is used to optimize/compress jpeg files. Program supports
       lossless optimization, which is based on optimizing the Huffman tables.
       And so called "lossy" optimization where in addition to optimizing
       Huffman tables user can specify upperlimit for image quality.

       NOTE! By default jpegoptim modifies the input files (if they are
       optimized), to preserve original files use option -d to specify
       alternate directory for saving the optimized files to.

       Only normal files are optimized (symbolic links and special files are
       skipped).  Also, any other hard links to the file being optimized (as
       created using link(2)) are unaffected.



OPTIONS
       Options may be either the traditional POSIX one letter options, or the
       GNU style long options.  POSIX style options start with a single ``-'',
       while GNU long options start with ``--''.

       Options offered by jpegoptim are the following:

       -d<path>, --dest=<path>
             Sets alternative destination directory where to save optimized
             files (default is to overwrite the originals). Please note that
             unchanged files won't be added to the destination directory. This
             means if the source file can't be compressed, no file will be
             created in the destination path.

       -f, --force
             Force optimization, even if the result would be larger than the
             original file.

       -h, --help
             Displays short usage information and exits.

       -m<quality>, --max=<quality>
             Sets the maximum image quality factor (disables lossless
             optimization mode, which is by default enabled). This option will
             reduce quality of those source files that were saved using higher
             quality setting.  While files that already have lower quality
             setting will be compressed using the lossless optimization
             method.

             Valid values for quality parameter are: 0 - 100

       -n, --noaction
             Don't really optimize files, just print results.

       -S<size>, --size=<size>
             Try to optimize file to given size (disables lossless
             optimization mode). Target size is specified either in kilobytes
             (1 - n) or as percentage (1% - 99%) of the original file size.

       -T<threshold>, --threshold=<threshold>
             Keep the file unchanged if the compression gain is lower than the
             threshold (%).

             Valid values for threshold are: 0 - 100

       -w<max>, --workers=<max>
             Set the maximum number of parallel processes to launch. (Default
             is 1)


       -b, --csv
             Print progress info in CSV format.

       -o, --overwrite
             Overwrite target file even if it exists (when using -d option).

       -p, --preserve
             Preserve file modification times.

       -P, --preserve-perms
             Preserve file permissions (owner/group) by overwriting the
             original file. This is slightly less safe than the default mode
             of operation (where new file is first saved as temporary file and
             then renamed over the original file).  In this mode a backup of
             the original file is made with .jpegoptim.bak extension, and this
             file is removed after the original file has been successfully
             replaced.  NOTE! if running jpegoptim as root there is generally
             no need to use this option, as jpegoptim is able to preserve file
             permissions when run by root in default mode.

       -q, --quiet
             Quiet mode.

       -t, --totals
             Print totals after processing all files.

       -v, --verbose
             Enables verbose mode (positively chatty).


       --all-normal
             Force all output files to be non-progressive. Can be used to
             convert all input files to non-progressive JPEGs when used with
             --force option.

       --all-progressive
             Force all output files to be progressive. Can be used to convert
             all normal (non-progressive) JPEGs input files to progressive
             when used with --force option.


       --all-arith
             Force all output files to use Arithmetic Coding.  This option is
             experimental and only available if jpegoptim was compiled with
             Arithmetic Coding support enabled.

       --all-huffman
             Force all output files to use (traditional) Huffman coding.  This
             option is experimental and only available if jpegoptim was
             compiled with Arithmetic Coding support enabled.


       --nofix
             Skip processing of any input files that have any errors/warnings
             during decompression.  By default jpegoptim will attempt to
             optimize any file that it is able to decompress, even if
             decompression generates warnings. This will 'fix' some (corrupt)
             JPEG images automatically.  If this behaviour is not desired,
             this option can be used to make jpegoptim to skip any input files
             that contain any errors.



       --stdout
             Send output image to standard output. Note, if optimization
             didn't create smaller file than the input file, then no output
             original image is passed through unmodified (except any extra
             data after JPEG image will be discarded).


       --stdin
             Read input image from standard input and send output to standard
             output (--stdout is assumed when this option is used).  When this
             option is used then only one image is read from standard input.
             Any (other) input files specified on command-line are ignored.
             Note, if input file '-' is seen on command line then standard
             input is also assumed.


       --files-stdin
             Read names of files to process from standard input. One filename
             per line.


       --files-from=<filename>
             Read names of files to process from a file. One filename per
             line.



METADATA OPTIONS
       By default jpetoptim will keep common metadata (JPEG markers) and
       discard any other (unknown ones).

       Following markers are kept by default:
        - EXIF
        - IPTC
        - ICC
        - XMP
        - COM (JPEG Comment markers)

       JFIF marker will be regenerated (by libjpeg) during the process (this
       cannot be changed).  However, Adobe marker is also generated (or
       omitted) by libjpeg based on the image colorspace, etc.  This behavior
       depends on libjpeg library version being used. To make sure Adobe
       marker is preserved option --keep-adobe can be used.

       To remove additional markers one or more the --strip-* options can be
       used.

       For example:   --strip-icc --strip-xmp --strip-com


       Alternatively it is possible to specify --strip-all and then one or
       more of the --keep-* options to explicitly list which markers to keep

       For example:   --strip-all --keep-exif --keep-iptc


       Options for controlling metadata (markers) in output files:


       -s, --strip-all
             Strip all markers from output file. (NOTE! by default only
             Comment & Exif/IPTC/PhotoShop/ICC/XMP markers are kept,
             everything else is discarded).  Output JPEG still likely will
             contains one or two markers (JFIF and Adobe APP14) depending on
             colorspace used in the image, as these markers are generated by
             the libjpeg encoder automatically.

       --strip-none, --keep-all
             Preserve "all" markers in the image. This will leave all markers
             untouched in the image, except JFIF (APP0) and Adobe (APP14)
             markers as those get regenerated by the libjpeg library.

             NOTE! If this option is specified then any other --strip-* or
             --keep-* options are ignored.


       --strip-com
             Strip Comment (COM) markers from output file.

       --strip-exif
             Strip EXIF markers from output file.

       --strip-iptc
             Strip IPTC / Adobe Photoshop (APP13) markers from output file.

       --strip-icc
             Strip ICC profiles from output file.

       --strip-xmp
             Strip XMP profiles from output file.

       --strip-jfif
             Strip JFIF markers from output file.

       --strip-jfxx
             Strip JFXX (JFIF Extensions) markers from output file.

       --strip-Adobe
             Strip Adobe markers from output file.



       --keep-com
             Do not strip any Comment (COM) markers from output file.

       --keep-exif
             Do not strip any EXIF markers from output file.

       --keep-iptc
             Do not strip any IPTC / Adobe Photoshop (APP13) markers from
             output file.

       --keep-icc
             Do not strip any ICC profiles from output file.

       --keep-xmp
             Do not strip any XMP profiles from output file.

       --strip-jfif
             Do not strip any JFIF markers from output file.

       --strip-jfxx
             Do not strip any JFXX (JFIF Extensions) markers from output file.

       --keep-Adobe
             Do not strip Adobe markers from output file.




BUGS
       When using --size option, resulting file is not always exactly the
       requested size. Workaround is to re-run jpegoptim on the same file
       again which often will result file closer to target size.


SEE ALSO
       jpeginfo(1)


AUTHOR
       Timo Kokkonen <tjko@iki.fi>


COPYING
       Copyright (C) 1996-2023  Timo Kokkonen

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.
        This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.
        You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
       along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
       Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

4th Berkeley Distribution         21 Jun 2023                     JPEGOPTIM(1)
