JPGTN(2)                       Graphics Software                      JPGTN(2)



NAME
       jpgtn - create thumbnails of JPEG files


SYNOPSIS
       jpgtn [options] file(s)


OPTIONS
       -d <directory>
              Specifies a directory to put the output file(s) in. If this
              option is not supplied and the -S option is not in effect, it
              defaults to the current directory.

       -f     Force overwrites of existing files when an output file already
              exists.

       -h     Print a short usage message and exit.

       -p <prefix>
              Specify the filename prefix used for output files.

       -q <quality>
              Set JPEG quality setting for output file. The <quality>
              parameter is a number between 0 and 100. Effective range is
              probably only between 15 and 90.

       -s <size>
              The default behavior of this switch is to specify the size of
              the longest dimension of the output images in pixels. For
              instance, a size of 75 would create a thumbnail of the original
              image that would fit inside a 75 X 75 pixel box. The thumbnail's
              length/width ratio will be the same as the original image's.
              When used in conjunction with the -H switch or the -W switch,
              this option specifies the height or width of the final
              thumbnail.  If this option is not supplied, or if it is not in
              the allowable range (1-2048) the size defaults to 128. The
              allowable range can be altered only prior to compiling.

       -v     Increase the verbosity level. This switch may be used multiple
              times.

       -H     Specify that the thumbnail height should be the size specified
              with the -s switch (see above.) In this case, the thumbnail
              width is calculated by jpgtn and may be greater or lesser than
              the size specified by the -s switch depending on the original
              image.

       -S     Send output to STDOUT instead of file(s). If this option is
              supplied, the -p and -d options are ignored and jpgtn only
              processes the first file on the command line.

       -W     Specify that the thumbnail width should be the size specified
              with the -s switch (see above.) In this case, the thumbnail
              height is calculated by jpgtn and may be greater or lesser than
              the size specified by the -s switch depending on the original
              image.

       -V     Print the version and copyright banner and exit.


DESCRIPTION
       Jpgtn creates small versions of pictures stored in JPEG format and
       outputs these thumbnails either to STDOUT (for use with pipes, file
       redirection, or CGI scripts) or to the original filename with an
       optional prefix. You may also specify a directory which you wish all
       the output files to be written to.

       Jpgtn writes one output file for each JPEG image file specified on the
       command line. In order to be able to associate these output files with
       the input files that they are generated from, jpgtn names them based on
       the input filename.  In order to avoid accidental overwriting of the
       input files, jpgtn allows you to specify a prefix to prepend to each
       input filename to construct the output filename. Jpgtn also allows you
       to specify a directory to write the output files to. If no directory
       and no prefix is specified, jpgtn writes the output files to the
       current directory using names constructed by prepending the default
       prefix "tn_" to the input filenames.

       If no prefix is specified, but a directory is specified, jpgtn will
       write one file for each input file to the directory.  The resultant
       files will have the same filenames as the original images they were
       generated from.

       If no directory is specified, but a prefix is specified, then jpgtn
       writes its output files to the current directory and names its output
       files by prepending the supplied prefix to the filename of the original
       image.

       If both a directory and a prefix are specified, them jpgtn writes its
       output files to the specified directory and prepends the supplied
       prefix to the original image's filename to construct the output file's
       name.

       The -S option forces jpgtn to write its output to stdout. If this
       option is supplied, jpgtn ignores the -d and the -p options. This
       option is useful if you want to take advantage of output redirection or
       if you want to dynamically generate thumbnails for a CGI application.

       The -s option gives you some control over the size of the thumbnails
       that are generated. If you do not supply this option, a default size of
       128 pixels is assumed. The number of pixels in the longest dimension of
       a thumbnail generated by jpgtn will not exceed 'size' pixels. E.g. if
       you supply this option with a parameter of 100 while making a thumbnail
       of a 200x100 pixel image, the resulting image will be 100x50 pixels. If
       the original jpeg is 200x200 pixels, the thumbnail will be 100x100, and
       so on.

       The -q option sets the JPEG quality level of the output JPEG file. This
       defaults to 70, and although values between 1 and 100 inclusive are
       allowed, I would suggest that 15 is probably as low as you can go
       without running into readability problems etc., and there isn't much
       point going above 90. Also, note that quality level 100 is not
       lossless, nor is the quality level a percentage. See the JPEG FAQ for
       further enlightenment.


EXAMPLES
       To create thumbnails of all the '.jpg' files in the current directory
       and output them to the current directory with the default prefix "tn_"
       use:

       $ jpgtn *.jpg

       To do the same thing as above, but to put the thumbnails in './thumbs'
       use:

       $ jpgtn -d "./thumbs/" -p "tn_" *.jpg

       To create a thumbnail of the file image.jpg no larger than 75x75 pixels
       and pipe it through the (hypothetical) program "jpegprog" use:

       $ jpgtn -S -s 75 image.jpg | jpegprog

       To create a thumbnail which has a width of 64 pixels and maintains the
       original's height/width ratio from a file called foo.jpg use:

       $ jpgtn -W -s 64 foo.jpg

       To create a thumbnail which has a height of 64 pixels and maintains the
       original's height/width ratio from a file called bar.jpg use:

       $ jpgtn -H -s 64 bar.jpg


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Thanks to the Independent JPEG Group for writing their useful and
       flexible JPEG software, without which this program could not use the
       JPEG/JFIF file format.

       Thanks to Willie Daniel who created gtnpic which this program is
       derived from. Thanks to Russell Marks who created tnpic which was the
       foundation for gtnpic and therefore the foundation of jpgtn as well.

       Thanks to Terry Mackintosh for suggesting that there should be a way to
       make jpgtn resize a specified dimension while allowing the other
       dimension to float.


BUGS
       Probably has some... if you find one please inform me at the address
       below.

AUTHOR
       Jeremy Madea <jeremymadea@mindspring.com>

SEE ALSO
        xv (1), cjpeg (1), djpeg (1)"

Version 2.01                     June 14, 2002                        JPGTN(2)
