jstest-gtk(1)                                                    jstest-gtk(1)

NAME
       jstest-gtk - joystick testing and configuration tool

SYNOPSIS
       jstest-gtk [options]...  [device]...

DESCRIPTION
       jstest-gtk is a simple joystick tester based on Gtk+. It provides a
       list of attached joysticks, a way to display which buttons and axis are
       pressed, a way to remap axis and buttons and a way to calibrate your
       joystick.

       Even when your joystick is working mostly fine, you might want to give
       it a try, as the calibration lets you get rid of overlarge default
       deadzones that many joysticks use and then is a noticeable problem in
       some games.

USAGE
       jstest-gtk is mainly a graphical interface to check that your joysticks
       and pads work properly. You can find precise information on each axis,
       you can optionally recalibrate it and also change the mapping.

       If you run the program without parameters, you will get a window
       showing all the joystick devices in your system (there can be more than
       one). When you double click on one of them, you will get a new window
       with detailed information about its axes and buttons.

       There are two buttons in the detailed window called "Mapping" adn
       "Calibration", that allows you to reconfigurate the device.

       If you run the program with a device as an argument (for example
       /dev/input/js0), you will get the detailed window for that device
       directly, without getting the whole list of joysticks in the system.

       Calibration of the axis consists in a simple window in which you set
       the values that go directly into the operative system configuration,
       without doing any changes on them. They're divided in range and dead
       zone (or center). In both of them you have to set a minimum and a
       maximum. You also have a checkbox for inverting the axis.

       Values are changed and applied in the same instant that you modify
       them, there's no need for clicking anywhere or doing anything else for
       applying the changes.

OPTIONS
       These program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
       options starting with two dashes (`-').


       -h, --help
              Display help information and exit

       -v, --version
              Display version information and exit

SEE ALSO
       You can find more information if you visit
       http://pingus.seul.org/~grumbel/jstest-gtk/

AUTHOR
       jstest-gtk was written by Ingo Ruhnke <grumbel@gmail.com>.

       This manual page was written by Miriam Ruiz <little_miry@yahoo.es>, for
       the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                  May 9, 2009                    jstest-gtk(1)
