KERMIT(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              KERMIT(1)

NAME
       kermit - C‐Kermit 10.0: transport‐ and platform‐independent interactive
       and scriptable communications software.


              This document is intended to give the beginner sufficient
              information to make basic use of C‐Kermit 10.0.  Although it
              might be rather long for a Unix manual page, it's still far
              shorter than the C‐Kermit manual, which should be consulted for
              advanced topics such as customization, character‐sets,
              scripting, etc. We also attempt to provide a clear structural
              overview of C‐Kermit's many capabilities, functional areas,
              states, and modes and their interrelation, that should be
              helpful to beginners and veterans alike, as well as to those
              upgrading to version 10.0 from earlier releases.

       This document is also available as a Web page at:

              https://kermitproject.org/ckututor.html

DESCRIPTION
       C‐Kermit is an all‐purpose communications software package originally
       from the Kermit Project at Columbia University and now from the
       independent Open Source Kermit Project that:

       •    Is portable to many platforms, Unix and non‐Unix alike.
       •    Can make both serial and network connections.
       •    Can conduct interactive terminal sessions over its connection.
       •    Can transfer text or binary files over the same connection.
       •    Can convert character sets in the terminal session.
       •    Can convert character sets during text‐file file transfer.
       •    Is customizable in every aspect of its operation.

       C‐Kermit is a modem program, a Telnet client, an SSH client, an FTP
       client, an HTTP client, and on selected platforms, also an X.25 client.
       It can make its own secure Internet connections using IETF‐approved
       security methods including Kerberos IV, Kerberos V, SSL/TLS, and SRP
       and it can also make SSH connections through your external SSH client
       application. It can be the far‐end file‐transfer or client/server
       partner of your desktop Kermit client. It can also accept incoming
       dialed and network connections.  It can even be installed as an
       Internet service on its own standard TCP socket, 1649 [RFC2839,
       RFC2840].

       And perhaps most important, everything you can do "by hand"
       (interactively) with C‐Kermit, can be "scripted" (automated) using its
       built‐in cross‐platform transport‐independent script programming
       language, which happens to be identical to its interactive command
       language.

       This manual page offers an overview of C‐Kermit 10.0 for Unix ("Unix"
       is an operating system family that includes AIX, DG/UX, FreeBSD, HP‐UX,
       IRIX, Linux, Mac OS X, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Open Server, Open Unix, QNX,
       Solaris, SunOS, System V R3, System V R4, Tru64 Unix, Unixware, Xenix,
       and many others). For thorough coverage, please consult the published
       C‐Kermit manual and supplements (see DOCUMENTATION below). For further
       information about C‐Kermit, Kermit software for other platforms, and
       Kermit manuals, visit the Kermit Project website:

         https://kermitproject.org/

       This is a longer‐than‐average manual page, and yet it barely scratches
       the surface. Don't be daunted. C‐Kermit is a large and complex package,
       evolving over decades of practice and experience, but that doesn't mean
       it's hard to learn or use. Its most commonly used functions are
       explained here with pointers to additional information elsewhere.

SYNOPSIS
       kermit [ filename ] [ options ] [ {=,--,+} text ] ]

       or:

       kermit URL

       If the first command‐line argument is the name of a file,
       interactive‐mode commands are executed from the file. The '=' (or "--")
       argument tells Kermit not to parse the remainder of the command line,
       but to make the words following '=' available as \%1, \%2, ... \%9. The
       "+" argument is like "=" but for use in "kerbang scripts" (explained
       below). A second command‐line format allows the one and only argument
       to be a Telnet, FTP, HTTP, or IKSD URL.

       Order of execution:

        1.    The command file (if any).

        2.    The initialization file, if any, unless suppressed with -Y.

        3.    The customization file (if it is executed by the initialization
              file).

        4.    The command‐line URL (if any, and if so, execution stops here).

        5.    Command‐line options (if any).

        6.    Interactive commands.

       Some command‐line options can cause actions (such as -s to send a
       file); others just set parameters. If any action options are included
       on the command line, Kermit exits when finished unless also given the
       -S ("stay") option. If no action options are given, no initialization
       or command files contained an EXIT or QUIT command, and no fatal errors
       occurred, Kermit issues its prompt and waits for you to type commands.

              Bear in mind that C‐Kermit can be built with selected features
              disabled, and also that certain features are not available on
              all platforms. For example, C‐Kermit can't be built with TCP/IP
              support on a platform that does not have TCP/IP header files and
              libraries (and even if Kermit does include TCP/IP support, it
              can't be used to make TCP/IP connections on a computer that does
              not have a TCP/IP stack installed). If your version of C‐Kermit
              lacks a feature mentioned here, use its SHOW FEATURES command to
              see what might have been excluded.

       C‐Kermit has three kinds of commands: regular single‐letter
       command‐line options, extended‐format command‐line options, and
       interactive commands.

       Like most Unix commands, C‐Kermit can be given options on the command
       line. But C‐Kermit also can be used interactively by giving it commands
       composed of words, which are more intuitive than cryptic command‐line
       options, and more flexible too. In other words, you don't have to use
       C‐Kermit's command‐line options, but they are available if you want to.
       (By the same token, you don't have to use its interactive commands
       either ‐‐ you can use either or both in any combination.)

       C‐Kermit is generally installed in the PATH as "kermit", and therefore
       is invoked by typing the word "kermit" (lowercase) at the shell prompt,
       and then pressing the Return or Enter key. If you wish to include
       command‐line options, put them after the word "kermit" but before
       pressing Return or Enter, separated by spaces, for example:

         $ kermit -s ckermit.tar.gz

       ('$' is the shell prompt; "kermit -s ckermit.tar.gz" is what you type,
       followed by Return or Enter.)

OPTIONS
       Here is a list of C‐Kermit's single‐letter command‐line options, which
       start with a single dash (-), in ASCII ("alphabetical") order.
       Alphabetic case is significant (-A is not the same as -a).  Action
       options are tagged "ACTION".

       -0     (digit zero)  100% transparent Connect state for "in‐the‐middle"
              operation: 8 bits, no parity, no escape character, everything
              passes through.

       -8     (digit eight)  Connection is 8‐bit clean (this is the default in
              C‐Kermit 8.0 and later). Equivalent to the EIGHTBIT command,
              which in turn is a shortcut for SET TERMINAL BYTESIZE 8, SET
              COMMAND BYTESIZE 8, SET PARITY NONE.

       -9 arg (digit nine)  Make a connection to an FTP server.  Equivalent to
              the FTP OPEN command.  Argument:
              IP‐address‐or‐hostname[:optional‐TCP‐port].  NOTE: C‐Kermit also
              has a separate FTP command‐line personality, with regular
              FTP‐like command‐line syntax. More about this below.

       -A     Kermit is to be started as an Internet service (IKSD) (only from
              inetd.conf).

       -B     Kermit is running in Batch or Background (no controlling
              terminal). To be used in case Kermit doesn't automatically sense
              its background status.  Equivalent to the SET BACKGROUND ON
              command.

       -C arg Interactive‐mode Commands to be executed.  Argument: Commands
              separated by commas, list in doublequotes.

       -D arg Delay before starting to send in Remote mode.  Equivalent to the
              SET DELAY command.  Argument: Number of seconds.

       -E     Exit automatically when connection closes. Equivalent to SET
              EXIT ON-DISCONNECT ON.

       -F arg Use an open TCP connection.  Argument: Numeric file descriptor
              of open TCP connection.  Also see: -j, -J.

       -G arg (ACTION) Get file(s) from server, send contents to standard
              output, which normally would be piped to another process.
              Argument: Remote file specification, in quotes if it contains
              metacharacters.  Also see: -g, -k.

       -H     Suppress program startup Herald and greeting.

       -I     Tell Kermit it has a reliable connection, to force streaming to
              be used where it normally would not be.  Equivalent to the SET
              RELIABLE ON command.

       -J arg (ACTION) "Be like Telnet." Like -j but implies -E.  Argument: IP
              hostname/address optionally followed by service.  NOTE: C‐Kermit
              also has a separate Telnet command‐line personality, with
              regular Telnet‐like command‐line syntax. More about this below.

       -L     Recursive directory descent for files in -s option.

       -M arg My user name (for use with Telnet, SSH, FTP, etc).  Equivalent
              to the SET LOGIN USER command.  Argument: Username string.

       -O     (ACTION) (Uppercase letter O) Be a server for One command only.
              Also see: -x.

       -P     Don't convert file (Path) names of transferred files.
              Equivalent to SET FILE NAMES LITERAL.

       -Q     Quick Kermit protocol settings. Equivalent to the FAST command.
              This is the default in C‐Kermit 7.0 and later.

       -R     Remote‐only (this just makes IF REMOTE true).

       -S     Stay (enter command parser after action options).

       -T     Force Text mode for file transfer; implies -V.  Equivalent to
              SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL, SET FILE TYPE TEXT.

       -V     Disable automatic per‐file text/binary switching.  Equivalent to
              SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL.

       -Y     Skip (don't execute) the initialization file.

       -a arg As‐name for file(s) in -s, -r, or -g.  Argument: As‐name string
              (alternative filename). When receiving files, this can be a
              directory name.

       -b arg Speed for serial device. Equivalent to SET SPEED.  Argument:
              Numeric Bits per second for serial connections.

       -c     (ACTION) Enter Connect state before transferring files.

       -d     Create a debug.log file with detailed debugging information (a
              second -d adds timestamps). Equivalent to LOG DEBUG but takes
              effect sooner.

       -e arg Maximum length for incoming Kermit file‐transfer packets.
              Equivalent to SET RECEIVE PACKET-LENGTH.  Argument: Length in
              bytes.

       -f     (ACTION) Send a FINISH command to a Kermit server.

       -g arg Get file(s) from a Kermit server.  Argument: File specification
              on other computer, in quotes if it contains metacharacters.
              Equivalent to GET. Also see: -a, -G, -r.

       -h     (ACTION) Print Help text for single‐letter command‐line options
              (pipe thru 'more' to prevent scrolling).

       -i     Force binary (Image) mode for file transfer; implies -V.
              Equivalent to SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL, SET FILE TYPE BINARY.

       -j arg Make a TCP/IP connection.  Argument: IP host name/address and
              optional service name or number. Equivalent to the TELNET
              command.  Also see: -J, -F.

       -k     (ACTION) Receive file(s) to standard output, which normally
              would be piped to another process.  Also see: -r, -G.

       -l arg (Lowercase letter L) Make a connection on the given serial
              communications device. Equivalent to the SET LINE (SET PORT)
              command.  Argument: Serial device name, e.g. /dev/ttyS0.

       -m arg Modem type for use with the -l device. Equivalent to the SET
              MODEM TYPE command.  Argument: Modem name as in SET MODEM TYPE
              command, e.g. "usrobotics".

       -n     (ACTION) Enter Connect state after transferring files
              (historical).

       -p arg Parity. Equivalent to the SET PARITY command.  Argument: One of
              the following: e(ven), o(dd), m(ark), n(one), s(pace).

       -q     Quiet (suppress most messages). Equivalent to SET QUIET ON.

       -r     (ACTION) Receive file(s). Equivalent to the RECEIVE command.
              Argument: (none, but see -a)

       -s arg Send file(s).  Argument: One or more local file specifications.
              Equivalent to the SEND command.  Also see: -a.

       -t     (Historical) Xon (Ctrl-Q) Turnaround character for half‐duplex
              connections (used on serial linemode connections to old
              mainframes). Equivalent to SET DUPLEX HALF, SET HANDSHAKE XON.

       -v arg Window size for Kermit protocol (ignored when streaming).
              Equivalent to SET WINDOW-SIZE.  Argument: Number, 1 to 32.

       -w     Incoming files Write over existing files. Equivalent to SET FILE
              COLLISION OVERWRITE.

       -x     (ACTION) Enter server mode. Equivalent to the SERVER command.
              Also see: -O.

       -y arg Alternative initialization file.  Argument: Filename.

       -z     Force foreground behavior. To be used in case Kermit doesn't
              automatically sense its foreground status.  Equivalent to the
              SET BACKGROUND OFF command.

       Extended command‐line options (necessary because single‐letter ones are
       about used up) start with two dashes (--), with words rather than
       single letters as option names. If an extended option takes an
       argument, it is separated from the option word by a colon (:). Extended
       options include:


        --bannerfile:filename
              File to display upon startup or IKSD login.

        --cdfile:filename
              File to be sent for display to the client when server changes
              directory (filename is relative to the changed‐to directory).

        --cdmessage:{on,off}
              Enable/disable the server CD message feature.

        --help
              Prints usage message for extended options.

        --helpfile:filename
              Designates a file containing custom text to replace the
              top‐level HELP command.

        --nointerrupts
              Disables keyboard interrupts.

        --noperms
              Disables the Kermit protocol file Permissions attribute, to
              prevent transmission of file permissions (protection) from
              sender to receiver.

        --version
              (ACTION) C‐Kermit prints its version number.

       Plus several other IKSD‐Only options described at:

         https://kermitproject.org/iksd.html

       See the file‐transfer section for examples of command‐line invocation.

COMMAND LANGUAGE
       C‐Kermit's interactive command language is the subject of a 622‐page
       book and another several hundred pages of updates, far too much for a
       manual page. But it's not hard to get started. At the shell prompt,
       just type "kermit" to get C‐Kermit's interactive command prompt:

         $ kermit
         (/current/directory) C-Kermit>

       Begin by typing "help" (and then press the Return or Enter key) for a
       top‐level overview, read it, and go from there. Your second command
       should probably be "intro" (introduction). Note the prompt shows your
       current directory (unless you tell Kermit to prompt you with something
       else).

       Interactive commands are composed mainly of regular English words,
       usually in the form of imperative sentences, such as:

         send somefile.txt

       which tells Kermit to send (transfer) the file whose name is
       somefile.txt, or:

         set transfer mode automatic

       which sets Kermit's "transfer mode" to "automatic" (whatever that
       means).

       While typing commands, you can abbreviate, ask for help (by pressing
       the "?" key anywhere in a command), complete keywords or filenames
       (with the Tab or Esc key), and edit your typing with Backspace or
       Delete, Ctrl-W, Ctrl-U, etc. You can also recall previous commands,
       save your command history, and who knows what else. Give the INTRO
       command for details.

       C‐Kermit has hundreds of commands, and they can be issued in infinite
       variety and combinations, including commands for:

       •    Making connections (SET LINE, DIAL, TELNET, SSH, FTP, ...)
       •    Breaking connections (HANGUP, CLOSE)
       •    Transferring files (SEND, GET, RECEIVE, MOVE, RESEND, ...)
       •    Establishing preferences (SET)
       •    Displaying preferences (SHOW)
       •    Managing local files (CD, DELETE, MKDIR, DIR, RENAME, TYPE, ...)
       •    Managing remote files (RCD, RDEL, RMKDIR, RDIR, ...)
       •    Using local files (FOPEN, FCLOSE, FREAD, FWRITE)
       •    Programming (TAKE, DEFINE, IF, FOR, WHILE, SWITCH, DECLARE, ...)
       •    Interacting with the user (ECHO, ASK, ...)
       •    Interacting with a remote computer (INPUT, OUTPUT, ...)
       •    Interacting with local programs (RUN, EXEC, PTY, ...)
       •    Logging things (LOG SESSION, LOG PACKETS, LOG DEBUG, ...)

       And of course QUIT or EXIT to get out and HELP to get help, and for
       programmers: loops, decision making, variables, arrays, associative
       arrays, integer and floating point arithmetic, macros, built‐in and
       user‐defined functions, string manipulation, pattern matching, block
       structure, scoping, recursion, and even a built-in LISP regular
       expression interpreter.  To get a list of all C‐Kermit's commands, type
       a question mark (?) at the prompt. To get a description of any command,
       type HELP followed by the name of the command, for example:

         help send

       The command interruption character is Ctrl-C (hold down the Ctrl key
       and press the C key).

       The command language "escape character", used to introduce variable
       names, function invocations, and so on, is backslash (\). If you need
       to include a literal backslash in a command, type two of them, e.g.:

         get c:\\k95\\k95custom.ini

   Command Files, Macros, and Scripts
       A file containing Kermit commands is called a Kermit command file or
       Kermit script. It can be executed with Kermit's TAKE command:

         (/current/dir) C-Kermit> take commandfile

       (where "commandfile" is the name of the command file).

       In Unix only, a Kermit command file can also be executed directly by
       including a "kerbang" line as the first line of the file:

         #!/usr/local/bin/kermit +

       That is, a top line that starts with "#!", followed immediately by the
       full path of the Kermit executable, and then, if the Kermit script is
       to be given arguments on the command line, a space and a plus sign. The
       script file must also have execute permission:

         chmod +x commandfile

       Except for the " +" part, this is exactly the same as you would do for
       a shell script, a Perl script, etc. Here's a simple but useless example
       script that regurgitates its arguments (up to three of them):

         #!/usr/local/bin/kermit +
         if defined \%1 echo "Argument 1: \%1"
         if defined \%2 echo "Argument 2: \%2"
         if defined \%3 echo "Argument 3: \%3"
         if defined \%4 echo "etc..."
         exit

       If this file is stored in your current directory as "commandfile",
       then:

         ./commandfile one two three four five

       prints:

         Argument 1: one
         Argument 2: two
         Argument 3: three
         etc...

       This illustrates the basic structure of a standalone Kermit script: the
       "kerbang line", then some commands. It should end with "exit" unless
       you want the Kermit prompt to appear when it is finished. \%1 is the
       first argument, \%2 the second, and so on.

       You can also create your own commands by defining named macros composed
       of other Kermit commands (or macros). For example:

         define mydelete {
             local trash
             assign trash \v(home)trashcan/
             if not defined \%1 end 1 "Delete what?"
             if wild \%1 {
                 end 1 "Deleting multiple files is too scary"
             }
             if not exist \%1 end 1 "I can't find \%1"
             if not directory \m(trash) {
                 mkdir \m(trash)
                 if fail end 1 "No trash can"
             }
             rename /list \%1 \m(trash)
         }
         define myundelete {
             local trash
             assign trash \v(home)trashcan/
             if not defined \%1 end 1 "Undelete what?"
             if wild \%1 {
                 end 1 "Undeleting multiple files is too hard"
             }
             if not directory \m(trash) end 1 "No trash can"
             if not exist \m(trash)\%1 {
                 end 1 "I can't find \%1 in trash can"
             }
             rename /list \m(trash)\%1 .
         }

       These sample macros are not exactly production quality (they don't
       handle filenames that include path segments, they don't handle multiple
       files, etc), but you get the idea: you can pass arguments to macros,
       and they can check them and make other kinds of decisions. If you put
       the above lines into your initialization or customization file
       (explained below), you'll have MYDELETE and MYUNDELETE commands
       available every time you start Kermit, at least as long as you don't
       suppress execution of the initialization file. (Exercise for the
       reader: Make these macros generally useful: remove limitations, add
       trashcan display, browsing, emptying, etc.)

       Kerbang scripts execute without the initialization file. This to keep
       them portable and also to make them start faster. If you want to write
       Kerbang scripts that depend on the initialization file, include the
       command

         take \v(home).kermrc

       at the desired spot in the script. By the way, \v(xxx) is a built‐in
       variable (xxx is the variable name, "home" in this case). To see what
       built‐in variables are available, type "show variables" at the C‐Kermit
       prompt. To see what else you can show, type "show ?". \m(xxx) is a user
       defined variable (strictly speaking, it is a macro used as a variable).

   Command List
       C‐Kermit has more than 200 top‐level commands, and some of these, such
       as SET, branch off into hundreds of subcommands of their own, so it's
       not practical to describe them all here. Instead, here's a concise list
       of the most commonly used top‐level commands, grouped by category. To
       learn about each command, type "help" followed by the command name,
       e.g. "help set".  Terms such as Command state and Connect state are
       explained in subsequent sections.

       Optional fields are shown in [ brackets ].  "filename" means the name
       of a single file. filespec means a file specification that is allowed
       to contain wildcard characters like '*' to match groups of files.
       options are (optional) switches like /PAGE, /NOPAGE, /QUIET, etc,
       listed in the HELP text for each command. Example:

         send /recursive /larger:10000 /after:-1week /except:*.txt *

       which can be read as "send all the files in this directory and all the
       ones underneath it that are larger than 10000 bytes, no more than one
       week old, and whose names don't end with ".txt".

   Basic Commands

              HELP   Requests top‐level help.

              HELP command
                     Requests help about the given command.

              INTRODUCTION
                     Requests a brief introduction to C‐Kermit.

              LICENSE
                     Displays the C‐Kermit software copyright and license.

              VERSION
                     Displays C‐Kermit's version number.

              EXIT [ number ]
                     Exits from Kermit with the given status code (0 =
                     success, nonzero = failure).  Synonyms: QUIT, E, Q.

              TAKE filename [ parameters... ]
                     Executes commands from the given file.

              LOG item [ filename ]
                     Keeps a log of the given item (DEBUG, TRANSACTIONS, etc)
                     in the given file.

              [ DO ] macro [ parameters... ]
                     Executes commands from the given macro.

              SET parameter value
                     Sets the given parameter to the given value.

              SHOW category
                     Shows settings in a given category.

              STATUS Tells whether previous command succeeded or failed.

              DATE [ date‐and/or‐time ]
                     Shows current date‐time or interprets given date‐time.

              RUN [ extern‐command [ parameters... ]
                     Runs the given external command. Synonym: !.

              EXEC [ extern‐command [ params... ]
                     Kermit overlays itself with the given command.

              SUSPEND
                     Stops Kermit and puts it in the background. Synonym: Z.

   Local File Management

              TYPE [ options ] filename
                     Displays the contents of the given file.

              MORE [ options ] filename
                     Equivalent to TYPE /PAGE (pause after each screenful).

              CAT [ options ] filename
                     Equivalent to TYPE /NOPAGE.

              HEAD [ options ] filename
                     Displays the first few lines of a given file.

              TAIL [ options ] filename
                     Displays the last few lines of a given file.

              GREP [ options ] pattern filespec
                     Displays lines from files that match the pattern.
                     Synonym: FIND.

              DIRECTORY [ options ] [filespec ]
                     Lists files (built‐in, many options).

              LS [ options ] [ filespec ]
                     Lists files (runs external "ls" command).

              DELETE [ options ] [ filespec ]
                     Deletes files. Synonym: RM.

              PURGE [ options ] [ filespec ]
                     Removes backup (*.~n~) files.

              COPY [ options ] [ filespecs... ]
                     Copies files. Synonym: CP.

              RENAME [ options ] [ filespecs... ]
                     Renames files. Synonym: MV.

              CHMOD [ options ] [ filespecs... ]
                     Changes permissions of files.

              TRANSLATE filename charsets [ filename ]
                     Converts file's character set. Synonym: XLATE.

              CD     Changes your working directory to your home directory.

              CD directory
                     Changes your working directory to the one given.

              CDUP   Changes your working directory one level up.

              PWD    Displays your working directory.

              BACK   Returns to your previous working directory.

              MKDIR [ directory ]
                     Creates a directory.

              RMDIR [ directory ]
                     Removes a directory.

   Making Connections

              SET LINE [ options ] devicename
                     Opens the named serial port. Synonym: SET PORT.

              OPEN LINE [ options ] devicename
                     Same as SET LINE. Synonym: OPEN PORT.

              SET MODEM TYPE [ name ]
                     Tells Kermit what kind of modem is on the port.

              DIAL [ number ]
                     Tells Kermit to dial the given phone number with the
                     modem.

              REDIAL Redials the most recently dialed phone number.

              ANSWER Waits for and answers an incoming call on the modem.

              AUTHENTICATE [ parameters... ]
                     Performs secure authentication on a TCP/IP connection.

              SET NETWORK TYPE { TCP/IP, X.25, ... }
                     Selects network type for subsequent SET HOST commands.

              SET HOST [ options ] host [ port ]
                     Opens a network connection to the given host and port.

              SET HOST * port
                     Waits for an incoming TCP/IP connection on the given
                     port.

              SSH [ options ] host
                     Opens a secure SSH connection to the host and enters
                     Connect state.

              TELNET [ options ] host
                     Opens a Telnet connection to the host and enters Connect
                     state.

              RLOGIN [ options ] host
                     Opens an Rlogin connection to the host and enters Connect
                     state.

              IKSD [ options ] host
                     Opens a connection to an Internet Kermit Service.

              FTP OPEN host [ options ]
                     Opens an FTP connection to the host.

              HTTP [ options ] OPEN host
                     Opens an HTTP connection to the host.

              PTY external‐command
                     Runs the command on a pseudoterminal as if it were a
                     connection.

              PIPE external‐command
                     Runs the command through a pipe as if it were a
                     connection.

   Using Connections

              CONNECT [ options ]
                     Enters Connect (terminal) state.  Synonym: C.

              REDIRECT command
                     Redirects the given external command over the connection.

              TELOPT command
                     Sends a Telnet protocol command (Telnet connections
                     only).

              Ctrl-\C
                     "Escapes back" from Connect state to Command state.

              Ctrl-\B
                     (In Connect state) Sends a BREAK signal (serial or
                     Telnet).

              Ctrl-\!
                     (In Connect state) Enters inferior shell; "exit" to
                     return.

              Ctrl-\?
                     (In Connect state) Shows a menu of other escape‐level
                     options.

              Ctrl-\Ctrl-\
                     (In Connect state) Type two Ctrl-Backslashes to send one
                     of them.

              SET ESCAPE [ character ]
                     Changes Kermit's Connect‐state escape character.

   Closing Connections

              HANGUP Hangs up the currently open serial‐port or network
                     connection.

              CLOSE  Closes the currently open serial‐port or network
                     connection.

              SET LINE (with no devicename)
                     Closes the currently open serial‐port or network
                     connection.

              SET HOST (with no hostname)
                     Closes the currently open serial‐port or network
                     connection.

              FTP CLOSE
                     Closes the currently open FTP connection.

              HTTP CLOSE
                     Closes the currently open HTTP connection.

              EXIT   Also closes all connections. Synonym: QUIT.

              SET EXIT WARNING OFF
                     Suppresses warning about open connections on exit or
                     close.

   File Transfer

              SEND [ options ] filename [ as‐name ]
                     Sends the given file. Synonym: S.

              SEND [ options ] filespec
                     Sends all files that match.

              RESEND [ options ] filespec
                     Resumes an interrupted SEND from the point of failure.

              RECEIVE [ options ] [ as‐name ]
                     Waits passively for files to arrive. Synonym: R.

              LOG TRANSACTIONS [ filename ]
                     Keeps a record of file transfers.

              FAST   Use fast file‐transfer settings (default).

              CAUTIOUS
                     Use cautious and less fast file‐transfer settings.

              ROBUST Use ultra‐conservative and slow file‐transfer settings.

              STATISTICS [ options ]
                     Gives statistics about the most recent file transfer.

              WHERE  After transfer: "Where did my files go?".

              TRANSMIT [ options ] [ofilename ]
                     Sends file without protocol. Synonym: XMIT.

              LOG SESSION [ filename ]
                     Captures remote text or files without protocol.

              SET PROTOCOL [ name... ]
                     Tells Kermit to use an external file‐transfer protocol.

              FTP { PUT, MPUT, GET, MGET, ... }
                     FTP client commands.

              HTTP { PUT, GET, HEAD, POST, ... }
                     HTTP client commands.

   Kermit Server

              ENABLE, DISABLE
                     Controls which server features can be used by clients.

              SET SERVER
                     Sets parameters prior to entering Server state.

              SERVER Enters Server state.

   Client of Kermit or FTP Server

              [ REMOTE ] LOGIN [ user password ]
                     Logs in to a Kermit server or IKSD that requires it.

              [ REMOTE ] LOGOUT
                     Logs out from a Kermit server or IKSD.

              SEND [ options ] filename [ as‐name ]
                     Sends the given file to the server. Synonyms: S, PUT.

              SEND [ options ] filespec
                     Sends all files that match.

              RESEND [ options ] filespec
                     Resumes an interrupted SEND from the point of failure.

              GET [ options ] remote‐filespec
                     Asks the server to send the given files. Synonym: G.

              REGET [ options ] remote‐filespec
                     Resumes an interrupted GET from the point of failure.

              REMOTE CD [ directory ]
                     Asks server to change its working directory. Synonym:
                     RCD.

              REMOTE PWD [ directory ]
                     Asks server to display its working directory. Synonym:
                     RPWD.

              REMOTE DIRECTORY [ filespec... ]
                     Asks server to send a directory listing. Synonym: RDIR.

              REMOTE DELETE [ filespec... ]
                     Asks server to delete files. Synonym: RDEL.

              REMOTE [ command... ]
                     (Many other commands: "remote ?" for a list).

              MAIL [ options ] filespec
                     Sends file(s) to be delivered as e‐mail (Kermit only).

              FINISH Asks the server to exit server state (Kermit only).

              BYE    Asks the server to log out and close the connection.

   Script Programming
              DEFINE, DECLARE, UNDEFINE, UNDECLARE, ASSIGN, EVALUATE,
              SEXPRESSION, ARRAY, SORT, INPUT, OUTPUT, IF, FOR, WHILE, SWITCH,
              GOTO, ECHO, ASK, GETC, GETOK, ASSERT, WAIT, SLEEP, FOPEN, FREAD,
              FWRITE, FCLOSE, STOP, END, RETURN, LEARN, SHIFT, TRACE, VOID,
              INCREMENT, DECREMENT, ... For these and many more you'll need to
              consult the manual and supplements, and/or visit the Kermit
              Script Library, which also includes a brief tutorial. Hint: HELP
              LEARN to find out how to get Kermit to write simple scripts for
              you.

       Many of Kermit's commands have synonyms, variants, relatives, and so
       on.  For example, MSEND is a version of SEND that accepts a list of
       file specifications to be sent, rather than just one file
       specification, and MPUT is a synonym of MSEND. MOVE means to SEND and
       then DELETE the source file if successful. MMOVE is like MOVE, but
       accepts a list of filespecs, and so on. These are described in the full
       documentation.

       Use question mark to feel your way through an unfamiliar command, as in
       this example:

         C-Kermit> remote ? One of the following:
          assign     directory  kermit     print      rmdir
          cd         exit       login      pwd        set
          copy       help       logout     query      space
          delete     host       mkdir      rename     type
         C-Kermit> remote set ? One of the following:
          attributes   file         retry        transfer
          block-check  receive      server       window
         C-Kermit> remote set file ? One of the following:
          character-set  incomplete     record-length
          collision      names          type
         C-Kermit> remote set file names ? One of the following:
          converted  literal
         C-Kermit> remote set file names literal
         C-Kermit>

       This is called menu on demand: you get a menu when you want one, but
       menus are not forced on you even when know what you're doing. Note that
       you can also abbreviate most keywords, and you can complete them with
       the Tab or Esc key. Also note that ? works for filenames too, and that
       you can use it in the middle of a keyword or filename, not just at the
       beginning. For example, "send x?" lists all the files in the current
       directory whose names start with 'x'.

INITIALIZATION FILE
       In its default configuration, C‐Kermit executes commands from a file
       called .kermrc in your home directory when it starts, unless it is
       given the -Y or -y command‐line option. Custom configurations might
       substitute a shared system‐wide initialization file. The SHOW FILE
       command tells what initialization file, if any, was used. The standard
       initialization file "chains" to an individual customization file,
       .mykermc, in the home directory, in which each user can establish
       her/his own preferences, define macros, and so on.

       Since execution of the initialization file (at least the standard one)
       makes C‐Kermit take longer to start, it might be better not to have an
       initialization file, especially now that Kermit's default startup
       configuration is well attuned to modern computing and networking ‐‐ in
       other words, you no longer have do anything special to make Kermit
       transfers go fast. So instead of having an initialization file that is
       executed every time Kermit starts, you might consider making one or
       more kerbang scripts (with names other that .kermrc) that do NOT
       include an "exit" command, and invoke those when you need the settings,
       macro definitions, and/or scripted actions they contain, and invoke
       C‐Kermit directly when you don't.


MODES OF OPERATION
       Kermit is said to be in Local mode if it has made a connection to
       another computer, e.g. by dialing it or establishing a Telnet
       connection to it. The other computer is remote, so if you start another
       copy of Kermit on the remote computer, it is said to be in Remote mode
       (as long as it has not made any connections of its own). The local
       Kermit communicates over the communications device or network
       connection, acting as a conduit between the remote computer and your
       keyboard and screen. The remote Kermit is the file‐transfer partner to
       the local Kermit and communicates only through its standard input and
       output.

       At any moment, a Kermit program can be in any of the following states.
       It's important to know what they are and how to change from one to the
       other.

       Command state
              In this state, Kermit reads commands from:

              •    Your keyboard; or:
              •    A file, or:
              •    A macro definition.

              You can exit from Command state back to Unix with the EXIT or
              QUIT command (same thing). You can enter Connect state with any
              of various commands (CONNECT, DIAL, TELNET, etc). You can enter
              file transfer state with commands like SEND, RECEIVE, and GET.
              You can enter Server state with the SERVER command. The TAKE
              command tells Kermit to read and execute commands from a file.
              The (perhaps implied) DO command tells Kermit to read and
              execute commands from a macro definition.  While in Command
              state, you can interrupt any command, macro, or command file by
              typing Ctrl-C (hold down the Ctrl key and press the C key); this
              normally brings you back to the prompt.

       Shell state
              You can invoke an inferior shell or external command from the
              Kermit command prompt by using the PUSH, RUN (!), EDIT, or
              BROWSE command.  While the inferior shell or command is active,
              Kermit is suspended and does nothing. Return to Kermit Command
              state by exiting from the inferior shell or application.

       Connect state
              In this state, which can be entered only when in Local mode
              (i.e. when Kermit has made a connection to another computer),
              Kermit is acting as a terminal to the remote computer. Your
              keystrokes are sent to the remote computer and characters that
              arrive over the communication connection are displayed on your
              screen. This state is entered when you give a CONNECT, DIAL,
              TELNET, SSH, or IKSD command. You can return to command state by
              logging out of the remote computer, or by typing:

                Ctrl-\c

              That is: Hold down the Ctrl key and press the backslash key,
              then let go of the Ctrl key and press the C key. This is called
              escaping back.  Certain other escape‐level commands are also
              provided; type Ctrl-\?  for a list. For example, you can enter
              Shell state with:

                Ctrl-\!

              To send a Ctrl-\ to the host while in Connect state, type two of
              them in a row. See HELP CONNECT and HELP SET ESCAPE for more
              info.

       Local file‐transfer state
              In this state, Kermit is sending packets back and forth with the
              other computer in order to transfer a file or accomplish some
              other file‐related task. And at the same time, it is displaying
              its progress on your screen and watching your keyboard for
              interruptions. In this state, the following single‐keystroke
              commands are accepted:


              X      Interrupt the current file and go on to the next (if
                     any).

              Z      Interrupt the current file and skip all the rest.

              E      Like Z but uses a "stronger" protocol (use if X or Z
                     don't work).

              Ctrl-C Interrupt file‐transfer mode (use if Z or E don't work).

       Kermit returns to its previous state (Command or Connect) when the
       transfer is complete or when interrupted successfully by X, Z, E, or
       Ctrl-C (hold down the Ctrl key and press the C key).

       Remote file‐transfer state
              In this state, Kermit is exchanging file‐transfer packets with
              its local partner over its standard i/o. It leaves this state
              automatically when the transfer is complete. In case you find
              your local Kermit in Connect state and the remote one in
              File‐transfer state (in which it seems to ignore your
              keystrokes), you can usually return it to command state by
              typing three Ctrl-C's in a row. If that doesn't work, return
              your local Kermit to Command state (Ctrl-\ C) and type
              "e‐packet" and then press the Return or Enter key; this forces a
              fatal Kermit protocol error.

       Remote Server state
              This is like Remote File‐transfer state, except it never returns
              automatically to Command state. Rather, it awaits further
              instructions from the client program; that is, from your Local
              Kermit program. You can return the Remote Server to its previous
              state by issuing a "finish" command to the client, or if you are
              in Connect state, by typing three Ctrl-C's in a row. You can
              tell the server job to log out and break the connection by
              issuing a "bye" command to the client.

       Local Server state
              Like Remote‐Server state, but in local mode, and therefore with
              its file‐transfer display showing, and listening for single‐key
              commands, as in Local File‐transfer state. Usually this state is
              entered automatically when a remote Kermit program gives a GET
              command.

              C‐Kermit, Kermit 95, and MS‐DOS Kermit all can switch
              automatically from Connect state to Local File‐transfer state
              when you initiate a file transfer from the remote computer by
              starting Kermit and telling it to send or get a file, in which
              case, Connect state is automatically resumed after the file
              transfer is finished.

              Note that C‐Kermit is not a terminal emulator. It is a
              communications application that you run in a terminal window
              (e.g. console or Xterm). The specific emulation, such as VT100,
              VT220, Linux Console, or Xterm, is provided by the terminal
              window in which you are running C‐Kermit. Kermit 95 and MS‐DOS
              Kermit, on the other hand, are true terminal emulators. Why is
              C‐Kermit not a terminal emulator? CLICK HERE to read about it.

MAKING CONNECTIONS
       Here is how to make different kinds of connections using interactive
       Kermit commands (as noted above, you can also make connections with
       command‐line options). Note that you don't have to make connections
       with Kermit. It can also be used on the far end of a connection as the
       remote file transfer and management partner of your local
       communications software.

       Making a Telnet Connection
              At the C‐Kermit command prompt, simply type:

                telnet foo.bar.com

              (substituting desired hostname or address).  You can also
              include a port number:

                telnet xyzcorp.com 3000 ;

              If the connection is successful, Kermit automically enters
              Connect state. When you logout from the remote host, Kermit
              automatically returns to its prompt. More info: HELP TELNET,
              HELP SET TELNET, HELP SET TELOPT. Also see the IKSD section
              below.

       Making an Rlogin connection
              This is just like Telnet, except you have to be root to do it
              because Rlogin uses a privileged TCP port:

                rlogin foo.bar.com

              More info: HELP RLOGIN.

       Making an SSH Connection
              Unlike Telnet and Rlogin, SSH connections are not built‐in, but
              handled by running your external SSH client through a
              pseudoterminal.  Using C‐Kermit to control the SSH client gives
              you all of Kermit's features (file transfer, character‐set
              conversion, scripting, etc) over SSH.

                ssh foo.bar.com

              More info: HELP SSH, HELP SET SSH.

       Dialing with a Modem
              If it's an external modem, make sure it is connected to a usable
              serial port on your computer with a regular (straight‐through)
              modem cable, and to the telephone jack with a telephone cable,
              and that it's turned on. Then use these commands:

                set modem type usrobotics  ; Or other supported type
                set line /dev/ttyS0        ; Specify device name
                set speed 57600            ; Or other desired speed
                set flow rts/cts           ; Most modern modems support this
                set dial method tone       ; (or pulse)
                dial 7654321               ; Dial the desired number

              Type "set modem type ?" for a list of supported modem types. If
              you omit the SET MODEM TYPE command, the default type is
              "generic‐high‐speed", which should work for most modern
              AT‐command‐set modems. If the line is busy, Kermit redials
              automatically. If the call does not succeed, use "set dial
              display on" and try it again to watch what happens. If the call
              succeeds, Kermit enters Connect state automatically and returns
              to its prompt automatically when you log out from the remote
              computer or the connection is otherwise lost.

              You can also dial from a modem that is accessible by Telnet,
              e.g. to a reverse terminal server. In this case the command
              sequence is:

                set host ts.xxx.com 2000   ; Terminal‐server and port
                set modem type usrobotics  ; Or other supported type
                set dial method tone       ; (or pulse)
                dial 7654321               ; Dial the desired number

              If the terminal server supports the Telnet Com Port Option, RFC
              2217, you can also give serial‐port related commands such as SET
              SPEED, SET PARITY, and so on, and Kermit relays them to the
              terminal server using the protocol specified in the RFC.

              More info: HELP SET MODEM, HELP SET LINE, HELP SET SPEED, HELP
              SET FLOW, HELP DIAL, HELP SET DIAL, HELP SET MODEM, HELP SET
              CARRIER-WATCH, SHOW COMMUNICATIONS, SHOW MODEM, SHOW DIAL.

       Direct Serial Port
              Connect the two computers, A and B, with a null modem cable (or
              two modem cables interconnected with a null‐modem adapter or
              modem eliminator). From Computer A:

                set modem type none   ; There is no modem
                set line /dev/ttyS0   ; Specify device name
                set carrier-watch off ; If DTR CD are not cross‐connected
                set speed 57600       ; Or other desired speed
                set flow rts/cts      ; If RTS and CTS are cross‐connected
                set parity even       ; (or "mark" or "space", if necessary)
                set stop-bits 2       ; (rarely necessary)
                set flow xon/xoff     ; If you can't use RTS/CTS
                connect               ; Enter Connect (terminal) state

              This assumes Computer B is set up to let you log in. If it
              isn't, you can run a copy of Kermit on Computer B and follow
              approximately the same directions. More info: As above plus HELP
              CONNECT.

       With modems or direct serial connections, you might also have to "set
       parity even" (or "mark" or "space") if it's a 7‐bit connection.

       Of the connection types listed above, only one can be open at a time.
       However, any one of these can be open concurrently with an FTP or HTTP
       session. Each connection type can be customized to any desired degree,
       scripted, logged, you name it. See the manual.

       NOTE: On selected platforms, C‐Kermit also can make X.25 connections.
       See the manual for details.

TRANSFERRING FILES WITH KERMIT
       There is a widespread and persistent belief that Kermit is a slow
       protocol.  This is because, until recently, it used conservative tuning
       by default to make sure file transfers succeeded, rather than failing
       because they overloaded the connection. Some extra commands (or
       command‐line options, like -Q) were needed to make it go fast, but
       nobody bothered to find out about them. Also, it takes two to tango:
       most non‐Kermit‐Project Kermit protocol implementations really ARE
       slow. The best file‐transfer partners for C‐Kermit are: another copy of
       C‐Kermit (7.0 or later) on Unix, (Open)VMS, or Microsoft Windows
       (formerly known as Kermit 95 or K95, now in Open Source release as C-
       Kermit 10.0 for Windows or CKW).  These combinations work well and they
       work fast by default. MS‐DOS Kermit is good too, but you have to tell
       it to go fast (by giving it the FAST command).

       Furthermore, all three of these Kermit programs support "autodownload"
       and "autoupload", meaning that when they are in Connect state and a
       Kermit packet comes in from the remote, they automatically switch into
       file transfer mode.

       And plus, C‐Kermit switches automatically between text and binary mode
       for each file, so there is no need to "set file type binary" or "set
       file type text", or to worry about files being corrupted because they
       were transferred in the wrong mode.

       What all of these words add up to is that now, when you use up‐to‐date
       Kermit software from the Kermit Project, file transfer is not only
       fast, it's ridiculously easy. You barely have to give any commands at
       all.


Downloading Files
       Let's say you have C‐Kermit for Unix or VMS, CKW for Windows, or MS‐DOS
       Kermit on your desktop computer, with a connection to a Unix computer
       that has C‐Kermit installed as "kermit". To download a file (send it
       from Unix to your desktop computer), just type the following command at
       your Unix shell prompt:

         kermit -s somefile.txt

       (where somefile.txt is the filename). If you want to send more than one
       file, you can put as many filenames as you want on the command line,
       and they can be any combination of text and binary:

         kermit -s somefile.txt somefile.zip somefile.html somefile.tar.gz

       and/or you can use wildcards to send groups of files:

         kermit -s somefile.*

       If you want to send a file under an assumed name, use:

         kermit -s friday.txt -a today.txt

       This sends the file friday.txt but tells the receiving Kermit that its
       name is today.txt. In all cases, as noted, when the file transfer is
       finished, your desktop Kermit returns automatically to Connect state.
       No worries about escaping back, re‐connecting, text/binary mode
       switching. Almost too easy, right?

Uploading Files
       To upload files (send them from your desktop computer to the remote
       Unix computer) do the same thing, but use the -g (GET) option instead
       of -s:

         kermit -g somefile.txt

       This causes your local Kermit to enter server mode; then the remote
       Kermit program requests the named file and the local Kermit sends it
       and returns automatically to Connect state when done.

       If you want to upload multiple files, you have to use shell quoting
       rules, since these aren't local files:

         kermit -g "somefile.txt somefile.zip somefile.html somefile.tar.gz"
         kermit -g "somefile.*"

       If you want to upload a file but store it under a different name, use:

         kermit -g friday.txt -a today.txt

Kermit Transfers the Old‐Fashioned Way
       If your desktop communications software does not support autoupload or
       autodownload, or it does not include Kermit server mode, the procedure
       requires more steps.

       To download a file, type:

         kermit -s filename

       on the host as before, but if nothing happens automatically in response
       to this command, you have to switch your desktop communications
       software into Kermit Receive state. This might be done by escaping back
       using keyboard characters or hot keys (Alt-x is typical) and/or with a
       command (like RECEIVE) or a menu. When the file transfer is complete,
       you have to go back to Connect state, Terminal emulation, or whatever
       terminology applies to your desktop communications software.

       To upload a file, type:

         kermit -r

       on the host (rather than "kermit -g"). This tells C‐Kermit to wait
       passively for a file to start arriving. Then regain the attention of
       your desktop software (Alt-x or whatever) and instruct it to send the
       desired file(s) with Kermit protocol. When the transfer is finished,
       return to the Connect or Terminal screen.


If File Transfer Fails
       Although every aspect of Kermit's operation can be finely tuned, there
       are also three short and simple "omnibus tuning" commands you can use
       for troubleshooting:

              FAST   Use fast file‐transfer settings. This has been the
                     default since C‐Kermit 7.0 now that most modern computers
                     and connections support it. If transfers fail with fast
                     settings, try . . .

              CAUTIOUS
                     Use cautious but not paranoid settings. File transfers,
                     if they work, will go at medium speed. If not, try . . .

              ROBUST Use the most robust, resilient, conservative, safe, and
                     reliable settings. File transfers will almost certainly
                     work, but they will be quite slow (of course this is a
                     classic tradeoff; ROBUST was C‐Kermit's default tuning in
                     versions 6.0 and earlier, which made everybody think
                     Kermit protocol was slow). If ROBUST doesn't do the
                     trick, try again with SET PARITY SPACE first in case it's
                     not an 8‐bit connection.

       Obviously the success and performance of a file transfer also depends
       on C‐Kermit's file transfer partner. Up‐to‐date, real Kermit Project
       partners are recommended because they contain the best Kermit protocol
       implementations and because we can support them in case of trouble.

       If you still have trouble, consult Chapter 10 of Using C‐Kermit, or
       send email to upport@kermitproject.org.

Advanced Kermit File‐Transfer Features
       Obviously there is a lot more to Kermit file transfer, including all
       sorts of interactive commands, preferences, options, logging,
       debugging, troubleshooting, and anything else you can imagine but
       that's what the manual and updates are for. Here are a few topics you
       can explore if you're interested by Typing HELP for the listed
       commands:

              Logging transfers:
                     LOG TRANSACTIONS (HELP LOG)

              Automatic per‐file text/binary mode switching:
                     SET TRANSFER MODE { AUTOMATIC, MANUAL } (HELP SET
                     TRANSFER).

              Cross‐platform recursive directory tree transfer:
                     SEND /RECURSIVE, GET /RECURSIVE (HELP SEND, HELP GET).

              File collision options:
                     SET FILE COLLISION { OVERWRITE, BACKUP, DISCARD, ... }
                     (HELP SET FILE).

              Update: Transfer only files that changed since last time:
                     SET FILE COLLISION UPDATE (HELP SET FILE).

              Filename selection patterns:
                     (HELP WILDCARD).

              Flexible file selection:
                     SEND (or GET) /BEFORE /AFTER /LARGER /SMALLER /TYPE
                     /EXCEPT, ...

              Character‐set conversion:
                     SET { FILE, TRANSFER } CHARACTER-SET, ASSOCIATE, ...

              File/Pathname control:
                     SET { SEND, RECEIVE } PATHNAMES, SET FILE NAMES.

              Atomic file movement:
                     SEND (or GET) /DELETE /RENAME /MOVE-TO

              Transferring to/from standard i/o of other commands:
                     SEND (or GET) /COMMAND

              Recovery of interrupted transfer from point of failure:
                     RESEND, REGET (HELP RESEND, HELP REGET).

Non‐Kermit File Transfer
       You can also use C‐Kermit to transfer files with FTP or HTTP Internet
       protocols; see below.

       On a regular serial or Telnet connection where the other computer
       doesn't support Kermit protocol at all, you have several options. For
       example, if your desktop communications software supports Zmodem, use
       "rz" and "sz" on the host rather than Kermit. But if Kermit is your
       desktop software, and you are using it to make calls or network
       connections to other computers that don't support Kermit protocol (or
       that don't have a good implementation of it), then if your computer
       also has external X, Y, or Zmodem programs that are redirectable,
       Kermit can use them as external protocols. HELP SET PROTOCOL for
       details.

       You can also capture "raw" data streams from the other computer with
       LOG SESSION (HELP LOG and HELP SET SESSION-LOG for details), and you
       can upload files without any protocol at all with TRANSMIT (HELP
       TRANSMIT, HELP SET TRANSMIT).

KERMIT'S BUILT‐IN FTP AND HTTP CLIENTS
       Kermit's FTP client is like the regular Unix FTP client that you're
       used to, but with some differences:

       •      It has lots more commands and features.

       •      Each FTP command must be prefixed with "ftp", for example "ftp
              open", "ftp get", "ftp bye", etc (this is not strictly true, but
              until you're more familiar with it, it's best to follow this
              rule).

       •      Commands like "cd", "directory", etc, execute locally, not on
              the server. Use "ftp cd", "ftp dir", etc, to have them act on
              the server.

       •      You can have an FTP session and a regular Kermit serial or
              Telnet session open at the same time.

       •      FTP sessions can be fully automated.

       The Kermit FTP client is thoroughly documented at the Kermit Project
       website:

         https://kermitproject.org/ftpclient.html

       You also can use HELP FTP and HELP SET FTP to get descriptions of
       Kermit's FTP‐related commands.

       The HTTP client is similar to the FTP one, except you prefix each
       command with HTTP instead of FTP: HTTP OPEN, HTTP GET, HTTP PUT, HTTP
       CLOSE, etc.  Type HELP HTTP for details, or visit the to view the
       manual supplements.  HTTP connections can be open at the same time as
       regular serial or Telnet connections and FTP connections. So Kermit can
       manage up to three types connections simultaneously.

INTERNET KERMIT SERVICE
       C‐Kermit can be configured and run as an Internet service (called
       IKSD), similar to an FTP server (FTPD) except you can (but need not)
       interact with it directly, plus it does a lot more than an FTP server
       can do. The TCP port for IKSD is 1649. It uses Telnet protocol.
       C‐Kermit can be an Internet Kermit Server, or it can be a client of an
       IKSD. You can make connections from C‐Kermit to an IKSD with any of the
       following commands:

         telnet foo.bar.edu 1649
         telnet foo.bar.edu kermit   ; if "kermit" is listed in /etc/services
         iksd foo.bar.edu

       The IKSD command is equivalent to a TELNET command specifying port
       1649.  For more information about making and using connections to an
       IKSD, see:

         https://kermitproject.org/cuiksd.html

       You can run an Internet Kermit Service on your own computer too (if you
       are the system administrator). For instructions, see:

         https://kermitproject.org/iksd.html

SECURITY
       All of C‐Kermit's built‐in TCP/IP networking methods (Telnet, Rlogin,
       IKSD, FTP, and HTTP) can be secured by one or more of the following
       IETF‐approved methods:

       •    MIT Kerberos IV
       •    MIT Kerberos V
       •    SSL/TLS
       •    Stanford SRP

       The Windows version of C-Kermit 10.0 (CKW) has its own built-in SSH
       client; the Unix version makes SSH connections through the external SSH
       client.

       For complete instructions see:

         https://kermitproject.org/security.html

ALTERNATIVE COMMAND‐LINE PERSONALITIES
       When invoked as "kermit" or any other name besides "ftp" or "telnet",
       C‐Kermit has the command‐line options described above in the OPTIONS
       section. However, if you invoke C‐Kermit as "telnet" or "ftp", it
       changes its command‐line personality to match. This can be done (among
       other ways) with symbolic links (symlinks). For example, if you want
       C‐Kermit to be your regular Telnet client, or the Telnet helper of your
       Web browser, you can create a link like the following in a directory
       that lies in your PATH ahead of the regular telnet program:

         ln -s /usr/local/bin/kermit telnet

       Now when you give a "telnet" command, you are invoking Kermit instead,
       but with its Telnet command‐line personality so, for example:

         telnet xyzcorp.com

       Makes a Telnet connection to xyzcorp.com, and Kermit exits
       automatically when the connection is closed (just like the regular
       Telnet client). Type "telnet -h" to get a list of Kermit's
       Telnet‐personality command‐line options, which are intended to be as
       compatible as possible with the regular Telnet client.

       Similarly for FTP:

         ln -s /usr/local/bin/kermit ftp

       And now type "ftp -h" to see its command‐line options, and command
       lines just like you would give your regular FTP client:

         ftp xyzcorp.com

       but with additional options allowing an entire session to be specified
       on the command line. Finally, if Kermit's first command‐line option is
       a Telnet, FTP, IKSD, or HTTP URL, Kermit automatically makes the
       appropriate kind of connection and, if indicated by the URL, takes the
       desired action:

       kermit telnet:xyzcorp.com
              Opens a Telnet session

       kermit telnet://olga@xyzcorp.com
              Ditto for user olga

       kermit ftp://olga@xyzcorp.com/public/somefile.zip
              Downloads a file

       kermit https://kermitproject.org/index.html
              Grabs a web page

LICENSE
       As of version 9.0 C‐Kermit carries the Revised 3-Clause BSD License,
       which is 100% Open Source.  C-Kermit's LICENSE command displays the
       license, and it is also available on the Kermit Project website:

       kermit https://kermitproject.org/ck10license.html

OTHER TOPICS
       There's way more to C‐Kermit than we've touched on here ‐‐
       troubleshooting, customization, character sets, dialing directories,
       sending pages, script writing, and on and on, all of which are covered
       in the manual and updates and supplements. For the most up‐to‐date
       information on documentation (or updated documentation itself) visit
       the Kermit Project website:

         https://kermitproject.org/

       There you will also find Kermit software packages for other platforms:
       different Unix varieties, Windows, DOS, VMS, IBM mainframes, and many
       others: over 40 years' worth at this writing (2022).

DOCUMENTATION AND UPDATES
       The manual for C‐Kermit is:

       Using C‐Kermit
              Frank da Cruz and Christine M. Gianone, Second Edition, Digital
              Press / Butterworth‐Heinemann, Woburn, MA, 1997, 622 pages, ISBN
              1-55558-164-1. This is a printed book. It covers C‐Kermit 6.0.
              As of 2016 it is also available online in PDF form:

              https://www.kermitproject.org/onlinebooks/usingckermit3e.pdf


       The C‐Kermit 7.0 Supplement
              https://kermitproject.org/ckermit70.html

       The C‐Kermit 8.0 Supplement
              https://kermitproject.org/ckermit80.html

       The C‐Kermit 9.0 Supplement
              https://kermitproject.org/ckermit90.html

       The C‐Kermit 10.0 Specifications
              https://kermitproject.org/ck10specs.html

       The C‐Kermit 10.0 Complete Command List
              https://kermitproject.org/ck10commandref.html


       Visit the C‐Kermit home page:

         https://kermitproject.org/ckermit.html

       to learn about new versions, Beta tests, and other news; to read case
       studies and tutorials; to download source code, install packages, and
       prebuilt binaries for many platforms. Also visit:

       https://kermitproject.org/ckscripts.html
              The Kermit script library and tutorial

       https://kermitproject.org/ckfaq.html
              The C‐Kermit FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions about C‐Kermit)

       https://kermitproject.org/telnet.html
              C‐Kermit Telnet client documentation

       https://kermitproject.org/security.html
              C‐Kermit security documentation (Kerberos, SSL/TLS, etc)

       https://kermitproject.org/cuiksd.html
              Internet Kermit Service user documentation

       https://kermitproject.org/iksd.html
              Internet Kermit Service administrator documentation

       https://kermitproject.org/studies.html
              Case studies.

       https://kermitproject.org/support.html
              Technical support.

       https://kermitproject.org/ckuins.html.
              Installation instructions for Unix.

       https://kermitproject.org/ckcbwr.html.
              General C‐Kermit bugs, hints, tips.

       https://kermitproject.org/ckubwr.html.
              Unix‐specific C‐Kermit bugs, hints, tips.

       https://kermitproject.org/ckcplm.html.
              C‐Kermit program logic manual.

       https://kermitproject.org/ckccfg.html.
              C‐Kermit compile‐time configuration options.

       /var/spool/locks (or whatever)
              UUCP lockfile for dialing out (see installation instructions).

       ca_certs.pem
              Certificate Authority certifcates used for SSL connections.

AUTHORS
       Software
              Frank da Cruz and Jeffrey E Altman,
              1985‐present, with contributions from hundreds of others all
              over the world, notably David Goodwin for converting the 2001
              edition of Kermit 95 to Open Source C-Kermit 10.0 for Windows.

       Documentation
              Frank da Cruz

       Address
              The Open Source Kermit Project
              Bronx NY
              USA

       E‐Mail kermit@kermitproject.org

       Web    https://kermitproject.org/

User Manuals                     NOVEMBER 2022                       KERMIT(1)
