keychain(1)                 https://www.funtoo.org                 keychain(1)


NAME
       keychain - Manager for ssh-agent, gpg-agent and private keys.
       Compatible with POSIX systems.

SYNOPSIS
       keychain [ -hklQqV ] [ --clear --confhost --confallhosts --debug
       --extended --gpg2 --help --ignore-missing --list --noask --nocolor --nogui
       --noinherit --nolock --quick --quiet --ssh-allow-forwarded --ssh-rm
       --ssh-spawn-gpg --systemd --version ] [ --ssh-agent-socket path ]
       [ --dir dirname ] [ --host name ] [ --lockwait seconds ]
       [ --stop which ] [ --timeout minutes ] [ --wipe which ] [ keys... ]

INTRODUCTION
       Keychain helps you to manage SSH and GPG keys in a convenient and
       secure manner. It acts as a frontend to "ssh-agent" and "ssh-add", but
       allows you to easily have one long running "ssh-agent" process per
       system, rather than the norm of one "ssh-agent" per login session.

       This dramatically reduces the number of times you need to enter your
       passphrase. With "keychain", you only need to enter a passphrase once
       every time your local machine is rebooted. Keychain also makes it easy
       for remote cron jobs to securely "hook in" to a long running
       "ssh-agent" process, allowing your scripts to take advantage of key-
       based logins.

       Keychain also supports GnuPG 2.1 and later, and will automatically
       start gpg-agent if any GPG keys are referenced on the command-line, and
       will ensure these credentials are cached in memory and available for
       use.

       Keychain supports most UNIX-like operating systems. It supports
       integration with Bourne-compatible, csh-compatible and fish shells.

       Additional documentation for Keychain can be found on
       "https://www.funtoo.org/Funtoo:Keychain" in the Keychain wiki page.

LIFECYCLE
       Typically, you configure keychain to run when you first log in to a
       system.  If you are using Bourne shell or bash, you will create a
       "~/.profile" or "~/.bash_profile" file and include the following line
       in it:

           eval "$(keychain --eval id_rsa)"

       Keychain will start ssh-agent if one isn't already running. Keychain
       then checks to make sure your private keys (in this example, "id_rsa")
       are loaded into the agent. If they are not, you are prompted for any
       passphrase necessary to decrypt them, so that they are cached in memory
       and available for use.

       In addition to printing some user-friendly output to your terminal,
       keychain will also output important ssh-agent environment variables,
       which the "$( )" (you can also use "` `") captures, and the "eval"
       evaluates, setting these variables in your current shell.

       These ssh-agent environment variables are also written to
       "~/.keychain/${HOSTNAME}-sh", so that subsequent logins and non-
       interactive shells such as cron jobs can source the file to access the
       running ssh-agent and make passwordless ssh connections using the
       cached private keys -- even when you are logged out. These files are
       collectively called pidfiles.

       The key files specified on the command-line will be searched for in the
       "~/.ssh/" directory, and keychain will expect to find the private key
       file with the same name, as well as a ".pub" public key. Keychain will
       also see if any GPG keys are specified, and if so, prompt for any
       passphrases to cache these keys into "gpg-agent".

       Typically, private SSH key files are specified by filename only,
       without path, although it is possible to specify an absolute or
       relative path to the private key file as well. Private key files can be
       symlinks to the actual key as long as your system has the "readlink"
       command available.  More advanced features are available for specifying
       keys as well -- see the
        --extended and --confallhosts options for more information.

       In addition, for GPG keys specified, similar steps will be taken to
       ensure that gpg-agent has the GPG key cached in memory and ready for
       use.

STREAMLINING AND SIMPLIFICATION
       Keychain 2.9.0 has been streamlined, and with this maintenance several
       command-line options have been retired as they are not completely
       necessary.  This simplifies the use of the tool by making it more
       intuitive to use.  The files created in ~/.keychain have also been
       cleaned up. This section details all the important changes.

   PIDFILE CHANGES
       "Pidfile" is the nickname for files created in "~/.keychain" which can
       then be sourced by your scripts to access a running agent.

       When using gpg-agent for GPG keys, keychain will no longer create a
       "~/.keychain/${HOSTNAME}-sh-gpg" pidfile. This file is no longer needed
       as the canonical GPG socket inside "~/.gnupg/" will be used to detect
       the running gpg-agent, which is the modern convention. GnuPG 2.1 and
       later have stopped using environment variables to find the agent, so we
       follow this upstream change.

   IMPROVED DEBUGGING
       A new --debug option is now available which will print additional
       information related to keychain's decisions regarding why and how an
       agent was found -- or not.

   NEW (AND DEPRECATED) OPTIONS
       This section provides an overview of new and deprecated command-line
       options.  For full details on each option, see the respective option
       definition under "OPTIONS".

       Keychain 2.9.2

       The "--confhost" option has been deprecated. Instead of "--confhost
       hostname", use "--extended host:hostname". This extended format allows
       multiple keys of multiple types (SSH, GPG and SSH-from-hostname) to be
       specified on the command-line together. This is also fully compatible
       with "--confallhosts", and keychain now de-duplicates the list of keys
       to be loaded.

       Keychain 2.9.1

       The short-lived "--ssh-wipe" and "--gpg-wipe" options that appeared
       only in version 2.9.0 were replaced with "--wipe which" to work
       similarly to the "--stop" option, and allows you to specify "ssh",
       "gpg" or "all".

       Keychain 2.9.0

       The "--agents" option is now deprecated. Keychain will always ensure an
       ssh-agent or equivalent is running, or if "--ssh-spawn-gpg" is used,
       potentially a gpg-agent for the purpose of storing SSH keys if no
       running ssh-agent is available. To simply use a gpg-agent if one is
       already running, falling back to launching ssh-agent if no agent is
       available, use the "--ssh-allow-gpg" option.

       Specifying a GPG key on the command-line will instruct keychain to
       enable gpg-agent functionality automatically. This eliminates an option
       that you need to specify ("--agents ssh,gpg") when invoking keychain,
       and for many will avoid spawning a GPG agent you may not be using.

       Specifying the "--agents" option will now display a warning that it's
       deprecated, but keychain will not abort.

       The "--inherit" option, which took one of four arguments, has been
       deprecated. Keychain's default behavior remains that of preferring to
       use an ssh-agent or equivalent referenced by its pidfile, falling back
       to finding an ssh-agent in its environment. By default, keychain will
       not use a gpg-agent socket for SSH keys unless at least
       "--ssh-allow-gpg" is specified. Similarly, the use of any forwarded SSH
       agent connection is disabled by default and can be enabled via
       "--ssh-allow-forwarded".  Again, see the full documentation for each
       option in the "OPTIONS" section.

       You can still influence keychain's behavior via the still-present
       "--noinherit" option which will prevent all detection of existing SSH
       agents via the environment.

       The "--clear" option is still available, but isn't intended to be a
       "standalone" option, meaning that it is used to perform an initial
       clearing of cached keys before loading any specified keys when Keychain
       is run.  To perform the sole action of wiping all cached keys, use the
       "--wipe" action. To remove an individual cached SSH private key or
       keys, use the "--ssh-rm" keyfile option.

       The "--stop" option will now only stop any running ssh-agent processes,
       and still supports three possible options: "mine", "others" and "all".
       It no longer stops gpg-agent processes, which tend to get auto-
       respawned by GPG tools, so killing gpg-agent typically doesn't make a
       lot of sense.

   BETTER GNUPG INTEGRATION
       Keychain can now use an existing gpg-agent that has been started in
       your environment to store ssh keys, rather than spawning its own ssh-
       agent, by using the "--ssh-allow-gpg" option.

       If you would like keychain to spawn gpg-agent instead of ssh-agent, and
       use it to store SSH keys, specify the "--ssh-spawn-gpg" option.

       Without either option, keychain will not use an SSH_AUTH_SOCK that is
       provided by gpg-agent, and will spawn an official ssh-agent process.

       In addition, behind the scenes, keychain now uses the gpg-connect-agent
       executable to restart the agent, get official PID and socket
       information, etc.

       Please note that while gpg-agent provides full compatibility with ssh-
       agent, its password prompt is handled by pinentry and its store may
       encrypt your in-memory keys. For this reason, consider this new feature
       experimental, and use GitHub issues to report back any anomalies or
       suggested improvements for gpg-agent integration.

   DISPLAY CHANGES
       When keychain uses gpg-agent for either GnuPG or SSH support, then
       keychain will display the GnuPG socket file in its output, rather than
       the PID. Since the socket file has the "~/.gnupg" path in it, this
       communicates to you that gpg-agent, not ssh-agent, is active. If you
       see an integer PID, this means that ssh-agent is being used.  =head2
       STREAMLINED STARTUP

       By default, keychain will always ensure that an ssh-agent should be
       started.  It will only start a gpg-agent if a GPG key is referenced on
       the command-line.

       Modern versions of gpg-agent also support the caching of SSH keys,
       allowing it to be a drop-in replacement for ssh-agent. With keychain
       2.9.0, a new "--ssh-spawn-gpg" option has been added, which when
       specified will give keychain permission to spawn a gpg-agent in place
       of ssh-agent.

   CODE OPTIMIZATION
       With keychain 2.9.0, there has been significant code cleanup, reducing
       the size of the script from 1500 lines to about 1100 lines. In
       addition, the script is now fully compliant with ShellCheck
       <https://shellcheck.net>, which will be hugely helpful to ensure
       continued POSIX shell compatibility moving forward.

AGENT DETECTION AND STARTUP ALGORITHM
       This section documents the official algorithm used for detecting and if
       necessary starting ssh-agent, to facilitate understanding as well as
       developer maintenance of the codebase.

   DEFINITIONS
       There are several important definition related to the algorithm:

       1. The agent, "ssh-agent", which is a long-running daemon. This can
       also in some cases be "gpg-agent", depending on command-line options.
       2. The inherited agent, which is the agent or forwarded agent that was
       not started by keychain, but is detected in the environment or by other
       means.
       3. The adopted agent, which is an inherited agent whose information has
       been persisted by being written to the pidfiles (see below).
       4. The environment variables "SSH_AUTH_SOCK", which points to the
       socket file used to communicate with ssh-agent, and optionally
       "SSH_AGENT_PID", which indicates its process ID if running locally
       (although gpg-agent does not define "SSH_AGENT_PID", even if running
       locally.)
       5. The file "~/.keychain/${HOSTNAME}-sh" and related files, which are
       collectively referred to as "pidfiles". Pidfiles are used to
       persistently store "SSH_AUTH_SOCK" and "SSH_AGENT_PID" environment
       variables for use by other scripts, as well as by keychain itself,
       formatted so that they can be "sourced" by shells of various types.
       6. Relevant command-line options affecting behavior, which include
       --noinherit, --ssh-allow-gpg, --ssh-spawn-gpg, and
       --ssh-allow-forwarded.

   ALGORITHM OVERVIEW
       When the keychain script is run, it will first attempt to find a
       running ssh-agent.

       Phase 1: pidfile: To do this, it will first look for an existing
       pidfile. If one exists, it will be inspected and used to find a running
       agent, in alignment with specified command-line options. If this
       process is successful, a "keychain-spawned" agent is found and this
       process is complete. Otherwise, we continue to the next step.
       Phase 2: environment: If keychain's pidfile did not yield a running
       agent, keychain looks at environment variables defined in the current
       environment. This step will be skipped if the --noinherit option is
       specified. If an agent is found that is in alignment with specified
       command-line options, it is considered "inherited" by keychain, and the
       process is complete. Otherwise, we continue to the next step.
       Phase 3: spawn agent: In the absence of finding a keychain-spawned or
       existing agent that can be adopted, keychain will spawn a new
       ssh-agent, or a new gpg-agent if --ssh-spawn-gpg is specified and
       gpg-agent is available.
       Final Phase: update pidfile: In addition, the pidfiles will be updated
       to reflect the keychain-spawned or "inherited" agent. An "inherited"
       agent, once written to the pidfile, is now considered to be "adopted".
       Pidfile update exception: If the --ssh-allow-forwarded option was
       specified, and a forwarded SSH socket was found -- which is identified
       as a valid SSH socket defined in a "SSH_AUTH_SOCK" variable, which has
       no associated or valid "SSH_AGENT_PID" also defined in the environment
       and is also determined to not be the socket of any running gpg-agent --
       then this agent will simply be used, but not persisted in any pidfile.
       This is because this SSH-supplied socket will disappear when the
       underlying SSH connection terminates, and thus it cannot be relied on
       to be available persistently.

   THE QUICK SHORT-CIRCUIT
       When the --quick option is specified, a special algorithm will run
       prior to the main agent-detection algorithm listed above. A pidfile, if
       it exists, will be evaluated as per Phase 1 of the main algorithm. If a
       valid running agent is found, it will be queried for valid keys. If at
       least one valid key is loaded into the agent, the quick start is
       considered successful, and keychain will skip the regular agent startup
       algorithm, and will use this found agent.

   SUMMARY AND RATIONALE
       The keychain ssh-agent detection and startup algorithm is somewhat
       sophisticated for a reason. There is an intention behind its behavior.

       The algorithm has been specifically designed to prefer an agent spawned
       by keychain, or previously adopted, if that agent is currently
       available. This is by design, because other system software could spawn
       ssh-agent and/or gpg-agent processes, and we want keychain to not
       coerced into using these new agents which may suddenly appear in the
       environment unexpectedly when new desktop sessions start and in other
       circumstances.  If keychain is too "suggestible", it will lose track of
       the agent which currently holds valid keys, which can result in
       unncessary prompting for passphrases, and general confusion.

OPTIONS
       --absolute
           This option can be used with the --dir option, if you would like to
           specify a non-default directory to store pidfiles (defaults to
           "~/.keychain"). When this option is used, the script does not
           automatically append "/.keychain" to the path, allowing you to use
           any arbitrary directory name for the storing of pidfiles.  Please
           note that Keychain 2.9.3 adds some extra security checks related to
           directory and file permissions -- you must have exclusive ownership
           of any directory that keychain uses to store pidfiles, or keychain
           will abort.

       --clear
           When specified, this option adds an initial step prior to adding
           any keys to the agents of wiping all existing cached
           keys/passphrases.  This is intended to be used alongside keychain
           --eval to ensure that only the specified keys are loaded, and that
           keychain should assume that you are an intruder until proven
           otherwise and force all interactive logins to specify valid
           passphrases.  This option increases security and  still allows your
           cron jobs to use your ssh keys when you're logged out.

       --confallhosts
           In addition to any keys specified on the command-line, this option
           will tell keychain to scour "~/.ssh/config" for all private keys
           referenced in all "IdentityFile" lines, and load all keys for all
           hosts.

       --confirm
           Keys are subject to interactive confirmation by the SSH_ASKPASS
           program before being used for authentication.  See the -c option
           for ssh-add(1).

       --debug
           Keychain 2.9.0 introduces the --debug option, which will output
           additional information related to how Keychain makes its agent-
           selection process. Specifically, it will output when an
           SSH_AUTH_SOCK is rejected because it is being supplied by gpg-agent
           -- and this is not allowed due to no --ssh-allow-gpg option, or
           when it is rejected because it appears to be from a forwarded SSH
           connection, and --ssh-allow-forwarded was not supplied.

       --dir dirname
           This option allows you to use another directory besides
           "$HOME/.keychain".  for the storing of pidfiles. Please note that
           Keychain 2.9.3 adds some extra security checks related to directory
           and file permissions -- you must have exclusive ownership of any
           directory that keychain uses to store pidfiles, or the script will
           abort. Also see the --absolute option.

       --env filename
           After parsing options, keychain will load additional environment
           settings from "filename".  By default, if "--env" is not given,
           then keychain will attempt to load from ~/.keychain/[hostname]-env
           or alternatively ~/.keychain/env.  The purpose of this file is to
           override settings such as PATH, in case ssh is stored in a non-
           standard place.

       --eval
           Keychain will print lines to be evaluated in the shell on stdout.
           It respects the SHELL environment variable to determine if Bourne
           shell or C shell output is expected.

       --extended
           This enables extended command-line key processing with more
           features, and is a replacement for the old "--confhost" option.
           When specified, each key specified on the command-line must have a
           prefix to explictly.  categorize it. SSH keys must have a prefix of
           "sshk:" immediately followed by the path or key name (the part
           after the "sshk:" is processed just like a SSH key is without the
           "--extended" option). GPG keys must be in the format "gpgk:"
           immediately followed by the 8 or 16-character fingerprint. If
           "host:<hostname>" is specified, then Keychain will extract the SSH
           configuration for the specified hostname, grab all identityfile
           options (private keys) specified, and these keys will be included
           in the set of keys to be loaded by keychain. This allows multiple
           keys of multiple types, including SSH-keys-by-host, to be specified
           together, which wasn't possible with "--confhost".

       --gpg2
           This option changes the default gpg calls to use gpg2 instead to
           support distributions such as Ubuntu which has both gpg and gpg2

       --help -h
           Show help that looks remarkably like this man-page. As of 2.6.10,
           help is sent to stdout so it can be easily piped to a pager.

       --host name
           Set alternate hostname for creation of pidfiles

       --ignore-missing
           Don't warn if some keys on the command-line can't be found.  This
           is useful for situations where you have a shared .bash_profile, but
           your keys might not be available on every machine where keychain is
           run.

       -l --list
           List signatures of all active SSH keys, and exit, similar to "ssh-
           add -l".

       -L --list-fp
           List fingerprints of all active SSH keys, and exit, similar to
           "ssh-add -L".

       --lockwait seconds
           How long to wait for the lock to become available.  Defaults to 5
           seconds. Specify a value of zero or more. If the lock cannot be
           acquired within the specified number of seconds, then this keychain
           process will forcefully acquire the lock.

       --noask
           This option tells keychain do everything it normally does (ensure
           ssh-agent is running, set up the ~/.keychain/[hostname]-{c}sh
           files) except that it will not prompt you to add any of the keys
           you specified if they haven't yet been added to ssh-agent.

       --nocolor
           Disable color highlighting for non ANSI-compatible terms.

       --nogui
           Don't honor SSH_ASKPASS, if it is set.  This will cause ssh-add to
           prompt on the terminal instead of using a graphical program.

       --noinherit
           Don't inherit any agent processes, overriding the default behavior
           of inheriting all non-forwarded ssh-agent and any existing gpg-
           agent processes. Also see "AGENT DETECTION AND STARTUP ALGORITHM".

       --nolock
           Don't attempt to use a lockfile while manipulating files, pids and
           keys.

       --query
           Keychain will print lines in KEY=value format representing the
           values which are set by the agents.

       --quick -Q
           If an ssh-agent process is running then use it.  Don't verify the
           list of keys, other than making sure it's non-empty.  This option
           avoids locking when possible so that multiple terminals can be
           opened simultaneously without waiting on each other. See the "THE
           QUICK SHORT-CIRCUIT" section for more information regarding how
           this fits into the overall startup algorithm.

       --quiet -q
           Only print messages in case of warning, error or required
           interactivity. As of version 2.6.10, this also suppresses
           "Identities added" messages for ssh-agent.

       --stop -k which
           Kill currently running ssh-agent processes and exit.

           Note that previous versions of keychain (2.8.5 and earlier) allowed
           killing of gpg-agent as well. This functionality was removed as
           ssh-agent and gpg-agent have a bit different design philosophies
           and you almost always only have at most one gpg-agent running at a
           time. Use "killall gpg-agent" if you really want to kill gpg-agent.
           However, since this option also removes pidfiles, it will remove
           any gpg-agent processes adopted by keychain that were being used to
           store ssh keys.

           The following values are valid for "which" which controls which
           ssh-agents to target:

           all      Kill all ssh-agent processes and quit keychain
                    immediately.  Prior to keychain-2.5.0, this was the
                    behavior of the bare "--stop" option.

           others   Kill agent processes other than the ones keychain is
                    providing.  Prior to keychain-2.5.0, keychain would do
                    this automatically.  The new behavior requires that you
                    specify it explicitly if you want it.

           mine     Kill keychain's agent processes, leaving other agents
                    alone.

       --ssh-agent-socket path
           Use this option to specify the path to the socket file that you
           would like ssh-agent to create and use as its official socket. By
           default, ssh-agent will create its own socket file, typically in
           /tmp.

       --ssh-allow-forwarded
           By default, keychain will not use a forwarded ssh-agent connection,
           which is a ssh-agent socket created by SSH that has no associated
           local process. To permit keychain to use a forwarded ssh-agent
           connection, specify this option. If a SSH-forwarded socket is used,
           it will not be persisted in the pidfiles, as it is not likely to be
           available outside of the currently-active SSH session.

       --ssh-allow-gpg
           Would you like to have keychain use an already-running gpg-agent to
           store your SSH keys, rather than spawning a new ssh-agent? This
           option does just that. When this option is specified, keychain will
           accept an SSH_AUTH_SOCK environment variable in its environment,
           even if it was created by gpg-agent. Modern versions of gpg-agent
           are also able to store SSH keys. By default, keychain has a special
           check to avoid using a gpg-agent that has set the SSH_AUTH_SOCK
           environment variable, and will instead spawn its own ssh-agent.
           With this option enabled, this restriction is turned off.  Please
           note that this option does not actually instruct keychain to spawn
           a gpg-agent for storing SSH keys if no agent is available -- if you
           want that, see the --ssh-spawn-gpg option, below.

           ALSO NOTE: When a gpg-agent is adopted for ssh-agent duties in this
           way, the "~/.keychain/${HOSTNAME}-sh" pidfile will be updated to
           reference the gpg-agent socket, so it will be seamlessly used by
           future cron jobs needing an ssh-agent, as well as by future
           invocations of keychain, as long as the --ssh-allow-gpg or
           --ssh-spawn-gpg (which implies --ssh-allow-gpg) are specified.

       --ssh-spawn-gpg
           This is the option to use if you're really on-board with using gpg-
           agent as a replacement for ssh-agent. Not only will keychain use a
           running gpg-agent if found as per the --ssh-allow-gpg, but if it
           needs to spawn a new ssh-agent, it will go ahead and spawn a gpg-
           agent in its place, and use it instead. Also see notes for the
           --ssh-allow-gpg option, as this option also implies
           --ssh-allow-gpg.

       --ssh-rm -r keys
           Only perform the single action of removing the specified cached
           keys from the running ssh-agent, and then exit.

       --systemd
           Inject environment variables into the systemd --user session.

       --timeout minutes
           Allows a timeout to be set for identities added to ssh-agent. When
           this option is used with a keychain invocation that starts ssh-
           agent itself, then keychain uses the appropriate ssh-agent option
           to set the default timeout for ssh-agent.  The --timeout option
           also gets passed to ssh-add invocations, so any keys added to a
           running ssh-agent will be individually configured to have the
           timeout specified, overriding any ssh-agent default.

           Most users can simply use the timeout setting they desire and get
           the result they want -- with all identities having the specified
           timeout, whether added by keychain or not. More advanced users can
           use one invocation of keychain to set the default timeout, and
           optionally set different timeouts for keys added by using a
           subsequent invocation of keychain.

       --version -V
           Show version information.

       --wipe which
           Only perform the single action of wiping all agent's cached keys.
           Specify 'ssh', 'gpg' or 'all' for SSH keys, GPG keys and all agents
           respectively.  Also see the "--ssh-rm" action and the "--clear"
           option.

EXAMPLES
       This snippet should work in most shells to load two ssh keys and one
       gpg key:

           eval `keychain --eval id_rsa id_dsa 0123ABCD`

       For the fish shell, use the following format:

           if status --is-interactive
               keychain --eval --quiet -Q id_rsa | source
           end

       If you have trouble with that in csh:

           setenv SHELL /bin/csh
           eval `keychain --eval id_rsa id_dsa 0123ABCD`

       This is equivalent for Bourne shells (including bash and zsh) but
       doesn't use keychain's --eval feature:

           keychain id_rsa id_dsa 0123ABCD
           [ -z "$HOSTNAME" ] && HOSTNAME=`uname -n`
           [ -f $HOME/.keychain/$HOSTNAME-sh ] && \
                   . $HOME/.keychain/$HOSTNAME-sh

       This is equivalent for C shell (including tcsh):

           keychain id_rsa id_dsa 0123ABCD
           host=`uname -n`
           if (-f $HOME/.keychain/$host-csh) then
                   source $HOME/.keychain/$host-csh
           endif

       Likewise, the following commands can be used in fish:

           keychain id_rsa id_dsa 0123ABCD
           test -z "$hostname"; and set hostname (uname -n)
           if test -f "$HOME/.keychain/$hostname-fish"
               source $HOME/.keychain/$hostname-fish
           end

       To load keychain variables from a script (for example from cron) and
       abort unless id_dsa is available:

           # Load keychain variables and check for id_dsa
           [ -z "$HOSTNAME" ] && HOSTNAME=`uname -n`
           . $HOME/.keychain/$HOSTNAME-sh 2>/dev/null
           ssh-add -l 2>/dev/null | grep -q id_dsa || exit 1

SEE ALSO
       ssh-agent(1), gpg-agent(1), ssh-add(1), ssh(1)

NOTES
       Keychain was created and is currently maintained by Daniel Robbins. If
       you need to report a bug or request an enhancement, please report it to
       the GitHub project page at <https://github.com/funtoo/keychain>.  For
       more information about keychain, please visit
       <https://www.funtoo.org/Funtoo:Keychain>.

2.9.5                             2025-05-16                       keychain(1)
