KGMON(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               KGMON(8)

NAME
     kgmon – generate a dump of the operating system's profile buffers

SYNOPSIS
     kgmon [-Bbhpr] [-M core] [-N system]

DESCRIPTION
     The kgmon utility is used when profiling the operating system.  When no
     arguments are supplied, kgmon indicates the state of operating system
     profiling as running, off, or not configured.  (see config(8)) If the -p
     flag is specified, kgmon extracts profile data from the operating system
     and produces a gmon.out file suitable for later analysis by gprof(1).

     The options are as follows:

     -B      Resume the collection of high resolution profile data.

     -b      Resume the collection of low resolution profile data.

     -h      Stop the collection of profile data.

     -p      Dump the contents of the profile buffers into a gmon.out file.

     -r      Reset all the profile buffers.  If the -p flag is also specified,
             the gmon.out file is generated before the buffers are reset.

     -M      Extract values associated with the name list from the specified
             core instead of the default /dev/kmem.

     -N      Extract the name list from the specified system instead of the
             default /boot/kernel/kernel.

     If neither -B nor -b nor -h is specified, the state of profiling
     collection remains unchanged.  For example, if the -p flag is specified
     and profile data is being collected, profiling will be momentarily
     suspended, the operating system profile buffers will be dumped, and
     profiling will be immediately resumed.

     The profile buffers should be reset when the resolution of the profile
     data is changed.

FILES
     /boot/kernel/kernel  the default system
     /dev/kmem            the default memory

DIAGNOSTICS
     Users with only read permission on /dev/kmem cannot change the state of
     profiling collection.  They can get a gmon.out file with the warning that
     the data may be inconsistent if profiling is in progress.

SEE ALSO
     gprof(1), config(8), pmcstat(8)

HISTORY
     The kgmon utility appeared in 4.2BSD.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        November 27, 2017       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
