KLDCONFIG(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           KLDCONFIG(8)

NAME
     kldconfig – display or modify the kernel module search path

SYNOPSIS
     kldconfig [-dfimnUv] [-S sysctlname] [path ...]
     kldconfig -r

DESCRIPTION
     The kldconfig utility displays or modifies the search path used by the
     kernel when loading modules using the kldload(8) utility or the
     kldload(2) syscall.

     The following options are available:

     -d      Remove the specified paths from the module search path.

     -f      Do not display a diagnostic message if a path specified for
             adding is already present in the search path, or if a path
             specified for removing is not present in the search path.  This
             may be useful in startup/shutdown scripts for adding a path to a
             file system which is still not mounted, or in shutdown scripts
             for unconditionally removing a path that may have been added
             during startup.

     -i      Add the specified paths to the beginning of the search path, not
             to the end.  This option can only be used when adding paths.

     -m      Instead of replacing the module search path with the set of paths
             specified, “merge” in the new entries.

     -n      Do not actually change the module search path.

     -r      Display the current search path.  This option cannot be used if
             any paths are also specified.

     -S sysctlname
             Specify the sysctl name to use instead of the default
             kern.module_path.

     -U      “Unique-ify” the current search path - if any of the directories
             is repeated one or more times, only the first occurrence remains.
             This option implies -m.

     -v      Verbose output: display the new module search path.  If the path
             has been changed, and the -v flag is specified more than once,
             the old path is displayed as well.

FILES
     /boot/kernel, /boot/modules, /modules
             The default module search path used by the kernel.

EXIT STATUS
     The kldconfig utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     kldload(2), kldload(8), kldxref(8), sysctl(8)

HISTORY
     The kldconfig utility first appeared in FreeBSD 4.4.

AUTHORS
     Peter Pentchev <roam@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         April 27, 2017         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
