KORGWM(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            KORGWM(1)


NAME
       korgwm - a tiling window manager written in Perl

DESCRIPTION
       Manages X11 windows in a tiling manner and supports all the stuff KorG
       needs.  Built on top of XCB, AnyEvent, and Gtk3.  It is not reparenting
       for purpose, so borders are rendered by X11 itself.  There are no any
       command-line parameters, (almost) nor any environment variables.  The
       only way to start it is: just to execute "korgwm" when no any other WM
       is running.  Please see bundled README.md if you are interested in
       details.

CONFIGURATION
       There are several things which affects korgwm behaviour.  Firstly, it
       has pretty good config defaults.  Then it reads several files during
       startup and merges the configuration.  Note that it merges configs
       pretty silly.  So it is recommended to completely specify rules or
       hotkeys if you want to change their parts.  The files are being read in
       such an order: "/etc/korgwm/korgwm.conf", "$HOME/.korgwmrc",
       "$HOME/.config/korgwm/korgwm.conf".

       Please see bundled korgwm.conf.sample to get the full listing of
       available configuration parameters.

INSTALLATION
       As it is written entirely in pure Perl, the installation is pretty
       straightforward:

           perl Makefile.PL
           make
           make test
           make install

       Although it has number of dependencies which in turn rely on C
       libraries.  To make installation process smooth and nice you probably
       want to install them in advance.  For Debian GNU/Linux these should be
       sufficient:

           build-essential libcairo-dev libgirepository1.0-dev libglib2.0-dev xcb-proto

       And these for Archlinux:

           base-devel cairo glib2 gobject-introspection gtk3 libgirepository xcb-proto

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (c) 2023--2025 Sergei Zhmylev <zhmylove@narod.ru<gt>

       MIT License.  Full text is in LICENSE.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-01-22                         KORGWM(1)
