K5START(1)                          kstart                          K5START(1)


NAME
       k5start - Obtain and optionally keep active a Kerberos ticket

SYNOPSIS
       k5start [-abFhLnPqstvx] [-c child pid file] [-f keytab]
           [-g group] [-H minutes] [-I service instance]
           [-i client instance] [-K minutes] [-k ticket cache]
           [-l time string] [-m mode] [-o owner]
           [-p pid file] [-r service realm] [-S service name]
           [-u client principal] [principal [command ...]]

       k5start -U -f keytab [-abFhLnPqstvx] [-c child pid file]
           [-g group] [-H minutes] [-I service instance]
           [-K minutes] [-k ticket cache] [-l time string]
           [-m mode] [-o owner] [-p pid file]
           [-r service realm] [-S service name] [command ...]

DESCRIPTION
       k5start obtains and caches an initial Kerberos ticket-granting ticket
       for a principal.  k5start can be used as an alternative to kinit, but
       it is primarily intended to be used by programs that want to use a
       keytab to obtain Kerberos credentials, such as a web server that needs
       to authenticate to another service such as an LDAP server.

       Normally, the principal for which to give tickets should be specified
       as the first argument.  principal may be either just a principal name
       (including the optional instance) or a full principal and realm string.
       The -u and -i options can be used as an alternative mechanism for
       specifying the principal, but generally aren't as convenient.  If no
       principal is given as either the first argument or the argument to the
       -u option, the client principal defaults to the Unix username of the
       user running k5start in the default local realm.

       Optionally, a command may be given on the command line of k5start.  If
       so, that command is run after Kerberos authentication (and running
       aklog if desired), with the appropriate environment variables set to
       point it to the right ticket cache.  k5start will then continue
       running, waking up periodically to refresh credentials slightly before
       they would expire, until the command completes.  (The frequency with
       which it wakes up to refresh credentials can still be controlled with
       the -K option.)  To run in this mode, the principal must either be
       specified as a regular command-line argument or via the -U option; the
       -u and -i options may not be used.  Also, a keytab must be specified
       with -f to run a specific command.

       The command will not be run using the shell, so if you want to use
       shell metacharacters in the command with their special meaning, give
       "sh -c command" as the command to run and quote command.

       If the command contains command-line options (like "-c"), put -- on the
       command line before the beginning of the command to tell k5start to not
       parse those options as its own.

       When running a command, k5start propagates HUP, TERM, INT, and QUIT
       signals to the child process and does not exit when those signals are
       received.  (If the propagated signal causes the child process to exit,
       k5start will then exit.)  This allows k5start to react properly when
       run under a command supervision system such as runit(8) or svscan(8)
       that uses signals to control supervised commands, and to run
       interactive commands that should receive Ctrl-C.

       If a running k5start receives an ALRM signal, it immediately refreshes
       the ticket cache regardless of whether it is in danger of expiring.

       If k5start is run with a command or the -K flag and the -x flag is not
       given, it will keep trying even if the initial authentication fails.
       It will retry the initial authentication immediately and then with
       exponential backoff to once per minute, and keep trying until
       authentication succeeds or it is killed.  The command, if any, will not
       be started until authentication succeeds.

OPTIONS
       -a  When run with either the -K flag or a command, always renew tickets
           each time k5start wakes up.  Without this option, k5start will only
           try to renew a ticket as often as necessary to prevent the ticket
           from expiring.  With this option, k5start will renew tickets
           according to the interval specified with the -K flag.

           This behavior probably should have been the default behavior of -K.
           The default was not changed to avoid changes for existing users,
           but for new applications, consider always using -a with -K.

           This option is important if another program is manipulating the
           ticket cache that k5start is using.  For example, if another
           program is automatically renewing a ticket more frequently than
           k5start, then k5start will never see a ticket that is close to
           expiring and will therefore, by default, never try to renew the
           ticket.  This means that k5start will also never renew AFS tokens,
           even if the -t option was given, since k5start only renews AFS
           tokens after it successfully renews a ticket.  If this option is
           specified in such a situation, k5start will renew its ticket every
           time it checks the ticket, so AFS tokens will be renewed.

           This argument is only valid in combination with either -K or a
           command to run.

       -b  After starting, detach from the controlling terminal and run in the
           background.  This option only makes sense in combination with -K or
           a command that k5start will be running and can only be used if a
           keytab is specified with -f.  k5start will not background itself
           until after it has tried authenticating once, so that any initial
           errors will be reported, but it will then redirect output to
           /dev/null and no subsequent errors will be reported.

           If this flag is given, k5start will also change directories to "/".
           All paths (such as to a command to run or a PID file) should
           therefore be given as absolute, not relative, paths.

           If used in conjunction with a command to run, that command will
           also run in the background and will also have its input and output
           redirected to /dev/null.  It will have to report any errors via
           some other mechanism for the errors to be seen.

           Note that on Mac OS X, the default ticket cache type is per-session
           and using the -b flag will disassociate k5start from the existing
           ticket cache.  When using -b in conjunction with -K on Mac OS X,
           you probably also want to use the -k flag to specify a ticket cache
           file and force the use of a file cache.

           When using this option, consider also using -L to report k5start
           errors to syslog.

       -c child pid file
           Save the process ID (PID) of the child process into child pid file.
           child pid file is created if it doesn't exist and overwritten if it
           does exist.  This option is only allowed when a command was given
           on the command line and is most useful in conjunction with -b to
           allow management of the running child process.

           Note that, when used with -b, the PID file is written out after
           k5start is backgrounded and changes its working directory to /, so
           relative paths for the PID file will be relative to / (probably not
           what you want).

       -F  Do not get forwardable tickets even if the local configuration says
           to get forwardable tickets by default.  Without this flag, k5start
           does whatever the library default is.

       -f keytab
           Authenticate using the keytab keytab rather than asking for a
           password.  A key for the client principal must be present in
           keytab.

       -g group
           After creating the ticket cache, change its group ownership to
           group, which may be either the name of a group or a numeric group
           ID.  Ticket caches are created with 0600 permissions by default, so
           this will have no useful effect unless used with -m.

       -H minutes
           Check for a happy ticket, defined as one that has a remaining
           lifetime of at least minutes minutes.  If such a ticket is found,
           do not attempt authentication.  Instead, just run the command (if
           one was specified) or exit immediately with status 0 (if none was).
           Otherwise, try to obtain a new ticket and then run the command, if
           any.

           If -H is used with -t, the external program will always be run even
           if a ticket with a sufficient remaining lifetime was found.

           If -H is used with -K, k5start will not exit immediately.  Instead,
           the specified remaining lifetime will replace the default value of
           two minutes, meaning that k5start will ensure, each time it wakes
           up, that the ticket has a remaining lifetime of the minutes
           argument.  This is an alternative to -a to ensure that tickets
           always have a certain minimal amount of lifetime remaining.

       -h  Display a usage message and exit.

       -I service instance
           The instance portion of the service principal.  The default is the
           default realm of the machine.  Note that unlike the client
           principal, a non-default service principal must be specified with
           -I and -S; one cannot provide the instance portion as part of the
           argument to -S.

       -i client instance
           Specifies the instance portion of the principal.  This option
           doesn't make sense except in combination with -u.  Note that the
           instance can be specified as part of username through the normal
           convention of appending a slash and then the instance, so one never
           has to use this option.

       -K minutes
           Run in daemon mode to keep a ticket alive indefinitely.  The
           program reawakens after minutes minutes, checks if the ticket will
           expire before or less than two minutes after the next scheduled
           check, and gets a new ticket if needed.  (In other words, it
           ensures that the ticket will always have a remaining lifetime of at
           least two minutes.)  If the -H flag is also given, the lifetime
           specified by it replaces the two minute default.

           If this option is not given but a command was given on the command
           line, the default interval is 60 minutes (1 hour).

           If an error occurs in refreshing the ticket cache, the wake-up
           interval will be shortened to one minute and the operation retried
           at that interval for as long as the error persists.

       -k ticket cache
           Use ticket cache as the ticket cache rather than the contents of
           the environment variable KRB5CCNAME or the library default.  ticket
           cache may be any ticket cache identifier recognized by the
           underlying Kerberos libraries.  This generally supports a path to a
           file, with or without a leading "FILE:" string, but may also
           support other ticket cache types.

           If any of -o, -g, or -m are given, ticket cache must be either a
           simple path to a file or start with "FILE:" or "WRFILE:".

       -L  Report messages to syslog as well as to standard output or standard
           error.  All messages will be logged with facility LOG_DAEMON.
           Regular messages that are displayed on standard output are logged
           with level LOG_NOTICE. Errors that don't cause k5start to terminate
           are logged with level LOG_WARNING.  Fatal errors are logged with
           level LOG_ERR.

           This is useful when debugging problems in combination with -b.

       -l time string
           Set the ticket lifetime.  time string should be in a format
           recognized by the Kerberos libraries for specifying times, such as
           "10h" (ten hours) or "10m" (ten minutes).  Known units are "s",
           "m", "h", and "d".  For more information, see kinit(1).

       -m mode
           After creating the ticket cache, change its file permissions to
           mode, which must be a file mode in octal (640 or 444, for example).

           Setting a mode that does not allow k5start to read or write to the
           ticket cache will cause k5start to fail and exit when using the -K
           option or running a command.

       -n  Ignored, present for option compatibility with the now-obsolete
           k4start.

       -o owner
           After creating the ticket cache, change its ownership to owner,
           which may be either the name of a user or a numeric user ID.  If
           owner is the name of a user and -g was not also given, also change
           the group ownership of the ticket cache to the default group for
           that user.

       -P  Do not get proxiable tickets even if the local configuration says
           to get proxiable tickets by default.  Without this flag, k5start
           does whatever the library default is.

       -p pid file
           Save the process ID (PID) of the running k5start process into pid
           file.  pid file is created if it doesn't exist and overwritten if
           it does exist.  This option is most useful in conjunction with -b
           to allow management of the running k5start daemon.

           Note that, when used with -b the PID file is written out after
           k5start is backgrounded and changes its working directory to /, so
           relative paths for the PID file will be relative to / (probably not
           what you want).

       -q  Quiet.  Suppresses the printing of the initial banner message
           saying what Kerberos principal tickets are being obtained for, and
           also suppresses the password prompt when the -s option is given.

       -r service realm
           The realm for the service principal.  This defaults to the default
           local realm.

       -S service name
           Specifies the principal for which k5start is getting a service
           ticket.  The default value is "krbtgt", to obtain a ticket-granting
           ticket.  This option (along with -I) may be used if one only needs
           access to a single service.  Note that unlike the client principal,
           a non-default service principal must be specified with both -S and
           -I; one cannot provide the instance portion as part of the argument
           to -S.

       -s  Read the password from standard input.  This bypasses the normal
           password prompt, which means echo isn't suppressed and input isn't
           forced to be from the controlling terminal.  Most uses of this
           option are a security risk.  You normally want to use a keytab and
           the -f option instead.

       -t  Run an external program after getting a ticket.  The intended use
           of this is to run aklog to get a token.  If the environment
           variable AKLOG (or KINIT_PROG for backward compatibility) is set,
           it overrides the compiled-in default.

           If a command was given on the command line, k5start will attempt to
           isolate the AFS credentials for that command from the invoking
           process.  There are two possible ways in which this is done.

           First, if k5start has been built with AFS setpag() support and AFS
           is available, k5start will create a new PAG before running the
           external program.

           Otherwise, if either k5start was not built with AFS setpag()
           support or AFS is not available, but the Linux kafs module is
           available and k5start was built with libkeyutils support, it will
           create a new session keyring and link it to the current user
           keyring before running the external program.

           If neither of these conditions are true, k5start will run the
           external program without doing any credential isolation, which may
           also affect the credentials of the invoking process.

       -U  Rather than requiring the authentication principal be given on the
           command line, read it from the keytab specified with -f.  The
           principal will be taken from the first entry in the keytab.  -f
           must be specified if this option is used.

           When -U is given, k5start will not expect a principal name to be
           given on the command line, and any arguments after the options will
           be taken as a command to run.

       -u client principal
           This specifies the principal to obtain credentials as.  The entire
           principal may be specified here, or alternatively just the first
           portion may be specified with this flag and the instance specified
           with -i.

           Note that there's normally no reason to use this flag rather than
           simply giving the principal on the command line as the first
           regular argument.

       -v  Be verbose.  This will print out a bit of additional information
           about what is being attempted and what the results are.

       -x  Exit immediately on any error.  Normally, when running a command or
           when run with the -K option, k5start keeps running even if it fails
           to refresh the ticket cache and will try again at the next check
           interval.  With this option, k5start will instead exit.

EXIT STATUS
       The program exits with status 0 if it successfully gets a ticket or has
       a happy ticket (see -H).  If k5start runs aklog or some other program
       k5start returns the exit status of that program if it exits normally.
       If the program exits abnormally due to a signal, k5start will exit with
       a status of 128 plus the signal number.  (This matches the behavior of
       bash.)

EXAMPLE
       Use the /etc/krb5.keytab keytab to obtain a ticket granting ticket for
       the principal host/example.com, putting the ticket cache in
       /tmp/service.tkt.  The lifetime is 10 hours and the program wakes up
       every 10 minutes to check if the ticket is about to expire.

           k5start -k /tmp/service.tkt -f /etc/krb5.keytab -K 10 -l 10h \
               host/example.com

       Do the same, but using the default ticket cache and run the command
       /usr/local/bin/auth-backup.  k5start will continue running until the
       command finishes.  If the initial authentication fails, keep trying,
       and don't start the command until it succeeds.  This could be used
       during system startup for a command that must have valid tickets before
       starting, and tolerates having k5start start before the network is
       completely set up.

           k5start -f /etc/krb5.keytab -K 10 -l 10h host/example.com \
               /usr/local/bin/auth-backup

       Shows the permissions of the temporary cache file created by k5start:

           k5start -f /etc/krb5.keytab host/example.com \
               -- sh -c 'ls -l $KRB5CCNAME'

       Notice the "--" before the command to keep k5start from parsing the
       "-c" as its own option.

       Do the same thing, but determine the principal from the keytab:

           k5start -f /etc/krb5.keytab -U -- sh -c 'ls -l $KRB5CCNAME'

       Note that no principal is given before the command.

       Starts k5start as a daemon using the Debian start-stop-daemon
       management program.  This is the sort of line that one could put into a
       Debian init script:

           start-stop-daemon --start --pidfile /var/run/k5start.pid \
               --exec /usr/local/bin/k5start -- -b -p /var/run/k5start.pid \
               -f /etc/krb5.keytab host/example.com

       This uses /var/run/k5start.pid as the PID file and obtains
       host/example.com tickets from the system keytab file.  k5start would
       then be stopped with:

           start-stop-daemon --stop --pidfile /var/run/k5start.pid
           rm -f /var/run/k5start.pid

       This code could be added to an init script for Apache, for example, to
       start a k5start process alongside Apache to manage its Kerberos
       credentials.

ENVIRONMENT
       If the environment variable AKLOG is set, its value will be used as the
       program to run with -t rather than the default complied into k5start.
       If AKLOG is not set and KINIT_PROG is set, its value will be used
       instead.  KINIT_PROG is honored for backward compatibility but its use
       is not recommended due to its confusing name.

       If no ticket file (with -k) or command is specified on the command
       line, k5start will use the environment variable KRB5CCNAME to determine
       the location of the the ticket granting ticket.  If either a command is
       specified or the -k option is used, KRB5CCNAME will be set to point to
       the ticket file before running the aklog program or any command given
       on the command line.

FILES
       The default ticket cache is determined by the underlying Kerberos
       libraries.  The default path for aklog is determined at build time, and
       will normally be whichever of aklog or afslog is found in the user's
       path.

       If a command is specified and -k was not given, k5start will create a
       temporary ticket cache file of the form "/tmp/krb5cc_%d_%s" where %d is
       the UID k5start is running as and %s is a random string.

AUTHORS
       k5start was based on the k4start code written by Robert Morgan.  It was
       ported to Kerberos v5 by Booker C. Bense.  Additional cleanup and
       current maintenance are done by Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>.

       Implementations of -b and -p and the example for a Debian init script
       are based on code contributed by Navid Golpayegani.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2015, 2021 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

       Copyright 2002, 2004-2012, 2014 The Board of Trustees of the Leland
       Stanford Junior University

       Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
       are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
       without any warranty.

       SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

SEE ALSO
       kinit(1), krenew(1)

       This program is part of kstart.  The current version is available from
       its web site at <https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/kstart/>.

4.3                               2021-08-31                        K5START(1)
