LATEXDIFF-VC(1)                                                LATEXDIFF-VC(1)

NAME
     latexdiff-vc - wrapper script that calls latexdiff for different versions
     of a file under version management (CVS, RCS or SVN)

SYNOPSIS
     latexdiff-vc [ latexdiff-options ] [ latexdiff-vc-options ]  -r [rev1]
     [-r rev2]  file1.tex [ file2.tex ...]

      or

     latexdiff-vc [ latexdiff-options ]  [ latexdiff-vc-options ][
     --postscript | --pdf ]  old.tex new.tex

DESCRIPTION
     latexdiff-vc is a wrapper script that applies latexdiff to a file, or
     multiple files under version control (git, subversion (SVN), mercurial
     (hg), CVS, RCS), and optionally runs the sequence of "latex" and "dvips"
     or "pdflatex" commands necessary to produce pdf or postscript output of
     the difference tex file(s). It can also be applied to a pair of files to
     automatise the generation of difference file in postscript or pdf format.

OPTIONS
     --rcs, --svn, --cvs, --git or --hg
         Set the version control system used.  If no version system is
         specified, latexdiff-vc will venture a guess.

         latexdiff-cvs, latexdiff-rcs etc are variants of latexdiff-vc which
         default to the respective versioning system. However, this default
         can still be overridden using the options above.

         Note that hg needs to support the "--root" option (version >= 2.9)

     -r, -r rev or --revision, --revision=rev
         Choose revision (under RCS, CVS, SVN, GIT or HG). One or two -r
         options can be specified, and they result in different behaviour:

         latexdiff-vc -r file.tex ...
             compares file.tex with the most recently checked-in version
             checked.

         latexdiff-vc -r rev1 file.tex ...
             compares file.tex with revision rev1.

         latexdiff-vc -r rev1 -r rev2 file.tex ...
             compares revisions rev1 and rev2 of file.tex.

             Multiple files can be specified for all of the above options. All
             files must have the extensions ".tex", ".bbl", or ".flt", though.

         latexdiff-vc  old.tex new.tex
             compares two files.

         The name of the difference file is generated automatically and
         reported to stdout.

     -d or --dir  -d path or --dir=path
         Rather than appending the string "diff" and optionally the version
         numbers given to the output-file, this will prepend a directory name
         "diff" to the original filename, creating the directory and sub-
         directories should they not exist already.  This is particularly
         useful in order to clone a complete directory hierarchy.  Optionally,
         a pathname path can be specified, which is prepended instead of
         "diff".

     --flatten,--flatten=keep-intermediate
         If combined with "--git", "--svn" or "--hg" option or the
         corresponding modes, check out the revisions to compare in a separate
         temporary directory, and then pass on option "--flatten" to
         latexdiff. The directory in which "latexdiff-vc" is invoked defines
         the subtree which will be checked out.  Note that if additional files
         are needed which are not included in the flatten procedure (package
         files, included graphics), they need to be accessible in the current
         directory. If you use bibtex, it is recommended to include the ".bbl"
         file in the version management. From latexdiff-vc >=1.3.4  there is
         an attempt to create the ".bbl" file by running bibtex in the
         retrieved subdirectories; note that the bibtex is run in the
         temporary subdirectories so any .bib or .bst files either need to be
         under version management, or in the global search paths for bibtex
         (shell environment variables "BIBINPUTS" and "BSTINPUTS").

         The generic usage of this function is : "latexdiff-vc --flatten -r
         rev1 [-r rev2] master.tex" where master.tex is the project file
         containing the highest level of includes etc.

         With "--flatten=keep-intermediate", the intermediate revision
         snapshots are kept in the current directory (Default is to store them
         in a temporary directory and delete them after generating the diff
         file.)

     --only-changes
         Post-process the output such that only pages with changes on them are
         displayed. This requires the use of subtype ZLABEL in latexdiff,
         which will be set automatically, but any manually set -s option will
         be overruled (also requires zref package to be installed). This
         option also disables internal links (as implemented by hyperref
         package) and graphics markup.  (note that this option must be
         combined with --ps or --pdf to make sense)

     --force
         Overwrite existing diff files without asking for confirmation.
         Default behaviour is to ask for confirmation before overwriting an
         existing difference file.

     --run
         run latex command on diff file after generation of diff file.

     --dvi
         run latex and dvixxx commands after generation of diff file.

     -c configfile =item --config var1=val1,var2=val2,... or -c var1=val1,..
         Set configuration variables for latexdiff and latexdiff-vc.  The
         option can be repeated to set different variables (as an alternative
         to the comma-separated list).  Available variables for latexdiff-vc:

         "LATEXDIFF" latexdiff command (e.g. latexdiff-fast, latexdiff-so).
         This command should support the options "-draftmode" and
         "-interaction=batchmode"
         "LATEX" latex command (e.g. pdflatex, lualatex)
         "DVI2"  Command for conversion of dvi file (e.g. dvips, dvipdf)
         "BIBTEX" Command replacing bibtex

         All other config variables are passed to latexdiff. Explicitly set
         configuration changes always override implicit changes by the
         following shortcut options --fast, --so, --ps and --pdf.

     --fast or --so
         Use "latexdiff-fast" or "latexdiff-so", respectively (instead of
         "latexdiff").

     --ps or --postscript
         Generate postscript output from difference file.  This will run the
         sequence "latex; latex; dvips" on the difference file (do not use
         this option in the rare cases, where three "latex" commands are
         required if you care about correct referencing).  If the difference
         file contains a "\bibliography" tag, run the sequence "latex; bibtex;
         latex; latex; dvips".

     --pdf
         Generate pdf output from difference file using "pdflatex". This will
         run the sequence "pdflatex; pdflatex" on the difference file, or
         "pdflatex; bibtex; pdflatex; pdflatex" for files requiring bibtex.
         Note that this is not just a shortcut for setting configuration
         variable but also triggers some special behaviour.

     --show-config
         Show values of configuration variables.

     --help or -h
         Show help text

     --version
         Show version number

     All other options are passed on to "latexdiff".  Note that it is not
     always easy for latexdiff to correctly assign arguments to options when
     short form (single letter) options are used so it is recommended to use
     long-form options.

SEE ALSO
     latexdiff

PORTABILITY
     latexdiff-vc uses external commands and is therefore dependent on the
     system architecture; it has been tested mainly on Unix-like systems. It
     also requires a version control system and latex to be installed on the
     system to make use of all features.  Modules from Perl 5.8 or higher are
     required.

BUG REPORTING
     Please submit bug reports using the issue tracker of the github
     repository page https://github.com/ftilmann/latexdiff.git, or send them
     to tilmann -- AT -- gfz-potsdam.de.  Include the version number of
     latexdiff-vc (option "--version").

AUTHOR
     Version 1.3.4 Copyright (C) 2005-2017 Frederik Tilmann

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
     under the terms of the GNU General Public License Version 3 Contributors:
     S Utcke, H Bruyninckx; some ideas have been inspired by git-latexdiff
     bash script.  C. Junghans: Mercurial Support.

perl v5.38.2                      2024-11-17                   LATEXDIFF-VC(1)
