LD.LLD(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              LD.LLD(1)

NAME
     ld.lld – ELF linker from the LLVM project

SYNOPSIS
     ld.lld [options] objfile ...

DESCRIPTION
     A linker takes one or more object, archive, and library files, and
     combines them into an output file (an executable, a shared library, or
     another object file).  It relocates code and data from the input files
     and resolves symbol references between them.

     ld.lld is a drop-in replacement for the GNU BFD and gold linkers.  It
     accepts most of the same command line arguments and linker scripts as GNU
     linkers.

     ld.lld currently supports i386, x86-64, ARM, AArch64, PowerPC32,
     PowerPC64, MIPS32, MIPS64, RISC-V, AMDGPU, Hexagon and SPARC V9 targets.
     ld.lld acts as a Microsoft link.exe-compatible linker if invoked as
     lld-link and as macOS's ld if invoked as ld.ld64. All these targets are
     always supported however ld.lld was built, so you can always use ld.lld
     as a native linker as well as a cross linker.

OPTIONS
     Many options have both a single-letter and long form.  When using the
     long form options other than those beginning with the letter o may be
     specified using either one or two dashes preceding the option name.  Long
     options beginning with o require two dashes to avoid confusion with the
     -o path option.

     --allow-multiple-definition
             Do not error if a symbol is defined multiple times.  The first
             definition will be used.

     --allow-shlib-undefined
             Allow unresolved references in shared libraries.  This option is
             enabled by default when linking a shared library.

     --apply-dynamic-relocs
             Apply link-time values for dynamic relocations.

     --as-needed
             Only set DT_NEEDED for shared libraries if used.

     --auxiliary=value
             Set the DT_AUXILIARY field to the specified name.

     --Bdynamic, --dy
             Link against shared libraries.

     --Bstatic, --static, --dn
             Do not link against shared libraries.

     -Bno-symbolic
             Don't bind default visibility defined symbols locally for -shared
             (default).

     -Bsymbolic
             Bind default visibility defined symbols locally for -shared. Also
             set the DF_SYMBOLIC flag.

     -Bsymbolic-functions
             Bind default visibility defined function symbols locally for
             -shared.

     -Bsymbolic-non-weak-functions
             Bind default visibility defined STB_GLOBAL function symbols
             locally for -shared.

     --build-id=value
             Generate a build ID note.  value may be one of fast, md5, sha1,
             tree, uuid, 0xhex-string, and none.  tree is an alias for sha1.
             Build-IDs of type fast, md5, sha1, and tree are calculated from
             the object contents.  fast is not intended to be
             cryptographically secure.

     --build-id
             Synonym for --build-id=fast.

     --color-diagnostics=value
             Use colors in diagnostics.  value may be one of always, auto, and
             never.  auto enables color if and only if output is to a
             terminal.

     --color-diagnostics
             Alias for --color-diagnostics=auto.

     --compress-debug-sections=value
             Compress DWARF debug sections.  value may be none or zlib.  The
             default compression level is 1 (fastest) as the debug info
             usually compresses well at that level, but if you want to
             compress it more, you can specify -O2 to set the compression
             level to 6.

     --cref  Output cross reference table.

     --define-common, -d
             Assign space to common symbols.

     --defsym=symbol=expression
             Define a symbol alias.  expression may be another symbol or a
             linker script expression.  For example, ‘--defsym=foo=bar’ or
             ‘--defsym=foo=bar+0x100’.

     --demangle
             Demangle symbol names.

     --disable-new-dtags
             Disable new dynamic tags.

     --discard-all, -x
             Delete all local symbols.

     --discard-locals, -X
             Delete temporary local symbols.

     --discard-none
             Keep all symbols in the symbol table.

     --dynamic-linker=value
             Specify the dynamic linker to be used for a dynamically linked
             executable.  This is recorded in an ELF segment of type
             PT_INTERP.

     --dynamic-list=file
             Read a list of dynamic symbols from file.  (executable) Put
             matched non-local defined symbols to the dynamic symbol table.
             (shared object) References to matched non-local STV_DEFAULT
             symbols shouldn't be bound to definitions within the shared
             object. Implies -Bsymbolic but does not set DF_SYMBOLIC

     --EB    Select the big-endian format in the OUTPUT_FORMAT command.

     --EL    Select the little-endian format in the OUTPUT_FORMAT command.

     --eh-frame-hdr
             Request creation of .eh_frame_hdr section and PT_GNU_EH_FRAME
             segment header.

     --emit-relocs, -q
             Generate relocations in the output.

     --enable-new-dtags
             Enable new dynamic tags.

     --end-lib
             End a grouping of objects that should be treated as if they were
             together in an archive.

     --entry=entry
             Name of entry point symbol.

     --error-limit=value
             Maximum number of errors to emit before stopping.  A value of
             zero indicates that there is no limit.

     --error-unresolved-symbols
             Report unresolved symbols as errors.

     --error-handing-script=script_path
             Call script script_path upon some error, with tag as first
             argument, and an extra parameter as second argument. The script
             is expected to return 0 on success. Any other value is considered
             a generic error.  tag may be missing-lib followed by the name of
             the missing library.  undefined-symbol followed by the name of
             the undefined symbol.

     --execute-only
             Mark executable sections unreadable.  This option is currently
             only supported on AArch64.

     --exclude-libs=value
             Exclude static libraries from automatic export.

     --export-dynamic, -E
             Put symbols in the dynamic symbol table.

     --export-dynamic-symbol=glob
             (executable) Put matched non-local defined symbols to the dynamic
             symbol table.  (shared object) References to matched non-local
             STV_DEFAULT symbols shouldn't be bound to definitions within the
             shared object even if they would otherwise be due to -Bsymbolic ,
             -Bsymbolic-functions or --dynamic-list

     --fatal-warnings
             Treat warnings as errors.

     --filter=value, -F value
             Set the DT_FILTER field to the specified value.

     --fini=symbol
             Specify a finalizer function.

     --format=input-format, -b input-format
             Specify the format of the inputs following this option.
             input-format may be one of binary, elf, and default.  default is
             a synonym for elf.

     --gc-sections
             Enable garbage collection of unused sections.

     --gdb-index
             Generate .gdb_index section.

     --hash-style=value
             Specify hash style.  value may be sysv, gnu, or both.  both is
             the default.

     --help  Print a help message.

     --icf=all
             Enable identical code folding.

     --icf=safe
             Enable safe identical code folding.

     --icf=none
             Disable identical code folding.

     --ignore-data-address-equality
             Ignore address equality of data. C/C++ requires each data to have
             a unique address.  This option allows lld to do unsafe
             optimization that breaks the requirement: create copies of read-
             only data or merge two or more read-only data that happen to have
             the same value.

     --ignore-function-address-equality
             Ignore address equality of functions.  This option allows non-PIC
             calls to a function with non-default visibility in a shared
             object.  The function may have different addresses within the
             executable and within the shared object.

     --image-base=value
             Set the base address to value.

     --init=symbol
             Specify an initializer function.

     --keep-unique=symbol
             Do not fold symbol during ICF.

     -l libName, --library=libName
             Root name of library to use.

     -L dir, --library-path=dir
             Add a directory to the library search path.

     --lto-aa-pipeline=value
             AA pipeline to run during LTO.  Used in conjunction with
             --lto-newpm-passes.

     --lto-newpm-passes=value
             Passes to run during LTO.

     --lto-Oopt-level
             Optimization level for LTO.

     --lto-partitions=value
             Number of LTO codegen partitions.

     -m value
             Set target emulation.

     --Map=file, -M file
             Print a link map to file.

     --nmagic, -n
             Do not page align sections, link against static libraries.

     --no-allow-shlib-undefined
             Do not allow unresolved references in shared libraries.  This
             option is enabled by default when linking an executable.

     --no-as-needed
             Always set DT_NEEDED for shared libraries.

     --no-color-diagnostics
             Do not use colors in diagnostics.

     --no-define-common
             Do not assign space to common symbols.

     --no-demangle
             Do not demangle symbol names.

     --no-dynamic-linker
             Inhibit output of an .interp section.

     --no-fortran-common
             Do not search archive members for definitions to override COMMON
             symbols.

     --no-gc-sections
             Disable garbage collection of unused sections.

     --no-gnu-unique
             Disable STB_GNU_UNIQUE symbol binding.

     --no-merge-exidx-entries
             Disable merging .ARM.exidx entries.

     --no-nmagic
             Page align sections.

     --no-omagic
             Do not set the text data sections to be writable, page align
             sections.

     --no-relax
             Disable target-specific relaxations. This is currently a no-op.

     --no-rosegment
             Do not put read-only non-executable sections in their own
             segment.

     --no-undefined-version
             Report version scripts that refer undefined symbols.

     --no-undefined
             Report unresolved symbols even if the linker is creating a shared
             library.

     --no-warn-symbol-ordering
             Do not warn about problems with the symbol ordering file or call
             graph profile.

     --no-whole-archive
             Restores the default behavior of loading archive members.

     --no-pie, --no-pic-executable
             Do not create a position independent executable.

     --noinhibit-exec
             Retain the executable output file whenever it is still usable.

     --nostdlib
             Only search directories specified on the command line.

     -o path
             Write the output executable, library, or object to path.  If not
             specified, a.out is used as a default.

     -Ovalue
             Optimize output file size.  value may be:

             0   Disable string merging.
             1   Enable string merging.
             2   Enable string tail merging. If --compress-debug-sections is
                 given, compress debug sections at compression level 6 instead
                 of 1.

             -O1 is the default.

     --oformat=format
             Specify the format for the output object file.  The only
             supported format is binary, which produces output with no ELF
             header.

     --omagic, -N
             Set the text and data sections to be readable and writable, do
             not page align sections, link against static libraries.

     --opt-remarks-filename file
             Write optimization remarks in YAML format to file.

     --opt-remarks-passes pass-regex
             Filter optimization remarks by only allowing the passes matching
             pass-regex.

     --opt-remarks-with-hotness
             Include hotness information in the optimization remarks file.

     --orphan-handling=mode
             Control how orphan sections are handled.  An orphan section is
             one not specifically mentioned in a linker script.  mode may be:

             place
                 Place orphan sections in suitable output sections.
             warn
                 Place orphan sections as for place and also report a warning.
             error
                 Place orphan sections as for place and also report an error.

             place is the default.

     --pack-dyn-relocs=format
             Pack dynamic relocations in the given format.  format may be:

             none
                 Do not pack.  Dynamic relocations are encoded in SHT_REL(A).
             android
                 Pack dynamic relocations in SHT_ANDROID_REL(A).
             relr
                 Pack relative relocations in SHT_RELR, and the rest of
                 dynamic relocations in SHT_REL(A).
             android+relr
                 Pack relative relocations in SHT_RELR, and the rest of
                 dynamic relocations in SHT_ANDROID_REL(A).

             none is the default.  If --use-android-relr-tags is specified,
             use SHT_ANDROID_RELR instead of SHT_RELR.

     --pic-veneer
             Always generate position independent thunks.

     --pie, --pic-executable
             Create a position independent executable.

     --print-gc-sections
             List removed unused sections.

     --print-icf-sections
             List identical folded sections.

     --print-map
             Print a link map to the standard output.

     --print-archive-stats=file
             Write archive usage statistics to the specified file.  Print the
             numbers of members and fetched members for each archive.

     --push-state
             Save the current state of --as-needed, --static, and
             --whole-archive.

     --pop-state
             Undo the effect of --push-state.

     --relocatable, -r
             Create relocatable object file.

     --reproduce=path
             Write a tar file to path, containing all the input files needed
             to reproduce the link, a text file called response.txt containing
             the command line options and a text file called version.txt
             containing the output of ld.lld --version.  The archive when
             unpacked can be used to re-run the linker with the same options
             and input files.

     --retain-symbols-file=file
             Retain only the symbols listed in the file.

     --rpath=value, -R value
             Add a DT_RUNPATH to the output.

     --rsp-quoting=value
             Quoting style for response files.  The supported values are
             windows and posix.

     --script=file, -T file
             Read linker script from file.  If multiple linker scripts are
             given, they are processed as if they were concatenated in the
             order they appeared on the command line.

     --section-start=section=address
             Set address of section.

     --shared, --Bsharable
             Build a shared object.

     --shuffle-sections=seed
             Shuffle matched sections using the given seed before mapping them
             to the output sections.  If -1, reverse the section order. If 0,
             use a random seed.

     --soname=value, -h value
             Set DT_SONAME to value.

     --sort-common
             This option is ignored for GNU compatibility.

     --sort-section=value
             Specifies sections sorting rule when linkerscript is used.

     --start-lib
             Start a grouping of objects that should be treated as if they
             were together in an archive.

     --strip-all, -s
             Strip all symbols.  Implies --strip-debug.

     --strip-debug, -S
             Strip debugging information.

     --symbol-ordering-file=file
             Lay out sections in the order specified by file.

     --sysroot=value
             Set the system root.

     --target1-abs
             Interpret R_ARM_TARGET1 as R_ARM_ABS32.

     --target1-rel
             Interpret R_ARM_TARGET1 as R_ARM_REL32.

     --target2=type
             Interpret R_ARM_TARGET2 as type, where type is one of rel, abs,
             or got-rel.

     --Tbss=value
             Same as --section-start with .bss as the sectionname.

     --Tdata=value
             Same as --section-start with .data as the sectionname.

     --Ttext=value
             Same as --section-start with .text as the sectionname.

     --thinlto-cache-dir=value
             Path to ThinLTO cached object file directory.

     --thinlto-cache-policy=value
             Pruning policy for the ThinLTO cache.

     --thinlto-jobs=value
             Number of ThinLTO jobs.

     --threads=N
             Number of threads.  all (default) means all of concurrent threads
             supported.  1 disables multi-threading.

     --time-trace
             Record time trace.

     --time-trace-file=file
             Write time trace output to file.

     --time-trace-granularity=value
             Minimum time granularity (in microseconds) traced by time
             profiler.

     --trace
             Print the names of the input files.

     --trace-symbol=symbol, -y symbol
             Trace references to symbol.

     --undefined=symbol, -u symbol
             If symbol is not defined after symbol resolution, and there's a
             static library that contains an object file defining the symbol,
             load the member to include the object file in the output file.

     --undefined-glob=pattern
             Synonym for --undefined, except that it takes a glob pattern.  In
             a glob pattern, * matches zero or more characters, ?  matches any
             single character, and [...] matches the characters within
             brackets.  All symbols that match a given pattern are handled as
             if they were given as arguments of --undefined.

     --unique
             Creates a separate output section for every orphan input section.

     --unresolved-symbols=value
             Determine how to handle unresolved symbols.

     --use-android-relr-tags
             Use SHT_ANDROID_RELR / DT_ANDROID_RELR* tags instead of SHT_RELR
             / DT_RELR*.

     -v      Display the version number and proceed with linking if object
             files are specified.

     -V, --version
             Display the version number and exit.

     --verbose
             Verbose mode.

     --version-script=file
             Read version script from file.

     --warn-backrefs
             Warn about reverse or cyclic dependencies to or between static
             archives.  This can be used to ensure linker invocation remains
             compatible with traditional Unix-like linkers.

     --warn-backrefs-exclude=glob
             Glob describing an archive (or an object file within --start-lib)
             which should be ignored for --warn-backrefs

     --warn-common
             Warn about duplicate common symbols.

     --warn-ifunc-textrel
             Warn about using ifunc symbols in conjunction with text
             relocations.  Older versions of glibc library (2.28 and earlier)
             has a bug that causes the segment that includes ifunc symbols to
             be marked as not executable when they are relocated.  As a
             result, although the program compiles and links successfully, it
             gives segmentation fault when the instruction pointer reaches an
             ifunc symbol.  Use -warn-ifunc-textrel to let lld give a warning,
             if the code may include ifunc symbols, may do text relocations
             and be linked with an older glibc version.  Otherwise, there is
             no need to use it, as the default value does not give a warning.
             This flag has been introduced in late 2018, has no counter part
             in ld and gold linkers, and may be removed in the future.

     --warn-unresolved-symbols
             Report unresolved symbols as warnings.

     --whole-archive
             Force load of all members in a static library.

     --wrap=symbol
             Redirect symbol references to __wrap_symbol and __real_symbol
             references to symbol.

     -z option
             Linker option extensions.

             dead-reloc-in-nonalloc=section_glob=value
                     Resolve a relocation in a matched non-SHF_ALLOC section
                     referencing a discarded symbol to value Accepts globs, in
                     the event of a section matching more than one option, the
                     last option takes precedence. An order of least specific
                     to most specific match is recommended.

             execstack
                     Make the main stack executable.  Stack permissions are
                     recorded in the PT_GNU_STACK segment.

             force-bti
                     Force enable AArch64 BTI instruction in PLT, warn if
                     Input ELF file does not have
                     GNU_PROPERTY_AARCH64_FEATURE_1_BTI property.

             force-ibt
                     Force enable Intel Indirect Branch Tracking in PLT, warn
                     if an input ELF file does not have
                     GNU_PROPERTY_X86_FEATURE_1_IBT property.

             global  Sets the DF_1_GLOBAL flag in the DYNAMIC section.
                     Different loaders can decide how to handle this flag on
                     their own.

             ifunc-noplt
                     Do not emit PLT entries for ifunc symbols.  Instead, emit
                     text relocations referencing the resolver.  This is an
                     experimental optimization and only suitable for
                     standalone environments where text relocations do not
                     have the usual drawbacks.  This option must be combined
                     with the -z notext option.

             initfirst
                     Sets the DF_1_INITFIRST flag to indicate the module
                     should be initialized first.

             interpose
                     Set the DF_1_INTERPOSE flag to indicate to the runtime
                     linker that the object is an interposer.  During symbol
                     resolution interposers are searched after the application
                     but before other dependencies.

             muldefs
                     Do not error if a symbol is defined multiple times.  The
                     first definition will be used.  This is a synonym for
                     --allow-multiple-definition.

             nocombreloc
                     Disable combining and sorting multiple relocation
                     sections.

             nocopyreloc
                     Disable the creation of copy relocations.

             nodefaultlib
                     Set the DF_1_NODEFLIB flag to indicate that default
                     library search paths should be ignored.

             nodelete
                     Set the DF_1_NODELETE flag to indicate that the object
                     cannot be unloaded from a process.

             nodlopen
                     Set the DF_1_NOOPEN flag to indicate that the object may
                     not be opened by dlopen(3).

             nognustack
                     Do not emit the PT_GNU_STACK segment.

             norelro
                     Do not indicate that portions of the object should be
                     mapped read-only after initial relocation processing.
                     The object will omit the PT_GNU_RELRO segment.

             notext  Allow relocations against read-only segments.  Sets the
                     DT_TEXTREL flag in the DYNAMIC section.

             now     Set the DF_BIND_NOW flag to indicate that the run-time
                     loader should perform all relocation processing as part
                     of object initialization.  By default relocations may be
                     performed on demand.

             origin  Set the DF_ORIGIN flag to indicate that the object
                     requires $ORIGIN processing.

             pac-plt
                     AArch64 only, use pointer authentication in PLT.

             rel     Use REL format for dynamic relocations.

             rela    Use RELA format for dynamic relocations.

             retpolineplt
                     Emit retpoline format PLT entries as a mitigation for
                     CVE-2017-5715.

             rodynamic
                     Make the .dynamic section read-only.  The DT_DEBUG tag
                     will not be emitted.

             separate-loadable-segments
             separate-code
             noseparate-code
                     Specify whether two adjacent PT_LOAD segments are allowed
                     to overlap in pages.  noseparate-code (default) allows
                     overlap.  separate-code allows overlap between two
                     executable segments, or two non-executable segments.
                     separate-loadable-segments disallows overlap.

             shstk   x86 only, use shadow stack.

             stack-size=size
                     Set the main thread's stack size to size.  The stack size
                     is recorded as the size of the size.  PT_GNU_STACK
                     program segment.

             start-stop-gc
                     Don't let __start_/__stop_ references retain the
                     associated C identifier name sections (default).

             nostart-stop-gc
                     Let __start_/__stop_ references retain the associated C
                     identifier name sections.

             text    Do not allow relocations against read-only segments.
                     This is the default.

             wxneeded
                     Create a PT_OPENBSD_WXNEEDED segment.

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     ld.lld's handing of archive files (those with a .a file extension) is
     different from traditional linkers used on Unix-like systems.

     Traditional linkers maintain a set of undefined symbols during linking.
     The linker processes each file in the order in which it appears on the
     command line, until the set of undefined symbols becomes empty.  An
     object file is linked into the output object when it is encountered, with
     its undefined symbols added to the set.  Upon encountering an archive
     file a traditional linker searches the objects contained therein, and
     processes those that satisfy symbols in the unresolved set.

     Handling mutually dependent archives may be awkward when using a
     traditional linker.  Archive files may have to be specified multiple
     times, or the special command line options --start-group and --end-group
     may be used to have the linker loop over the files in the group until no
     new symbols are added to the set.

     ld.lld records all symbols found in objects and archives as it iterates
     over command line arguments.  When ld.lld encounters an undefined symbol
     that can be resolved by an object file contained in a previously
     processed archive file, it immediately extracts and links it into the
     output object.

     With certain archive inputs ld.lld may produce different results compared
     to traditional linkers.  In practice, large bodies of third party
     software have been linked with ld.lld without material issues.

     The --warn-backrefs option may be used to identify a linker invocation
     that may be incompatible with traditional Unix-like linker behavior.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 12, 2019          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
