LEDGER(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              LEDGER(1)

NAME
     ledger – Command-line, double-entry account reporting tool

SYNOPSIS
     ledger [options] [command] [arguments]

DESCRIPTION
     ledger is a command-line accounting tool based on the power and
     completeness of double-entry accounting.  It is only a reporting tool,
     which means it never modifies your data files, but it does offer a large
     selection of reports, and different ways to customize them to your needs.

COMMANDS
     ledger accepts several top-level commands, each of which generates a
     different kind of basic report.  Most of them accept a report-query
     argument, in order to determine what should be reported.  To understand
     the syntax of a report-query, see the section on QUERIES.  In its most
     basic form, simply specifying one or more strings produces a report for
     all accounts containing those strings.

     If no command is given, ledger enters a REPL, or command loop, allowing
     several commands to be executed on the same dataset without reparsing.

     The following is a complete list of accepted reporting commands:

     accounts [report-query]
               List all accounts for postings that match the report-query.

     balance [report-query]
              Print a balance report showing totals for postings that match
              report-query, and aggregate totals for parents of those
              accounts.  Options most commonly used with this command are:
              --basis (-B)     Report in terms of cost basis, not amount or
                               value.  This is the only form of report which
                               is guaranteed to always balance to zero, when
                               no report-query is specified.  Only show totals
                               for the top-most accounts.
              --empty (-E)     Show accounts whose total is zero.
              --flat           Rather than display a hierarchical tree,
                               flatten the report to show subtotals for only
                               accounts matching report-query.
              --no-total       Suppress the summary total shown at the bottom
                               of the report.

              The synonyms bal and b are also accepted.

     budget [report-query]
              A special balance report which includes three extra columns: the
              amount budgeted during the reporting period, how spending
              differed from the budget, and the percentage of budget spent
              (exceeds 100% if you go over budget).  Note that budgeting
              requires one or more “periodic transactions” to be defined in
              your data file(s).  See the manual for more information.

     cleared [report-query]
              A special balance report which adds two extra columns: the
              cleared balance for each account, and the date of the most
              recent cleared posting in that account.  For this accounting to
              be meaningful, the cleared flag must be set on at least one
              posting.  See the manual for more information.

     commodities [report-query]
              List all commodities for postings matching the report-query.

     convert  Reads data from a CSV (comma-separated values) file and
              generates ledger transactions.

     csv [report-query]
              Report of postings matching the report-query in CSV format
              (comma-separated values).  Useful for exporting data to a
              spreadsheet for further analysis or charting.

     entry [entry-template]
              Generate and display a new, properly formatted ledger
              transaction by comparing the entry-template to the transactions
              in your data file(s).  For more information on draft templates
              and using this command to quickly create new transactions, see
              the section ENTRIES.

              The synonym xact is also accepted.

     emacs [query]
              Output posting and transaction data in a format readily consumed
              by the Emacs editor, in a series of Lisp forms.  This is used by
              the Emacs ledger-mode to process reporting data from ledger.

     equity [report-query]
              Print a transaction with a series of postings that balance
              current totals for accounts matching the report-query in a
              special account called Equity:Opening Balances.  The purpose of
              this report is to close the books for a prior year, while using
              these equity postings to carry forward those balances.

     payees [report-query]
              List all payees for postings matching the report-query.

     pricemap
              Produce a file which can be used to generate a graph with
              graphviz showing the relationship of commodities in the ledger
              file.

     prices [report-query]
              Report prices for all commodities in postings matching the
              report-query.  The prices are reported with the granularity of a
              single day.

     pricedb [report-query]
              Report prices for all commodities in postings matching the
              report-query.  Prices are reported down to the second, using the
              same format as the ~/.pricedb file.

     print [report-query]
              Print out the full transactions of any matching postings using
              the same format as they would appear in a data file.  This can
              be used to extract subsets from a ledger file to transfer to
              other files.

     push [options]
              In the REPL, push a set of command-line options, so that they
              will apply to all subsequent reports.

     pop      In the REPL, pop any option settings that have been pushed.

     register [report-query]
              List all postings matching the report-query.  This is one of the
              most common commands, and can be used to provide a variety of
              useful reports.  Options most commonly used with this command
              are:

              --average (-A)   Show the running average, rather than a running
                               total.
              --current (-c)   Don't show postings beyond the present day.
              --exchange "COMMODITY [, COMMODITY, ...]" (-X)
                               Render all values in the given commodity, if a
                               price conversion rate can be determined.  If
                               multiple commodities are given, values in a
                               listed commodity will remain as-is, and others
                               will be displayed in the first listed commodity
                               they can be converted to.  Rates are always
                               displayed relative to the date of the posting
                               they are calculated for.  This means a register
                               report is a historical value report.  For
                               current values, it may be preferable to use the
                               balance report.
              --gain (-G)      Show any gains (or losses) in commodity values
                               over time.
              --head number    Only show the top number postings.
              --historical (-H)
                               Value commodities at the time of their
                               acquisition.
              --invert         Invert the value of amounts shown.
              --market (-V)    Show current market values for all amounts.
                               This is determined in a somewhat magical
                               fashion.  It is probably more straightforward
                               to use --exchange option.
              --period time-period (-p)
                               Show postings only for the given time-period.
              --related (-r)   Show postings that are related to those that
                               would have been shown.  It has the effect of
                               displaying the "other side" of the postings.
              --sort value-expression (-S)
                               Sort postings by evaluating the given
                               value-expression.  Note that a comma-separated
                               list of expressions is allowed, in which case
                               each sorting term is used in order to determine
                               the final ordering.  For example, to search by
                               date and then amount, one would use:
                                     ledger reg --sort 'date, amount'
                               The sort order may be controlled with the '-'
                               sign. For example, to sort in reverse
                               chronological order:
                                     ledger reg --sort '-date'
              --tail number    Only show the last number postings.
              --uncleared (-U)
                               Only show uncleared (i.e., recent) postings.

              There are also several grouping options that can be useful:

              --by-payee (-P)  Group postings by common payee names.
              --daily (-D)     Group postings by day.
              --weekly (-W)    Group postings by week (starting on Sundays).
              --start-of-week day
                               Set the start of each report grouped by week to
                               the given day.
              --monthly (-M)   Group postings by month.
              --quarterly      Group postings by fiscal quarter.
              --yearly (-Y)    Group postings by year.
              --days-of-week   Group postings by the day of the week on which
                               they took place.
              --subtotal (-s)  Group all postings together.  This is very
                               similar to the totals shown by the balance
                               report.

              The synonyms reg and r are also accepted.

     select [sql-query]
              List all postings matching the sql-query.  This command allows
              to generate SQL-like queries, e.g.:
                    ledger select date,amount from posts where
                    account=~/Income/

     source   Parse a journal file and checks it for errors.  ledger will
              return success if no errors are found.

     stats [report-query]
              Provide summary information about all the postings matching
              report-query.  It provides information such as:
                    •   Time range of all matching postings
                    •   Unique payees
                    •   Unique accounts
                    •   Postings total
                    •   Uncleared postings
                    •   Days since last posting
                    •   Posts in the last 7 days
                    •   Posts in the last 30 days
                    •   Posts this month

     xml [report-query]
              Output data relating to the current report in XML format.  It
              includes all accounts and commodities involved in the report,
              plus the postings and the transactions they are contained in.
              See the manual for more information.

OPTIONS
     --abbrev-len INT
              Set the minimum length an account can be abbreviated to if it
              doesn't fit inside the account-width.  If INT is zero, then the
              account name will be truncated on the right.  If INT is greater
              than account-width then the account will be truncated on the
              left, with no shortening of the account names in order to fit
              into the desired width.

     --account EXPR
              Prepend EXPR to all accounts reported.  That is, the option
              --account "'Personal'" would tack Personal: and --account
              "tag('VAT')" would tack the value of the VAT tag to the
              beginning of every account reported in a balance or register
              report.

     --account-width INT
              Set the width of the account column in the register report to
              INT characters.

     --actual (-L)
              Report only real transactions, with no automated or virtual
              transactions used.

     --add-budget
              Show only un-budgeted postings.

     --amount EXPR (-t)
              Apply the given value expression to the posting amount.  Using
              --amount EXPR you can apply an arbitrary transformation to the
              postings.

     --amount-data (-j)
              On a register report print only the dates and amount of
              postings.  Useful for graphing and spreadsheet applications.

     --amount-width INT
              Set the width in characters of the amount column in the register
              report.

     --anon   Anonymize registry output, mostly for sending in bug reports.

     --ansi   Use color if the terminal supports it.  Alias for --color

     --args-only
              Ignore init files and environment variables for the ledger run.

     --auto-match
              When generating a ledger transaction from a CSV file using the
              convert command, automatically match an account from the Ledger
              journal.

     --aux-date
              Show auxiliary dates for all calculations.  Alias for
              --effective

     --average (-A)
              Print average values over the number of transactions instead of
              running totals.

     --average-lot-prices
              Report the average price at which each commodity was purchased
              in a balance report.

     --balance-format FMT
              Specify the format to use for the balance report.

     --base   Reduce convertible commodities down the bottom of the
              conversion, e.g.  display time in seconds.

     --basis (-B)
              Report the cost basis on all posting.  Alias for --cost

     --begin DATE (-b)
              Specify the start DATE of all calculations.  Transactions before
              that date will be ignored.

     --bold-if EXPR
              Print the entire line in bold if the given value expression is
              true.

     --budget
              Only display budgeted items.  In a register report this displays
              transaction in the budget, in a balance report this displays
              accounts in the budget.

     --budget-format FMT
              Specify the format to use for the budget report.

     --by-payee (-P)
              Group postings in the register report by common payee names.

     --check-payees
              Enable strict and pedantic checking for payees as well as
              accounts, commodities and tags.

     --cleared (-C)
              Display only cleared postings.

     --cleared-format FMT
              Specify the format to use for the cleared report

     --collapse (-n)
              Print only the top level accounts.

     --collapse-if-zero
              Collapse the account display only if it has a zero balance.

     --color  Use color if the terminal supports it.  Alias for --ansi

     --columns INT
              Make the register report INT characters wide.  By default ledger
              will use all available columns in your terminal.

     --cost   Report the cost basis on all posting.  Alias for --basis.

     --count  Direct ledger to report the number of items when appended to the
              commodities, accounts or payees commands.

     --csv-format FMT
              Format csv report according to FMT.

     --current (-c)
              Shorthand for --limit 'date <= today'.

     --daily (-D)
              Shorthand for --period daily.

     --date EXPR
              Transform the date of the transaction using EXPR.

     --date-format DATEFMT (-y)
              Print dates using DATEFMT.  Refer to strftime(3) for details on
              the format string syntax.

     --datetime-format DATETIMEFMT
              Print datetimes using DATETIMEFMT.  Refer to strftime(3) for
              details on the format string syntax.

     --date-width INT
              Specify the width, in characters, of the date column in the
              register report.

     --day-break
              Break up register report of timelog entries that span multiple
              days by day.

     --days-of-week
              Group transactions by the days of the week.  Alias for --dow.

     --dc     Display register or balance in debit/credit format If you use
              --dc with either the register or balance commands, you will now
              get separate columns for debits and credits.

     --debug STR
              If ledger has been built with debug options this will provide
              extra data during the run.

     --decimal-comma
              Direct ledger to parse journals using the European standard
              comma as decimal separator, vice a period.

     --depth INT
              Limit the depth of displayed accounts in balance and register
              reports.  Any accounts of greater depth are folded into their
              parent at the specified level.  For example with --depth 2 the
              account Expenses:Entertainment:Dining would be folded into
              Expenses:Entertainment for display.  Importantly, this is a
              display predicate, which means it only affects display, not the
              total calculations.

     --detail
              Related to convert command. Synonym to --rich-data option.

     --deviation
              Report each posting's deviation from the average.  It is only
              meaningful in the register and prices reports.

     --display EXPR (-d)
              Display lines that satisfy the expression EXPR.

     --display-amount EXPR
              Apply a transformation to the displayed amount.  This occurs
              after calculations occur.

     --display-total EXPR
              Apply a transformation to the displayed total.  This occurs
              after calculations occur.

     --dow    Group transactions by the days of the week.  Alias for
              --days-of-week.

     --download
              Cause quotes to be automagically downloaded, as needed, by
              running a script named getquote and expecting that script to
              return a value understood by ledger.  A sample implementation of
              a getquote script, implemented in Perl, is provided in the
              distribution.  Downloaded quote price are then appended to the
              price database, usually specified using the environment variable
              LEDGER_PRICE_DB.

     --effective
              Show auxiliary dates for all calculations.  Alias for
              --aux-date.

     --empty (-E)
              Include empty accounts in report.

     --end DATE (-e)
              Constrain the report so that transactions on or after DATE are
              not considered.

     --equity
              Related to the equity command.  Gives current account balances
              in the form of a register report.

     --exact  Report beginning and ending of periods by the date of the first
              and last posting occurring in that period.

     --exchange "COMMODITY [, COMMODITY, ...]" (-X)
              Display values in terms of the given COMMODITY.  If multiple
              commodities are given, values in a listed commodity will remain
              as-is, and others will be displayed in the first listed
              commodity they can be converted to.

     --file FILE (-f)
              Read journal data from FILE.

     --first INT
              Print the first INT entries.  Opposite of --last INT.  Alias for
              --head.

     --flat   Force the full names of accounts to be used in the balance
              report.  The balance report will not use an indented tree.

     --force-color
              Output TTY color codes even if the TTY doesn't support them.
              Useful for TTYs that don't advertise their capabilities
              correctly.

     --force-pager
              Force ledger to paginate its output.

     --forecast-while EXPR
              Continue forecasting while VEXPR is true.  Alias for --forecast.

     --forecast-years INT
              Forecast at most INT years into the future.

     --format FMT (-F)
              Use the given format string FMT to print output.

     --gain (-G)
              Report net gain or loss for commodities that have a price
              history.

     --generated
              Include auto-generated postings (such as those from automated
              transactions) in the report, in cases where you normally
              wouldn't want them.

     --group-by EXPR
              Group transaction together in the register report.  EXPR can be
              anything, although most common would be payee or commodity.  The
              tag() function is also useful here.

     --group-title-format FMT
              Set the format for the headers that separate reports section of
              a grouped report.  Only has effect with a --group-by EXPR
              register report.

     --head INT
              Print the first INT entries.  Opposite of --tail INT.  Alias for
              --first

     --help   Print this man page.

     --immediate
              Evaluate calculations immediately rather than lazily.

     --import FILE
              Import FILE as Python module.

     --init-file FILE (-i)
              Read FILE before any other ledger file.  This file may not
              contain any postings, but it may contain option settings.  To
              specify options in the init file, use the same syntax as the
              command-line, but put each option on its own line.

     --inject STR
              Use STR amounts in calculations.  In case you know what amount a
              transaction should be, but the actual transaction has the wrong
              value you can use metadata STR to specify the expected amount.

     --input-date-format DATEFMT
              Specify the input date format for journal entries.

     --invert
              Change the sign of all reported values.

     --last INT.
              Report only the last INT entries.  Opposite of --first INT.
              Only useful on a register report.  Alias for --tail.

     --leeway INT (-Z)
              Alias for --price-expr.

     --limit EXPR (-l)
              Limit postings in calculations.

     --lot-dates
              Report the date on which each commodity in a balance report was
              purchased.

     --lot-notes
              Report the tag attached to each commodity in a balance report.

     --lot-prices
              Report the price at which each commodity in a balance report was
              purchased.

     --lots   Report the date and price at which each commodity was purchased
              in a balance report.

     --lots-actual
              Preserve the uniqueness of commodities so they aren't merged
              during reporting without printing the lot annotations.

     --market (-V)
              Use the latest market value for all commodities.

     --master-account STR
              Prepend all account names with STR

     --meta STR
              In the register report, prepend the transaction with the value
              of the given tag STR.

     --meta-width INT
              Specify the width of the Meta column used for the --meta TAG
              options.

     --monthly (-M)
              Shorthand for --period monthly.

     --no-aliases
              Aliases are completely ignored.

     --no-color
              Suppress any color TTY output.

     --no-pager
              Disables the pager on TTY output.

     --no-revalued
              Stop ledger from showing <Revalued> postings.

     --no-rounding
              Don't output "<Adjustment>" postings.  Note that this will cause
              the running total to often not add up!  Its main use is for
              --amount-data (-j) and --total-data (-J) reports.

     --no-titles
              Suppress the output of group titles.

     --no-total
              Suppress printing the final total line in a balance report.

     --now DATE
              Use DATE as the current date.  This affects the output when
              using --period, --begin, --end, or --current to decide which
              dates lie in the past or future.

     --only EXPR
              This is a postings predicate that applies after certain
              transforms have been executed, such as periodic gathering.

     --options
              Display the options in effect for this ledger invocation, along
              with their values and the source of those values.

     --output FILE (-o)
              Redirect the output of ledger to FILE.

     --pager STR
              Use STR as the pager program.

     --payee  Sets a value expression for formatting the payee.  In the
              register report this prevents the second entry from having a
              date and payee for each transaction.

     --payee-width INT
              Set the number of columns dedicated to the payee in the register
              report to INT.

     --pedantic
              Accounts, tags or commodities not previously declared will cause
              errors.

     --pending
              Use only postings that are marked pending.

     --percent (-%)
              Calculate the percentage value of each account in a balance
              reports.  Only works for account that have a single commodity.

     --period PERIOD (-p)
              Define a period expression that sets the time period during
              which transactions are to be accounted.  For a register report
              only the transactions that satisfy the period expression with be
              displayed.  For a balance report only those transactions will be
              accounted in the final balances.

     --period-sort
              Sort the posting within transactions using the given value
              expression.

     --permissive
              Quiet balance assertions.

     --pivot TAG
              Produce a balance pivot report "around" the given TAG.

     --plot-amount-format FMT
              Define the output format for an amount data plot.

     --plot-total-format FMT
              Define the output format for a total data plot.

     --prepend-format FMT
              Prepend FMT to every line of the output.

     --prepend-width INT
              Reserve INT spaces at the beginning of each line of the output.

     --price (-I)
              Use the price of the commodity purchase for performing
              calculations.

     --price-db FILE

     --price-exp STR (-Z)
              Set the expected freshness of price quotes, in INT minutes.
              That is, if the last known quote for any commodity is older than
              this value, and if --download is being used, then the Internet
              will be consulted again for a newer price.  Otherwise, the old
              price is still considered to be fresh enough.  Alias for
              --leeway.

     --prices-format FMT
              Set the format for the prices report.

     --pricedb-format FMT
              Set the format expected for the historical price file.

     --primary-date
              Show primary dates for all calculations.  Alias for
              --actual-dates

     --quantity (-O)
              Report commodity totals (this is the default).

     --quarterly
              Shorthand for --period quarterly.

     --raw    In the print report, show transactions using the exact same
              syntax as specified by the user in their data file.  Don't do
              any massaging or interpreting.  Can be useful for minor
              cleanups, like just aligning amounts.

     --real (-R)
              Account using only real transactions ignoring virtual and
              automatic transactions.

     --recursive-aliases
              Causes ledger to try to expand aliases recursively, i.e. try to
              expand the result of an earlier expansion again, until no more
              expansions apply.

     --register-format FMT
              Define the output format for the register report.

     --related (-r)
              In a register report show the related account.  This is the
              other side of the transaction.

     --related-all
              Show all postings in a transaction, similar to --related but
              show both sides of each transaction.

     --revalued
              Report discrepancy in values for manual reports by inserting
              <Revalued> postings.  This is implied when using the --exchange
              (-X) or --market (-V) option.

     --revalued-only
              Show only <Revalued> postings.

     --revalued-total
              Display the sum of the revalued postings as the running total,
              which serves to show unrealized capital in a gain/losses report.

     --rich-data
              When generating a ledger transaction from a CSV file using the
              convert command, add CSV, Imported, and UUID meta-data.

     --seed INT
              Set the random seed to INT for the generate command.  Used as
              part of development testing.

     --script FILE
              Execute a ledger script.

     --sort EXPR (-S)
              Sort the register report based on the value expression EXPR.

     --sort-xacts
              Sort the posting within transactions using the given value
              expression.

     --start-of-week STR
              Use STR as the particular day of the week to start when using
              the --weekly option.  STR can be day names, their abbreviations
              like "Mon", or the weekday number starting at 0 for Sunday.

     --strict
              Accounts, tags or commodities not previously declared will cause
              warnings.

     --subtotal (-s)
              Report register as a single subtotal.

     --tail INT
              Report only the last INT entries.  Only useful on a register
              report.  Alias for --last INT

     --time-colon
              Display the value for commodities based on seconds as hours and
              minutes.  Thus 8100s will be displayed as 2:15h instead of
              2.25h.

     --time-report
              Add two columns to the balance report to show the earliest
              checkin and checkout times for timelog entries.

     --total EXPR (-T)
              Define a value expression used to calculate the total in
              reports.

     --total-data (-J)
              Show only dates and totals to format the output for plots.

     --total-width INT
              Set the width of the total field in the register report.

     --trace INT
              Enable tracing.  The INT specifies the level of trace desired.

     --truncate STR
              Indicates how truncation should happen when the contents of
              columns exceed their width.  Valid arguments for STR are
              leading, middle, and trailing.  The default is smarter than any
              of these three, as it considers sub-names within the account
              name (that style is called "abbreviate").

     --unbudgeted
              Show only un-budgeted postings.

     --uncleared (-U)
              Use only uncleared transactions in calculations and reports.

     --unrealized
              Show generated unrealized gain and loss accounts in the balance
              report.

     --unrealized-gains
              Allow the user to specify what account name should be used for
              unrealized gains.  Defaults to Equity:Unrealized Gains.  Often
              set in one's init file to change the default.

     --unrealized-losses
              Allow the user to specify what account name should be used for
              unrealized losses.  Defaults to Equity:Unrealized Losses.  Often
              set in one's init file to change the default.

     --unround
              Perform all calculations without rounding and display results to
              full precision.

     --values
              Show the values used by each tag when used in combination with
              the tags command.

     --value-expr EXPR
              Set a global value expression annotation.

     --verbose
              Print detailed information on the execution of ledger.

     --verify
              Enable additional assertions during run-time.  This causes a
              significant slowdown.  When combined with --debug CODE ledger
              will produce memory trace information.

     --verify-memory
              Verify that every constructed object is properly destructed.
              This is for debugging purposes only.

     --version
              Print version information and exit.

     --weekly (-W)
              Shorthand for --period weekly.

     --wide (-w)
              Assume 132 columns instead of the TTY width.

     --yearly (-Y)
              Shorthand for --period yearly.

PRE-COMMANDS
     Pre-commands are useful when you aren't sure how a command or option will
     work.  The difference between a pre-command and a regular command is that
     pre-commands ignore the journal data file completely, nor is the user's
     init file read.

     args / query
              Evaluate the given arguments and report how ledger interprets it
              against the following model transaction:

                    2004/05/27 Book Store
                        ; This note applies to all postings. :SecondTag:
                        Expenses:Books                 20 BOOK @ $10
                        ; Metadata: Some Value
                        ; Typed:: $100 + $200
                        ; :ExampleTag:
                        ; Here follows a note describing the posting.
                        Liabilities:MasterCard        $-200.00

     eval     Evaluate the given value expression against the model
              transaction.

     format   Print details of how ledger uses the given formatting
              description and apply it against a model transaction.

     parse / expr
              Print details of how ledger uses the given value expression
              description and apply it against a model transaction.

     generate
              Randomly generates syntactically valid ledger data from a seed.
              Used by the GenerateTests harness for development testing.

     period   Evaluate the given period and report how ledger interprets it.

     template
              Shows the insertion template that the xact command generates.
              This is a debugging command.

QUERIES
     The syntax for reporting queries can get somewhat complex.  It is a
     series of query terms with an implicit OR operator between them.  The
     following terms are accepted:

     regex          A bare string is taken as a regular expression (PCRE)
                    matching the full account name. Thus, to report the
                    current balance for all assets and liabilities, you would
                    use:

                          ledger bal asset liab

     payee regex (@regex)
                    Query on the payee, rather than the account.

     tag regex (%regex)
                    Query on tags.

     note regex (=regex)
                    Query on anything found in an item's note.

     code regex (#regex)
                    Query on the xact's optional code (which can be any string
                    the user wishes).

     term and term  Query terms are joined by an implicit OR operator.  You
                    can change this to AND by using the and keyword.  For
                    example, to show food expenditures occurring at Shakee's
                    Pizza, you could say:

                          ledger reg food and @Shakee

     term or term   When you wish to be more explicit, use the OR operator.

     show

     not term       Reverse the logical meaning of the following term.  This
                    can be used with parentheses to great effect:

                          ledger reg food and @Shakee and not dining

     ( term )       If you wish to mix OR and AND operators, it is often
                    helpful to surround logical units with parentheses.  NOTE:
                    Because of the way some shells interpret parentheses, you
                    should always escape them:

                          ledger bal \( assets or liab \) and not food

EXPRESSIONS
     abs(value)       Return the absolute value of the given value.

     account          Return the posting's account.

     account_base     Return the base account, i.e. everything after the last
                      account delimiter ':'.

     actual           Return true if the transaction is real, i.e not an
                      automated or virtual transaction, false otherwise.

     amount           Return the amount of the posting.

     amount_expr      Return the calculated amount of the posting according to
                      the --amount option.

     ansify_if(value, color, bool)
                      Render the given value as a string, applying the proper
                      ANSI escape codes to display it in the given color if
                      bool is true.  It typically checks the value of the
                      option --color, for example:
                            ansify_if(amount, blue, options.color)

     beg_line         Line number where entry for posting begins.

     beg_pos          Character position where entry for posting begins.

     ceiling(value)   Return the next integer of value toward +infinity.

     cleared          Return true if the posting was cleared, false otherwise.

     code             Return the transaction code, the string between the
                      parenthesis after the date.

     commodity(value)
                      Return the commodity of value or the posting amount when
                      value was not specified.

     date             Return the date of the posting.

     end_line         Line number where entry for posting ends.

     end_pos          Character position where entry for posting ends.

     floor(value)     Return the next integer of value toward -infinity.

     filename         The name of the ledger data file from whence the posting
                      came.

     format(string)   Evaluate string as format just like the --format option.

     format_date(date, format)
                      Return the date as a string using format.  Refer to
                      strftime(3) for format string details.

     format_datetime(datetime, format)
                      Return the datetime as a string using format.  Refer to
                      strftime(3) for format string details.

     get_at(seq, index)
                      Return value at index from seq.  Used internally to
                      construct different reports.

     has_meta(tag)    Return true if the posting has metadata named tag, false
                      otherwise.

     has_tag(tag)     Return true if the posting has metadata named tag, false
                      otherwise.

     is_seq(value)    Return true if value is a sequence. Used internally.

     join(value)      Replace all newlines in value with \n.

     justify(value, first_width, latter_width, right_justify, colorize)
                      Right or left justify the string representing value.
                      The width of the field in the first line is given by
                      first_width.  For subsequent lines the width is given by
                      latter_width.  If latter_width is -1, first_width is
                      used for all lines.  If right_justify is true then the
                      field is right justified within the width of the field.
                      If it is false, then the field is left justified and
                      padded to the full width of the field.  If colorize is
                      true, then ledger will honor color settings.

     market(value, datetime)
                      Return the price of value at datetime.  Note that
                      datetime must be surrounded by brackets in order to be
                      parsed correctly, e.g.  [2012/03/23].

     meta(name)       Return the value of metadata named name.

     note             Return the note for the posting.

     now              Return the current datetime.

     options          A variable that allows access to the values of the given
                      command-line options using the long option names, e.g.
                      to see whether --daily (-D) was given use option.daily.

     payee            Return the payee of the posting.

     percent(value_a, value_b)
                      Return the percentage of value_a in relation to value_b
                      (used as 100%).

     pending          Return true if the posting is marked as pending, false
                      otherwise.

     percent(value_a, value_b)
                      Return the percentage of value_a in relation to value_b.

     print(value)     Print value to stdout.  Used internally for debugging.

     quantity(value)  Return the quantity of value for values that have a per-
                      unit cost.

     quoted(expression)
                      Surround expression with double quotes.

     quoted_rfc(expression)
                      Surround expression with double quotes, compliant with
                      rfc 4180.

     real             Return true if the transaction is real, i.e not an
                      automated or virtual transaction, false otherwise.

     roundto(value, n)
                      Return value rounded to n digits.  Does not affect
                      formatting.

     should_bold      Return true if expression given to --bold-if evaluates
                      to true.  Internal use only!

     scrub(value)     Clean value using various transformations such as round,
                      stripping value annotations, and more.

     strip(value)     Strip value annotation from value.

     tag(name)        Return the value of tag named name.

     to_amount(value)
                      Convert value to an amount.  Internal use only!

     to_balance(value)
                      Convert value to a balance.  Internal use only!

     to_boolean(value)
                      Convert value to a boolean.  Internal use only!

     to_date(value)   Convert value to a date.  Internal use only!

     to_datetime(value)
                      Convert value to a datetime.  Internal use only!

     to_int(value)    Return the integer value for value.

     to_mask(value)   Convert value to a mask.  Internal use only!

     to_sequence(value)
                      Convert value to a sequence.  Internal use only!

     to_string(value)
                      Convert value to a character string.

     today            Return today's date.

     total            Return the total of the posting.

     total_expr       Return the calculated total of the posting according to
                      the --total option.

     trim(value)      Trim leading and trailing whitespace from value.

     truncated(string, total_len, account_len)
                      Truncate string to total_len ensuring that each account
                      is at least account_len long.

     virtual          Return true if the transaction is virtual, e.g
                      automated, false otherwise.

DEBUG COMMANDS
     In addition to the regular reporting commands, ledger also accepts
     several debug commands:

     args [report-query]
              Display complete analysis of how ledger interpreted the given
              report-query.  Useful if you want to understand how report
              queries are translated into value expressions.

     eval [value-expression]
              Evaluate the given value-expression and prints the result.  For
              more on value expressions, see the section EXPRESSIONS.

     format [format-string]
              Display an analysis of how format-string was parsed, and what it
              would look like applied to a sample transaction.  For more on
              format strings, see the section FORMATS.

     generate
              Generate 50 randomly composed yet valid ledger transactions.

     parse [value-expression]
              Parse the given value-expression and display an analysis of the
              expression tree and its evaluated value.  For more on value
              expressions, see the section EXPRESSIONS.

     python [file]
              Invoke a Python interpreter to read the given file.  What is
              special about this is that the ledger module is builtin, not
              read from disk, so it doesn't require ledger to be installed
              anywhere, or the shared library variants to be built.

     reload   Reload all data files for the current session immediately.  Can
              only be used in the REPL.

     template [draft-template]
              Display information about how draft-template was parsed.  See
              the section on DRAFTS.

ENVIRONMENT
     Every option to ledger may be set using an environment variable if the
     option has a long name.  For example setting the environment variable
     LEDGER_DATE_FORMAT="%d.%m.%Y" will have the same effect as specifying
     --date-format '%d.%m.%Y' on the command-line.  Options on the command-
     line always take precedence over environment variable settings, however.

FILES
     $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ledger/ledgerrc

     ~/.config/ledger/ledgerrc

     ~/.ledgerrc
              Your personal ledger initializations.

SEE ALSO
     beancount(1), hledger(1)

     The full documentation for ledger is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If
     the info program is installed on your system, the command
           info ledger3
     should give you access to the complete manual.

AUTHORS
     John Wiegley ⟨johnw@newartisans.com⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            March 15, 2019            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
