LESSPIPE.SH(1)                   User Commands                  LESSPIPE.SH(1)

NAME
       lesspipe.sh - a filter for less

SYNOPSIS
       lesspipe.sh [FILE[s]]...

DESCRIPTION
       Usually lesspipe.sh is called as an input filter to less.  With the
       help of that filter less will display the uncompressed contents of
       compressed (gzip, bzip2, compress, zstd, lz4, lzip, xz, lzma or brotli)
       files. For files containing archives and directories, a table of
       contents will be displayed (tar, ar, zip, i7-zip, rar, jar, rpm, deb
       ms-cabinet and iso formats).  Many other files will be reformatted for
       display. It includes pdf, dvi, markdown, Office (MS and Openoffice)
       suites formats, NetCDF, matlab, html and media (image, audio and video)
       formats. This does require helper programs being installed.

       The filter does not only display the above mentioned file formats, but
       can also be applied recursively and be used to extract and display
       files in archives on the fly. This works to a depth of 6 where applying
       a decompression algorithm counts as a separate level.

       If the file utility reports text with an encoding different from the
       one used in the terminal then the text will be transformed using iconv
       into the default encoding. This does assume the file command gets the
       file encoding right, which can be wrong in some situations. An appended
       colon to the file name does suppress the conversion.

       When using the programs git, vim or mutt they can be enabled to read
       non-text files by using lesspipe.sh. That is described in the Wiki at
       https://github.com/wofr06/lesspipe/wiki.

FILTER ACTIVATION
       The filter is called from less provided the environment variable
       LESSOPEN is set properly. For ksh like shells (bash, zsh) the command
              LESSOPEN="|lesspipe.sh %s"; export LESSOPEN
       does activate the filter for less. Use the fully qualified path, if
       lesspipe.sh is not in the search path. The command to set LESSOPEN can
       also be displayed by calling lesspipe.sh without arguments.  This can
       even be used to set LESSOPEN directly:
              eval `lesspipe.sh` (bash) or
              lesspipe.sh|source /dev/stdin (zsh)
       Having set the environment variable as described above, less will then
       display textual information for a wide range of file formats.

       The filter is normally not called if input is piped to less as in
              cat somefile | less
       As described in the man page of less, the filtering in a pipe can
       however be forced by starting LESSOPEN with the characters |-.

       LESSOPEN starting with the two characters || is implemented in this
       lesspipe.sh only partly, usually on failures of commands within
       lesspipe.sh the error messages get displayed.

       The now obsolete variable LESS_ADVANCED_PREPROCESSOR was used to
       decide, whether html, xml and perl pod  should be shown as pure text or
       not. This has been changed, these formats are now always interpreted,
       unless a colon is appended to the file name. If the correct file type
       (html, xml, pod) follows, the output can get colorized (see below).

              Example: less index.html:html

       To suppress informal messages in the first line of the filter output
       the ENV variable LESSQUIET can be set to a nonempty value.

       To disengage the filter temporarily a colon can be appended to the file
       name.  If the file name contains a colon, then an equal sign should be
       used instead.

OUTPUT COLORIZATION
       The filter is able to do syntax highlighting for a wide variety of
       language and other format files. If installed, bat/batcat is used for
       coloring the output. If not, pygmentize, source-highlight, code2color
       is tried in turn and finally vimcolor which is the slowest. As the
       default bat/batcat theme is for dark background, another theme might
       have been set in ~/.config/bat/config.

       Among these colorizers a preferred one can be forced for coloring by
       setting the ENV variable LESSCOLORIZER to the name of the colorizer. As
       pygmentize has no other way to change the output style, there a style
       option can be specified as follows:
              LESSCOLORIZER='pygmentize -O style=somename'
       Syntax highlighting is activated, if the environment variable LESS
       exists and contains the option -R or less is called with this option.
       This guarantees, that escape sequences get converted into colors and do
       not garble the display. Using the option -r is not recommended, as the
       screen layout may be wrong, if long lines are in the output.

       Syntax highlighting can be switched off by appending a colon after the
       file name, if the output was colorful. If the wrong language was chosen
       for syntax highlighting, then another one can be forced by appending a
       colon and a suffix to the file name.

       In a pipe that method cannot be used. As a way out a last argument can
       be added that gets inspected by lesspipe.sh.  A single colon (disengage
       filter) or :extension (force language) is possible as e.g with
              command that generates c code | less - :c

       When the conditions for syntax highlighting are met directory listings
       and listings of tar file contents get colorized as well.

       As less is used as a default browser in many other programs (e.g.  man,
       git, perldoc) the choice of the colorizer also affects the output of
       those programs. As by default bat/batcat does always color the output,
       pygmentize has a dark theme, which is not well suited for light
       background and code2color covers only a few cases, vimcolor is the most
       safe choice, however also the slowest program.

WATCHING GROWING FILES
       As soon as lesspipe.sh calls a program to convert the input the ability
       to watch growing files (using the F command within less) is lost. This
       is usually wanted for log files like syslog. To temporarily disengage
       lesspipe.sh a colon (:) as the last argument for less needs to be added
       as e.g in
              less /var/log/syslog :
       or less can be called with the +F argument, which is equivalent to F
       within the pager:
              less +F /var/log/syslog
       Appending a colon to the file name does not work, as then the filter
       has to be engaged to at least remove that colon and use cat for the
       original file.  On the other hand non growing log files can be
       colorized using ccze.  Its recognition as a log file is difficult if
       not ending in .log but can be forced appending :.log to the file name
       as e.g in
              less /var/log/syslog:.log

ADVANCED USAGE
       This version of lesspipe.sh allows you to view individual files
       contained in a file archive, which itself may even be contained in
       another archive.

       The notation for viewing files in multifile archives is
              less archive_file:contained_file
       or even
              less super_archive:archive_file:contained_file
       To display the last file in the chain raw format, a colon (:) has to be
       appended to the file name. If it does contain a colon, then the
       alternate separator character equal sign (=) has to be used.

       Again, this method of extracting and displaying files does not work if
       less is called in an output pipe and LESSOPEN starts with the |-
       characters. As already for syntax highlighting the solution is to use a
       second argument that starts with a colon. Then the above command would
       be written as
              cat super_archive | less - :archive:contained_file

COMPLETING MECHANISM FOR ARCHIVE CONTENTS
       With the provided lesscomplete (for zsh and bash), _less (for zsh) and
       less_completion (for bash) files a tab completion for files in archives
       can be accomplished. Entering after an archive file name a colon (:) or
       an equal sign (=) and then pressing the tab key triggers the completion
       mechanism.  This also works in chained archives. The files lesscomplete
       and less_completion have to be in one of the directories listed in
       $PATH and the function _less for zsh in a directory listed by $fpath.
       The less_completion script has to be sourced within a bash
       initialization script, e.g. in ~/.bashrc. New directories such as
       ~/scripts and ~/.fpath can be added using the commands
              PATH=~/scripts:$PATH and fpath=(~/.fpath $fpath)

USER DEFINED FILTERING
       The lesspipe.sh filtering can be replaced or enhanced  by a user
       defined program. Such a program has to be called either .lessfilter
       (and be placed in the users home directory), or lessfilter (and be
       accessible from a directory mentioned in $PATH).  It has to be
       executable and has to end with an exit code 0, if the filtering was
       done within that script. Otherwise, a nonzero exit code means the
       filtering is left to lesspipe.sh.

       This mechanism can be used to add filtering for new formats or e.g.
       inhibit filtering for certain file types.

AUTHOR
       Wolfgang Friebel

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <wp.friebel AT gmail DOT com>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005-2022 Wolfgang Friebel
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       less(1)

       A description of lesspipe.sh is also contained in the file README
       contained in the source code package

lesspipe.sh                        Feb 2022                     LESSPIPE.SH(1)
