LGE(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 LGE(4)

NAME
     lge – Level 1 LXT1001 NetCellerator PCI Gigabit Ethernet adapter driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device miibus
           device lge

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_lge_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The lge driver provides support for various NICs based on the Level 1
     LXT1001 NetCellerator Gigabit Ethernet controller chip.

     The LXT1001 supports fiber PHYs and also a GMII port for use with
     10/100/1000 copper PHYs, however there are currently no NICs on the
     market that use this feature.

     The LXT1001 supports TCP/IP checksum offload for receive and VLAN-based
     filtering as well as a 64-bit multicast hash filter.  It also supports
     jumbo frames, which can be configured via the interface MTU setting.
     Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the ifconfig(8) utility
     configures the adapter to receive and transmit jumbo frames.  Using jumbo
     frames can greatly improve performance for certain tasks, such as file
     transfers and data streaming.

     The lge driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect      Enable autoselection of the media type and options.  The
                     user can manually override the autoselected mode by
                     adding media options to rc.conf(5).

     1000baseSX      Set 1000baseSX operation over fiber optic cable.  Both
                     full-duplex and half-duplex modes are supported.

     The lge driver supports the following media options:

     full-duplex      Force full duplex operation.

     half-duplex      Force half duplex operation.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     Adapters supported by the lge driver include:

     •   SMC TigerCard 1000 (SMC9462SX)
     •   D-Link DGE-500SX

DIAGNOSTICS
     lge%d: couldn't map memory  A fatal initialization error has occurred.

     lge%d: couldn't map ports  A fatal initialization error has occurred.

     lge%d: couldn't map interrupt  A fatal initialization error has occurred.

     lge%d: no memory for softc struct!  The driver failed to allocate memory
     for per-device instance information during initialization.

     lge%d: failed to enable memory mapping!  The driver failed to initialize
     PCI shared memory mapping.  This might happen if the card is not in a
     bus-master slot.

     lge%d: no memory for jumbo buffers!  The driver failed to allocate memory
     for jumbo frames during initialization.

     lge%d: watchdog timeout  The device has stopped responding to the
     network, or there is a problem with the network connection (cable).

SEE ALSO
     arp(4), miibus(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), ifconfig(8)

     Level 1 LXT1001 Programming Manual,
     https://www.FreeBSD.org/~wpaul/Level1/LXT1001SRM.pdf.

HISTORY
     The lge device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 4.4.

AUTHORS
     The lge driver was written by Bill Paul <william.paul@windriver.com>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          July 16, 2005         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
