INFINOTED(1)                     User Commands                    INFINOTED(1)

NAME
       infinoted - dedicated server for the infinote protocol (e.g. Gobby)

SYNOPSIS
       infinoted-0.7 [options]

DESCRIPTION
       infinoted is a dedicated server which allows clients to edit plain text
       documents and source files collaboratively over a network. Changes to
       the documents are synchronized instantly to the other clients.

       This server supports the infinote protocol as implemented by
       libinfinity.  Example clients include Gobby 0.5.x, Kobby and a special
       plugin for gedit.  It is not compatible to the older libobby protocol.

       It comes with a list of plugins like autosave, dbus integration and
       others. For a complete list see
       https://github.com/gobby/gobby/wiki/Dedicated%20Server.  The default
       plugin is note-text.  It needs to be added along with any other plugins
       that one might want to enable.

OPTIONS
   Help Options:
       -h, --help
              Show help options

   Application Options:
       -c, --config-file=CONFIG-FILE
              Load the given configuration file instead of looking at the
              standard locations.

       -k, --key-file=KEY-FILE
              The server's private key

       -c, --certificate-file=CERTIFICATE-FILE
              The server's certificate

       --certificate-chain
              The certificate chain to the root certificate, if not included
              in the file given in --certificate-file.

       --create-key
              Creates a new random private key

       --create-certificate
              Creates a new self-signed certificate using the given key

       -p, --port-number=PORT
              The port number to listen on

       --listen-address=ADDRESS
              The IP address to listen on

       --security-policy=no-tls|allow-tls|require-tls
              How to decide whether to use TLS

       -r, --root-directory=DIRECTORY
              A directory to save the document tree into in infinoted-xml
              format.  This is the location where the tree is kept
              persistently so that it is available again after server restart.
              Usually, documents are saved in this tree 60 seconds after the
              last user left the session. In addition to this, when the
              autosave plugin is enabled, it is possible to save sessions into
              the tree periodically. The default directory is ~/.infinote.

       --plugins=PLUGIN
              Additional plugin to load. Repeat the option on the command-line
              to specify multiple plugins and semi-colons in the configuration
              file. Plugin options can be configured in the configuration file
              (one section for each plugin), or with the --plugin-parameter
              option.

       --plugin-parameter=PLUGIN:KEY:VALUE
              Sets the option KEY for plugin PLUGIN to the given VALUE.
              Normally, plugin options are specified in the configuration
              file, but this command line option allows one to set or override
              plugin options on the command line.

       -P, --password=PASSWORD
              Require given password on connections

       --pam-service=SERVICE
              Authenticate clients against given pam service on connection

       --pam-allow-user=USERS
              Users allowed to connect after pam authentication. Separate
              entries with semicolons.

       --pam-allow-group=GROUPS
              Group allowed to connect after pam authentication. Separate
              entries with semicolons.

       -d, --daemonize
              Daemonize the server

       -D, --kill-daemon
              Kill a running daemon

       -v, --version
              Display version information and exit

AUTHOR
       infinoted and libinfinity were written by Armin Burgmeier
       <armin@arbur.net>

infinoted 0.7                     August 2014                     INFINOTED(1)
