libpreludedb-config(1)  FreeBSD General Commands Manual libpreludedb-config(1)

NAME
       libpreludedb-config - helper script for building with libpreludedb

SYNOPSIS
       libpreludedb-config [options]

DESCRIPTION
       libpreludedb-config is a simple shell script used to determine the
       compiler and linker flags that should be used to compile and link
       programs that use the libpreludedb library.

OPTIONS
       --prefix       If specified, use dir instead of the installation prefix
                      that the library was built with, when computing the
                      output for the --cflags and --libs options.  This option
                      must be specified before any --libs or --cflags options.
                      This option is also used for the exec prefix if the
                      --exec-prefix option is not specified.
       --exec-prefix  If specified, use dir instead of the exec installation
                      prefix that the library was built with, when computing
                      the output for the --cflags and --libs options. This
                      option must be specified before any --libs or --cflags
                      options.
       --version      Print the currently installed version of the library on
                      the standard output.
       --thread       If specified, add the thread library used by
                      libpreludedb to the --libs or --cflags options.
       --libs         Print the linker flags that are necessary to link with
                      the specified library.
       --ldflags      Print the LDflags that are necessary to compile a
                      program using the specified library.
       --cflags       Print the compiler flags that are necessary to compile a
                      program using the specified library.
       --plugin-dir   Print the directory where libpreludedb plugins are
                      installed.
AUTHOR
       This man page has been written by CS GROUP - France

                                  2 May 2016            libpreludedb-config(1)
