linuxsampler(1)                  User Manuals                  linuxsampler(1)

NAME
       linuxsampler - modular, streaming capable sampler

SYNOPSIS
       linuxsampler [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       LinuxSampler is a modular, streaming capable sampler. Currently it
       supports the sampler formats Gigasampler/GigaStudio (.gig), SoundFont
       v2 (.sf2) and SFZ v2 (.sfz).

       The sampler is designed as backend, that is server-like console
       application. You will need a frontend application like QSampler or
       JSampler/Fantasia, which provide a graphical user interface (GUI) to
       control the sampler and manage sampler sessions conveniently.  If you
       prefer, you can also control the sampler from the command line instead,
       for example by using the lscp(1) shell application shipped with
       LinuxSampler, which provides LSCP aware color highlighting, auto
       completion and more. Since the LSCP network interface is based on a
       human readable text protocol, you can also send LSCP commands by any
       other means to the sampler, e.g. by using telnet(1) or netcat(1).  You
       can find examples and detailed informations about LinuxSampler's
       network protocol (LSCP) on
       http://linuxsampler.org/documentation.html#lscp_spec

       Various audio and MIDI driver systems are supported, like ALSA (audio &
       MIDI), JACK (audio & MIDI), ASIO, CoreAudio, CoreMIDI, Arts, MidiShare
       and MME.  LinuxSampler can also be run as virtual instrument plugin.
       The following instrument plugin formats are currently supported:
       AudioUnit (AU), DSSI, LV2 and VST. You can also load effect plugins
       into the sampler. Currently only the LADSPA plugin format is supported
       for sampler internal effects.

       If you are using sounds in the Gigasampler/GigaStudio format, then you
       may also want to install the graphical instrument editor application
       called "gigedit", which can directly be launched by LinuxSampler,
       allowing to edit instruments in real-time (changes immediately being
       audible, without needing to reload the sound files in the sampler).

OPTIONS
       --exec-after-init
              Executes the provided shell command(s) after initialization of
              application completed. You may use this to automatically restore
              a previous sampler session on startup, i.e. by sending a
              previously stored LSCP file via netcat(1).  to the sampler.

       --help Print command line help and exit.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

       --profile
              This option is currently not supported anymore, since the
              respective profiling code is currently broken. Original
              behavior: Output benchmark messages on the console. This
              reflects the current efficiency as abstract BogoVoice count
              which is something like a theoretical limit of the amount of
              voices which can be rendered in the given scenario. It does not
              include all aspects of the sampler, that's why this value is
              usually higher than what you really can achieve on your box.
              Also note that this value is as well dependant on what
              instrument patch you are using and what you are playing.  For a
              compact synthesis core benchmark, independent from drivers and
              instrument files, you might want to use the one coming with the
              sampler's source files instead (directory "benchmarks" of the
              source files).

       --no-tune
              Disable assembly optimizations. Usually the sampler will detect
              CPU specific features like MMX and SSE at runtime and use an
              appropriate assembly optimized code in that case. With that
              switch you can disable this feature and force the sampler to
              skip the assembly optimizations at runtime.

       --statistics
              Output voice and disk stream count periodically on the console.

       --lscp-addr IPADDRESS
              Defines IP address on which the LSCP server should listen to
              (default: any).

       --lscp-port NUMBER
              Defines TCP port on which the LSCP server should listen to
              (default: 8888).

       --create-instruments-db [FILE]
              Creates a database file with the given filename which can be
              used by the sampler's instruments database system to maintain
              the user's collection of instrument libraries. When this
              argument is given, the sampler will just create the instruments
              DB file and exit. If the optional file argument is omitted, then
              a default location for the instrument DB file is used instead.

       --instruments-db-location FILE
              Overrides the location of the database file, which the sampler
              shall use for its instruments database system (default:
              /var/lib/linuxsampler/instruments.db).

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       LINUXSAMPLER_PLUGIN_DIR
              Allows to override the directory where LinuxSampler shall look
              for instrument editor plugins.

       LADSPA_PATH
              Allows to override the directory where LinuxSampler shall look
              for LADSPA effect plugins. Multiple paths may be given,
              separated by colon (":") character on POSIX systems (i.e. Linux
              and Mac), or separated by semi-colon (";") character on Windows
              systems.

SEE ALSO
       lscp(1), qsampler(1)

BUGS
       Report bugs to http://bugs.linuxsampler.org

Author
       Written by Christian Schoenebeck <cuse@users.sf.net>

linuxsampler 2.4.0                13 Jun 2017                  linuxsampler(1)
