nvidia-cuda-proxy-control(1)        NVIDIA        nvidia-cuda-proxy-control(1)

NAME
       nvidia-cuda-proxy-control - NVIDIA CUDA proxy management program

SYNOPSIS
       nvidia-cuda-proxy-control [-d]

DESCRIPTION
       CUDA proxy is a feature that allows multiple CUDA processes to share a
       single GPU context.  A CUDA program runs in proxy mode if the proxy
       control daemon is running on the system.  When a CUDA program starts,
       it tries to connect to the daemon, which will then create a proxy
       server process for the connecting client if one does not exist for the
       user (UID) who launched the client.  Each user (UID) has its own proxy
       server process. The proxy server creates the shared GPU context,
       manages its clients, and issues work to the GPU on behalf of its
       clients.  The proxy mode should be transparent to CUDA programs.

       Currently, proxy is available on 64-bit Linux only, and requires a
       device that supports Unified Virtual Address (UVA).  Applications
       requiring pre-CUDA 4.0 APIs are not supported under proxy mode.

OPTIONS
   -d
       Start the proxy control daemon, assuming the user has enough privilege
       (e.g. root).

   <no arguments>
       Start the front-end management user interface to the daemon, which
       needs to be started first. The front-end UI keeps reading commands from
       stdin until EOF.  Commands are separated by the newline character. If
       an invalid command is issued and rejected, an error message will be
       printed to stdout. The exit status of the front-end UI is zero if
       communication with the daemon is successful. A non-zero value is
       returned if the daemon is not found or connection to the daemon is
       broken unexpectedly. See the "quit" command below for more information
       about the exit status.

       Commands supported by the proxy control daemon:

       get_server_list
              Print out a list of PIDs of all proxy server processes.

       start_server -uid UID
              Start a new proxy server process for the specified user (UID).

       shutdown_server PID [-f]
              Shutdown the proxy server with given PID. The proxy server will
              not accept any new client connections and it exits when all
              current clients disconnect. -f is forced immediate shutdown. If
              a client launches a faulty kernel that runs forever, a forced
              shutdown of the proxy server may be required, since the proxy
              server creates and issues GPU work on behalf of its clients.

       get_client_list PID
              Print out a list of PIDs of all clients connected to the server
              with given PID.

       quit [-t TIMEOUT]
              Shutdown the proxy control daemon process and all proxy servers.
              The proxy control daemon stops accepting new clients while
              waiting for current proxy servers and proxy clients to finish.
              If TIMEOUT is specified (in seconds), the daemon will force
              proxy servers to shutdown if they are still running after
              TIMEOUT seconds.

              This command is synchronous. The front-end UI waits for the
              daemon to shutdown, then returns the daemon's exit status. The
              exit status is zero iff all proxy servers have exited
              gracefully.

ENVIRONMENT
       CUDA_PROXY_PIPE_DIRECTORY
              Specify the directory that contains the named pipes used for
              communication among proxy control, proxy server, and proxy
              clients. The value of this environment variable should be
              consistent in the proxy control daemon and all proxy client
              processes.  Default directory is /tmp/nvidia-proxy

       CUDA_PROXY_LOG_DIRECTORY
              Specify the directory that contains the proxy log files. This
              variable is used by the proxy control daemon only. Default
              directory is /var/log/nvidia-proxy

FILES
       Log files created by the proxy control daemon in the specified
       directory

       control.log
              Record startup and shutdown of proxy control daemon, user
              commands issued with their results, and status of proxy servers.

       server.log
              Record startup and shutdown of proxy servers, and status of
              proxy clients.

nvidia-cuda-proxy-control         2012-04-10      nvidia-cuda-proxy-control(1)
