Loaders-update(8)       FreeBSD System Manager's Manual      Loaders-update(8)

NAME
     loaders-update – This utility helps to update the FreeBSD loaders.

SYNOPSIS
     loaders-update mode [-fgr] [-m Efi_mount_dir] [-s loaders_source_dir]

DESCRIPTION
     This command searches for all the FreeBSD loaders, EFI and BIOS ones.  It
     checks if they are in sync with the ones inside /boot or inside the
     argument of the -s option.  For each one which isn't, it proposes either
     the commands to type to update it or executes these very commands,
     depending on the mode.

MODE
           shoot-me
     This mode may update the loader(s), but ask for confirmation before each
     one.  You need to be root.

           show-me
     This mode just shows the commands to type, it changes nothing.

OPTIONS
     These options are available:

     -f        Won't check the content of the freebsd-boot partitions.  That
               means it won't verify the coherence between the current root
               file system and each BIOS loader.  It will update the
               partitions according to the detected root file system.  This
               option cannot be chosen at the same time than -r.

     -g        Use 'gpart show' instead of 'sysctl kern.disks' in order to
               list the available disks.  In some circumstances, the output of
               kern.disks doesn't match the geoms that 'gpart' knows.  So, in
               case of bad or no detection of your disk(s), you can try this
               option.

     -m Efi_mount_dir
               If an efi partition isn't already mounted, try to mount it in
               Efi_mount_dir.  The default is /mnt.

     -r        Won't check the root file system.  As -f, it won't verify the
               coherence between the current root file system and each BIOS
               loader.  It will just check the content of each freebsd-boot
               partition and verify/update according to that.  Can be of some
               use in case you rescue a system with a USB key, for example.
               This option cannot be chosen at the same time than -f.

     -s loaders_source_dir
               Seek for the source loaders in loaders_source_dir instead of
               the default /boot.

CAPABILITIES
     ø Check all disks reported by the system.
     ø Able to work on both BIOS and UEFI loaders.
     ø Work on mounted or unmounted EFI partitions.
     ø Recognize FreeBSD EFI loaders and examine only them.
     ø Check each freebsd-boot partition, compare its bootcode with the root
     file system.  If not coherent, don't examine its content (unless -r or -f
     option is specified).
     ø If a loader is already up-to-date, neither suggest nor attempt an
     update.

LIMITATIONS
     ø Work only on AMD64 architecture.
     ø Can only examine disks with GUID Partition Table (GPT).
     ø Check only the first freebsd-boot and efi partition per disk.

SEE ALSO
     uefi(8), gpart(8), gptboot(8), gptzfsboot(8)

COMMENTS
     This utility comes to fill a void in the FreeBSD upgrading.  Many people
     don't even know about the importance to update the loaders and got bitten
     by different problems along the system upgrades.  This mainly concerns
     zfs on root systems, but not only.  It features to update all the loaders
     but also tries to stay stable in different environments and FreeBSD
     derivatives.  As such, it can be used in GhostBSD, TrueNas, Hardened BSD
     and maybe others I didn't test.  In some words, it costs nothing to run
     it in show-me mode and see what happens. You can report the result here:
     https://github.com/Emrion/uploaders or there:
     https://forums.freebsd.org/threads/utility-that-tries-to-figure-how-to-
     update-the-freebsd-loaders.94237/

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           January 25, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
