local-unbound(8)              local-unbound 1.9.2             local-unbound(8)



NAME
       unbound - Local-unbound DNS validating resolver 1.9.2.

SYNOPSIS
       unbound [-h] [-d] [-p] [-v] [-c cfgfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Unbound is a caching DNS resolver.

       It uses a built in list of authoritative nameservers for the root zone
       (.), the so called root hints.  On receiving a DNS query it will ask
       the root nameservers for an answer and will in almost all cases receive
       a delegation to a top level domain (TLD) authoritative nameserver.  It
       will then ask that nameserver for an answer.  It will recursively
       continue until an answer is found or no answer is available (NXDOMAIN).
       For performance and efficiency reasons that answer is cached for a
       certain time (the answer's time-to-live or TTL).  A second query for
       the same name will then be answered from the cache.  Local-unbound can
       also do DNSSEC validation.

       To use a locally running Unbound for resolving put

             nameserver 127.0.0.1

       into resolv.conf(5).

       If authoritative DNS is needed as well using nsd(8), careful setup is
       required because authoritative nameservers and resolvers are using the
       same port number (53).

       The available options are:

       -h     Show the version and commandline option help.

       -c cfgfile
              Set the config file with settings for local-unbound to read
              instead of reading the file at the default location,
              /var/unbound/unbound.conf. The syntax is described in
              unbound.conf(5).

       -d     Debug flag: do not fork into the background, but stay attached
              to the console.  This flag will also delay writing to the log
              file until the thread-spawn time, so that most config and setup
              errors appear on stderr. If given twice or more, logging does
              not switch to the log file or to syslog, but the log messages
              are printed to stderr all the time.

       -p     Don't use a pidfile.  This argument should only be used by
              supervision systems which can ensure that only one instance of
              local-unbound will run concurrently.

       -v     Increase verbosity. If given multiple times, more information is
              logged.  This is in addition to the verbosity (if any) from the
              config file.

SEE ALSO
       unbound.conf(5), local-unbound-checkconf(8), nsd(8).

AUTHORS
       Unbound developers are mentioned in the CREDITS file in the
       distribution.



NLnet Labs                       June 17, 2019                local-unbound(8)
