LOCALE(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              LOCALE(1)

NAME
     locale – get locale-specific information

SYNOPSIS
     locale [-a | -m]
     locale -k list [prefix]
     locale [-ck] [keyword ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The locale utility is supposed to provide most locale specific
     information to the standard output.

     When locale is invoked without arguments, it will print out a summary of
     the current locale environment, subject to the environment settings and
     internal status.

     When locale is invoked with the keyword arguments, and no options are
     specified, it will print out the values of all keywords specified, using
     the current locale settings.

     The following options are available:

     -a      Print names of all available locales.  While looking for locales,
             locale will respect the PATH_LOCALE environment variable, and use
             it instead of the system's default locale directory.

     -c      Print the category name for all selected keywords.  If no
             keywords are selected, print the category name for all defined
             keywords.

     -k      Print the names and values of all selected keywords.  If no
             keywords are selected, print the names and values of all defined
             keywords.

     -m      Print names of all available charmaps.

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     The special (FreeBSD specific) keyword list can be used to retrieve the
     human readable list of all available keywords.  If so, a prefix string
     can be defined to limit the amount of keywords returned.

EXIT STATUS
     The locale utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     setlocale(3)

STANDARDS
     The locale utility conforms to IEEE Std 1003.1-2004 (“POSIX.1”).  The
     LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGES and NLSPATH environment variables are not
     interpreted.

BUGS
     Since FreeBSD does not support charmaps in their POSIX meaning, locale
     emulates the -m option using the CODESETs listing of all available
     locales.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        November 18, 2012       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
