clfdomainsplit(1)                      1                     clfdomainsplit(1)

NAME
       clfdomainsplit - split Common-Log Format web logs based on domain name


SYNOPSIS
       clfdomainsplit [--help] [-v] [-i input] [-d defaultfile] [-c cfg-file]
       [-o directory]


DESCRIPTION
       The clfdomainsplit program will split up large CLF format web logs
       based on domain name.  This is for creating separate log analysis
       passes for each domain hosted on your server.


OVERVIEW
       The -v option specifies that verbose errors should be reported.  The
       input parameter specifies the file to read (default is standard input).

       The defaultfile parameter specifies where data goes if it doesn't have
       a domain (either it has an IP address for the server or it doesn't have
       the server-name - the URL is relative to the root of the web server
       only).  The default will be to print them on standard error.

       The cfg-file parameter is for specifying the rules for determining what
       is a different domain name.  For example www.coker.com.au belongs in
       the same file as coker.com.au and abc.coker.com.au because domain names
       ending in .au have three major components.  The domain names
       www.workbenelux.nl and workbenelux.nl belong in the same file because
       domain names ending in .nl have two major components (as do .com, and
       .gov), wheras anything ending in .va belongs to the same organization.
       The rules are of the form number:pattern which lists the number of
       domain parts which are significant (2 for .com and for a simple string
       comparison, the default will be:

       2:com

       2:nl

       3:au

       3:uk

       If no config file is specified then it will look for
       /etc/clfdomainsplit.cfg.  Of course comments start with #.  Also note
       that the first match will be used!

       The directory parameter is to specify the location for the files to be
       created (default is the current directory).  I recommend that you use a
       directory for this and nothing else as you never know how many files
       may be created!


EXIT STATUS
       0 No errors

       1 Bad parameters



AUTHOR
       This program, its manual page, and the Debian package were written by
       Russell Coker <russell@coker.com.au>.


SEE ALSO
       clfsplit(1),clfmerge(1)

russell@coker.com.au                 0.06                    clfdomainsplit(1)
