LOWDOWN(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             LOWDOWN(1)

NAME
     lowdown – simple markdown translator

SYNOPSIS
     lowdown [input_options] [output_options] [-Ls] [-M metadata]
             [-m metadata] [-o file] [-t mode] [-X keyword] [file]

DESCRIPTION
     Translate from lowdown(5) into diverse output formats.  Results are
     written to standard output.

     The short arguments are as follows:

     -L      Lists metadata keys, one key per line.  The -t mode is ignored.
             Metadata is automatically enabled.  Unsets -X.

     -s      Produce a standalone document (e.g., a valid HTML document
             including document type, head, etc.) around the formatted
             content.  See Standalone documents for details.

     -M metadata
             Provide a single metadata key-value pair.  This may be in the
             normal syntax or as pairs separated by an equal sign, depending
             upon which character (a colon or equal sign) comes first.  Exits
             with an error if given neither.  This overrides -m and what's
             parsed from the document.  See Metadata.

     -m metadata
             Like -M, but overridden by what's parsed the document, then -M.

     -o file
             Send output to file unless it's “-”, in which case fall back to
             the default of standard output.

     -t mode, -T mode
             The output mode.  This may be html for HTML5 output, latex for
             LaTeX, gemini for the Gemini “gemtext” format, ms for roff output
             using the classic (i.e., no-extension) -ms package and needing
             table support, term for ANSI-compatible UTF-8 terminal output,
             man for roff output using the classic -man package, tree, to show
             the parse tree of the input document, and null to parse the
             document but do no rendering.  See Output media.  The -T mode
             form is retained for backward compatibility.

     -X keyword
             Output the metadata value of keyword or an empty string if not
             found.  The -t mode is ignored.  Metadata is automatically
             enabled.  Unsets -L.

     file    Input Markdown document.  If not given or if file is “-”, it is
             read from standard input.

     The following are long options for input parsing.  These affect the parse
     tree passed to all outputs.

     --parse-hilite
             Enable highlight span support.  This are disabled by default
             because it may be erroneously interpreted as section headers.

     --parse-math
             Recognise mathematics equations.

     --parse-maxdepth=depth
             The maximum depth of nested elements.  This defaults to 128,
             which is probably more than enough for any real-world document.
             If the maximum is hit, the system exits as if memory were
             exhausted.  Set to zero for no maximum.

     --parse-no-autolink
             Do not parse http, https, ftp, mailto, and relative links or link
             fragments.

     --parse-no-cmark
             Do not parse with CommonMark constraints.  This also disables
             using the first ordered list value instead of starting all lists
             at one.

     --parse-no-codeindent
             Do not parse indented content as code blocks.

     --parse-no-callouts
             Do not parse GFM/MDN callouts (“admonitions”).

     --parse-no-deflists
             Do not parse PHP extra definition lists.

     --parse-no-ext-attrs
             Do not parse PHP extra extended attributes.

     --parse-no-fenced
             Do not parse GFM fenced (language-specific) code blocks.

     --parse-no-footnotes
             Do not parse MMD footnotes.

     --parse-no-img-ext
             Deprecated.  See --parse-no-ext-attrs.

     --parse-no-intraemph
             Do not parse emphasis within words and links.

     --parse-no-mantitle
             Do not parse manpage title, section, source, and volume from
             Pandoc title metadata.  Manpages titles are indicated by a title
             then an open parenthesis, digit followed by optional characters,
             then a closed parenthesis.

     --parse-no-metadata
             Do not parse metadata.  This does not affect metadata given on -m
             or -M.

     --parse-no-strike
             Do not parse strikethroughs.

     --parse-no-super
             Do not parse super-scripts or sub-scripts at all.

     --parse-no-tables
             Do not parse GFM tables.

     --parse-no-tasklists
             Do not parse GFM task lists.

     --parse-super-short
             If super-script parsing is enabled, use the traditional non-GFM
             “short” syntax.

     There are many output long options.  The following are shared by all
     output media:

     --out-standalone
             Alias for -s.

     --out-no-smarty
             Do not use the smart typography filter.  By default, certain
             character sequences are translated into output-specific glyphs.

     --template template
             When producing standalone -s output, use a template file.  See
             Templates.  Currently only for -tgemini, -thtml, -tlatex, -tman,
             -tms, and -ttree.

     What follows are per-output long options.  For HTML with -thtml, these
     are as follows:

     --html-callout-mdn, --html-callout-gfm
             Output either or both MDN or GFM callout syntaxes.

     --html-hardwrap
             Hard-wrap paragraph content by outputting line breaks where
             applicable.

     --html-no-escapehtml
             If --html-no-skiphtml has been specified, this causes embedded
             HTML not to be escaped, and is instead output verbatim.  This has
             no effect if --html-no-skiphtml has not been specified.

     --html-no-head-ids
             Do not output id attributes for headers.

     --html-no-num-ent
             Don't normalise HTML entities (when possible) as numeric ones and
             instead use the entities as given on input.

     --html-no-owasp
             Don't follow the OWASP recommendations for escaping text, and do
             only the minimal escaping to make sure that regular content isn't
             interpreted as HTML.

     --html-no-skiphtml
             Output embedded HTML.  By default, embedded HTML is not output at
             all.  See --html-no-escapehtml.

     --html-titleblock
             If any were parsed, format the title information (title, author,
             date) into a header element appearing first in the document.

     For both roff formats -tman and -tms (unless as noted), the following
     apply:

     --roff-code-font=fonts
             Override the default constant-width fonts with a tuple of
             regular, bold, italic, and bold-italic variants in that order.
             For example, B,B,BI,BI uses bold (“B”) instead of a constant-
             width.  Not specifying a font will use the default, as will
             specifying a zero-length font name.  Aliases none, bold, and code
             set no special fonts, bold, and the default constant-width.

     --roff-endnotes
             Delay printing of footnotes until the end of the document.  Only
             applies to -tms, as -tman only supports endnotes.

     --roff-no-numbered
             Don't output numbered headings (.NH NN).  Only applies to -tms.

     --roff-no-skiphtml
             Output embedded HTML.  This usually doesn't make sense because
             the HTML won't be interpreted by the output reader.  By default,
             HTML is omitted.

     --roff-no-links
             Don't show URLs for images and links (autolinks are still shown).
             (Link content is still shown.) Overrides --roff-short-links for
             images and links.  Only applies when --roff-traditional is
             specified.

     --roff-short-links
             Shorten URLs for images, links, and autolinks to only the domain
             name and final path.  Only applies when --roff-traditional is
             specified.

     --roff-traditional
             Don't use hyperlink macros (.pdfhref, .UR, .MT), multi-page
             tables (.TS H, .TH), Unicode sequence syntax (\[uNNNN]), example
             block macros (.EX), modern section headings (.NH NN, .SH NN,
             .pdfhref O NN), or intra-document links (.pdfhref L).  The output
             is compatible with traditional troff(1).

     The argument prefix --nroff, such as in --nroff-traditional, is
     deprecated in favour of --roff.

     The -tterm output has the following:

     --term-all-metadata
             If -s is specified, output all metadata instead of just the
             title, author, and date.

     --term-columns=columns
             The number of columns in the terminal.  Useful for when running
             in a pipe.  Defaults to what the terminal reports or 72 if not in
             a terminal.

     --term-hmargin=margin
             The number of left margin characters.  Defaults to zero.  Can
             also be auto to set the left margin to half the remaining
             --term-columns after subtracting --term-width.

     --term-hpadding=padding
             The number of left padding characters.  Defaults to four.
             Padding eats into --term-width.

     --term-no-ansi
             Don't show ANSI styles at all.  This implies --term-no-colour.

     --term-no-colour
             Don't show ANSI colours.  This will still decorate text with
             underlines, bolds, and italics, but not emit any colour codes.

     --term-no-links
             Don't show URLs for images and links (autolinks are still shown).
             (Link content is still shown.) Overrides --term-short-links and
             --term-no-rellinks.

     --term-no-rellinks
             Don't show URLs for relative links.  (Link content is still
             shown.) Overrides --term-short-links.

     --term-short-links
             Shorten URLs for images, links, and autolinks to only the domain
             name and final path.

     --term-vmargin=margin
             The number of top and bottom margin newlines.  Defaults to zero.

     --term-width=width
             Soft limit on the number of characters per line including
             (--term-hpadding).  This may be exceeded by literal text.  If
             zero or unset, defaults to --term-columns or 80 at most.
             Truncates to --term-columns.

     The -tgemini output has several flags that control the placement of
     links.  By default, links (images, autolinks, and links) are queued when
     specified in-line then emitted in a block sequence after the nearest
     block element.

     --gemini-link-end
             Emit the queue of links at the end of the document instead of
             after the nearest block element.

     --gemini-link-inline
             Render all links within the flow of text.  This will cause
             breakage when nested links, such as images within links, links in
             blockquotes, etc.  It should not be used unless in carefully
             crafted documents.

     --gemini-link-noref
             Do not format link labels.  Takes precedence over
             --gemini-link-roman.

     --gemini-link-roman
             When formatting link labels, use lower-case Roman numerals
             instead of the default lower-case hexavigesimal (i.e., “a”, “b”,
             ..., “aa”, “ab”, ...).

     --gemini-metadata
             Print metadata as the canonicalised key followed by a colon then
             the value, each on one line (newlines replaced by spaces).  The
             metadata block is terminated by a double newline.  If there is no
             metadata, this does nothing.

     The -tlatex output has the following options:

     --latex-no-numbered
             Don't number sections (and subsections, etc.).

     --latex-no-skiphtml
             Output embedded HTML.  This usually doesn't make sense because
             the HTML won't be interpreted by the output reader.  By default,
             HTML is omitted.

     The -tfodt output has the following options:

     --odt-no-skiphtml
             Output embedded HTML.  This usually doesn't make sense because
             the HTML won't be interpreted by the output reader.  By default,
             HTML is omitted.

     --odt-style=file
             Specify an OpenDocument style file, which must consist of at
             least <office:font-face-decls>, <office:scripts>, and
             <office:styles> XML elements in the root of the document.  This
             is not syntax-checked in any way.

   Output media
     The output media is specified by -t, which defaults to -thtml.

     -tfodt  “Flat” OpenDocument output.  Automatic styles (those conditional
             upon document state) are generated with output.  Classes
             specified by PHP extended attributes are not checked for
             existence.

     -tgemini
             Gemini “gemtext” format.

     -thtml  HTML5 output with UTF-8 encoding.

     -tlatex
             Simple LaTeX output.  The following packages are required:
             amsmath and amssymb for maths, graphicx for images, inputenc
             (utf8) for UTF-8 input, fontend (T1) and textcomp for output
             glyphs, lmodern for Latin modern font, xcolor for the difference
             engine output, and hyperref for links.

     -tman   The man macro package suitable for reading by groff(1),
             mandoc(1), Heirloom troff, or traditional troff(1).  Does not
             support equations and images.  Table support is provided by
             tbl(1).  Since UTF-8 may be passed as input values, preconv(1)
             may need to be used.

     -tms    The ms macro package suitable for reading by groff(1) or
             traditional troff(1).  Does not support equations and limited
             image support for encapsulated postscript (PS and EPS suffix)
             images.  Images are always block-formatted.  Image dimensions and
             extended attributes are ignored, though images are downsized if
             larger than the current text width.  Table support is provided by
             tbl(1).  Since UTF-8 may be passed as input values, preconv(1)
             may need to be used.

     -tterm  ANSI-escaped UTF-8 output suitable for reading on the terminal.
             Images and equations not supported.

     -ttree  Debugging output.  Not for programmatic use, as the format may
             change between versions.

   Standalone documents
     When -s is specified, the formatted content is serialised into a self-
     contained document template as defined by the output type.

     If not explicitly set with --template, a default template is produced as
     follows:

     -tfodt  Envelope <office:document> and prologue
             <office:automatic-styles>, <office:master-styles>, and
             <office:body>.

     -thtml  HTML5 doctype declaration followed by envelope <html> with
             optional language, then <head>.  In order, the <head> consists of
             charset and viewport <meta> elements; optional <meta> elements
             from metadata affiliation (creator), author, copyright, and date;
             optional CSS sources from metadata; optional JavaScript sources
             from metadata; the possibly-empty <title>; then optional
             arbitrary content from metadata HTML header.

     -tlatex
             Prologue documentclass and usepackage statements, optional
             arbitrary content from metadata LaTeX header, then surrounding
             begin{document} statements.

     -tman, -tms
             Prologue macros.

     -tterm  Prologue lines.

     -ttree  Metadata and parsed template.

     See Metadata for metadata values used by the default template.

   Metadata
     Metadata keys are canonicalised and de-deduplicated in the following
     order: -m (overridden by document content and -M), the prologue of the
     document itself, then -M (overriding document content and -m).

     After de-duplication, metadata is either accessed directly using -X or
     -L, or serialised into document variables and/or standalone -s output.

     When not using --template, the following metadata keys are used in the
     default -s template:

     affiliation
             Author affiliation (organisation or institution).  Multiple
             affiliations may be separated by two or more spaces (including
             newlines).  Used in -thtml, -tlatex, and -tms.

     author  Document author.  Multiple authors may be separated by two or
             more spaces (including newlines).  Overridden by rcsauthor.  Used
             in -tfodt, -thtml, -tlatex, -tms, and -tterm.

     baseheaderlevel
             Added to each header level.  Deprecated in favour of
             shiftheadinglevelby.

     copyright
             A document copyright (without the word “Copyright”), for example,
             “2017, Kristaps Dzonsons”.  Used in -tms and -thtml.

     css     A CSS file output in the HTML document head as a <link
             rel="stylesheet" href="..." /> statement.  Multiple CSS files (in
             order) may be separated by two or more spaces (including
             newlines) and are output in the given order.  Only used in
             -thtml.

     date    Document date in ISO-8601 YYYY-MM-DD format.  Overridden by
             rcsdate.  Used in -tfodt, -thtml, -tlatex, -tman, -tms, and
             -tterm.

     htmlheader
             Arbitrary HTML content output in the HTML document head
             immediately prior to closing the head element.  Only used in
             -thtml and with -s.  This metadata is not processed: it's passed
             unchanged into the output.

     javascript
             A JavaScript file output in the HTML document head as a <script
             src="..."></script> statement.  Multiple script files (in order)
             may be separated by two or more spaces (including newlines) and
             are output in the given order.  Only used in -thtml.

     lang    Document language in RFC 5646 format.  Only used in -thtml.

     latexheader
             Arbitrary LaTeX content output in the document prologue
             immediately prior to the begin{document}.  Only used in -tlatex
             and with -s.  This metadata is not processed: it's passed
             unchanged into the output.

     manheader
             Arbitrary roff content output immediately prior to the .TH macro.
             Only used in -tman and with -s.  This metadata is not processed:
             it's passed unchanged into the output.

     msheader
             Arbitrary roff content output immediately prior to the .TL macro.
             Only used in -tms and with -s.  This metadata is not processed:
             it's passed unchanged into the output.

     rcsauthor
             Like author, but in RCS author format.  Overrides author.

     rcsdate
             Like date, but in RCS date format.  Overrides date.

     section
             Man page section, defaulting to “7”.  Only used in -tman.

     shiftheadinglevelby
             Shift all headers by the given number.  For example, a value of 1
             causes headers originally at level 1 (“<h1>”) to be level 2
             (“<h2>”), while a value of -1 moves level 2 to 1.  Levels will
             not move to less than 1.  Takes precedence over baseheaderlevel.
             If unset or not a valid number, defaults to zero.  Used in
             -tfodt, -thtml, -tlatex, -tman, and -tms.

     source  Man page source (organisation providing the manual).  Only used
             in -tman.

     volume  Man page volume (describes the manual page section).  Only used
             in -tman.

     title   Document title.  Used in -tfodt, -thtml, -tlatex, -tman, -tms,
             and -tterm.

     Default values, such “7” for the section, are not set as metadata values,
     and will not appear if the metadata key is used as a variable.

   Templates
     Some output media accept a template (--template) to customise standalone
     (-s) output.  Parsed input content is filled into templates through
     control statements that support conditionals, loops, and variable
     transformation sequences.

     Control statements are delimited as $statement$ or ${statement}.
     Arbitrary white-space may surround the case-insensitive statement between
     matching delimiters.  Statements without a closing delimiter are
     considered opaque text.

     The following statements are available:

     $$, ${}
             Output a literal $.  This may contain arbitrary white-space.

     $ifdef(expression)$
             Conditional statement.  There may not be any white-space between
             the ifdef and the opening parenthesis.  Begins a block that is
             ended by a else, endif, or the end of file.  Its contents are
             output only if expression evaluates to a non-empty string.

     $else$  Begins a block that is ended by a endif or end of file.  Its
             contents are output only if the condition of a preceding ifdef
             evaluates to an empty string.  An else without a preceding ifdef
             is not output.

     $endif$
             Closes a block begin with ifdef or else.  If not preceded by one
             of those statements, is silently ignored.

     $for(expression)$
             Looping statement.  There may not be any white-space between the
             for and the opening parenthesis.  Begins a block that is ended by
             an endfor or the end of file.  Block contents contents are
             repeatedly output for each list item evaluated from expression.
             The anaphoric keyword this may be used to access the current loop
             expression within the block.

     $expression$
             Replaced by the result of evaluating a template expression.

     If a control statement ends with two consecutive hyphens before the
     closing delimiter, input is consumed up to and including the next newline
     or until end of file.  This allows for line-sensitive output media to use
     control statements without superfluous blank lines.

     Expressions consist of

           initial[([arg]*)]?[.transform[([arg]*)]?]*,

     or an initial value accepting optional arguments followed by an optional
     series of transforms accepting optional arguments.  If an argument list
     is empty or not provided, it evaluates to an empty list.

     The initial value is one of the following:

     and(expression[,expression]*)
             A non-empty list containing the value true if all expressions
             evaluate to non-empty lists, otherwise an empty list.  An empty
             expression evaluates to an empty list.

     "literal string"
             Evaluates to a singleton list containing the string.  An empty
             string evaluates to an empty list.  The double quote character
             may be escaped, such as "foo\"bar".

     body    The parsed input document body.

     canonicalised metadata key
             The value for the given metadata key, if found, otherwise an
             empty list.

     body    The parsed input document body.

     meta(key)
             Produce the metadata value for the canonicalised metadata key.
             Allows for keys that are also keywords like body or endif.

     not(expression)
             A non-empty list containing the value true if the expression
             evaluates as an empty list, otherwise an empty list.

     or(expression[,expression]*)
             A non-empty list containing the value true if one expression
             evaluates to non-empty lists, otherwise an empty list.  An empty
             expression evaluates to an empty list.

     this    The value of a current loop context or an empty list.

     If a metadata key is not specified in the input, or if the anaphoric this
     has not initialised by a looping context, the initial value evaluates to
     an empty list.  Otherwise, the value is a singleton list.

     If transforms are invalid, they will transform into an empty list.

     The following transformations are available:

     escapegemini, escapegeminiline
             Escape list items for gemini (-tgemini), either for multiple
             lines or compressed to a single line.

     escapehtml, escapehtmlattr, escapehtmlurl
             Escape list items for HTML (-thtml) body content, attributes, and
             URL attributes, respectively.

     escapelatex
             Escape list items for LaTeX (-tlatex) body content.

     escaperoff, escaperoffline
             Escape list items for roff (-tms, -tman), either for multiple
             lines or compressed to a single line.  escaperoff also escapes
             initial roff delimiters and those after newlines.

     join    Join a list into a singleton list using two spaces as a join
             delimiter.

     lowercase
             Lowercase all list items.

     split   Split list items on sequences of two or more white-space tokens
             (space, newline, tab).  This is usually invoked on a singleton,
             but may be repeatedly invoked on a pre-split list.  Invokes trim
             prior to the first split.  The resulting list has no items that
             are only white-space.

     trim    Trim white-space from the beginning and end of all list items.
             If an item has no non-white-space, it is discarded.

     uppercase
             Uppercase all list items.

ENVIRONMENT
     NO_COLOR
             Do not emit colours when in -tterm mode.  Synonym for NO_COLOUR.
             Same as --term-nocolour.

FILES
     share/html/default.html
             The default template used if --template is not provided to
             -thtml.

     share/latex/default.latex
             The default template used if --template is not provided to
             -tlatex.

     share/man/default.man
             The default template used if --template is not provided to -tman.

     share/man/default.ms
             The default template used if --template is not provided to -tms.

     share/odt/styles.xml
             Default styles used when generating standalone -tfodt documents.
             Template for --odt-style styles.

EXIT STATUS
     The lowdown utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

     If the -X flag is used, lowdown exits with an error if the given keyword
     is not found.

EXAMPLES
     To view a Markdown file on an ANSI-compatible, UTF-8 terminal:

           lowdown -tterm foo.md | less -R

     The terminal may also be used with groff(1) or mandoc(1) rendering:

           lowdown -stms foo.md | groff -itk -mspdf -Tutf8 | less -R
           lowdown -stman foo.md | groff -itk -man -Tutf8 | less -R
           lowdown -stman foo.md | mandoc | less

     To emit a standalone HTML5 document:

           lowdown -s foo.md > foo.html

     To use groff(1) or mandoc(1) to format as a PS file:

           lowdown -stms foo.md | groff -itk -mspdf > foo.ps
           lowdown -stman foo.md | mandoc -Tps > foo.ps

     Or with LaTeX:

           lowdown -stlatex foo.md > foo.latex
           pslatex foo.latex

     PDF generation follows similar logic:

           lowdown -stms foo.md | pdfroff -itk -mspdf > foo.pdf
           lowdown -stman foo.md | mandoc -Tpdf > foo.pdf
           lowdown -stlatex foo.md > foo.latex
           pdflatex foo.latex

     UTF-8 support for groff(1) PDF or PS output requires appropriate fonts,
     such as the Unicode Times font.  This and other Unicode fonts are not
     always installed by default.  They may be found, for PDF output, in the
     devpdf set of the groff(1) font directory and are prefixed with ‘U’.

           lowdown -stms foo.md | pdfroff -itk -mspdf -FU-T > foo.pdf

     To list all metadata keys, then to extract the “title” metadata value
     from foo.md:

           lowdown -L foo.md
           lowdown -X title foo.md

SEE ALSO
     lowdown-diff(1), lowdown(3), lowdown(5)

AUTHORS
     lowdown was forked from hoedown: https://github.com/hoedown/hoedown by
     Kristaps Dzonsons, kristaps@bsd.lv.  It has been considerably modified
     since.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 17, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
