LP(1)                   FreeBSD General Commands Manual                  LP(1)

NAME
     lp – front-end to the print spooler

SYNOPSIS
     lp [-cs] [-o option] [-d printer] [-n num] [name ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The lp utility is a front-end to the print spooler as required by the
     IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) specification.  It effectively invokes lpr(1)
     with the proper set of arguments.

     It generally prints the named files on the destination printer.

     The following options are available:

     -c      Make the lp command exit only after further access to any of the
             input files is no longer required.  The application can then
             safely delete or modify the files without affecting the output
             operation.

     -d dest
             Specify a particular printer.  If no -d is provided on the
             command line, the contents of the environment variables LPDEST or
             PRINTER (with this precedence) are taken as the destination
             printer.

     -m      Send mail upon completion.

     -n num  Specify that num copies of each of the named files shall be
             printed.

     -o option
             Printer specific options.  Not supported, provided only as a
             compatibility option for SVR.

     -s      Silent operation.  Not supported, provided only as a
             compatibility option for Version 2 of the Single UNIX
             Specification (“SUSv2”).

     -t title
             Set the job title to title.

ENVIRONMENT
     As described above, the variables LPDEST and PRINTER are examined to
     select the destination printer.

SEE ALSO
     lpr(1)

STANDARDS
     The lp command is expected to comply with the IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”)
     specification.

AUTHORS
     This implementation of the lp command has been written by Jörg Wunsch.

BUGS
     The IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) specification does not provide any means
     to print non-text files.  It rather requires the files to be printed to
     be text files limited to reasonable line lengths and printable
     characters.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        January 22, 1995        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
