LPD(8)                  FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                 LPD(8)

NAME
     lpd – line printer spooler daemon

SYNOPSIS
     lpd [-cdlpsW46] [port#]

DESCRIPTION
     The lpd utility is the line printer daemon (spool area handler) and is
     normally invoked at boot time from the rc(8) file.  It makes a single
     pass through the printcap(5) file to find out about the existing printers
     and prints any files left after a crash.  It then uses the system calls
     listen(2) and accept(2) to receive requests to print files in the queue,
     transfer files to the spooling area, display the queue, or remove jobs
     from the queue.  In each case, it forks a child to handle the request so
     the parent can continue to listen for more requests.

     Available options:

     -c      By default, if some remote host has a connection error while
             trying to send a print request to lpd on a local host, lpd will
             only send error message to that remote host.  The -c flag causes
             lpd to also log all of those connection errors via syslog(3).

     -d      Turn on SO_DEBUG on the Internet listening socket (see
             setsockopt(2)).

     -l      The -l flag causes lpd to log valid requests received from the
             network.  This can be useful for debugging purposes.

     -p      The -p flag is a synonym for the -s flag.  It is being
             deprecated, and may be removed in a future version of lpd.

     -s      The -s (secure) flag causes lpd not to open an Internet listening
             socket.  This means that lpd will not accept any connections from
             any remote hosts, although it will still accept print requests
             from all local users.

     -W      By default, the lpd daemon will only accept connections which
             originate from a reserved-port (<1024) on the remote host.  The
             -W flag causes lpd to accept connections coming from any port.
             This is can be useful when you want to accept print jobs from
             certain implementations of lpr written for Windows.

     -4      Inet only.

     -6      Inet6 only.

     -46     Inet and inet6 (default).

     port#   The Internet port number used to rendezvous with other processes
             is normally obtained with getservbyname(3) but can be changed
             with the port# argument.

     Access control is provided by two means.  First, all requests must come
     from one of the machines listed in the file /etc/hosts.equiv or
     /etc/hosts.lpd.  Second, if the rs capability is specified in the
     printcap(5) entry for the printer being accessed, lpr requests will only
     be honored for those users with accounts on the machine with the printer.

     The file minfree in each spool directory contains the number of kilobytes
     to leave free so that the line printer queue will not completely fill the
     disk.  The minfree file can be edited with your favorite text editor.

     The daemon begins processing files after it has successfully set the lock
     for exclusive access (described a bit later), and scans the spool
     directory for files beginning with cf.  Lines in each cf file specify
     files to be printed or non-printing actions to be performed.  Each such
     line begins with a key character to specify what to do with the remainder
     of the line.

     J       Job Name.  String to be used for the job name on the burst page.

     C       Classification.  String to be used for the classification line on
             the burst page.

     L       Literal.  The line contains identification info from the password
             file and causes the banner page to be printed.

     T       Title.  String to be used as the title for pr(1).

     H       Host Name.  Name of the machine where lpr(1) was invoked.

     P       Person.  Login name of the person who invoked lpr(1).  This is
             used to verify ownership by lprm(1).

     M       Send mail to the specified user when the current print job
             completes.

     f       Formatted File.  Name of a file to print which is already
             formatted.

     l       Like ``f'' but passes control characters and does not make page
             breaks.

     p       Name of a file to print using pr(1) as a filter.

     t       Troff File.  The file contains troff(1) output (cat
             phototypesetter commands).

     n       Ditroff File.  The file contains device independent troff output.

     r       DVI File.  The file contains Tex l output DVI format from
             Stanford.

     g       Graph File.  The file contains data produced by plot(3).

     c       Cifplot File.  The file contains data produced by cifplot.

     v       The file contains a raster image.

     r       The file contains text data with FORTRAN carriage control
             characters.

     1       Troff Font R.  Name of the font file to use instead of the
             default.

     2       Troff Font I.  Name of the font file to use instead of the
             default.

     3       Troff Font B.  Name of the font file to use instead of the
             default.

     4       Troff Font S.  Name of the font file to use instead of the
             default.

     W       Width.  Changes the page width (in characters) used by pr(1) and
             the text filters.

     I       Indent.  The number of characters to indent the output by (in
             ASCII).

     U       Unlink.  Name of file to remove upon completion of printing.

     N       File name.  The name of the file which is being printed, or a
             blank for the standard input (when lpr(1) is invoked in a
             pipeline).

     Z       Locale.  String to be used as the locale for pr(1).

     If a file cannot be opened, a message will be logged via syslog(3) using
     the LOG_LPR facility.  The lpd utility will try up to 20 times to reopen
     a file it expects to be there, after which it will skip the file to be
     printed.

     The lpd utility uses flock(2) to provide exclusive access to the lock
     file and to prevent multiple daemons from becoming active simultaneously.
     If the daemon should be killed or die unexpectedly, the lock file need
     not be removed.  The lock file is kept in a readable ASCII form and
     contains two lines.  The first is the process id of the daemon and the
     second is the control file name of the current job being printed.  The
     second line is updated to reflect the current status of lpd for the
     programs lpq(1) and lprm(1).

FILES
     /etc/printcap         printer description file
     /var/spool/*          spool directories
     /var/spool/*/minfree  minimum free space to leave
     /dev/lp*              line printer devices
     /var/run/printer      socket for local requests
     /etc/hosts.equiv      lists machine names allowed printer access
     /etc/hosts.lpd        lists machine names allowed printer access, but not
                           under same administrative control.

SEE ALSO
     lpq(1), lpr(1), lprm(1), setsockopt(2), syslog(3), hosts.lpd(5),
     printcap(5), chkprintcap(8), lpc(8), pac(8)

     4.2 BSD Line Printer Spooler Manual.

HISTORY
     An lpd daemon appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          June 6, 2001          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
