MAC_BSDEXTENDED(4)     FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual     MAC_BSDEXTENDED(4)

NAME
     mac_bsdextended – file system firewall policy

SYNOPSIS
     To compile the file system firewall policy into your kernel, place the
     following lines in your kernel configuration file:

           options MAC
           options MAC_BSDEXTENDED

     Alternately, to load the file system firewall policy module at boot time,
     place the following line in your kernel configuration file:

           options MAC

     and in loader.conf(5):

           mac_bsdextended_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The mac_bsdextended security policy module provides an interface for the
     system administrator to impose mandatory rules regarding users and some
     system objects.  Rules are uploaded to the module (typically using
     ugidfw(8), or some other tool utilizing libugidfw(3)) where they are
     stored internally and used to determine whether to allow or deny specific
     accesses (see ugidfw(8)).

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     While the traditional mac(9) entry points are implemented, policy labels
     are not used; instead, access control decisions are made by iterating
     through the internal list of rules until a rule which denies the
     particular access is found, or the end of the list is reached.  The
     mac_bsdextended policy works similar to ipfw(8) or by using a first match
     semantic.  This means that not all rules are applied, only the first
     matched rule; thus if Rule A allows access and Rule B blocks access, Rule
     B will never be applied.

   Sysctls
     The following sysctls may be used to tweak the behavior of
     mac_bsdextended:

     security.mac.bsdextended.enabled
             Set to zero or one to toggle the policy off or on.

     security.mac.bsdextended.rule_count
             List the number of defined rules, the maximum rule count is
             current set at 256.

     security.mac.bsdextended.rule_slots
             List the number of rule slots currently being used.

     security.mac.bsdextended.firstmatch_enabled
             Toggle between the old all rules match functionality and the new
             first rule matches functionality.  This is enabled by default.

     security.mac.bsdextended.logging
             Log all access violations via the AUTHPRIV syslog(3) facility.

     security.mac.bsdextended.rules
             Currently does nothing interesting.

SEE ALSO
     libugidfw(3), syslog(3), mac(4), mac_biba(4), mac_ifoff(4), mac_lomac(4),
     mac_mls(4), mac_none(4), mac_partition(4), mac_portacl(4),
     mac_seeotheruids(4), mac_test(4), ipfw(8), ugidfw(8), mac(9)

HISTORY
     The mac_bsdextended policy module first appeared in FreeBSD 5.0 and was
     developed by the TrustedBSD Project.

     The "match first case" and logging capabilities were later added by Tom
     Rhodes <trhodes@FreeBSD.org>.

AUTHORS
     This software was contributed to the FreeBSD Project by NAI Labs, the
     Security Research Division of Network Associates Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR
     contract N66001-01-C-8035 (“CBOSS”), as part of the DARPA CHATS research
     program.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 21, 2005          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
