MAC_MLS(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             MAC_MLS(4)

NAME
     mac_mls – Multi-Level Security confidentiality policy

SYNOPSIS
     To compile MLS into your kernel, place the following lines in your kernel
     configuration file:

           options MAC
           options MAC_MLS

     Alternately, to load the MLS module at boot time, place the following
     line in your kernel configuration file:

           options MAC

     and in loader.conf(5):

           mac_mls_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The mac_mls policy module implements the Multi-Level Security, or MLS
     model, which controls access between subjects and objects based on their
     confidentiality by means of a strict information flow policy.  Each
     subject and object in the system has an MLS label associated with it;
     each subject's MLS label contains information on its clearance level, and
     each object's MLS label contains information on its classification.

     In MLS, all system subjects and objects are assigned confidentiality
     labels, made up of a sensitivity level and zero or more compartments.
     Together, these label elements permit all labels to be placed in a
     partial order, with confidentiality protections based on a dominance
     operator describing the order.  The sensitivity level is expressed as a
     value between 0 and 65535, with higher values reflecting higher
     sensitivity levels.  The compartment field is expressed as a set of up to
     256 components, numbered from 1 to 256.  A complete label consists of
     both sensitivity and compartment elements.

     With normal labels, dominance is defined as a label having a higher or
     equal active sensitivity level, and having at least all of the same
     compartments as the label to which it is being compared.  With respect to
     label comparisons, “lower” is defined as being dominated by the label to
     which it is being compared, and “higher” is defined as dominating the
     label to which it is being compared, and “equal” is defined as both
     labels being able to satisfy the dominance requirements over one another.

     Three special label values exist:

           Label            Comparison
           mls/low          dominated by all other labels
           mls/equal        equal to all other labels
           mls/high         dominates all other labels

     The “mls/equal” label may be applied to subjects and objects for which no
     enforcement of the MLS security policy is desired.

     The MLS model enforces the following basic restrictions:

     •   Subjects may not observe the processes of another subject if its
         clearance level is lower than the clearance level of the object it is
         attempting to observe.

     •   Subjects may not read, write, or otherwise observe objects without
         proper clearance (e.g. subjects may not observe objects whose
         classification label dominates its own clearance label)

     •   Subjects may not write to objects with a lower classification level
         than its own clearance level.

     •   A subject may read and write to an object if its clearance level is
         equal to the object's classification level as though MLS protections
         were not in place.

     These rules prevent subjects of lower clearance from gaining access
     information classified beyond its clearance level in order to protect the
     confidentiality of classified information, subjects of higher clearance
     from writing to objects of lower classification in order to prevent the
     accidental or malicious leaking of information, and subjects of lower
     clearance from observing subjects of higher clearance altogether.  In
     traditional trusted operating systems, the MLS confidentiality model is
     used in concert with the Biba integrity model (mac_biba(4)) in order to
     protect the Trusted Code Base (TCB).

   Label Format
     Almost all system objects are tagged with an effective, active label
     element, reflecting the classification of the object, or classification
     of the data contained in the object.  In general, object labels are
     represented in the following form:

           mls/grade:compartments

     For example:

           mls/10:2+3+6
           mls/low

     Subject labels consist of three label elements: an effective (active)
     label, as well as a range of available labels.  This range is represented
     using two ordered MLS label elements, and when set on a process, permits
     the process to change its active label to any label of greater or equal
     integrity to the low end of the range, and lesser or equal integrity to
     the high end of the range.  In general, subject labels are represented in
     the following form:

           mls/effectivegrade:effectivecompartments(lograde:locompartments-
           higrade:hicompartments)

     For example:

           mls/10:2+3+6(5:2+3-20:2+3+4+5+6)
           mls/high(low-high)

     Valid ranged labels must meet the following requirement regarding their
     elements:

           rangehigh ≥ effective ≥ rangelow

     One class of objects with ranges currently exists, the network interface.
     In the case of the network interface, the effective label element
     references the default label for packets received over the interface, and
     the range represents the range of acceptable labels of packets to be
     transmitted over the interface.

   Runtime Configuration
     The following sysctl(8) MIBs are available for fine-tuning the
     enforcement of this MAC policy.

     security.mac.mls.enabled         Enables the enforcement of the MLS
                                      confidentiality policy.  (Default: 1).

     security.mac.mls.ptys_equal      Label pty(4)s as “mls/equal” upon
                                      creation.  (Default: 0).

     security.mac.mls.revocation_enabled
                                      Revoke access to objects if the label is
                                      changed to a more sensitive level than
                                      the subject.  (Default: 0).

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     Currently, the mac_mls policy relies on superuser status (suser(9)) in
     order to change network interface MLS labels.  This will eventually go
     away, but it is currently a liability and may allow the superuser to
     bypass MLS protections.

SEE ALSO
     mac(4), mac_biba(4), mac_bsdextended(4), mac_ifoff(4), mac_lomac(4),
     mac_none(4), mac_partition(4), mac_portacl(4), mac_seeotheruids(4),
     mac_test(4), maclabel(7), mac(9)

HISTORY
     The mac_mls policy module first appeared in FreeBSD 5.0 and was developed
     by the TrustedBSD Project.

AUTHORS
     This software was contributed to the FreeBSD Project by Network
     Associates Laboratories, the Security Research Division of Network
     Associates Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035 (“CBOSS”),
     as part of the DARPA CHATS research program.

BUGS
     While the MAC Framework design is intended to support the containment of
     the root user, not all attack channels are currently protected by entry
     point checks.  As such, MAC Framework policies should not be relied on,
     in isolation, to protect against a malicious privileged user.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          July 25, 2015         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
