MAC_PORTACL(4)         FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual         MAC_PORTACL(4)

NAME
     mac_portacl – network port access control policy

SYNOPSIS
     To compile the port access control policy into your kernel, place the
     following lines in your kernel configuration file:

           options MAC
           options MAC_PORTACL

     Alternately, to load the port access control policy module at boot time,
     place the following line in your kernel configuration file:

           options MAC

     and in loader.conf(5):

           mac_portacl_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The mac_portacl policy allows administrators to administratively limit
     binding to local UDP and TCP ports via the sysctl(8) interface.

     In order to enable the mac_portacl policy, MAC policy must be enforced on
     sockets (see mac(4)), and the port(s) protected by mac_portacl must not
     be included in the range specified by the
     net.inet.ip.portrange.reservedlow and net.inet.ip.portrange.reservedhigh
     sysctl(8) MIBs.

     The mac_portacl policy only affects ports explicitly bound by a user
     process (either for a listen/outgoing TCP socket, or a send/receive UDP
     socket).  This policy will not limit ports bound implicitly for outgoing
     connections where the process has not explicitly selected a port: these
     are automatically selected by the IP stack.

     When mac_portacl is enabled, it will control binding access to ports up
     to the port number set in the security.mac.portacl.port_high sysctl(8)
     variable.  By default, all attempts to bind to mac_portacl controlled
     ports will fail if not explicitly allowed by the port access control
     list, though binding by the superuser will be allowed, if the sysctl(8)
     variable security.mac.portacl.suser_exempt is set to a non-zero value.

   Runtime Configuration
     The following sysctl(8) MIBs are available for fine-tuning the
     enforcement of this MAC policy.  All sysctl(8) variables, except
     security.mac.portacl.rules, can also be set as loader(8) tunables in
     loader.conf(5).

     security.mac.portacl.enabled
             Enforce the mac_portacl policy.  (Default: 1).

     security.mac.portacl.port_high
             The highest port number mac_portacl will enforce rules for.
             (Default: 1023).

     security.mac.portacl.rules
             The port access control list is specified in the following
             format:

                   idtype:id:protocol:port[,idtype:id:protocol:port,...]

             idtype        Describes the type of subject match to be
                           performed.  Either uid for user ID matching, or gid
                           for group ID matching.

             id            The user or group ID (depending on idtype) allowed
                           to bind to the specified port.  NOTE: User and
                           group names are not valid; only the actual ID
                           numbers may be used.

             protocol      Describes which protocol this entry applies to.
                           Either tcp or udp are supported.

             port          Describes which port this entry applies to.  NOTE:
                           MAC security policies may not override other
                           security system policies by allowing accesses that
                           they may deny, such as
                           net.inet.ip.portrange.reservedlow /
                           net.inet.ip.portrange.reservedhigh.  If the
                           specified port falls within the range specified,
                           the mac_portacl entry will not function (i.e., even
                           the specified user/group may not be able to bind to
                           the specified port).

     security.mac.portacl.suser_exempt
             Allow superuser (i.e., root) to bind to all mac_portacl protected
             ports, even if the port access control list does not explicitly
             allow this.  (Default: 1).

     security.mac.portacl.autoport_exempt
             Allow applications to use automatic binding to port 0.
             Applications use port 0 as a request for automatic port
             allocation when binding an IP address to a socket.  This tunable
             will exempt port 0 allocation from rule checking.  (Default: 1).

SEE ALSO
     mac(3), ip(4), mac_biba(4), mac_bsdextended(4), mac_ifoff(4), mac_mls(4),
     mac_none(4), mac_partition(4), mac_seeotheruids(4), mac_test(4), mac(9)

HISTORY
     MAC first appeared in FreeBSD 5.0 and mac_portacl first appeared in
     FreeBSD 5.1.

AUTHORS
     This software was contributed to the FreeBSD Project by NAI Labs, the
     Security Research Division of Network Associates Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR
     contract N66001-01-C-8035 (“CBOSS”), as part of the DARPA CHATS research
     program.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        December 9, 2004        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
