MAILX(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               MAILX(1)

NAME
     mailx – send and receive mail

SYNOPSIS
     mailx [-iInv] [-s subject] [-c cc-addr] [-b bcc-addr] to-addr ...
           [- sendmail-option ...]
     mailx [-iInNv] -f [name]
     mailx [-iInNv] [-u user]

INTRODUCTION
     Mailx is an intelligent mail processing system, which has a command
     syntax reminiscent of ed(1) with lines replaced by messages.

     -v    Verbose mode.  The details of delivery are displayed on the user's
           terminal.

     -i    Ignore tty interrupt signals.  This is particularly useful when
           using mailx on noisy phone lines.

     -I    Forces mail to run in interactive mode even when input isn't a
           terminal.  In particular, the ‘~’ special character when sending
           mail is only active in interactive mode.

     -n    Inhibits reading the system-wide mail.rc files upon startup.

     -N    Inhibits the initial display of message headers when reading mail
           or editing a mail folder.

     -s    Specify subject on command line (only the first argument after the
           -s flag is used as a subject; be careful to quote subjects
           containing spaces.)

     -c    Send carbon copies to list of users.

     -b    Send blind carbon copies to list.  List should be a comma-separated
           list of names.

     -f    Read in the contents of your mbox (or the specified file) for
           processing; when you quit, mailx writes undeleted messages back to
           this file.

     -u    Is equivalent to:

                 mail -f /var/mail/user

   Sending mail
     To send a message to one or more people, mailx can be invoked with
     arguments which are the names of people to whom the mail will be sent.
     You are then expected to type in your message, followed by a ‘control-D’
     at the beginning of a line.  The section below Replying to or originating
     mail, describes some features of mailx available to help you compose your
     letter.

   Reading mail
     In normal usage mailx is given no arguments and checks your mail out of
     the post office, then prints out a one line header of each message found.
     The current message is initially the first message (numbered 1) and can
     be printed using the print command (which can be abbreviated ‘p’).  You
     can move among the messages much as you move between lines in ed(1), with
     the commands ‘+’ and ‘-’ moving backwards and forwards, and simple
     numbers.

   Disposing of mail.
     After examining a message you can delete (d) the message or reply (r) to
     it.  Deletion causes the mailx program to forget about the message.  This
     is not irreversible; the message can be undeleted (u) by giving its
     number, or the mailx session can be aborted by giving the exit (x)
     command.  Deleted messages will, however, usually disappear never to be
     seen again.

   Specifying messages
     Commands such as print and delete can be given a list of message numbers
     as arguments to apply to a number of messages at once.  Thus “delete 1 2”
     deletes messages 1 and 2, while “delete 1-5” deletes messages 1 through
     5.  The special name ‘*’ addresses all messages, and ‘$’ addresses the
     last message; thus the command top which prints the first few lines of a
     message could be used in “top *” to print the first few lines of all
     messages.

   Replying to or originating mail.
     You can use the reply command to set up a response to a message, sending
     it back to the person who it was from.  Text you then type in, up to an
     end-of-file, defines the contents of the message.  While you are
     composing a message, mailx treats lines beginning with the character ‘~’
     specially.  For instance, typing ‘~m’ (alone on a line) will place a copy
     of the current message into the response right shifting it by a tabstop
     (see indentprefix variable, below).  Other escapes will set up subject
     fields, add and delete recipients to the message and allow you to escape
     to an editor to revise the message or to a shell to run some commands.
     (These options are given in the summary below.)

   Ending a mail processing session.
     You can end a mailx session with the quit (q) command.  Messages which
     have been examined go to your mbox file unless they have been deleted in
     which case they are discarded.  Unexamined messages go back to the post
     office.  (See the -f option above).

   Personal and system wide distribution lists.
     It is also possible to create a personal distribution lists so that, for
     instance, you can send mail to “cohorts” and have it go to a group of
     people.  Such lists can be defined by placing a line like

           alias cohorts bill ozalp jkf mark kridle@ucbcory

     in the file .mailrc in your home directory.  The current list of such
     aliases can be displayed with the alias command in mailx.  System wide
     distribution lists can be created by editing /etc/aliases, see aliases(5)
     and sendmail(8); these are kept in a different syntax.  In mail you send,
     personal aliases will be expanded in mail sent to others so that they
     will be able to reply to the recipients.  System wide aliases are not
     expanded when the mail is sent, but any reply returned to the machine
     will have the system wide alias expanded as all mail goes through
     sendmail.

   Network mail (ARPA, UUCP, Berknet)
     See mailaddr(7) for a description of network addresses.

     Mailx has a number of options which can be set in the .mailrc file to
     alter its behavior; thus “set askcc” enables the askcc feature.  (These
     options are summarized below.)

SUMMARY
     (Adapted from the `Mail Reference Manual')

     Each command is typed on a line by itself, and may take arguments
     following the command word.  The command need not be typed in its
     entirety - the first command which matches the typed prefix is used.  For
     commands which take message lists as arguments, if no message list is
     given, then the next message forward which satisfies the command's
     requirements is used.  If there are no messages forward of the current
     message, the search proceeds backwards, and if there are no good messages
     at all, mailx types “applicable messages” and aborts the command.

     -       Print out the preceding message.  If given a numeric argument n,
             goes to the n'th previous message and prints it.

     #       ignore the remainder of the line as a comment.

     ?       Prints a brief summary of commands.

     !       Executes the shell (see sh(1) and csh(1)) command which follows.

     Print   (P) Like print but also prints out ignored header fields.  See
             also print, ignore and retain.

     Reply   (R) Reply to originator.  Does not reply to other recipients of
             the original message.

     Type    (T) Identical to the Print command.

     alias   (a) With no arguments, prints out all currently-defined aliases.
             With one argument, prints out that alias.  With more than one
             argument, creates a new alias or changes an old one.

     alternates
             (alt) The alternates command is useful if you have accounts on
             several machines.  It can be used to inform mailx that the listed
             addresses are really you.  When you reply to messages, mailx will
             not send a copy of the message to any of the addresses listed on
             the alternates list.  If the alternates command is given with no
             argument, the current set of alternate names is displayed.

     chdir   (c) Changes the user's working directory to that specified, if
             given.  If no directory is given, then changes to the user's
             login directory.

     copy    (co) The copy command does the same thing that save does, except
             that it does not mark the messages it is used on for deletion
             when you quit.

     Copy    (C) The Copy command does the same thing that Save does, except
             that it does not mark the messages it is used on for deletion
             when you quit.

     delete  (d) Takes a list of messages as argument and marks them all as
             deleted.  Deleted messages will not be saved in mbox, nor will
             they be available for most other commands.

     dp      (also dt) Deletes the current message and prints the next
             message.  If there is no next message, mailx says “at EOF”.

     edit    (e) Takes a list of messages and points the text editor at each
             one in turn.  On return from the editor, the message is read back
             in.

     exit    (ex or x) Effects an immediate return to the Shell without
             modifying the user's system mailbox, his mbox file, or his edit
             file in -f.

     file    (fi) The same as folder.

     folders
             List the names of the folders in your folder directory.

     folder  (fo) The folder command switches to a new mail file or folder.
             With no arguments, it tells you which file you are currently
             reading.  If you give it an argument, it will write out changes
             (such as deletions) you have made in the current file and read in
             the new file.  Some special conventions are recognized for the
             name.  # means the previous file, % means your system mailbox,
             %user means user's system mailbox, & means your mbox file, and
             +folder means a file in your folder directory.

     from    (f) Takes a list of messages and prints their message headers.

     headers
             (h) Lists the current range of headers, which is an 18-message
             group.  If a ‘+’ argument is given, then the next 18-message
             group is printed, and if a ‘-’ argument is given, the previous
             18-message group is printed.

     help    A synonym for ?

     hold    (ho, also preserve) Takes a message list and marks each message
             therein to be saved in the user's system mailbox instead of in
             mbox.  Does not override the delete command.

     ignore  Add the list of header fields named to the ignored list.  Header
             fields in the ignore list are not printed on your terminal when
             you print a message.  This command is very handy for suppression
             of certain machine-generated header fields.  The Type and Print
             commands can be used to print a message in its entirety,
             including ignored fields.  If ignore is executed with no
             arguments, it lists the current set of ignored fields.

     mail    (m) Takes as argument login names and distribution group names
             and sends mail to those people.

     more    () Takes a list of messages and invokes the pager on that list.

     mbox    Indicate that a list of messages be sent to mbox in your home
             directory when you quit.  This is the default action for messages
             if you do not have the hold option set.

     next    (n) like ( + or CR) Goes to the next message in sequence and
             types it.  With an argument list, types the next matching
             message.

     preserve
             (pre) A synonym for hold.

     print   (p) Takes a message list and types out each message on the user's
             terminal.

     quit    (q) Terminates the session, saving all undeleted, unsaved
             messages in the user's mbox file in his login directory,
             preserving all messages marked with hold or preserve or never
             referenced in his system mailbox, and removing all other messages
             from his system mailbox.  If new mail has arrived during the
             session, the message “You have new mail” is given.  If given
             while editing a mailbox file with the -f flag, then the edit file
             is rewritten.  A return to the Shell is effected, unless the
             rewrite of edit file fails, in which case the user can escape
             with the exit command.

     reply   (r) Takes a message list and sends mail to the sender and all
             recipients of the specified message.  The default message must
             not be deleted.

     respond
             A synonym for reply.

     retain  Add the list of header fields named to the retained list Only the
             header fields in the retain list are shown on your terminal when
             you print a message.  All other header fields are suppressed.
             The Type and Print commands can be used to print a message in its
             entirety.  If retain is executed with no arguments, it lists the
             current set of retained fields.

     save    (s) Takes a message list and a filename and appends each message
             in turn to the end of the file.  The filename in quotes, followed
             by the line count and character count is echoed on the user's
             terminal.

     Save    (S) Takes a message list and appends each message in turn to the
             end of the file whose name is derived from the author of the
             first message to be saved.  The filename in quotes, followed by
             the line count and character count is echoed on the user's
             terminal.

     set     (se) With no arguments, prints all variable values.  Otherwise,
             sets option.  Arguments are of the form option=value (no space
             before or after =) or option.  Quotation marks may be placed
             around any part of the assignment statement to quote blanks or
             tabs, i.e.  “set indentprefix="->"”

     saveignore
             Saveignore is to save what ignore is to print and type.  Header
             fields thus marked are filtered out when saving a message by save
             or when automatically saving to mbox.

     saveretain
             Saveretain is to save what retain is to print and type.  Header
             fields thus marked are the only ones saved with a message when
             saving by save or when automatically saving to mbox.  Saveretain
             overrides saveignore.

     shell   (sh) Invokes an interactive version of the shell.

     size    Takes a message list and prints out the size in characters of
             each message.

     source  The source command reads commands from a file.

     top     Takes a message list and prints the top few lines of each.  The
             number of lines printed is controlled by the variable toplines
             and defaults to five.

     type    (t) A synonym for print.

     unalias
             Takes a list of names defined by alias commands and discards the
             remembered groups of users.  The group names no longer have any
             significance.

     undelete
             (u) Takes a message list and marks each message as not being
             deleted.

     unread  (U) Takes a message list and marks each message as not having
             been read.

     unset   Takes a list of option names and discards their remembered
             values; the inverse of set.

     visual  (v) Takes a message list and invokes the display editor on each
             message.

     write   (w) Similar to save, except that only the message body (without)
             the header) is saved.  Extremely useful for such tasks as sending
             and receiving source program text over the message system.

     xit     (x) A synonym for exit.

     z       Mailx presents message headers in windowfuls as described under
             the headers command.  You can move mailx's attention forward to
             the next window with the z command.  Also, you can move to the
             previous window by using z-.

   Tilde/Escapes
     Here is a summary of the tilde escapes, which are used when composing
     messages to perform special functions.  Tilde escapes are only recognized
     at the beginning of lines.  The name “tilde_escape” is somewhat of a
     misnomer since the actual escape character can be set by the option
     escape.

     ~!command
             Execute the indicated shell command, then return to the message.

     ~a      Insert the string of the variable ``sign''.

     ~A      Insert the string of the variable ''Sign''.

     ~bname ...
             Add the given names to the list of carbon copy recipients but do
             not make the names visible in the Cc: line ("blind" carbon copy).

     ~cname ...
             Add the given names to the list of carbon copy recipients.

     ~d      Read the file “dead.letter” from your home directory into the
             message.

     ~e      Invoke the text editor on the message collected so far.  After
             the editing session is finished, you may continue appending text
             to the message.

     ~fmessages
             Read the named messages into the message being sent.  If no
             messages are specified, read in the current message.  Message
             headers currently being ignored (by the ignore or retain command)
             are not included.

     ~Fmessages
             Identical to ~f, except all message headers are included.

     ~h      Edit the message header fields by typing each one in turn and
             allowing the user to append text to the end or modify the field
             by using the current terminal erase and kill characters.

     ~ivariable
             Insert the string of the variable.

     ~mmessages
             Read the named messages into the message being sent, indented by
             a tab or by the value of indentprefix.  If no messages are
             specified, read the current message.  Message headers currently
             being ignored (by the ignore or retain command) are not included.

     ~Mmessages
             Identical to ~m, except all message headers are included.

     ~p      Print out the message collected so far, prefaced by the message
             header fields.

     ~q      Abort the message being sent, copying the message to
             “dead.letter” in your home directory if save is set.

     ~rfilename
             Read the named file into the message.

     ~Rstring
             Use string as the Reply-To field.

     ~sstring
             Cause the named string to become the current subject field.

     ~tname ...
             Add the given names to the direct recipient list.

     ~v      Invoke an alternate editor (defined by the VISUAL option) on the
             message collected so far.  Usually, the alternate editor will be
             a screen editor.  After you quit the editor, you may resume
             appending text to the end of your message.

     ~wfilename
             Write the message onto the named file.

     ~x      Abort the message being sent without copying the message to
             “dead.letter.”

     ~|command
             Pipe the message through the command as a filter.  If the command
             gives no output or terminates abnormally, retain the original
             text of the message.  The command fmt(1) is often used as command
             to rejustify the message.

     ~:mail-command
             Execute the given mail command.  Not all commands, however, are
             allowed.

     ~~string
             Insert the string of text in the message prefaced by a single ~.
             If you have changed the escape character, then you should double
             that character in order to send it.

   Mail Options
     Options are controlled via set and unset commands.  Options may be either
     binary, in which case it is only significant to see whether they are set
     or not; or string, in which case the actual value is of interest.  The
     binary options include the following:

     append  Causes messages saved in mbox to be appended to the end rather
             than prepended.  This should always be set (preferably in one of
             the system-wide mail.rc files).

     ask     Causes mailx to prompt you for the subject of each message you
             send.  If you respond with simply a newline, no subject field
             will be sent.

     askcc   Causes you to be prompted for additional carbon copy recipients
             at the end of each message.  Responding with a newline indicates
             your satisfaction with the current list.

     autoprint
             Causes the delete command to behave like dp - thus, after
             deleting a message, the next one will be typed automatically.

     debug   Setting the binary option debug is the same as specifying -d on
             the command line and causes mailx to output all sorts of
             information useful for debugging mailx.

     dot     The binary option dot causes mailx to interpret a period alone on
             a line as the terminator of a message you are sending.

     hold    This option is used to hold messages in the system mailbox by
             default.

     ignore  Causes interrupt signals from your terminal to be ignored and
             echoed as @'s.

     ignoreeof
             An option related to dot is ignoreeof which makes mailx refuse to
             accept a control-d as the end of a message.  Ignoreeof also
             applies to mailx command mode.

     metoo   Usually, when a group is expanded that contains the sender, the
             sender is removed from the expansion.  Setting this option causes
             the sender to be included in the group.

     noheader
             Setting the option noheader is the same as giving the -N flag on
             the command line.

     nosave  Normally, when you abort a message with two RUBOUT (erase or
             delete) mailx copies the partial letter to the file “dead.letter”
             in your home directory.  Setting the binary option nosave
             prevents this.

     Replyall
             Reverses the sense of reply and Reply commands.

     quiet   Suppresses the printing of the version when first invoked.

     searchheaders
             If this option is set, then a message-list specifier in the form
             ``/x:y'' will expand to all messages containing the substring
             ``y'' in the header field ``x''.  The string search is case
             insensitive.

     verbose
             Setting the option verbose is the same as using the -v flag on
             the command line.  When mail runs in verbose mode, the actual
             delivery of messages is displayed on the user's terminal.

   Option String Values
     EDITOR        Pathname of the text editor to use in the edit command and
                   ~e escape.  If not defined, then a default editor is used.

     LISTER        Pathname of the directory lister to use in the folders
                   command.  Default is /bin/ls.

     PAGER         Pathname of the program to use in the more command or when
                   crt variable is set.  The default paginator more(1) is used
                   if this option is not defined.

     REPLYTO       If set, will be used to initialize the Reply-To field for
                   outgoing messages.

     SHELL         Pathname of the shell to use in the ! command and the ~!
                   escape.  A default shell is used if this option is not
                   defined.

     VISUAL        Pathname of the text editor to use in the visual command
                   and ~v escape.

     crt           The valued option crt is used as a threshold to determine
                   how long a message must be before PAGER is used to read it.
                   If crt is set without a value, then the height of the
                   terminal screen stored in the system is used to compute the
                   threshold (see stty(1)).

     escape        If defined, the first character of this option gives the
                   character to use in the place of ~ to denote escapes.

     folder        The name of the directory to use for storing folders of
                   messages.  If this name begins with a `/', mailx considers
                   it to be an absolute pathname; otherwise, the folder
                   directory is found relative to your home directory.

     MBOX          The name of the mbox file.  It can be the name of a folder.
                   The default is “mbox” in the user's home directory.

     record        If defined, gives the pathname of the file used to record
                   all outgoing mail.  If not defined, then outgoing mail is
                   not so saved.

     indentprefix  String used by the ``~m'' tilde escape for indenting
                   messages, in place of the normal tab character (^I).  Be
                   sure to quote the value if it contains spaces or tabs.

     toplines      If defined, gives the number of lines of a message to be
                   printed out with the top command; normally, the first five
                   lines are printed.

     sign          String used by the ``~a''  tilde escape, the value is
                   inserted in the message.

     Sign          String used by the ``~A''  tilde escape, the value is
                   inserted in the message.

ENVIRONMENT
     Mailx utilizes the HOME and USER environment variables.  Also, if the
     MAIL environment variable is set, it is used as the location of the
     user's mailbox instead of the default in /var/mail.

FILES
     /var/mail/*                 Post office.
     ~/mbox                      User's old mail.
     ~/.mailrc                   File giving initial mail commands.
     /tmp/R*                     Temporary files.
     /usr/share/misc/mail.*help  Help files.

     /usr/share/misc/mail.rc
     /usr/local/etc/mail.rc
     /etc/mail.rc                System-wide initialization files. Each file
                                 will be sourced, in order, if it exists.

SEE ALSO
     fmt(1), newaliases(1), vacation(1), aliases(5), mailaddr(7), sendmail(8)
     and

     The Mail Reference Manual..

HISTORY
     A mailx command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.  This man page is
     derived from The Mail Reference Manual originally written by Kurt Shoens.

BUGS
     There are some flags that are not documented here.  Most are not useful
     to the general user.

     Usually, mailx is just a link to Mailx, which can be confusing.

BSD 4                          December 30, 1993                         BSD 4
