MATHOMATIC(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          MATHOMATIC(1)



NAME
       mathomatic - a computer algebra system


SYNOPSIS
       mathomatic [ -abcdehqrtuvwx ] [ -s level:time ] [ -m number ] [
       input_files or input ]


DESCRIPTION
       Mathomatic is a general-purpose computer algebra system (CAS) that can
       symbolically solve, simplify, combine, and compare algebraic equations,
       perform standard, complex number, modular, and polynomial arithmetic,
       etc.  It does some calculus and handles all elementary algebra, except
       logarithms.  Trigonometry and function expansion are supported in a
       separate program called rmath(1).  Plotting expressions with gnuplot is
       also supported.

       mathomatic is the main Mathomatic application that does interactive
       symbolic-numeric mathematics through a simple command-line interface.
       Readline or editline support is usually compiled into this application,
       making it easy to edit input and recall previous input with the cursor
       keys.  The numeric arithmetic is double precision floating point with
       about 14 decimal digits accuracy.  Many results will be exact, because
       symbolic math is an exact math, and because multiple floating point
       numbers can be combined for a single mathematical value; for example:
       2^(1/3), which is the cube root of 2 exactly.


OPTIONS
       -a     Enable alternative colors.  Ansi color mode will be enabled in
              MS-Windows, if this option is specified and color mode is on.


       -b     Enable bold colors.  Color mode will be turned on and colors
              will be brighter if this option is specified.  Same as the "set
              bold color" command.


       -c     Toggle color mode.  This mode outputs ANSI terminal escape
              sequences to make each level of parentheses a different color,
              for easier reading.  Requires a terminal emulator that supports
              ANSI color escape sequences.  If the colors are too hard to see,
              use the -b option to increase the color brightness.


       -d     Set demo mode.  Currently this mode only bypasses loading the
              startup (rc) file, and ignores the pause command.  It also
              allows using the calculate command without prompting for the
              values of any of the variables.


       -e     Process mathematical expressions and Mathomatic commands instead
              of input files on the shell command line, and then quit.
              Unquoted space characters are the line separators on the
              Mathomatic input that follows this option.  Works similar to
              entering it into the Mathomatic main prompt, except the
              autoselect option is turned off.  Useful for quick command-line
              calculations.  The startup messages are not displayed with this
              option.  Follow this option with "--" so that expressions can
              start with a minus sign (-).


       -h     Display a brief help message listing all of these options and
              then exit.


       -m number
              Change the memory size of equation spaces.  It is followed by a
              decimal, floating point number which is a multiplier of the
              default equation space size.  This allows larger equation spaces
              so that manipulating extremely large expressions will succeed
              without getting the "Expression too large" error.  Specifying a
              number higher than 100 may make Mathomatic unresponsive.


       -q     Set quiet mode.  The startup messages and prompts are not
              displayed.  This is useful when piping or redirecting input into
              Mathomatic, because the input won't be displayed, so prompt
              output should be turned off.  This option does the same thing as
              the "set no prompt" command.


       -r     Disable readline or editline input processing.  Readline, and
              the editline drop-in replacement library, allow line input
              editing using the cursor keys, and output terminal control
              codes, all of which can be turned off with this option.


       -s level:time
              Set the enforced security level for the user's Mathomatic
              session.  Level 0 is the default with no security.  Level 1
              disallows shelling out (forking).  Level 2 disallows shelling
              out and writing files.  Level 3 disallows shelling out and
              reading/writing files.  Level 4 is the highest security level
              and is the same as compiling with the -DSECURE option.  This
              run-time option was created for use on open public servers.
              Specifying a colon, then a time in seconds, will time limit the
              application for that session.


       -t     Set test mode.  Used when testing and comparing output.
              Bypasses loading startup (rc) file, turns off color mode and
              readline, sets wide output mode, ignores the pause command, etc.
              It also allows using the calculate command without prompting for
              the values of any of the variables.


       -u     Guarantee that standard output and standard error output are
              unbuffered.  Also echoes all line input if not in quiet mode (
              -q option ).  Useful when piping.


       -v     Display program name and version number, then exit successfully.


       -w     Set wide output mode for an unlimited width output device like
              the "set wide" command does.  Sets infinite screen columns and
              rows so that 2D (two-dimensional) expression output will always
              succeed and not be downgraded to 1D output when it doesn't fit
              in the display area.  Use when redirecting output or with a
              terminal emulator that doesn't wrap lines.  This mode only
              affects 2D output.


       -x     Enable HTML output mode (which is also valid XHTML).  This makes
              Mathomatic output suitable for inclusion in a web page.  Color
              and bold mode affect this mode, allowing HTML color output.
              Wide output mode is also set by this option, meaning expressions
              will always be displayed in 2D.


GENERAL
       After any options, text files may be specified on the shell command
       line that will be automatically read in with the read command, unless
       the -e option is specified.

       Mathomatic is best run from within a terminal emulator.  It uses
       console line input and output for the user interface.  First you type
       in your mathematical equations in standard algebraic notation, then you
       can solve them by typing in the variable name at the prompt, or perform
       operations on them with simple English commands.  Type "help" or "?"
       for the help command, "help examples" to get started.  If the command
       name is longer than 4 letters, you only need to type in the first 4
       letters.  Most commands operate on the current equation by default.

       A command preceded by an exclamation point (such as "!ls") is taken to
       be a shell command and is passed unchanged to the shell (/bin/sh).  "!"
       by itself invokes the default shell, which is specified in the SHELL
       environment variable.  "!" is also the factorial operator.

       Complete documentation is available in HTML and PDF formats; see the
       local documentation directory or online at
       "http://mathomatic.org/math/doc/" for the latest Mathomatic
       documentation.


ENVIRONMENT
       EDITOR The EDITOR environment variable specifies which text editor to
              use for the edit command.


FILES
       ~/.mathomaticrc
              Optional startup file containing Mathomatic set command options.
              It should be a text file with one or more set options per line.
              For example, the line "no color" will make Mathomatic default to
              non-color mode, which is useful if you aren't using a supported
              color device.


AUTHOR
       Mathomatic has been written by George Gesslein II
       (gesslein@mathomatic.org), with help from the Internet community.


REPORTING BUGS
       The command to take the limit of an expression is partially functional
       and experimental.  All else should work perfectly; if not, please
       report it as a bug to the author or on the Launchpad website:
       "https://launchpad.net/mathomatic".


SEE ALSO
       rmath(1), matho-primes(1), primorial(1), matho-mult(1), matho-sum(1),
       matho-pascal(1), matho-sumsq(1)

                                                                 MATHOMATIC(1)
