MAXCSO(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              MAXCSO(1)

NAME
     MAXCSO – Fast cso compressor

SYNOPSIS
     maxcso [--args] [input.iso] [-o output.cso]

DESCRIPTION
     A fast ISO to CSO compression program for use with PSP and PS2 emulators,
     which uses multiple algorithms for best compression ratio.

   FEATURES
          •   Can use as many CPU cores as you want.
          •   Can use zlib(3), 7-zip's deflate, and Zopfli.
          •   Processes multiple files in one command.
          •   Can take a CSO or DAX file as a source.
          •   Able to output at larger block sizes.
          •   Support for experimental CSO v2 and ZSO formats using lz4(1)
              (faster decompression).
          •   Tuning of deflate or lz4(1) compression threshold.
          •   Decompression of all supported inputs (including DAX and CSO
              v2).

   Compression
     maxcso always uses compression level 9.  Decompression speed is about the
     same regardless of level, and disk access is faster with smaller files.

     Using 7-zip's deflate and Zopfli improves compression ratios, but don't
     expect a lot.  Usual results are between 0.5% to 1.0% smaller.

     Larger block sizes than the default will help compression, in the range
     of 2-3%.  However, the files may not be compatible with some software.
     For example, ppsspp versions released after 2014-10-26 will support
     larger block sizes.

     Avoid DAX where CSOs using larger block sizes are supported, since DAX is
     less efficient.

     lz4(1) support is mostly for experimentation.

   Speed
     Compared to other tools like ciso and CisoPlus, maxcso can run much
     faster and achieve the same compression.  Use --fast to get the fastest
     compression, which matches level 9 in other tools.

     Additionally, if you have better than a dual core processor, maxcso will
     use all of your cores, and perform even better.

     In usage, CSOs typically perform well in all known emulators.  Some
     versions of PSP firmware with support for CSOs have bugs in their CSO
     support, but this doesn't affect emulators.

OPTIONS
     Multiple files may be specified.  Inputs can be iso or cso files.

     --threads=N
             Specify N threads for I/O and compression.

     --quiet
             Suppress status output.

     --crc   Log CRC32 checksums, ignore output files and methods.

     --fast  Use only basic zlib(3) or lz4 for fastest result.

     --decompress
             Write out to raw ISO, decompressing as needed.

     --block=N
             Specify a block size (default depends on iso size).  Many readers
             only support the 2048 size.

     --format=VER cso1, cso2, zso, dax
             Specify cso version.  These are experimental, default is cso1.

     --usr-zlib
             Enable trials with zlib(3) for deflate compression.

     --use-zopli
             Enable trials with Zopfli for deflate compression.  Because
             Zopfli is significantly slower than the other methods and uses a
             lot more memory, it is disabled by default.  Use for maximum
             compression.

     --use-7zdeflate
             Enable trials with 7-zip's deflate compression.

     --use-lz4
             Enable trials with lz4hc for lz4(1) compression.

     --use-lz4brute
             Enable bruteforce trials with lz4hc for lz4(1) compression.

     --only-METHOD
             Only allow a certain compression method ( zlib(3), etc. above).

     --no-METHOD
             Disable a certain compression method ( zlib(3), etc. above).

     --lz4-cost=N
             Allow lz4(1) to increase block size by N% at most (cso2 only).

     --orig-cost=N
             Allow uncompressed to increase block size by N% at most.

     ---output-path=X
             Output to path X/, use basename for default outputs.

     The cost arguments allow you to allow each block to be N% bigger by using
     lz4(1) or no compression.  This makes the file read faster (less cpu
     power), but take more space.

EXAMPLES
     maxcso myfile.iso
             Compress myfile.iso and create myfile.cso.

     maxcso myfile.iso -o output.cso
             Compress myfile.iso and create output.cso.

SEE ALSO
     lz4(1), PCSX2(1), zlib(3)

BUGS
     Issue tracker: https://github.com/unknownbrackets/maxcso/issues

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           November 22, 2018          FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
