MBX2MBOX(1)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          MBX2MBOX(1)


NAME
       mbx2mbox - Converts Outlook .mbx and .dbx files into standard RFC822
       mail files.

SYNOPSIS
         mbx2mbox [-dc] <files ending in .mbx or .dbx>

DESCRIPTION
         mbx2mbox attempts to convert Microsoft's proprietary .mbx and .dbx
         formats to the standard RFC822 mail format used by programs like
         Pine, Eudora, and Netscape.  The .mbx and .dbx files provided as
         arguments to mbx2mbox are processed and output to files having the
         same name, except without the .mbx extension.

         Mailboxes from newer versions of Outlook and Outlook express may not
         be supported.  Be sure to compress your mailbox using Outlook, which
         should help remove some of the binary data from the file. Also be
         aware that this script has not been tested for Outlook versions since
         circa 1997, and may not work.

         For a survey of alternative methods of converting Outlook mailboxes,
         visit the mbx2mbox homepage at http://mbx2mbox.sourceforge.net/.

OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS
       -c  Causes mbx2mbox to more agressively remove binary-like characters.
           (This will remove characters that are part of the foreign language
           character set.)

       -d  Debug mode.

EXAMPLES
       Process saved.mbx and sent.dbx, creating the standard mail files
       "saved" and "sent".

         mbx2mbox saved.mbx sent.dbx

AUTHOR
         David Coppit, <david@coppit.org>, http://coppit.org/

SEE ALSO
       elm(1), mail(1), grep(1), perl(1), printmail(1), Mail::Internet(3)
       Crocker,  D.  H., Standard for the Format of Arpa Internet Text
       Messages, RFC822.

POD ERRORS
       Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
       below:

       Around line 237:
           '=item' outside of any '=over'

       Around line 246:
           You forgot a '=back' before '=head1'

perl v5.40.2                      2001-11-26                       MBX2MBOX(1)
