MEMCONTROL(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          MEMCONTROL(8)

NAME
     memcontrol – control system cache behaviour with respect to memory

SYNOPSIS
     memcontrol list [-a]
     memcontrol set -b base -l length -o owner attribute
     memcontrol clear -o owner
     memcontrol clear -b base -l length

DESCRIPTION
     A number of supported system architectures allow the behaviour of the CPU
     cache to be programmed to behave differently depending on the region
     being written.

     The memcontrol utility provides an interface to this facility, allowing
     CPU cache behavior to be altered for ranges of system physical memory.

     These ranges are typically power-of-2 aligned and sized, however the
     specific rules governing their layout vary between architectures.  The
     memcontrol utility does not attempt to enforce these rules, however the
     system will reject any attempt to set an illegal combination.

     list       List range slots.

                -a      List all range slots, even those that are inactive.

     set        Set memory range attributes.

                -b base
                        Memory range base address.

                -l length
                        Length of memory range in bytes, power of 2.

                -o owner
                        Text identifier for this setting (7 char max).

                attribute
                        Attributes applied to this range; combinations of
                        force, uncacheable, write-combine, write-through,
                        write-back, and write-protect.

     clear      Clear memory range attributes.  Ranges may be cleared by owner
                or by base/length combination.

                To clear based on ownership:

                -o owner
                        All ranges with this owner will be cleared.

                To clear based on the base/length combination:

                -b base
                        Memory range base address.

                -l length
                        Length of memory range in bytes, power of 2.

                Base and length must exactly match an existing range.

SEE ALSO
     mem(4)

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1       September 15, 2002       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
