MINETESTMAPPER(6)            FreeBSD Games Manual            MINETESTMAPPER(6)

NAME
     minetestmapper - generate an overview image of a Luanti map

SYNOPSIS
     minetestmapper -i world_path -o output_image

     See additional optional parameters below.

DESCRIPTION
     minetestmapper generates a top-down overview image of a Luanti map.  This
     is a port of the obsolete minetestmapper.py script to C++, that is both
     faster and provides more features.

     Minetestmapper ships with a colors.txt file suitable for Minetest Game,
     if you use a different game or have mods installed you should generate a
     matching colors.txt for better results (colors will be missing
     otherwise).


MANDATORY PARAMETERS
     -i world_path
            Input world path

     -o output_image
            Path to output image


OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
     --bgcolor color
            Background color of image, e.g. "--bgcolor #ffffff"


     --scalecolor color
            Color of scale marks and text, e.g. "--scalecolor #000000"


     --playercolor color
            Color of player indicators, e.g. "--playercolor #ff0000"


     --origincolor color
            Color of origin indicator, e.g. "--origincolor #ff0000"


     --drawscale
            Draw scale(s) with tick marks and numbers


     --drawplayers
            Draw player indicators with name


     --draworigin
            Draw origin indicator


     --drawalpha
            Allow nodes to be drawn with transparency (such as water)


     --noshading
            Don't draw shading on nodes


     --noemptyimage
            Don't output anything when the image would be empty


     --verbose
            Enable verbose log output.


     --min-y number
            Don't draw nodes below this Y value, e.g. "--min-y -25"


     --max-y number
            Don't draw nodes above this Y value, e.g. "--max-y 75"


     --backend backend
            Override auto-detected map backend; supported: sqlite3, leveldb,
            redis, postgresql, e.g. "--backend leveldb"


     --geometry geometry
            Limit area to specific geometry (x:z+w+h where x and z specify the
            lower left corner), e.g. "--geometry -800:-800+1600+1600"

            The coordinates are specified with the same axes as in-game. The Z
            axis becomes Y when projected on the image.


     --extent
            Don't render the image, just print the extent of the map that
            would be generated, in the same format as the geometry above.


     --zoom factor
            Zoom the image by using more than one pixel per node, e.g. "--zoom
            4"


     --colors path
            Override auto-detected path to colors.txt, e.g. "--colors
            ../world/mycolors.txt"


     --scales edges
            Draw scales on specified image edges (letters t b l r meaning top,
            bottom, left and right), e.g. "--scales tbr"


     --exhaustive mode
            Select if database should be traversed exhaustively or using range
            queries, available: never, y, full, auto

            Defaults to auto. You shouldn't need to change this, as
            minetestmapper tries to automatically picks the best option.


     --dumpblock pos
            Instead of rendering anything try to load the block at the given
            position (x,y,z) and print its raw data as hexadecimal.


MORE INFORMATION
     Website: https://github.com/luanti-org/minetestmapper


MAN PAGE AUTHOR
     Daniel Moerner

                                                             MINETESTMAPPER(6)
