mined(1)                      Unicode text editor                     mined(1)

NAME
       MinEd - powerful text editor with extensive Unicode and CJK support

SYNTAX
       mined [ -/+options ] [ +line ] [ +/search ] [ files ... ]

       xmined ...
       umined ...

       wined ...

       minmacs ...
       mstar ...
       mpico ...

       Note: Mined suppresses backup file names from the command line file
       list if they appear after their base version name as generated by
       command line auto-completion, in order to prevent their accidental
       editing; thus after file name "x" the following would be excluded from
       the file list (where N is a number): "x~", "x;N", "x.~N~", so that,
       e.g., mined x* edits x and x1 but not x~.

DESCRIPTION
       (Note: if there is no dotted line below, use 8 bit terminal environment
       for proper display of manual page.)
       ······················································

       Mined is a text editor with

        Security and safety features

              •      →NEW→ Transparent editing of encrypted files, using
                     filters configurable by file type

              •      Systematic text and file handling safety, avoiding loss
                     of data

              •      Backup features, supporting simple or versioned backup

              •      Hard link preservation

              •      Optional password hiding

        Interactive features

              •      Intuitive user interface

              •      Logical and consistent concept of navigating and editing
                     text (without ancient line-end handling limitations or
                     insert/append confusion)

              •      Supports various control styles:

                     •      Editing with command control, function key
                            control, or menu control

                     •      Navigation by cursor keys, control keys, mouse or
                            scrollbar

              •      Concise and comprehensive menus (driven by keyboard or
                     mouse)

              •      HOP key paradigm doubles the number of navigation
                     functions that can be most easily reached and remembered
                     by intuitively amplifying or expanding the associated
                     function

              •      Interactive file chooser and interactive file switcher

              •      Proper handling of window size changes in any state of
                     interaction

        Versatile character encoding support

              •      Extensive Unicode support, including double-width and
                     combining characters, script highlighting, various
                     methods of character input support (mapped keyboard input
                     methods, mnemonic and numeric input), supporting CJK,
                     Vietnamese, Hebrew, Arabic, and other scripts

              •      Character information from recent Unicode version

              •      Extensive accented character input support, including
                     multiple accent prefix keys

              •      Support for Greek (monotonic and polytonic)

              •      Support for Cyrillic accented characters

              •      Support of bidirectional terminals

              •      Support of Arabic ligature joining on all terminals

              •      East Asian character set support: handling of major CJK
                     encodings (including GB18030 and JIS encodings with
                     combining characters)

              •      Support for a large number of 8 bit encodings (with
                     combining characters for Vietnamese, Thai, Arabic,
                     Hebrew)

              •      Support of CJK input methods by enhanced keyboard mapping
                     including multiple choice mappings (handled by a pick
                     list menu); characters in the pick list being sorted by
                     relevance of Unicode ranges

              •      Han character information with description and
                     pronunciation

              •      Auto-detection of text character encoding, edits files
                     with mixed character encoding sections (e.g. mailboxes),
                     transparent handling and auto-detection of UTF-16 encoded
                     files

              •      Auto-detection of UTF-8 / CJK / 8 bit terminal mode and
                     detailed features (like different Unicode width and
                     combining data versions)

              •      Comprehensive and flexible (though standard-conformant)
                     set of mechanisms to specify both text and terminal
                     encodings with useful precedences

              •      Flexible combination of any text encoding with any
                     terminal encoding

              •      Encoding support tested with: xterm, mlterm, rxvt,
                     cxterm, kterm, hanterm, KDE konsole, gnome-terminal,
                     Linux console, cygwin console, mintty, PuTTY

        Text editing features

              •      Text layout features:

                     •      Paragraph wrapping, also justifying item lists

                     •      Auto-indentation and Undent function (smart
                            Backspace)

                     •      Smart quotes (with quotation marks style selection
                            and auto-detection) and smart dashes

                     •      →NEW→ Advanced list support (bullet and numbered
                            lists)

              •      Search and replacement patterns can have multiple lines

              •      →NEW→ Search and replacement patterns can contain
                     substitution references like \1 to matching sub-
                     expressions like \(...\) (can be nested)

              •      Cross-session paste buffer (copy/paste between multiple -
                     even subsequent or remote - invocations of mined)

              •      Optional Unicode paste buffer mode with implicit
                     conversion

              •      Marker stack for quick return to previous text positions

              •      Multiple paste buffers (emacs-style)

              •      Optional rectangular copy/paste area

              •      Interactive selection highlighting (with mouse or
                     keyboard selection), standard dual-mode Del key behaviour

              •      Program editing features, HTML support and syntax
                     highlighting, identifier and function definition search,
                     also across files; structure input support

              •      Visible indications of special text contents (TAB
                     characters, different line-end types, character codes
                     that cannot be displayed in the current mode)

              •      Full binary transparent editing with visible indications
                     (illegal UTF-8 or CJK, mixed line end types, NUL
                     characters, ...)

              •      Print function that works in all text encodings

              •      Optional emacs command mode

        Small-footprint operation, portability and interworking

              •      Plain text mode (terminal) operation

              •      Optimized use of terminal features for a wide range of
                     terminals, including large terminal support (2015x2015)
                     of recent xterm and mintty

              •      Instant start-up

              •      Runs on many platforms (including legacy systems): Linux,
                     Android, Raspberry Pi, Unix (SunOS, BSD, Mac OS X, QNX,
                     GNU Hurd, HP-UX, IBM AIX, Irix, SCO UnixWare, Ultrix,
                     Tru64), DOS (djgpp), Windows (cygwin, Interix, MSYS),
                     OpenVMS, Haiku

       This manual contains the main topics

              •      Command line options

              •      Editing text with mined, an overview

                     •      Keypad layout

                     •      The HOP function

                     •      Mouse control and Menus

                     •      Paste buffers

                     •      Visual selection and Keypad modes

                     •      Rectangular copy/paste

                     •      Text position marker stack

                     •      Paragraph justification

                     •      Auto indentation and Structure input support

                     •      List support (bullet and numbered lists)

                     •      Search and replace multiple lines

              •      Overview: input support features

              •      Handling files with mined

                     •      Tags file support

                     •      →NEW→ Encrypted files

                     •      Data safety and security, Backup and recovery
                            files and File locking

                     •      Line end modes and binary-transparent editing

                     •      File info: Memory of file position and editing
                            style parameters

                     •      File chooser and File switcher

                     •      Backup integration

                     •      Version control integration

                     •      Printing

              •      Working with mined

                     •      Quick Options (Mode indication) flags

                     •      Structured editing support

                     •      Password hiding

                     •      Visible indication of line contents
              Language support

              •      Character handling support

                     •      Combining characters

                     •      Character information display

                     •      Character conversion features

                     •      Smart quotes

              •      Character input support

                     •      Accented and mnemonic input support

                     •      Combining character input

                     •      Special character input shortcuts

                     •      Character input mnemonics

                     •      Keyboard Mapping and Input Methods

              •      Character encoding support

                     •      Auto-detected character encodings

                     •      CJK and mapped 8 bit encoding support

                     •      Combining characters

              •      Unicode support

                     •      Character input support

                     •      Encoding conversion support

                     •      Bidirectional terminal support

                     •      Joining characters

              •      CJK support

                     •      CJK input method support

                     •      Han character information display

              •      Terminal encoding support Mined Command reference
                     (command and key function assignments)

                     •      Generic command modifiers (esp. HOP key)

                     •      Cursor and screen motion

                     •      Entering text

                            •      Input support commands

                     •      Modifying text

                     •      Text block and buffer operations

                     •      Search

                     •      File operations

                     •      Menu

                     •      Miscellaneous

                     •      MSDOS keyboard functions

                     •      Emacs mode

                     •      Windows keyboard mode

                     •      WordStar mode

              •      Configuration of user preferences

              •      Environment interworking and configuration hints

                     •      Mined runtime support library

                     •      PC versions

                     •      VMS version

                     •      Android version

                     •      Terminal environment

                            •      Locale configuration

                            •      PC terminals

                            •      Terminal setup and configuration

                            •      Terminal interworking problems

                     •      Keyboard Mapping / Input Method preselection

                     •      Smart Quotes style configuration

                     •      Han info configuration

                     •      Common paste buffer configuration

                     •      Keypad configuration

                     •      Printing configuration

                     •      Mined configuration

              •      Environment variables

              •      Author and Acknowledgements

       Interactive help is available with F1.

Command line options
       Mined can be invoked

              •      with or without list of file names

              •      reading from a pipe (reading text from standard input)

              •      writing into a pipe (writing edited text to standard
                     output)

              •      using a script that starts it in a new window

   Examples
       mined x
              edits the file x

       mined x y z
              edits files x, y, and z

       cmd | mined
              edits the output of program cmd; a file name for saving can be
              given later

       mined x > y
              takes the contents of file x and edits it for writing into y

       mined | mail nn
              edits a text to be mailed

       cmd1 | mined | cmd2
              modifies text within a pipe between program cmd1 (output) and
              cmd2 (as input)

       minmacs ...
              runs mined in emacs-compatible command mode (like mined -e)

       mstar ...
              runs mined in WordStar-compatible command mode (like mined -W)

       mpico ...
              runs mined in pico-compatible command mode (alpha)

       xmined ...
              starts a new terminal window (xterm or rxvt, depending on
              current TERM variable setting) and invokes mined in it

       umined ...
              starts a new terminal window in UTF-8 mode (xterm or rxvt,
              depending on font availability and usage capabilities) and
              invokes mined in it

       wined ...
              (in cygwin) starts mined in a window (using the mintty terminal,
              applying Windows look-and-feel)

       wined.bat ...
              (in Windows) starts mined in a window, using Windows keyboard
              emulation mode

   Startup options
       +number
              Mined positions to the given line number.

       +/expr Mined initially searches for the given search expression.  →NEW→
              The search can be repeated with F9.

       -v     Mined starts in view only mode. The text cannot be modified.

       --     Restricted mode (tool mode): no other files can be edited or
              otherwise affected.  (Also triggered if programm name starts
              with "r", e.g. rmined).

       ++     End of options; subsequent file name can start with "-" or "+".

       +@     Apply extended grooming to file info file; drop entries for
              files that are not accessible.  See File info: Memory of file
              position and editing style parameters for details.

   File handling
       +x     Make new files executable (Unix).  When cloning a file (with
              Save As or a similar feature), or if permissions are restricted
              by the environment (umask setting in Unix), executable
              permission is set only where also read permission is set.

       +bX    Select backup mode, where X is one of:

              •      -: no backup files

              •      s: simple backup files (F~)

              •      e: emacs style numbered backup files (F.~N~)

              •      v: VMS style numbered backup files (F;N)

              •      n: numbered backup files (whichever style occurs)

              •      a: automatic backup files (whichever style occurs)
       See Backup files for details.

       +zX    Preselect file chooser sort options, where X is one of:

              •      x: sort by file name extensions

              •      d: list directories first

   Line end handling (transparent and transforming)
       -r     Convert MSDOS line ends (CR LF) to Unix line ends (LF)
              (stripping CR at line ends).  Can be combined with -R or +R.
              Also sets line end type for new files to LF for the djgpp
              version (which defaults to CR LF).

       +r     Convert Unix line ends (LF) to MSDOS line ends (CR LF) (adding
              CR at line ends).  Can be combined with -R or +R.  Also sets
              line end type for new files to CR LF.

       -R     Convert Mac line ends (CR) to Unix line ends (LF).  Can be
              combined with -r or +r.

       +R     Recognise Mac line ends (CR) and indicate them on display;
              nothing is transformed with this option.  Can be combined with
              -r or +r.

       +u-u   Interpret Unicode line separator and paragraph separator as
              normal characters, not line ends (handling them as line ends was
              previously enabled with -uu and is now on by default).

   Character set and character handling
       -u   (character set)
              Interprets edited text as UTF-8, disables UTF and CJK auto
              detection.
              Synonym of -EU.

       -l   (character set)
              Interprets edited text as Latin-1, disables UTF and CJK auto
              detection.
              Synonym of -EL.

       +u-u (character handling)
              Interpret text as UTF-8, but interpret Unicode line separator
              and paragraph separator as normal characters, not line ends.

       -c   (character handling)
              Selects separated display mode for combined characters
              (separating base character and combining characters).  This mode
              can also be toggled from the Options menu or by clicking on the
              Combining flag (next to the character encoding flag) in the
              flags area.

       -b   (character handling)
              Toggle "poor man's bidi" mode: input support for right-to-left
              scripts, based on Unicode script ranges.  (Enabled by default
              unless the terminal is detected to be in bidi mode; so e.g. in
              mlterm, poor man's bidi is disabled by default.)

       -EX  (character set)
              Where X is one of B/G/C/J/S/K/H: Selects one of the supported
              CJK character encodings for text interpretation and disables
              auto-detection of CJK encodings.  For details, see CJK encoding
              support.  For more details on supported encodings, see the
              Character encoding flags listing in the Quick Options (Mode
              indication) flags section.

       -EX  (character set)
              Where X is one of U/L or another 1-letter character encoding
              tag: Selects Unicode/UTF-8, Latin-1, or one of the other
              supported character encodings for text interpretation.  For
              details on supported encodings, see the Quick Options (Mode
              indication) flags listing.

       -E=charmap     (character set)
              Where charmap is a character encoding name (as reported by the
              locale charmap command): Selects the respective character
              encoding for text interpretation.  For details on locale-related
              character encoding configuration, see Locale configuration.

       -E.suffix (character set)
              Where suffix is a character encoding suffix ("codeset") as used
              in locale names: Selects the respective character encoding for
              text interpretation.  For details on locale-related character
              encoding configuration, see Locale configuration.

       -E:flag   (character set)
              Where flag is a 2-letter indication used by mined to indicate
              the respective text encoding in the Encoding flag: Selects the
              respective character encoding for text interpretation.  For
              details on supported encodings and their flags, see the Quick
              Options (Mode indication) flags listing.

       -Eu  (buffer encoding)
              Enables Unicode buffer mode which always maintains the
              Copy/Paste buffer in Unicode, thus facilitating conversion
              between different encodings being edited.  For details, see
              Unicode Copy/Paste buffer conversion.

       -E?  (character set)
              Determine the encoding(s) of the text file(s) given as
              parameters by auto-detection, print out the information and
              quit.

       -E or -E-
              →NEW→ Disable text encoding auto-detection and derive it from
              the locale environment.

       -KX  (input method handling)
              Configure the Space key to perform a certain function in
              keyboard mapping selection menus ("CJK input method pick
              lists"), where X is one of:
               'n' to navigate to the next choice (like cursor-right),
               'r' to navigate to the next row (like cursor-down),
               's' to select the current choice (like Enter).

       -K=im-im  (input method selection)
              Select input method and/or standby input method (for quick
              switching with Alt-k).  The syntax is the same as for the
              optional environment variable MINEDKEYMAP (see below).

   Terminal mode
       -U   (terminal mode)
              Toggles UTF-8 screen handling assumption, i.e. selects UTF-8
              screen handling unless UTF-8 keyboard input is already selected
              (by another -U option or environment setting).  In the latter
              case, -U deselects UTF-8 terminal operation.  This option should
              normally not be used as the mode should be configured in the
              environment (see Locale configuration).

       +U   (terminal mode)
              Selects UTF-8 screen handling.  Note that none of the options -U
              or +U needs to be used if the environment is correctly
              configured to indicate UTF-8 as it should (see Unicode handling
              / Terminal environment).
              Also, mined performs auto-detection of UTF-8 terminal encoding
              and UTF-8 terminal features (different width data versions,
              handling of double-width, combining and joining characters), so
              even if the environment is not correctly configured, mined
              should work without this explicit terminal mode parameter.

       +UU  (terminal mode)
              Selects bidirectional terminal support.  This mode implies UTF-8
              and also assumes that Arabic ligature joining (of LAM/ALEF
              combinations) is applied; it will be handled by mined
              accordingly.

       +UU-U     (terminal mode)
              Selects bidirectional terminal support without Arabic ligature
              joining (like mintty).

       -cc  (terminal mode)
              Assumes that the terminal does not support combining characters.
              By default - unless otherwise detected - mined assumes that
              combining characters work on UTF-8 terminals and do not work in
              CJK terminals.

       +c   (terminal mode)
              Assumes that the terminal supports combining characters.  This
              is enabled by default for UTF-8 terminals, and disabled by
              default for CJK terminals, unless otherwise detected.

       +EX  (terminal mode)
              Where X is one of B/G/C/J/X/S/x/K/H: Assumes a CJK encoded
              terminal in one of the supported CJK character encodings.  For
              details, see CJK encoding support.

       +EX  (terminal mode)
              Where X is one of g/c/j: Assumes a CJK encoded terminal in one
              of the CJK character encodings like G/C/J and also assumes that
              the terminal cannot display GB18030 4-byte encodings, CNS 4-byte
              encodings, EUC-JP 3-byte encodings, respectively.

       +EX  (terminal mode)
              Where X is one of U/L or another 1-letter character encoding
              tag: Assumes a Unicode/UTF-8 or Latin-1 encoded terminal,
              respectively, or an 8-bit terminal running one of the other
              supported character encodings.  For details on supported
              encodings, see the Quick Options (Mode indication) flags
              listing.  For details on terminal encoding support, see Terminal
              encoding support.

       +E=charmap     (terminal mode)
              Where charmap is a character encoding name (as reported by the
              locale charmap command): Assumes the terminal to have the
              respective encoding.  For details on locale-related character
              encoding configuration, see Locale configuration.

       +E.suffix (terminal mode)
              Where suffix is a character encoding suffix ("codeset") as used
              in locale names: Assumes the terminal to have the respective
              encoding.  For details on locale-related character encoding
              configuration, see Locale configuration.

       +E:flag   (terminal mode)
              Where flag is a 2-letter indication used by mined to indicate
              the respective encoding as text encoding in the Encoding flag:
              Assumes the terminal to have the respective encoding.  For
              details on supported encodings and their flags, see the Quick
              Options (Mode indication) flags listing.

       +E?  (terminal mode)
              Determine the terminal encoding and further terminal encoding
              features and properties by auto-detection, print out the
              information and quit.

       -C   (character set and terminal mode)
              (Deprecated.)  Turns a subsequent -E option (with a single-
              letter CJK tag) effectively into a combined -E and +E option.
              So mined assumes the given CJK encoding for both terminal
              encoding (unless overridden by UTF-8 terminal auto-detection)
              and text encoding.  Can be used for quick indication of CJK
              terminals (e.g. cxterm, kterm, hanterm) if locale environment is
              not properly set.

       +C   (terminal mode)
              Displays unknown characters on CJK terminal: Assumes a CJK
              encoded terminal (e.g. cxterm, kterm, hanterm; more specific
              encoding specification is advisable), and characters encoded in
              a CJK encoding format are displayed transparently even if they
              do not map to a valid Unicode character.

       +CC  (terminal mode)
              Displays invalid characters on CJK terminal: Implies +C, but
              even character codes that do not match the encoding scheme (e.g.
              wrt. to specified byte ranges) are written transparently to the
              terminal.

       +CCC (terminal mode)
              Displays extended characters on CJK terminal: Implies +CC and
              overrides auto-detection of the terminal capability to display
              CJK 3-byte / 4-byte codes which would by default suppress their
              display if the terminal does not support them.

       +D   (keyboard assignment)
              Setup xterm (by sending dynamic configuration codes) to apply
              two useful keyboard handling modes: Del key on small keypad
              sends DEL character rather than an escape sequence and can thus
              be distinguished from the Del key on the big (numeric) keypad.
              Prepend ESC to character if pressed with the Alt or Meta key in
              order to enable Alt-commands (e.g. Alt-f to open the file menu,
              Alt-Shift-H to enter HTML markers etc).  (Unfortunately this
              cannot be done by default as it cannot be undone because the
              previous state cannot be detected.)  (This xterm setting should
              rather be configured permanently as suggested in the sample file
              Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support library.)

       +#     →NEW→ Assume dark terminal background and adjust some colours
              accordingly.

       -nc    Suppress usage of terminal colour attributes.

   Information display
       +H     Enable syntax highlighting for HTML/XML and server scripting.

       -H     Disable HTML/XML syntax highlighting.

       +?c    Enable character code information display on status line.

       +?X    Enable character code information display (implies +?c) with
              additional information, where X is one of:

              •      s: Unicode script

              •      n: Unicode character name

              •      →NEW→ q: Unicode named sequence

              •      d: Unicode character decomposition

              •      m: mined input mnemonics available for this character
       Note: setting any of these options may disable some others as not all
       combinations are considered useful.

       +?h    Enable full Han character information display as a popup.  In
              addition to the character description, a set of pronunciations
              can be selected with the variable MINEDHANINFO.

       +?x    Enable compact Han character information on status line.  In
              addition to the character description, a set of pronunciations
              can be selected with the variable MINEDHANINFO.

       +?f    Enable file and position information display on status line
              (enabled by default).  Note that when editing a file that does
              not fit completely in memory (e.g. large file on old system),
              this option may cause considerable swapping. In that case,
              disable the feature with -?f.

       -?X    Deselect the respective +? option.

   Editing behaviour
       -q     Derive quotation marks style from locale information
              (environment variables LANGUAGE, TEXTLANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE,
              LANG).  See Smart quotes for details.  Note: if either LANGUAGE
              or TEXTLANG is used, -q is assumed implicitly.

       -q=locale
              Derive quotation marks style from given locale.  (-q:locale
              works too.)

       +q or +q=locale
              Like -q but exchange primary and secondary style.

       -q:style
              Set given quotation marks style if available for any language,
              e.g. -q:"«»".  (-q=style works too.)

       -w     Recognise fewer places as word boundaries for word skip and
              delete commands.

       -a     Append mode: Append to text buffer or external file for
              copy/delete commands instead of replacing it.

       +j     Set justification level 1 (or increment level previously set by
              environment variable to 1 or 2): Level 1 initially enables
              automatic word wrap at line end when typing over right margin.
              Can be changed by clicking on the j/J flag.

       +jj    Set justification level 2: Level 2 initially enables automatic
              word wrap at line end when typing within paragraph; buggy.  Can
              be changed by clicking on the j/J flag.

       -j     Set justification level 1 or 2 (other than previously set).  Can
              be changed by clicking on the j/J flag.

       -T     When moving vertically over a Tab character, stay left of the
              Tab column range (on the Tab character).  The default depends on
              the previous position.  Also, stay left on a wide character when
              moving vertically over it.

       +T     When moving vertically over a Tab character, stay right of the
              Tab column range (behind the Tab character).  The default
              depends on the previous position.

       -V     Place cursor before pasted region after paste commands.  (If
              this option is enabled already, -V acts like -VV.)

       -VV    Like -V, and disable emacs-style paste buffer functions for
              "delete word" and "delete to end of line" commands (^T, ^K).

       +V     Place cursor behind pasted region after paste commands.  (If
              this option is enabled already, +V acts like +VV.)

       +VV    Like +V, and enable emacs-style paste buffer functions for
              "delete word" and "delete to end of line" commands (^T, ^K).

       +[     Initially enable rectangular paste buffer mode.  See Rectangular
              copy/paste.

       -[     Initially disable rectangular paste buffer mode.

       +V:X or -V:X
              Enable/disable visual selection behaviour, where X is one of

              •      k: keep selection when searching

              •      c: automatically copy after mouse selection

   Keyboard function mode selection
       +eX    Select emulation mode, especially control key function mapping,
              where X is one of

              •      e: emacs mode

              •      s: WordStar mode

              •      w: Windows keyboard mode

              •      W: Windows behaviour (keyboard mode, CRLF for new files,
                     cmd.exe with ESC !)

              •      p: pico mode

              •      m: mined default

       -e     Select emacs mode. This assigns functions to control keys, M-X
              commands (ESC commands, using the "meta" key as emacs calls the
              Alt prefix) and C-X commands as defined by the emacs editor.
              Also the emacs paste buffer ring and cut/paste behaviour is
              enabled.

       -W     Select WordStar mode. This configures WordStar command key
              layout and enables many functions of the ^K, ^O, and ^Q menus.

       -kX    Select keypad modes, where X is one of

              •      m: mined keypad mode.

              •      s or S: Shift-select mode: Shifted keypad keys (cursor
                     keys, PgUp/PgDn/Home/End) start or extend text selection
                     (with visual highlighting) and visual selection behaviour
                     is slightly adapted to common usage; in addition, Shift-
                     HOP is mapped to the Copy function.  Unshifted keypad
                     keys retain their default mined functions.

              •      w: Windows keypad mode; implies -kS (also implied by
                     +ew):

              •      c: Home and End keys of small ("editing") keypad invoke
                     Mark/Copy to paste buffer (overriding selected mode for
                     them)

              •      C: Home and End keys of big ("numeric") keypad invoke
                     Mark/Copy to paste buffer (overriding selected mode for
                     them)

       +t     (Deprecated.) Windows keypad mode, like -kw.

       +tt    (Deprecated.) Shift-select mode, like -kS.

       -k (as single-letter option)
              Switch the Home and End key functions of the two keypads (small
              keypad, numeric keypad), i.e. exchange the two keypads with
              respect to these keys.  This assigns the more usual functions
              "goto line beginning", "goto line end" to the Home and End keys
              of the right keypad.  The (assumedly more useful) mined default
              is to assign the frequently used paste buffer functions (mark,
              copy) to these keys.
              In turn, the assigned functions of the Home and End keys of the
              small keypad ("editing keypad") are exchanged to provide the
              other function than on the right keypad, respectively - provided
              the terminal and its configuration support this distinction.
              Also Alt-Home/End are assigned the respective other functions on
              each keypad so the most useful keypad functions should always be
              quite easily available.
              Regardless of this switching, mined tries to map fixed functions
              to modified Home and End keys: Ctrl-Home/End for line begin/end
              movement (both keypads), Shift-Home/End for the paste buffer
              copy functions (small keypad) - provided the terminal, its mode
              and configuration support distinction of modified keypad keys.
              See also the section on Keypad layout for a motivating overview
              of the mined keypad assignment features and options.
              About terminal support and configuration, see Keypad
              configuration for further hints.

       +k     Enforce usage of terminal "keypad mode" which switches the
              numeric keypad to send "application keypad" escape sequences.
              This is normally not needed. On certain terminals, mined will
              automatically use this mode (e.g.  Linux console), and in
              terminal emulators it is usually not needed unless you are
              running a misconfigured X windows system in which case you can
              enable distinguished keypad functions by using the NumLock
              function of the keyboard and switching on this option.

       +Bp    →NEW→ Backspace should apply "plain backspacing" rather than
              "smart backspacing", i.e. no auto-undent and only delete one
              combining character of a combined character; without this
              option, use Control-Backspace for the "plain" function; with
              this option, use Shift-Control-Backspace for the "smart"
              function.

       -B     (Deprecated.)  Enforce the Del control character to delete left,
              Backspace to move left.  Should normally not be used, see
              "Automatic backspace mode adaptation" below.

   Appearance
       -QX    Select menu border style, where X is one of

              •      s: simple border,

              •      r: rounded corners,

              •      f: fat border,

              •      d: double border,

              •      a: ASCII border (can be combined with another option -Qs
                     or -Qr),

              •      v: VT100 alternate character set graphics border,

              •      @: block border (deprecated),

              •      1: (or another digit) add a margin between menu borders
                     and contents (can be combined with any other -Q option),

              •      B: →NEW→ full menu background

              •      b: →NEW→ transparent menu background

              •      p: →NEW→ plain menu borders (no lines)

              •      P: →NEW→ very plain: no menu borders

              •      Q: stylish selection bar for navigating menu items, see
                     image (can be combined with another option -Qs or -Qr or
                     -Qf or -Qd).

              •      q: disable stylish selection bar
       Mined sets an appropriate default based on its assumptions of the
       terminal capabilities.

       -O     Disable script colour highlighting (for Greek, Cyrillic...).

       +O     Enable script colour highlighting (for Greek, Cyrillic...).
              (Disabled by default in dark terminals.)

       -f     Restrict usage of graphic characters: use cell-grained
              scrollbar, simple menu borders, no fancy menu bar for
              highlighting the selected menu item.

       -ff    Further restrict usage of graphic characters: no Unicode box
              drawing graphic characters for menu borders.

       -fff   Further restrict usage of graphic characters: no graphic
              characters (including VT100 graphics) for menu borders.

       -F     Assume a screen font with limited coverage of special symbols
              and restrict usage of special marker characters for display of
              line indications. (This is needed e.g. for KDE konsole or for
              xterm using TrueType fonts.)
              Interpretation of the MINEDUTF* environment variables is
              suppressed.

       -FF    Assume a screen font with even more limited coverage of special
              symbols and restrict usage of special characters for indication
              of selected menu items.  Also, trigger substitution display of a
              number of special characters in text (like in non-Unicode
              terminals).

       +F     Revert the effect of one -F option (e.g. preconfigured in the
              environment variable MINEDOPT) or a corresponding assumption of
              mined about the specific terminal which would limit font usage.

       +FF    Fully enable usage of characters for special indications.

   Further mode selection, interface and display behaviour
       -N     Set Tab size to either value of 8, 4, 2.  The effective Tab size
              can be changed while editing with the ESC T command or from the
              Options menu.

       -+N    Set Tab spacing expansion mode to either size or 8, 4, 2.  In
              this mode, a TAB input character will be expanded to an
              appropriate number of spaces.  To enter a real Tab character,
              type Ctrl-V Tab (^V^I).  The effective Tab size can be changed
              while editing with the ESC T command or from the Options menu.
              Tab expansion mode can be changed while editing with the HOP ESC
              T command or from the Options menu.

       -P     Hide passwords; enables hidden display of one word behind the
              string "assword" in a line (to accommodate for "password" or
              "Password"): hidden characters are indicated by reverse "*"
              characters.  By default, this mode is activated when editing a
              file whose name starts with ".".

       +P     Unhide passwords; always display them.

       +ZZ    Virtual bold stropping: displays keywords of Algol-like
              programming languages in bold while transparently editing them
              in all-capital letters ("upper stropping"), which is started
              with entering only one capital letter.  Implicitly enabled on
              file name suffix .a68 (disable with -ZZ).

       +Z_    Underline strop style: use underlined instead of bold for
              stropping.  To activate virtual underline stropping, use both
              options: +ZZZ_.

       -LN    (N is a number) Define mouse wheel movement to scroll by N lines
              (default 3).  Ctrl-mouse-wheel always scrolls by 1 line.  Shift-
              mouse-wheel scrolls by 1 page.  Mouse-wheel on the scrollbar
              scrolls by half a page.

       +M:    Enable file tabs header display (above menu line which is also
              enabled).

       -M:    Disable file tabs header display.

       -M     Suppress display of menu header line (including flags).  Pull-
              down and pop-up menus can still be opened with keyboard
              commands.  Mouse control remains enabled.

       -MM    Suppress display of menu header line (including flags) and
              disable quick menu (right-click on text).  Pull-down and pop-up
              menus can still be opened with keyboard commands, the quick menu
              can still be opened with Alt-space or ESC space.

       -MM+M  Disable quick menu but leave menu header and flags line enabled.

       +*     Enable enhanced mouse control: Menu items can be navigated with
              the mouse without button pressed.  Enabled by default for
              mintty, xterm, gnome-terminal, cygwin console.

       -*     Disable enhanced mouse control (if enabled by default or by
              previous option), otherwise disable mouse support altogether.

       -**    Disable mouse support altogether.

       -oN    Select scrollbar display mode.  N=0 disables the scrollbar (may
              speed up editing on slow remote lines), N=1 enables cell-grained
              scrollbar display, N=2 (default) enables finer-grained scrollbar
              display on a UTF-8 terminal.

       -oo    Selects old (until 2000.14) left/right click behaviour on
              scrollbar.

       -o     Disables the scrollbar.

       +o     Enables the scrollbar.

       -p     Enables distinguished display of line ends and paragraph ends
              with different symbols.

       -X     Disables display of the filename in the window title bar.

       -s     Stay with cursor in top line after page down or bottom line
              after page up instead of center line.

       -S     Use scrolling for page up/down.

       -dN    Apply delay between lines of page output to achieve visually
              effective display build-up which may help to quickly focus on
              the new cursor position (the screen output is displayed starting
              from the cursor position, proceeding to the screen edges).
                   If N lies between '0' and '9', the respective number of
              milliseconds is applied between display of two lines.  If N='0',
              still an output flush is performed.  If N='-', no delay at all
              is applied though still the order of display output is from
              cursor position to edges.
                   Default: '-'; configuration is currently disabled in the
              Unix version as 'usleep' doesn't seem to be very portable.

       +p     Enables support for proportional display fonts.  This does not
              really work, however, with e.g. xterm or SunOS shelltool as they
              do not reliably position characters after using control
              sequences.

       All options are also looked for in the environment variable MINEDOPT
       (or MINED for compatibility).
       On the command line, options containing wildcard characters ("?", "*")
       may need to be quoted (if matching files starting with "-" or "+"
       exist).

Editing text with mined
       Mined is always in insert mode. Commands are single control characters,
       double key commands starting with ESCAPE, and a collection of function
       keys (for various types of keyboards and terminals). As a specialty,
       note the prefixing 'HOP KEY' which amplifies or expands the effect of
       certain commands "just as you would expect"; this provides for more
       command flexibility without having to remember too many keys. It is
       described in a separate section below.

   Keypad layout
       Control key layout for basic movement functions is topographic on the
       left-hand side of the keyboard (an idea originating from early editors,
       when keyboards didn't have cursor keypads).  (Although using a cursor
       block is more comfortable, a simple set of control key assignments is
       useful as a fallback on terminals or remote connections with reduced
       functionality.)

       The right-hand cursor block of typical keyboards is assigned the most
       important movement and paste buffer functions.

       Keypad assignment features:

              •      Mined optimizes keypad usage for most frequently used
                     functions, especially paste buffer functions in addition
                     to navigation functions, by making them easily accessible
                     on the keypad.

                     •      For this purpose, mined distinguished between
                            Home/End keys on the numeric keypad and on the
                            small keypad (whenever possible with the terminal)
                            in order to avoid the waste of resources by the
                            usually redundant mapping of these two keypad
                            blocks.

                     •      Note: this means that on the big ("numeric")
                            keypad the mined keypad function assignment for
                            Home/End deviates from their more usual meanings.
                            This is deliberately designed to enhance support
                            of quick copy/paste with these easily reachable
                            keys, while line movement can also easily be
                            achieved with HOP cursor-left or HOP cursor-right,
                            respectively.
                            This keypad function assignment gives you the best
                            benefit of keypad usage and is thus considered
                            much more useful than the "standard assignment".

                     •      The Del and Backarrow keys perform their usual
                            dual-mode function; if a visual selection is
                            active, they delete the selection (with a Cut to
                            the paste buffer), if there is no visual
                            selection, they delete the next or previous
                            character, respectively.

              small ("editing") keypad and big ("numeric") keypad:
              +-------+-------+-------+    +-------+-------+-------+
              | Insert| Home  | PgUp  |    | (7)   |  (8)  | (9)   |
              | Paste |LineBeg|       |    | Mark  |   ↑   | PgUp  |
              +-------+-------+-------+    +-------+-------+-------+
              | Delete| End   | PgDn  |    | (4)   |  (5)  | (6)   |
              |Del/Cut|LineEnd|       |    |  ←    |  HOP  |  →    |
              +-------+-------+-------+    +-------+-------+-------+
                                           | (1)   |  (2)  | (3)   |
                                           | Copy  |   ↓   | PgDn  |
                                           +-------+-------+-------+
                                           | (0)           | (.)   |
                                           | Paste         |Del/Cut|
                                           +-------+-------+-------+

              •      The centrally placed HOP key is a prefix modifier that
                     can be used for intuitive modification of navigation
                     functions and for useful alternatives of paste buffer
                     functions.

              big ("numeric") keypad after HOP:
                                           +-------+-------+-------+
                                           | (7)   |  (8)  | (9)   |
                                           |go Mark|Scr top|FileBeg|
                                           +-------+-------+-------+
                                           | (4)   |  (5)  | (6)   |
                                           |LineBeg|       |LineEnd|
                                           +-------+-------+-------+
                                           | (1)   |  (2)  | (3)   |
                                           |Append |Scr bot|FileEnd|
                                           +-------+-------+-------+
                                           | (0)           | (.)   |
                                           |Cross-paste    |+Append|
                                           +-------+-------+-------+

              See The HOP function below for alternative keys to trigger it.

              •      Mined offers additional function mappings for modified
                     keypad keys, both for providing unambiguous mappings in
                     any case and to handle the deviation of its benefit-
                     optimized Home/End keypad mapping from frequent
                     expectations, and an option to customize Home/End:

                     •      Alt-Home/End are mapped to the Home/End functions
                            of the other keypad, respectively. So by default,
                            on the numeric keypad they invoke the line
                            navigation functions.

                     •      The -k option exchanges Home/End functions of the
                            small and numeric keypads with each other, and
                            switches Alt-Home/End to also invoke the "other"
                            function, respectively: keypad function
                            assignments:

                     •      (cf Windows keypad mode below) Ctrl-Del is always
                            mapped to character deletion, while Shift-Del is
                            mapped to the paste buffer Cut function,
                            regardless of the visual selection.

                     •      (cf Windows keypad mode below) Ctrl-Home/End are
                            always mapped to line navigation, while Shift-
                            Home/End are mapped to the paste buffer functions
                            Mark/Copy, regardless of the -k option.

                     •      Alt-Del is mapped to the respective "other"
                            function, depending on visual selection.

                     •      Note: Keypad function assignments as described
                            depend on terminal support to distinguish all
                            involved keys and modifiers which is unfortunately
                            not always the case.
                            Terminal support for proper distinction of
                            different keypads and modified keys may be
                            enhanced by appropriate terminal configuration,
                            see the section on Keypad configuration.
                            →NEW→ With xterm since 280, all desired
                            distinctions between different keypads as well as
                            modified keypad keys are achieved (by using the
                            modifyKeyboard resource mode in combination with
                            VT220 Keyboard and Application Keypad modes).

              •      Two Keypad modes (see below) change the function
                     assignment of the keypads.

                     •      In Shift-select mode (option -kS), Shift-modified
                            keypad keys activate or extend a visual text
                            selection; also Shift-5 (on keypad) performs Copy
                            to paste buffer.

                     •      In Windows keypad mode (option -kw), additionally
                            non-shifted keypad keys are changed to perform the
                            more common functions, at the price of losing the
                            easy Home/End assignment to invoke Mark/Copy to
                            paste buffer (which can however be overridden with
                            options -kc and -kC).  See Keypad modes below for
                            an overview.

   The HOP function
       This function, triggered by any of the HOP keys, amplifies or expands
       functions as listed below. To achieve the combined function, first
       press any key that is assigned the HOP function, then any key assigned
       the base function from the table below.
       Note: To enable using the HOP function also on keyboards that do not
       support the keypad "5" or "*" keys (e.g.  small notebooks without
       numeric keypad), a few alternative HOP keys are provided: Control-Q,
       Shift-TAB, the Menu or Windows keys (if running Linux), or (providing a
       dual-mode function) the Control-G and ESC keys.

       HOP char left
              move cursor to beginning of current line

       HOP char right
              move cursor to end of current line

       HOP line up
              move cursor to top of screen

       HOP line down
              move cursor to bottom of screen

       HOP scroll up
              scroll half a screen up

       HOP scroll down
              scroll half a screen down

       HOP page up
              move to beginning of file

       HOP page down
              move to end of file

       HOP word left
              move cursor to previous ";" or "."

       HOP word right
              move cursor to next ";" or "."

       HOP delete tail of line/line end
              delete whole line

       HOP delete whole line
              delete tail of line

       HOP delete previous character
              delete beginning of line

       HOP set mark
              go to mark

       HOP search
              search for current identifier

       HOP search next
              repeat previous (last but one) search

       HOP copy/cut
              copy or cut, but append to buffer

       HOP save buffer
              save buffer, but append to file

       HOP paste buffer
              paste "inter-window buffer", which is the last saved buffer by
              any invocation of mined on the same machine by the same user.

       HOP edit next file
              edit last file

       HOP edit previous file
              edit first file

       HOP exit current file
              exit mined

       HOP suspend
              suspend without writing file

       HOP show status line
              toggle permanent status line

       HOP enter HTML tag
              embed copy area in HTML tags

       While a pull-down or pop-up menu is open, any HOP key or the Space key
       or the middle mouse button toggles the HOP amplifier/expander for a
       function subsequently invoked in the menu; the menu redisplays with
       function names changed where applicable.

   Character-oriented navigation and editing
       From the traditional restriction of Unix tools to the line as a unit of
       operation, other editors are stuck in a line-oriented movement and
       insertion paradigm which implies some weird and counter-intuitive
       behaviour.
            Mined handles the end-of-line position like any ordinary character
       during movement and editing operations.  Also search and replacement
       strings can contain line ends.

   Mouse control and menus
       All versions of mined (Unix, DOS/Windows) support mouse operation.
            Mouse control operates on pull-down and pop-up menus, flags, the
       text area, the bottom line, and the scroll bar, in order to provide the
       most useful functions and menu-driven command selection at hand.

       Summary of mouse functions:

              In text area:

                     •      left click moves the text cursor to the mouse
                            position

                     •      Shift-left click (works in mintty) extends the
                            selection

                     •      left click-drag-release selects a text area and
                            (with option auto-copy) copies it to the paste
                            buffer; using Alt while dragging (moving the
                            mouse) toggles rectangular selection

                     •      double-click (actually click on current position)
                            word selection (within timeout)

                     •      middle click display the text status line or, if
                            permanent file status is enabled, display
                            character information

                     •      right click pops up the quick menu

                     •      mouse wheel scroll scrolls by N lines (default 3,
                            adjust with option -L) Ctrl-mouse-wheel always
                            scrolls by 1 line.  Shift-mouse-wheel scrolls by 1
                            page.  Note: Mouse-wheel on the scrollbar scrolls
                            by half a page.

              On scroll-bar:

                     •      left click moves one page towards the mouse
                            position (as seen from the current scrollbar
                            position marker)
                            or (with option -oo) moves one page down

                     •      middle click moves to text position in file
                            corresponding to relative mouse position on
                            scrollbar

                     •      left click-drag moves text position in file by
                            moving relative mouse position on scrollbar

                     •      right click moves one page away from the mouse
                            position (as seen from the current scrollbar
                            position marker)
                            or (with option -oo) moves one page up

                     •      mouse wheel scroll scrolls by half a page

              On bottom line (status line):

                     •      left click moves one page down

                     •      middle click displays the text status line or, if
                            permanent file status is enabled, display
                            character information

                     •      right click moves one page up

              On pull-down menu header (in left menu area of upper line):

                     •      left or right click or mouse wheel scroll opens
                            menu

                     •      middle click opens menu with HOP-modified
                            functions

              On flag indication (in right flag area of upper line):

                     •      middle click toggles flag

                     •      left click opens flag menu if menu is open:
                            toggles flag (effectively allowing double-click to
                            toggle)

                     •      right click or mouse wheel scroll opens flag menu

              On file tab area

                     •      left or middle click or mouse drag opens selected
                            file

                     •      →NEW→ right click or mouse wheel scroll opens file
                            switcher menu (like Alt-F3)

                     •      →NEW→ control-right click opens file opening menu
                            (like F3)

                     •      →NEW→ control-mouse wheel scroll switches to
                            next/previous file tab

              On open menu

                     •      mouse wheel scroll navigates in menu

                     •      mouse movement (without holding button) navigates
                            in menu - enabled by default in mintty, xterm,
                            gnome-terminal, cygwin console; may be controlled
                            with -* / +* command line options mouse movement
                            right/left (well beyond menu border) navigates to
                            neighbour menu mouse movement right (a few
                            positions) on submenu item opens submenu

                     •      left click invokes menu item pointed to with the
                            mouse

                     •      left or right drag (holding button down after
                            opening the menu) navigates in menu

                     •      left or right release (after mouse dragging)
                            invokes selected menu item

                     •      middle click toggles HOP modifier

                     •      Ctrl-mouse-wheel switches to next or previous menu

            Configuration hint: To enable mouse operation in a Windows console
       window, deactivate "QuickEdit mode" in the properties menu.

   Menus
       Mined provides three kinds of menus, all can be opened with either
       mouse clicks or commands.  The menus offer the most important editing
       functions (apart from simple movement).  Some menus have their items
       grouped into sections, some of which have subtitles.
       The HOP flag can be toggled while a menu is open with any of the HOP
       key, ^G, Space, or the middle mouse button.  When a pull-down menu is
       opened with the middle mouse button, the HOP variation is initially
       triggered, offering the HOP variations of the menu items.
       The three menu groups are used as follows:

              •      A pull-down menu is opened by clicking the mouse on the
                     menu header (in the left part of the top screen line) or
                     scrolling the mouse wheel on this header.
                     Shortcut: Each pull-down menu can also be opened with ESC
                     or Alt and the small initial letter of the menu header
                     (Alt-f or ESC f for the file menu etc.).

              •      A flag menu is opened by clicking the right mouse button
                     on a flag indication in the flags area (right part of the
                     top screen line) or scrolling the mouse wheel on it.  The
                     flag menus have optional markers in front of each item
                     showing which items are currently active.
                     Shortcut: The Info menu, Input Method (Keyboard Mapping)
                     menu, Smart Quotes menu, Encoding menu can also be opened
                     with Alt-F10, Alt-I, Alt-K, Alt-Q, or Alt-E, respectively
                     (or use an ESC prefix instead of an Alt- modifier
                     respectively).

              •      The pop-up menu is placed above the text area and can be
                     opened with a right-click or Alt-Space (ESC Space).

        Menu navigation
       When a menu is open, the cursor-left or cursor-right keys cycle through
       the pull-down and flag menus.  Alt-cursor-left and Alt-cursor-right
       navigate quickly between the two sets of menus (pull-down or flag
       menus).
       When a submenu is open, cursor-left goes back to the parent menu,
       cursor-right opens its next menu to the right.

            There are three methods to navigate within a menu:

              •      With the keyboard: open menu as described above, navigate
                     with cursor keys or by typing the first letter of the
                     desired menu item (which cycles through all items
                     starting with that letter, or containing a word starting
                     with that letter); activate menu item with Enter key.

              •      With mouse clicks: open menu with click (and release)
                     mouse button, switch to other menu with another click,
                     click on item to activate it. The mouse wheel may be used
                     to navigate menu items.

              •      With mouse dragging: open menu with mouse button (left or
                     right), browse menus and items with button held down,
                     activate selected item with releasing mouse button.
       Methods may be mixed, e.g. open a menu with either mouse click or
       keyboard, navigate with mouse wheel, then select with Enter.

       When selecting a menu item, in most cases the associated function is
       carried out and the menu closed afterwards.  In some cases, an option
       is toggled and the menu stays open (esp. in Info menu: Han info
       pronunciation selection, character information "with" attributes
       selection).

            Scrollable menus: In a low-height terminal (e.g. 24 lines), longer
       menus (especially the Encoding menu and the Input Method menu) may not
       fit on the terminal. All menus are scrollable with cursor keys,
       including Page Down/Up, Home, End keys.
       When the window size is changed, open menus are closed in order to
       prevent resizing and repositioning problems; this is planned to be
       enhanced in a future version.

        Hints
            Note: Your mouse driver or Windows system may be configured to
       generate multiple (e.g. 3) mouse wheel events on one mouse wheel
       movement (e.g. with Windows). An option -L1 could compensate for that
       scaling (as mined applies a mouse wheel factor by itself which is 3 by
       default).

            Layout configuration: See Menu display below for configuration of
       menu appearance.

            Configuration hint: On Unix, in order to make Alt work as a
       modifier, set the xterm resource metaSendsEscape to true and the rxvt
       resource meta8 to false as suggested in the example file
       Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support library.  (With older
       versions of xterm, setting eightBitInput to false may be required
       instead; this xterm option doesn't actually disable 8 bit input as its
       name might suggest.)  With xterm, this setting can also be enforced
       dynamically with the +D option.

   Interoperable and multiple paste buffers
        System paste buffer / Clipboard
       In the Windows/cygwin version, Shift-Ins inserts the Windows clipboard
       rather than the mined paste buffer. Copy to paste buffer always fills
       paste buffer and the clipboard, too.  In this case, the lineend type is
       not copied from the clipboard (i.e. typically CRLF) but adapted to the
       current line.

        Inter-window paste buffer
       Mined can perform copy/paste operations within different editing
       sessions (parallel or subsequent invocations of mined): The command HOP
       Ins (e.g. ^G ^P) will insert the most recent paste buffer copied or cut
       in any of the user's mined sessions.  This can also work remotely in a
       network; to configure this features, see Common paste buffer
       configuration.

        Multiple paste buffers
       Mined provides emacs-style multiple paste buffers that are organised as
       a buffer ring. Every buffer cut or copy operation (that places the text
       between the marked and the current position to the buffer) creates a
       new buffer and stacks it to the list of buffers.  If the feature
       "deleted word/line appends to buffer" is enabled (+VV) the commands
       delete-end-of-line (^K), delete-word (^T) and delete-end-of-sentence
       (currently emacs mode only) append to the top buffer (disabled with the
       option -VV).
       To paste a non-top-most buffer, paste the most recent buffer first as
       usual, then use the buffer-ring command (Alt-Ins or Ctrl-F4, or M-y in
       emacs mode) to exchange the pasted text with the previous buffer. This
       can be repeated, going down the stack of buffers, and at its bottom,
       starting over from the top again.

   Keypad modes and Visual selection
       Mined highlights text selection visually, with both mouse selection and
       keyboard selection.

        Keypad modes

              •      In Shift-select mode (enabled with option -kS), Shift-
                     modified keypad keys start or extend visual text
                     selection; otherwise the keypad functions are not
                     modified, so that e.g.  the useful quick Mark/Copy
                     selection with Home/End keys can still be used.
                     Note: terminal support to report Shift-modified cursor
                     keys is required to enable this feature.
                     The option adjusts some other interactive responses as
                     well to match common selection practice:

                     •      auto-copy (after click-and-drag) is disabled

                     •      Shift-mouse-left-click extends the selection (if
                            supported by terminal)

                     •      mouse-right-click does not extend the selection
                            before opening the menu

                     •      in addition, Shift-HOP is mapped to the Copy
                            function
              Shift selection keypad functions are as follows:

              Shift-Left
                     select character left

              Shift-Right
                     select character right

              Shift-Control-Left
                     select word left

              Shift-Control-Right
                     select word right

              Shift-Up
                     select line up

              Shift-Down
                     select line down

              Shift-Control-Up
                     select to previous beginning of paragraph

              Shift-Control-Down
                     select to next beginning of paragraph

              Shift-Home
                     select to beginning of line

              Shift-End
                     select to end of line

              Shift-Control-Home
                     select to beginning of text

              Shift-Control-End
                     select to end of text

              Shift-PgUp
                     select to previous page

              Shift-PgDn
                     select to next page

              Shift-5 (on keypad)
                     copy selected text to paste buffer

              •      In Windows keypad mode (enabled with option -kw, also
                     implied by Windows emulation option +ew), additionally
                     non-shifted keypad keys are changed to perform the more
                     common functions, at the price of losing the easy
                     Home/End assignment to invoke Mark/Copy to paste buffer
                     (which can however be overridden with options -kc for the
                     small ("editing") keypad and -kC for the big ("numeric")
                     keypad).  Also, some Control-modified keys change their
                     function assignment to match more common usage.
                     Keypad functions include the Shift selection functions
                     above and add the following functions:

              Home   move cursor to previous beginning of line

              End    move cursor to next end of line

              Control-Left
                     move cursor to previous beginning of word

              Control-Right
                     move cursor to next end of word

              Control-Up
                     move cursor to previous beginning of paragraph

              Control-Down
                     move cursor to next beginning of paragraph

              Control-Home
                     move cursor to beginning of text

              Control-End
                     move cursor to end of text

              Control-Backarrow
                     delete word left

              Control-Del
                     delete word right

              HOP Control-Backarrow
                     delete to beginning of line

              HOP Control-Del
                     delete to end of line

       Shift-select mode (-kS) may become the default in a future version.

       Visual selection is toggled by the following actions:

              •      Start visual selection highlighting:

                     •      mouse click (then drag)

                     •      Mark command (Home key, Control-space, or
                            Mark/Select from quick menu or Edit menu)

                     •      (in Shift-select mode) Shift-cursor keys

              •      Extend visual selection highlighting:

                     •      mouse drag

                     •      keyboard navigation

                     •      (in Shift-select mode) Shift-cursor keys

                     •      mouse click

                     •      (in Shift-select mode) Shift-mouse-click

              •      Hide visual selection highlighting:

                     •      modify text

                     •      (unless in Windows keypad mode) Copy (End key or
                            from quick menu or Edit menu)

                     •      Mark twice (e.g. press Home Home)

                     •      (unless in Windows keypad mode) mouse release
                            (after drag, with auto-copy option)

                     •      Find (except Find matching parenthesis) (except
                            with "keep on search" option)

                     •      Goto text position

                     •      Open file

              •      Re-enable selection highlighting and continue previous
                     selection:

                     •      "continue Select" from menu

                     •      (in Shift-select mode) Shift-cursor keys

                     •      (in Shift-select mode) Shift-mouse-click
       Selection behaviour can be tuned with a few options in the Paste buffer
       menu.

       Note: The actual behaviour of the paste buffer functions acting on the
       text selection (Copy, Cut) are not affected by the visual selection;
       they work alike even if the selection is hidden.
       The Delete key is the only function that is actually modified by visual
       selection, following a dual-mode behaviour consistent with most
       contemporary text editors: if a non-empty visual selection is active,
       it deletes the selected area (Cut to paste buffer), otherwise, it
       deletes the next character.

   Rectangular copy/paste
       Rectangular copy/paste area mode can be toggled on the Paste buffer
       flag (see also description of Quick Options (Mode indication) flags),
       in the Paste buffer menu, with HOP Mark while already on marked
       position, or preselected with the option +[.
       Rectangular selection can also be toggled temporarily by using Alt with
       the left mouse button while moving the mouse for drag-selection.  Note,
       however, that a subsequent paste will apply the untoggled mode.
       Note: Rectangular area is a property of the copy/paste function, not of
       the paste buffer.
       Note: The result of rectangular paste may not be quite as expected in
       these cases:

              •      The paste buffer contains lines of different length.

              •      The border of the paste area (in either the text or the
                     paste buffer) contains characters of different width,
                     like TAB, double-width, or isolated combining characters,
                     or even incomplete character codes.

   Text position markers
       A default marker for quick use and additional 16 numbered text markers
       are available.
       Marker 0 has a special function: 1. it is set when opening a file at
       the memorized position, 2. whenever a new current marker is set, the
       previous one is pushed to marker 0.
       For keyboard commands to set and move to markers, see Text marker
       navigation in the Command reference below.

   Text position marker stack
       In addition to the explicit text markers, mined implicitly maintains a
       marker stack to support navigation and orientation when browsing files.
       Whenever a command moves the position by a far distance (Go to marker,
       Go to line, Go to file beginning/end, Go to next/previous file, Search
       functions including Search identifier definition across files, Replace
       with confirm), the current position is first pushed to this stack.
       Later, in order to return to the previous position, use the command ESC
       Enter (Alt-Enter) to move along the positions in the marker stack.  The
       command HOP ESC Enter (HOP Alt-Enter) moves again forward along the
       stack.

   Paragraph justification / word wrap
       Manual paragraph line/word wrap is invoked with the justify command
       (ESC j or ESC J); it justifies the current paragraph (wraps its
       lines/words) according to the effective margins and paragraph
       termination mode.
       Clever justification: With ESC j, mined automatically determines left
       margins depending on the current paragraph and line contents. Heuristic
       detection of numbered items will trigger automatic indentation.
       Normal justification: With ESC J, mined justifies strictly according to
       the margin values currently configured.
       See commands listing below "ESC j" for margin setting commands.

       Paragraph termination modes: Two different definitions of paragraph end
       are available.

              •      The primary mode is to add a space at the end of each
                     line when the paragraph continues and to end the line
                     without space where the paragraph ends. This seems an
                     intuitive way and as a big advantage over other
                     approaches, it is transparent with respect to visual
                     formatting, i.e. no text property is required that would
                     affect visual layout of the text.
                     Note: Additional visual support of paragraph end
                     detection is available with the mined option -p that
                     distinguishes paragraph/line end display.

              •      The other word-wrap mode is to add an empty (blank-only)
                     line after each paragraph. Obviously this imposes more
                     additional requirements on text formatting discipline and
                     reduces freedom of text layout.
       The mode in effect is indicated in the Quick Options (Mode indication)
       flags display; see description of Quick Options (Mode indication)
       flags.

   Auto indentation
       By default, mined acts in auto-indent mode: When you enter a newline,
       the following line will be filled with the same prefix of space
       characters (Space or Tab) as the current one.  This option can be
       toggled from the Options menu.  A new line without auto indentation can
       be entered with the ^O command.

            Auto indentation is automatically suppressed if text is entered
       very fast (by heuristic detection of input speed) in order to allow
       unmodified copy and paste using terminal mouse functions.

   →NEW→ Advanced list support (bullet and numbered lists)
       A new paragraph (according to the currently selected paragraph end
       mode, or considering Unicode paragraph separators) after a bullet or
       numbered item will clone the bullet or auto-increment the numbering.
       The undent function (smart Backspace) considers list bullets or
       numberings, removing the last level.
       Note: An item paragraph is considered to start at a bullet or numbering
       even if the previous line does not terminate a paragraph.

        Structure input commands
       A pair of parentheses with matched indentation can be entered by
       prefixing a parenthesis character with HOP.  For example, HOP "{" would
       enter a pair of "{" "}", both auto-indented on their respective new
       line. Other pairs are "(" ")", "[" "]", "<" ">".
            HOP "/" enters an indented Javadoc comment frame.

        Back-Tab (Undent function / reverse indent)
       Smart backspacing: A Backarrow key from a position that is only
       preceded by white space on the line and on the line above will revert
       the input position to the previous matching indentation level.  To
       avoid auto-undentation ("Delete single"), use Ctrl-Backarrow or F5
       Backarrow to delete only one character left, or toggle auto-indentation
       off from the Options menu.
       Note: In xterm, Ctrl-Backarrow only works if configured in your X
       configuration, see the example configuration file Xdefaults.mined in
       the Mined runtime support library.
       Note:→NEW→ Configuration option plain_BS (command line option +Bp)
       switches the Backarrow key from smart backspacing to plain backspacing,
       i.e. no auto-undent and only delete one combining character of a
       combined character.  Use Shift-Control-Backarrow to perform smart
       backspacing then.

        Tab expansion
       With one of the options -+8, -+4, -+2, a Tab key input will be expanded
       to an appropriate number of Space characters instead of inserting a Tab
       character. You can still insert a literal Tab character with Ctrl-V
       Tab.

   Search and replace multiple lines
       Mined has overcome the typical Unix tool limitation of line orientation
       in search operations.  Search and replacement patterns can contain
       embedded newlines.  Enter a newline (linefeed character) in the search
       string with ^V^J or \n (or \r to match CRLF newlines).
       Note: If combining multi-line substitution with substitution references
       (&, \1, etc), lineend types are not strictly preserved.

   →NEW→ Substitution references
       Mined supports 10 substitution references (like sed), a full match
       reference "&" and →NEW→ numbered references "\1" through "\9" to refer
       to the corresponding matching sub-expressions marked "\(...\)" in the
       search pattern. Sub-expressions can be nested.

   Header line underlining
       The command HOP "-" (e.g. Ctrl-G -) underlines the header line before
       the cursor position with as many "-" characters as needed; it applies
       to the current line unless the cursor is at a line beginning in which
       case it applies to the previous line.

   Automatic backspace mode adaptation
       There is much confusion about what character codes are delivered by the
       Backarrow and Del keyboard keys in different operating environments and
       configurations.  For proper operation, the "stty erase CHAR"
       configuration should generally be set correctly to reflect the actual
       code emitted by the terminal.  Mined detects this setting and adjusts
       its handling accordingly, so that the "Backarrow" key should normally
       work as expected (delete a character left).

Overview: input support features
   Character input
       Mined provides several methods to support input of special characters
       that may not be easily available on the keyboard.

              •      Accented and mnemonic input support defines Accent prefix
                     keys to compose accent combinations with subsequently
                     entered characters.

              •      It also provides Character input mnemonics for easily
                     memorisable input of a wide range of characters,
                     including most composed Unicode characters.

              •      Input support commands include a quick shortcut for two-
                     character mnemonics.

              •      Input support commands also provide for character input
                     by hexadecimal / octal / decimal character code or
                     Unicode value, including support for subsequent entry of
                     multiple numeric characters according to ISO 14755.

              •      Keyboard mapping switching the keyboard to support
                     another script.  This feature also provides CJK input
                     methods.

   Structured input

              •      HTML tag input (starting/closing or embedding marked
                     text).

              •      Auto indentation and Back-Tab.

              •      Structure input commands: Input of indented matching
                     parentheses and Javadoc frames.

              •      Paragraph justification (line/word wrap).

              •      Header line underlining

   Special features

              •      Smart quotes automatic transformation of entered straight
                     quote marks into typographic quotation marks (style can
                     be selected in flags area) or apostrophe, separate
                     accents as appropriate typographic symbols, as well as
                     smart dashes and other smart text replacements.

              •      Right-to-left script input support.

Handling files with mined
   Tags file support / Identifier and file lookup
       The ESC t command moves to the definition of an identifier (on which
       the cursor should be placed) using the tags file (generated by the
       ctags command).  HOP ESC t prompts for an identifier. (Also available
       from search or popup menu.)  If a new file is opened for this purpose,
       the current file is saved automatically.
       As a special function, if ESC t is typed on an include statement (line
       beginning with "#include" or "include"), the included file will be
       opened.
       Note: Like with a number of positioning commands, ESC t places the
       current position on the position marker stack before going to the
       location of the identifier definition. The command ESC Enter (Alt-
       Enter) moves back to that position, also saving the current file if
       needed first.

   →NEW→ Encrypted files
       Mined edits encrypted files transparently.
       For reading or writing an encrypted file, a respective filter is used
       as configured in the runtime configuration file $HOME/.minedrc. See the
       sample configuration file in the Mined runtime support library for
       details. It contains pre-configured entries for using GnuPG (for files
       ending with ".gpg" or ".pgp") or openssl (for files ending with
       ".ssl").
       Mined does not currently provide handling for passwords or passphrases
       for file encryption. Therefore, any passwords or passphrases needed for
       encrypted file access will either have to be entered on every access,
       or password or passphrase files may be used as offered by the
       respective decryption and encryption commands of GnuPG and openssl. See
       the sample configuration file for examples.
       Note: If manual password input is used with openssl, be careful to
       remember the password which is newly assigned every time the file is
       written.
       Note: When editing an encrypted file, the backup file will be
       encrypted, too. Decrypted content is exchanged with the filters using
       pipes, so no intermediate decrypted version is stored on the file
       system. Copy/paste text blocks are not encrypted, though, but they are
       readable for the current user only anyway (on any nontrivial file
       system). The same applies for a recovery file that mined writes in
       emergency cases to save the edited text.

   Data safety and security
       Mined has a robust and defensive concept of handling edited text and
       file contents in case of any kind of program or system errors.

        Backup files
       With command line option(s) +b, mined saves a backup copy of any file
       being overwritten (like saving the file being edited, saving to a
       different file, copying the paste buffer to a file).  It supports three
       backup file name conventions and a few combined modes to select among
       them:

       +b-    no backup files

       +bs    simple backup files: filename~

       +be    emacs style numbered backup files: filename.~N~ where N are
              increasing version numbers

       +bv    VMS style numbered backup files: filename;N (using the original
              notation of the VMS operating system) where N are increasing
              version numbers

       +bn    numbered backup files, either emacs or VMS syntax, whichever
              already exists (with a higher version number)

       +ba    automatic backup files, either numbered if numbered backups
              (either style) already exist, or simple

       Note: In order to preserve possibly existing hard links to the file
       being edited, it is actually copied, not just renamed for the backup
       version (like with joe, vim, or emacs with option backup-by-copying).
       Note: In mined 2011.19, +ba (automatic simple/numbered backup) is the
       default, and +b is a shortcut for +ba.  This is subject to change in a
       future version, however.  Note: To select your preference, use the
       runtime configuration file $HOME/.minedrc, or include the respective
       option in the environment variable MINEDOPT, or set the environment
       variable VERSION_CONTROL (compatible with usage by emacs and cp), with
       the following mapping:

       VERSION_CONTROL
              $HOME/.minedrc command line option

       none or off
              backup_mode - +b- - no backups

       numbered or t
              backup_mode e +be - emacs style numbered backups

       existing or nil
              backup_mode a +ba - automatic backup mode

       simple or never
              backup_mode s +bs - simple backups

       backup_mode n
              +bn - numbered backups (automatic style)

       backup_mode v
              +bv - VMS style numbered backups

       Note: To place backup files in a different directory than the original
       file, use the environment variable BACKUP_DIRECTORY or BACKUPDIR.  It
       can be either an absolute pathname (e.g.  $HOME/.backups) or a relative
       pathname (e.g. .~) in which case backup files are stored relative to
       the respective working directory of mined.  Note: On VMS, backup
       options are ignored as VMS handles backup files natively.

        File locking
       Mined checks and maintains interoperable lock files, which are symbolic
       links mentioning the user and machine currently editing the file (not
       on MSDOS and VMS).  If the user tries to modify the text of a file
       locked by somebody else, mined informs the user and changes editing
       mode to view-only.  The lock can be overridden (removed or ignored)
       from the File menu.
       Mined implements workarounds for network file systems that do not
       support handling lock files or symbolic links properly: cygwin symbolic
       links that appear as plain text files on Samba/CIFS mounted file
       shares, and lock files that could be created but cannot be deleted due
       to weird permission configuration of a network file share.

        Edited text / Recovery files
       Every care has been taken to prevent loss of the edited text in case of
       save errors or accidental quit commands etc; mined always prompts
       before discarding any modified text, even when editing without an
       associated filename (in which case other popular editors ignore loss of
       edited text).
       There are three cases, however, in which edited text would be lost:

              •      if the user explicitly discards edited text (e.g. ESQ q
                     and not answering the "Save?" question with "y")

              •      if mined is sent an external terminating signal (e.g. on
                     terminal I/O error); two exceptions are the SIGKILL
                     signal (which cannot be caught by a program) and SIGTERM
                     (see below)

              •      in the rare case that mined should fail with an internal
                     signal (e.g. if out of memory)
       In these cases, mined can save the edited text in a recovery file
       dir/#name# (when editing file dir/name); in the explicit case, this is
       only done if the answer to the "Save?" question is "r" (to "recover
       later").  If the edited file is later opened, and a recovery file still
       exists (which is newer than the file being opened), mined will display
       a notice. In the File menu, there is the option to recover the text
       from the recovery file.  Note: The recovery file is interoperable with
       emacs (as are the use cases); however, mined is superior here because
       emacs mangles non-ASCII characters in recovery files.  Mind, though,
       that interoperability with respect to recognising recovery files
       depends on consistent configuration of their location; see the
       directory configuration option below.  Note: If mined is sent an
       explicit SIGTERM signal it tries to terminate normally instead, writing
       modified text to the file being edited, including interactive handling
       if needed.  Note: After catching a signal, mined also tries an
       emergency save of the edited text into a "panic file" in one of the
       directories $TMPDIR, $TMP, $TEMP, /usr/tmp, or /tmp (whichever variable
       is defined first and directory is writable in this order; or similar
       directories under VMS or MSDOS).  The file contains the edited text,
       identical to the recovery file.  It is written first, before the
       recovery file, to provide a quick save attempt e.g. if the system is
       crashing and the file system of the edited file is no longer available.
       Note: If possible, mined also tries to continue normally after panic
       handling (unless multiple external signals are nested).  Note: To place
       recovery files in a different directory than the original file, use the
       environment variable AUTO_SAVE_DIRECTORY or AUTOSAVEDIR or
       BACKUP_DIRECTORY or BACKUPDIR as described for backup files above.

        Overwriting files and Change monitoring
       If any command is issued to write to a file not previously read in
       (after change of file name or working directory, or with a Copy to file
       command), mined prompts for confirmation.
       Also, if mined detects that the file being edited has been changed, it
       displays a notice and asks for confirmation before saving.  To this
       aim, mined checks the modification time, →NEW→ file size, device and
       inode (in case the file got replaced by rename/move/mount operations).
       This is checked if mined is notified of refocussing the window (if
       supported by the terminal), and after shell commands (ESC !, ESC c, ESC
       z).

        File access permissions
       When creating a new file, its access permissions are set according to
       the default behaviour set in the user environment (umask setting in
       Unix).  However, when cloning a file (with Save As / Set Name / ESC n /
       ESC d), file access permissions of the originally opened file are
       preserved and cloned.
       The +x command line option adds executable permission to newly created
       files but only to those users that are also given read permission by
       the rules above.

   Special file types
        Character or block device files
       Mined rejects reading from or writing to a device file in order to
       prevent being blocked.  Exception: /dev/clipboard on cygwin.

        FIFO files
       Mined can edit a FIFO file (named pipe) like any other file.  Before
       mined can finish loading from the pipe, another process needs to have
       written to it and then close it.  Before mined can finish saving to the
       pipe, another process needs to have opened it for reading.

        Pipe input
       When invoked within a pipe, redirecting input, mined loads its text
       buffer from standard input.  →NEW→ Mined does not manipulate the screen
       mode before data is available from the pipe, so to some extent it can
       interwork even with screen programs providing its input.

        Pipe output
       In the "Editing for standard output" mode (i.e. when invoked within a
       pipe, redirecting output), only one "file save" operation can be
       performed writing to standard output.  If more than one such operations
       are issued (e.g. using the ESC w / F2 , F3, or suspend command) only
       the first one will write the text buffer to standard output; any
       subsequent one is treated as usual (with empty file name).  →NEW→ If
       mined exits after writing to a pipe, it does not manipulate the screen
       mode after beginning to write, so to some extent it can interwork even
       with screen programs taking its output.

   Line end modes and binary-transparent editing
       Mined is binary transparent. It can handle all types of line ends (Unix
       (LF), DOS (CRLF), Mac (CR, with option +R), →NEW→ ISO 8859/EBCDIC Next
       Line (NL, not after auto-detection of text encoding), and Unicode
       separators (LS, PS)) simultaneously in the same editing session. They
       are indicated by different visible line end indications. Files without
       trailing line end can be edited and created (using the delete character
       right function on the last line end). NUL characters are handled as
       virtual line ends. Lines too long for internal handling are split
       transparently (with a "none" virtual line end).
            Character codes that are illegal in the currently selected text
       encoding are maintained transparently and are clearly indicated (e.g.
       illegal UTF-8 sequences in Unicode text).
            Files with mixed encoding (e.g. UTF-8 / 8 bit sections) can be
       edited comfortably.
            Input: To enter a NUL character, use ^V # 0 or ^V NUL or ^V Ctrl-
       Space (if the keyboard supports Ctrl-Space).

   File info: Memory of file position and editing style parameters
       On every file saving command, mined remembers the last text position,
       paragraph justification margins (only if automatic paragraph
       justification is active), selected Smart Quotes style and Input Method
       (Keyboard Mapping), and TAB display width.  File info memory is
       relative to the working directory, using a hidden file info file
       (.@mined - mined also handles its DOS short name @MINED~1 where it
       occurs, to provide some interoperability with the DOS version of
       mined); previously used file marker files (@mined.mar) will be migrated
       and cleared from duplicate entries.

            Note: File information is stored every time the user invokes a
       command to save the file (even if no write is performed because the
       text has not been edited).  When editing that file again (from the same
       working directory), mined will automatically move to that position (and
       set text marker 0 to it).

        File info grooming
       Mined checks and removes duplicate entries (from previous versions) in
       the file info file.  With option +@, mined also checks whether file
       info entries correspond to actual files that exist and are visible to
       the user; it will otherwise remove such entries.  Mined can be called
       with this option alone and will then exit after file info grooming.
       Mind, however, that files may be invisible only temporarily (e.g. due
       to unmounted file systems, or unplugged USB drives), and will get their
       info entries removed then, too.

   File chooser
       To select a filename for a file operation (e.g. open, save, insert,
       write buffer), mined opens an interactive file chooser that presents a
       listing of files and directories in the current directory (for the
       change directory command, only directories are shown).  The list can be
       navigated and manipulated in these ways:

              •      cursor keys (including page down/up, end/begin)

              •      mouse movement and scroll

              •      entering a filename prefix which navigates to the first
                     file matching it

              •      TAB will usually copy the current filename into the
                     editing field (if it was partially matching a file name,
                     it is thus completed, similar to file completion on the
                     command line but case-insensitively)

              •      TAB on a directory will navigate the file chooser into it

              •      TAB or HOP while the filename editing field is containing
                     wildcards interprets the entered file name as a pattern
                     and switches to a filtered file listing (recognising "*",
                     "?", "[abc-x]", "[^abc-x]" wildcard expressions, no
                     escapes)

              •      Enter on a directory will navigate the file chooser into
                     it (unless for the ESC d command in which case it is
                     selected)

              •      Enter on a selected (or entered) filename will choose the
                     name
       Also, a filename can be typed in directly (being interpreted as a
       filename prefix interactively). The filename or prefix is displayed in
       the title bar of the popup file chooser menu.  When entering file or
       directory names, the leading ~ notation to refer to one's home
       directory is accepted.  Note: The full path name of the currently
       displayed directory is shown as the first entry in the file chooser
       menu.  Note: A few sorting options are offered in the "Options" - "File
       sort options..." submenu.  They can also be preselected with the
       command line option +zX. See the file chooser options for details.
       Note: In the file chooser, filenames are interpreted in Unicode (UTF-8
       encoding) while file name parameters given on the command line are
       interpreted in the terminal encoding. This may lead to inconsistent
       handling of non-ASCII filenames. Use the ESC ? command to display the
       file name using native encoding.  Note: On some file systems,
       retrieving directory information can be slow.  Mined handles this and
       provides feedback about delayed operation, retrieves directory
       information lazy by page being displayed, and flushes display of the
       file chooser by line to provide visual feedback about the file
       information being retrieved.

   File tabs
       Mined provides virtual file tabs above the header line, listing file
       names as opened via command line or file chooser. By clicking a file
       name in the file tabs panel, or hold-and-move the mouse over them, you
       can change the file being edited. If the current file has been modified
       it will be saved first.
       Right-clicking opens the file switcher menu (like Alt-F3), control-
       right click opens the file opening menu (like F3), control-mouse wheel
       scroll switches to the next/previous file tab.

   File switcher
       The File switcher presents a list of active files to select from,
       comprising files supplied on the command line, and files opened or
       saved later.  Invoke the File switcher with Alt-# or ESC #, or Alt-F3
       or ESC F3, or from the File menu. The Close file command (from the File
       menu) closes the current file and removes its name from the list.  The
       list can be navigated and manipulated in these ways:

              •      cursor keys (including page down/up, end/begin)

              •      mouse movement and scroll

              •      entering a filename prefix which navigates to the first
                     file matching it

              •      Enter on a selected (or entered) filename will choose the
                     name
       To reload the current file and stay (approximately) at the current
       position, use ESC Enter (Alt-Enter) after reloading.

   Page length
       The command ESC P sets the number of lines that mined assumes to be on
       a page. So the status line can contain the page number to make finding
       the current position in a print-out easy. Also the Goto Line/% command
       (^G etc.) accepts a final
        'p' or 'P' in which cases it positions to the top of the given page.
       This information will be associated and stored with the file name if
       file position memory is enabled; see File info: Memory of file position
       and editing style parameters above.

   Restricted mode (tool mode)
       Restricted mode is triggered with
                 <code>mined -- [ filenames ... ]
        or (if installed)
                 <code>rmined [ filenames ... ]
        In restricted mode, only the file opened when mined was started can be
       edited, no commands changing file name reference, involving other files
       (copy/paste), or escaping to a shell command will be allowed.

   Backup integration
       From the File menu, a backup command is available that invokes a "bu"
       script (which must reside in the user's command search path).

   Version control integration
       From the File menu, checkout and checkin commands are available that
       invoke "co" or "ci" scripts, respectively (which must reside in the
       user's command search path).  This offers a gateway to ClearCase or
       other version control systems; mined applies automatic save or screen
       update as appropriate.

   Printing
       From the File menu, a print command is available that prints the text
       currently being edited.  If the script uprint is installed and
       configured properly, printing works in any selected character encoding.
       See Printing configuration for further details.

       In Windows, mined uses notepad /p for printing.
       Note: The font size interactively configured in notepad also affects
       the print size; with a fixed-width font, a font size of not more than
       10pt gives you at least 80 characters per line; if 72 characters per
       line are enough, you can use 11pt font size.

Working with mined
   Quick Options (Mode indication) flags
       The right side of the top menu bar displays a number of one-letter or
       two-letter indications for certain modes; the associated flag menus can
       be opened from here with a mouse right-click, or the modes can be
       toggled quickly with a middle-click.  (Keyboard shortcuts for handling
       flags and menus are also available.)

              •      Information display mode

                     •           "?": this flag menu offers options for
                            permanent File info, Char info, or Han character
                            information display.  For Char info and Han info,
                            further options can be selected to configure the
                            information shown.
                            (Note that in extreme situations, permanent File
                            info display might cause swappping (when editing a
                            file that does not fit completely in memory, e.g.
                            large file on old system). In that case, disable
                            the feature.)

              •      (In non-Latin-1 text and terminal mode only) Input Method
                     (Keyboard Mapping)

                     •           "--": no keyboard mapping is active.

                     •           "...": a two-letter input method tag
                            indicates that an according keyboard mapping is
                            active, mapping keyboard input to characters of
                            the selected Unicode script range, or using a more
                            complex CJK input method involving "pick list"
                            selection menus.  See Keyboard Mapping and Input
                            Methods below.

                     •           Right mouse button on this indication opens a
                            menu for selection of the desired keyboard
                            mapping.

                     •           Left mouse button on this indication toggles
                            between the current and the previous selected
                            keyboard mapping.

              Note: In the open Input method menu,
                     the last column indicates the source of the input method
                     with a short tag as follows:

                     •           "U": generated from Unicode data file
                            UnicodeData.txt

                     •           "H": generated from Unihan database
                            Unihan.txt

                     •           "C": transformed from cxterm input table

                     •           "M": transformed from input method of the
                            m17n project

                     •           "Y": transformed from yudit keyboard mapping
                            file

                     •           "V": transformed from vim keymap file

                     •           "X": transformed from X keyboard mapping file

              •      Smart Quotes

                     •           Two quote marks are displayed that act as
                            automatic "smart quotes": When you type a «"» or
                            «'» character (straight double or single quote),
                            it is replaced by an opening or closing
                            typographic quote mark (double or single,
                            respectively), depending on the text context.

                     •           Right mouse button on these indications opens
                            a menu for selection of the desired quotation
                            marks style.

                     •           Left mouse button on this indication toggles
                            between the current and the previous style
                            selected with the menu.

              •      Character encoding (used for text interpretation)

                     •           A two-letter character encoding tag indicates
                            the text encoding currently assumed for display.
                            Changing the encoding changes the interpretation
                            of the text which is otherwise handled
                            transparently; it does not recode the text.

                     •           Right mouse button on these indications opens
                            a menu for selection of the desired quotation
                            marks style.

                     •           Left mouse button on this indication toggles
                            between the current and the previous selected
                            encoding.

              Note: See
                     Character encoding support below for a list of encodings
                     that are auto-detected.

              Note: For hints on preselecting preferred
                     text encoding (as well as terminal encoding) and a note
                     on adjusting the available encodings and configuring the
                     Encoding menu, see Locale configuration.

                     •           "U8": Unicode/ISO 10646 character set / UTF-8
                            encoding

                     •           "16" or "61": Unicode character set / UTF-16
                            encoding (big-endian or little-endian,
                            respectively)
                            In contrast to the other encodings, UTF-16 has no
                            separate entry in the Character encoding menu as
                            its internal handling is UTF-8 and cannot be
                            switched while editing; these two flag values only
                            indicate that the file being edited was found to
                            be encoded and will be saved in UTF-16.

                     •           "L1": Western "Latin-1" character set / ISO
                            8859-1

                     •           "WL": Windows Latin character set /
                            "codepage" 1252 (superset of Latin-1)

                     •           "L9": Western "Latin-9" character set (with
                            Euro sign) / ISO 8859-15

                     •           "Cy": Cyrillic character set / KOI8-RU
                            encoding (Russian, Ukrainian, Byelorussian)
              submenu more NE Eurasian:

                     •           "Ru": Cyrillic / Russian KOI8-R encoding;
                            used if locale environment indicates this as
                            terminal encoding, not in menu, use "Cy" instead
                            which combines KOI8-R and KOI8-U

                     •           "Uk": Cyrillic / Ukrainian KOI8-U encoding;
                            used if locale environment indicates this as
                            terminal encoding, not in menu, use "Cy" instead
                            which combines KOI8-R and KOI8-U

                     •           "I5": Cyrillic / ISO 8859-5 encoding

                     •           "WC": Cyrillic / Windows Cyrillic encoding

                     •           "Tj": Cyrillic / Tadjikistan encoding

                     •           "Kz": Cyrillic / Kazachstan encoding

                     •           "GP": Georgian character set (not Cyrillic) /
                            Georgian-PS encoding

                     •           "AR": →NEW→ Armenian character set / ARMSCII
                            encoding
              submenu Greek/Semitic:

                     •           "I7": Greek / ISO 8859-7 encoding

                     •           "I6": Arabic / ISO 8859-6 encoding

                     •           "Ar": Arabic / MacArabic encoding (superset
                            of ISO 8859-6)

                     •           "I8": Hebrew / ISO 8859-8 encoding

                     •           "He": Hebrew / Windows codepage 1255
                            (superset of ISO 8859-8)
              submenu more Latin:

                     •           "MR": Mac-Roman character encoding

                     •           "PC": PC DOS character encoding ("codepage
                            437")

                     •           "PL": PC Latin character encoding ("codepage
                            850")

                     •           "LN" where N is 2..8 or 0: Latin-N or
                            Latin-10 encodings / ISO 8859-2/3/4/9/10/13/14/16
              CJK encodings:

                     •           "B5": Traditional Chinese character set /
                            Big5 encoding with HKSCS extensions, extends CP950

                     •           "GB": Simplified Chinese character set /
                            GB18030 encoding, extends CP936, includes GBK
                            encoding, includes GB 2312 / EUC-CN encoding

                     •           "CN": Traditional Chinese character set / CNS
                            / EUC-TW encoding (including 4-byte code points)

                     •           "JP": Japanese character set / EUC-JP
                            encoding (including 3-byte code points)

                     •           "JX": →NEW→ Japanese character set / EUC-
                            JIS-2004 (X 0213) encoding

                     •           "32": →NEW→ Japanese character set / Windows
                            "Shift_JIS" encoding / CP932 (including single-
                            byte mappings to Halfwidth Forms)

                     •           "SX": →NEW→ Japanese character set /
                            Shift_JIS-2004 (X 0213) encoding

                     •           "KR": Korean Unified Hangul character set /
                            UHC encoding / CP949, includes KS C 5601 / KS X
                            1001 / EUC-KR encoding

                     •           "Jh": Korean Johab character set and encoding
              Further Asian encodings:

                     •           "VI": Vietnamese character set / VISCII
                            encoding

                     •           "TV": Vietnamese character set / TCVN
                            encoding

                     •           "WV": →NEW→ Vietnamese character set / CP1258
                            encoding

                     •           "TI": Thai character set / TIS-620 encoding

              •      Combining display (available only if the current text
                     encoding contains combining characters)

                     •           "ç": combined display mode

                     •           "`": separated display mode: combining
                            characters are separated from their base character
                            and displayed with coloured background

              •      HOP key active

                     •           "H": HOP applies to next command

                     •           "h": HOP not active

              •      Edit mode vs. View only mode

                     •           "E": text is being edited

                     •           "V": text is being viewed (modification
                            inhibited)

                     •           Note: this is not related to a file being
                            read-only; if you "edit" and modify the text of a
                            read-only file, you will have to save to a
                            different file name (or discard)

              •      Paste buffer (double flag)

                     •           "%": normal copy/paste mode

                     •           "[": rectangular copy/paste mode

                     •           "=": cut/copy replaces (overwrites) paste
                            buffer

                     •           "+": cut/copy appends to paste buffer

                     •           "%" or "[", "=" or "+": as above, and
                            indicates Unicode paste buffer mode (in non-
                            Unicode text encoding)

              •      Auto-indent mode

                     •           "»": auto-indentation enabled: entering a
                            newline indents the following line like the
                            current one

                     •           "¦": auto-indentation disabled

              •      TAB expand mode and TAB width →NEW→

                     •           "N": (where N is 2 or 4 or 8) TAB is inserted
                            literally, TAB width is as indicated

                     •           "N": (where N is 2 or 4 or 8) TAB is expanded
                            to spaces, TAB width is as indicated

              •      Automatic paragraph justification levels

                     •           "j": justification only on request (ESC j
                            command)

                     •           "j": justification is performed whenever text
                            is entered beyond the right margin

                     •           "J": justification is performed whenever text
                            is inserted and the line exceeds the right margin
                            (slightly buggy)

              •      Paragraph termination definition effective for
                     justification

                     •           " ": non-blank line end terminates paragraph
                            (blank space at line end continues paragraph)

                     •           "«": empty line terminates paragraph

   Scrollbar
       By default, mined displays a scrollbar at the right side. It may be
       used for position indication within the text and for relative or
       absolute positioning with the three mouse buttons.
       In a UTF-8 terminal, mined uses Unicode character cell vertical eighths
       characters U+2581..U+2587 for a fine-grained scrollbar display. If your
       Unicode font doesn't include those block characters, you may switch to
       the cell-grained scrollbar with the -o1 option.

   Text position marker stack
       On commands that jump away from the current position (HOP Mark, File
       Begin/End, Search, Search identifier definition, Search current
       character, Goto Line/%, Goto Next/Previous File), the current position
       is remembered in a position stack.  The command ESC Enter goes
       backward, HOP ESC Enter forward in this "stack", even if this means
       switching the file being edited.

   Structured editing support
        HTML support: syntax highlighting and tag entry/matching
       HTML tag entry: With the ESC H commands, opening and closing HTML tags
       can be entered or (with HOP) a marked area can be enclosed into HTML
       tags.
       Syntax highlighting: HTML tags and comments, attributes and values can
       be highlighted, or dimmed to set them back from the actual text
       contents; if mined detects a dark terminal background (works with xterm
       and mintty), it adds a highlighting background to improve the contrast.
       Other highlighting modes apply to HTML comments and JSP code.  This
       option is activated if the file name suffix is one of .html, .htm,
       .xhtml, .shtml, .mhtml, .sgml,  .xml, .eml, .xul, .xsd, .xsl, .xslt,
       .wsdl, .dtd; it can be toggled from the Options menu.  Additional
       highlighting of embedded server-side scripting is activated if the file
       name suffix is one of  .jsp, .php, .asp, .aspx.
       HTML/XML syntax highlighting can be enabled with option +H or using
       Preference configuration per file-type.
       HTML tag matching: With the ESC ( or ESC ) command, mined searches for
       the opening / closing HTML tag corresponding to the current one.
       Note: While you edit within a line and change its HTML ending status
       (by entering or deleting '<' or '>'), the display status of subsequent
       lines is not changed. (You may refresh the display with ESC ".")
       Configuration hint: The colour used for displaying HTML tags can be
       configured with the environment variable MINEDHTML using an ANSI
       sequence, e.g. MINEDHTML=34 (the default).

        Search structure match
       With the ESC ( or ESC ) commands, mined searches for a matching end of
       various structures, like opening/closing HTML/XML tags (see above),
       matching parentheses or brackets, matching comments (/* */), matching
       conditional macros (#if...), mail messages (in a mailbox file), MIME
       attachments.  See the ESC ( command in the command reference for
       details.

        Structure input
       A structure template with opening and closing ends can be inserted with
       the structured input feature. HOP followed by one of { , ( , [ , <
       enters a corresponding bracket pair, HOP / enters a Javadoc comment
       frame. HOP - enters an underlining line matching the previous line.

       Visual structure input is supported by Auto indentation

   Password hiding
       With the option -P, mined hides one word (separated by white space)
       behind the string "assword" in a line (to accommodate for "password" or
       "Password") and displays reverse "*" instead.  Password hiding can be
       disabled with +P.
       By default (without any P option), password hiding is activated when
       editing a file whose file name starts with "." (Unix "hidden" file
       convention).

   Virtual bold/underline stropping
       With the option +ZZ, mined displays all-capital words in bold lower-
       case and supports their input using only a first capital letter, then
       small letters to input a word in all-upper-case.  This is to support
       editing computer programs in Algol-like languages in their typical
       publication look.  Use +Z_ for underline stropping, disable with -ZZ.
       Enabled by default if the filename ends with ".a68".

   Long line splitting
       Mined has an internal line length limit (> ca. 1024 characters).  When
       opening a file, longer lines are split. This is handled transparently
       as virtual "none" line ends are used and indicated.  When saving the
       file, lines will be joined again.

   Visible indication of line contents and display
       Various options are available to indicate line control characters (Tab
       and line-feed) as well as shifted line display (of lines longer than
       the screen width).  (So you can see how many dummy blank spaces there
       are before the line ends or how many superfluous blank spaces precede a
       Tab character.)
            Environment variables can be used to modify these indications.
       See Display layout for details.
            Default indications and according configuration variables:

       «      / ⏎ LF (Unix-type line end)
              customize indication with MINEDRET or MINEDUTFRET (may contain
              up to 3 characters to configure different appearance behind the
              line end)

       «      / ⏎ CRLF (MSDOS-type two-character line end)
              (µ on black and white terminals)
              customize indication with MINEDDOSRET or MINEDUTFDOSRET

       «      / ⏎ CR (Mac-type line end)
              (@ on black and white terminals)
              customize indication with MINEDMACRET or MINEDUTFMACRET
              transparently handled and displayed with +R command line option

       º      NUL character (pseudo line end)

       ¬      "none" line end (virtual line end as used to split input lines
              too long for internal handling; will be joined into a single
              line when saving the file)

       «      →NEW→ NL (U+0085, ISO 8859/EBCDIC Next Line)

       «      / ⏎ LS (U+2028, Unicode line separator)

       ¶      PS (U+2029, Unicode paragraph separator)
              customize indication with MINEDPARA or MINEDUTFPARA

       ¶      end of paragraph (if enabled by -p)
              customize indication with MINEDPARA or MINEDUTFPARA

       ·      no-break space (Unicode character U+00A0)

       »      line extending the end of the screen line
              (move cursor right to shift line display)
              customize indication with MINEDSHIFT or MINEDUTFSHIFT

       «      line shifted out left of the screen line
              (move cursor left to shift line display back)
              customize indication with MINEDSHIFT or MINEDUTFSHIFT

       ·      position spanned by Tab character
              customize indication with MINEDTAB or MINEDUTFTAB (may contain
              up to 3 characters to configure different appearance within the
              Tab span)

       Configuration: Display colour of the indications is by default red or a
       dimmed foreground colour; this can be changed with the environment
       variable MINEDDIM, display colour for Unicode line end indications and
       other special (esp. invalid) character indications with <span
       class=env>MINEDSPECIAL. Their values should be the numeric part of an
       ANSI terminal control sequence, e.g. 31 for red, "33;44" for yellow
       text on blue background.  MINEDDIM can also be set to an integer
       percentage value (e.g. MINEDIM="50%") to have mined apply dim colour to
       the indications; the colour value is computed from the current
       foreground and background colours (if the terminal supports their
       detection).
       For more details and recommended settings see the example script file
       profile.mined in the Mined runtime support library.  Default values are
       compiled in and can be overridden by setting the variables to empty
       values.

       Note: With the -F option, mined limits usage of special characters for
       line indication and suppresses the interpretation of the MINEDUTF*
       environment variables.

   Function key help bars
       For quick reference of functions attached to function keys, modified
       function keys, and other modified keys (as used for accent prefix
       functions), a number of help bars can be displayed in the bottom line.
       F1 followed by another F1, optionally modified by a combination of
       Control/Shift/Alt, displays a help line with function attachments to
       the respectively modified function keys; F1 followed by
       Ctrl-1/Alt-1/Alt-Ctrl-1 or Control with a punctuation key (e.g. Ctrl-,)
       displays a help line for the respective accent prefix functions
       attached.  See the F1 help bars command reference for details.

   Menu display
       Menu borders are displayed using Unicode Box Drawing characters in a
       UTF-8 terminal, using VT100-mode graphics characters if they are
       detected to be available, or using ASCII graphics otherwise.
       Configuration hint: The menu style option -Q is available to configure
       your style preference; see also Terminal interworking problems for
       configuration hints to deal terminal-related graphics display trouble.
       Alternatively, the option -f reduces font assumptions and adjusts usage
       of special characters accordingly.
       In addition to round or rectangular corners, also fancy item selection
       display style can be selected (-Q).
       With a non-UTF-8 terminal, if your system's termcap/terminfo database
       does not indicate the VT100 graphics capability for the terminal you
       use but you know (or want to try if) your terminal has that capability,
       use of graphical borders can be enforced with the -Qv command line
       option.
       Configuration hint: The colour of menu borders can be changed with the
       environment variable MINEDBORDER.  The marker of selected items in flag
       menus can be changed with the environment variable MINEDMENUMARKER.
       →NEW→ The apperance of the menu background and borders can be
       configured in the runtime configuration file $HOME/.minedrc.

Language support
       Most of the information in this chapter is redundant. It collects
       language-specific features described in the other chapters in a more
       technical context, here assorted by languages / scripts for more
       convenient quick reference.
       Language-specific typographic quotation marks are supported by the
       Smart quotes feature.  See Quotation Marks Styles on the mined web site
       for a listing of locale-specific styles.  <!p>

   Latin-script languages
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1), Latin-9
       (ISO 8859-15), Mac-Roman, Windows (CP1252) and DOS (CP437, CP850)
       Western character sets, as well as further ISO character sets for
       Central European (Latin-2, ISO 8859-2), South European (Latin-3, ISO
       8859-3), Turkish (Latin-5, ISO 8859-9), Nordic (Latin-6, ISO 8859-10),
       Baltic (Latin-7, ISO 8859-13), Celtic (Latin-8, ISO 8859-14), Romanian
       (Latin-10, ISO 8859-16), →NEW→ EBCDIC (CP1047), →NEW→ and ISO 6937.  To
       view and edit a file in one of these encodings, select it from the
       Encoding menu (section "8 Bit" for Western, or submenu "more Latin"),
       or use the respective command line parameter.  See Character encoding
       flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs any of these encodings, mined can
       detect this by proper setting of environment variables (LC_* or LANG,
       and TERM).  See Terminal environment for details.

        Character input support
       For input of accented characters, mined provides an extensive set of
       accent prefix functions, covering Western accents as well as

              •      Macron (Latvian, Lithuanian, Polynesian languages)

              •      Breve (Romanian, Turkish)

              •      Dot above (Lithuanian, Polish)

              •      Ogonek (Lithuanian, Polish)

              •      Caron/Háček (Croatian, Czech, Lithuanian, Latvian,
                     Estonian, Slovenian, Slovak)

              •      Stroke (Croatian, Maltese, Polish, Vietnamese)

              •      and others

       For other characters and ligatures, mined provides mnemonic input.
       See Character input support for more details.

        Language-specific mnemonic conversion support
       The generic mnemonic transformation command ESC _ (which transforms a
       mnemonic transcription in the text into its accented or ligature
       character) has a few national variants, using keys available on the
       respective keyboards as commands:

              •      German: ESC ö etc. transforms ae to ä, oe to ö

              •      French: ESC é etc. transforms ae to æ, oe to oe ligature

              •      Scandinavian: ESC å etc. transforms ae to æ, oe to ø

              •      →NEW→ Italian: ESC ì etc. transforms 'e or ´e to è rather
                     than é etc.

              •      →NEW→ East European> ESC < accented letter typical on
                     East European keyboard > (like l with stroke, u with
                     ring, o with double acute, s with caron, etc) transforms
                     ,e to e with ogonek (rather than cedilla) etc., and -d to
                     d with stroke
       (See mnemonic character substitution commands in the Command reference
       for details.)

        Language-specific case conversion
       (The following rules apply if the respective language is indicated by
       the language tag as extracted from one of the environment variables
       LANGUAGE, TEXTLANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG.)

       Lithuanian: (If language tag begins with "lt") Proper case conversion
       of accented i with retained i dot.

       Turkish, Azeri, Tatar, Bashkir: (If language tag begins with "tr" or
       "az" →NEW→ or "crh" or "tt" or "ba") Proper case conversion of i<->I
       with dot above / dotless i<->I.

       Dutch: (If language tag begins with "nl") Title case conversion with
       Shift-F3 supports "IJ" pseudo ligature like in "IJsselmeer".  <!p>

   Esperanto
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports the Latin-3 character set (ISO
       8859-3), and the DOS codepage CP853 (especially as terminal encoding).
       To view and edit a file in Latin-3 encoding, select it from the
       Encoding menu (submenu "more Latin"), or use the command line parameter
       -E3. To tell mined it runs a CP853 DOS setting, use a LC_CTYPE variable
       setting (.CP853) or the option +E=CP853.  See Character encoding flags
       for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Esperanto, using the "x-
       system", plus "Sm" for the Spesmilo sign.  Select it from the Input
       method menu.

        Accented character input support
       Instead of the input method, also the following accent prefix functions
       can be used:

       Ctrl-F6

       Ctrl-^ circumflex

       Alt-Shift-F5

       Ctrl-( breve

       <!p>

   Hawai'ian
        Accented character and 'okina input support
       The following shortcuts and accent prefix functions can be used:

       HOP ` (grave accent)
              glottal stop / 'okina (U+02BB)

       Alt-Ctrl-F6

       Ctrl-- (Ctrl-minus)
              macron (long vowel)

       Note: In smart quotes mode, the grave accent (or backquote) ` alone
       enters a glottal stop as well.  <!p>

   Russian, Ukrainian, other Cyrillic-script languages
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports ISO Cyrillic (ISO 8859-5),
       Windows Cyrillic (CP1251), and KOI8-RU which is a convenient merge of
       KOI8-R (Russian) and KOI8-U (Ukrainian) (which are also supported
       separately but not included in the menu), →NEW→ and DOS Ukrainian
       (CP1125 and CP1131).  To view and edit a file in one of these
       encodings, select it from the Encoding menu ("Cyrillic" or submenu
       "more NE Eurasian"), or use the respective command line parameter.  See
       Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs any of these encodings, make sure to
       indicate this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See
       Terminal environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Cyrillic.  Select it from
       the Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       In combination with a Cyrillic input method or keyboard, mined provides
       accent prefix support for Cyrillic accented letters. Accent prefix
       functions for Latin letters are reused for Cyrillic accents, see the
       following table:

       F5

       Ctrl-: diaeresis

       Alt-Ctrl-F6

       Ctrl-- descender / macron

       Alt-F5

       Ctrl-/ stroke

       Ctrl-& hook

       Ctrl-- Ctrl-&
              middle hook

       Alt-Shift-F5

       Ctrl-( breve

       Ctrl-; tail / tick / upturn

       F6

       Ctrl-'

       Ctrl-´ vertical stroke

       Shift-F6

       Ctrl-` grave

       Shift-F5

       Ctrl-~ titlo

       acute acute
              double acute

       grave grave
              double grave

       See Character input support for more details.

        Script highlighting
       To distinguish some Cyrillic letters from Latin look-alikes, Cyrillic
       is by default displayed with colour highlighting.  <!p>

   Tadjik
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports KOI8-T.  To view and edit a file
       in this Tadjik encoding, select it from the Encoding menu (submenu
       "more NE Eurasian"), or use the respective command line parameter
       -E:Tj.  See Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Cyrillic.  Select it from
       the Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       See above for Cyrillic accented input support.

        Script highlighting
       Cyrillic is by default displayed with colour highlighting.  <!p>

   Kazakh
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports PT154.  To view and edit a file
       in this Kazakh encoding, select it from the Encoding menu (submenu
       "more NE Eurasian"), or use the respective command line parameter
       -E:Kz.  See Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Kazakh.  Select it from the
       Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       See above for Cyrillic accented input support.

        Script highlighting
       Cyrillic is by default displayed with colour highlighting.  <!p>

   Georgian
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports Georgian-PS.  To view and edit a
       file in this encoding, select it from the Encoding menu (submenu "more
       NE Eurasian"), or use the respective command line parameter -E:GP.  See
       Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.  <!p>

   Armenian
        Character sets
       →NEW→ In addition to Unicode, mined supports ARMSCII.  To view and edit
       a file in this encoding, select it from the Encoding menu (submenu
       "more NE Eurasian", tell me if that's not suitable), or use the
       respective command line parameter -E:AR.  See Character encoding flags
       for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.  <!p>

   Greek
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports ISO Greek (ISO 8859-7).  To view
       and edit a file in this encoding, select it from the Encoding menu
       (submenu "Greek/Semitic"), or use the respective command line parameter
       -E:I7.  See Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Greek.  Select it from the
       Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       In combination with a Greek input method or keyboard, mined provides
       accent prefix support for both monotonic Greek and polytonic Greek.
       Monotonic Greek uses only one accent, the tonos which looks like acute
       and can be entered with the F6 or Ctrl-' prefix function.
       Polytonic Greek uses - among many others - the oxia accent which is
       nowadays considered identical and looks like the monotonic tonos.
       However, for historic reasons, there are two sets of Greek accented
       letters with this accent in Unicode, one with tonos and one with oxia.
       While this may be considered a design flaw of Unicode, in fact both
       kinds of characters exist and mined provides support for both accents.
       The choice of usage is up to the user.  Note, e.g. that

       F6 < alpha >
              enters the Greek letter alpha with tonos

       Ctrl-F6 < alpha >
              enters the Greek letter alpha with oxia

       Likewise, with mnemonic input

       ^V ' < alpha > (using the apostrophe key)
              enters the Greek letter alpha with tonos

       ^V ´ < alpha > (using the acute accent key)

       In these examples, < alpha > indicates the Greek letter alpha, which
       may e.g. be entered by selecting the Greek input method and typing the
       a key.

       Accent prefix functions for Latin letters are reused for Greek accents,
       see the following table:

       F5

       Ctrl-:

       Ctrl-" dialytika

       Shift-F5

       Ctrl-~ perispomeni

       Ctrl-F5

       Ctrl-, iota (ypogegrammeni)

       Ctrl-Shift-F5

       Ctrl-; prosgegrammeni

       Alt-Shift-F5

       Ctrl-( vrachy

       F6

       Ctrl-' (Ctrl-apostrophe) tonos

       Ctrl-F6

       Ctrl-´ (Ctrl-acute)

       Ctrl-^ oxia

       Shift-F6

       Ctrl-` (Ctrl-grave) varia

       Alt-F6

       Ctrl-< psili

       Alt-Shift-F6

       Ctrl-. dasia

       Ctrl-Shift-F6
              macron

       Alt-6  psili and oxia

       Ctrl-Alt-6
              dasia and oxia

       Alt-7  psili and varia

       Ctrl-Alt-7
              dasia and varia

       Alt-8  psili and perispomeni

       Ctrl-Alt-8
              dasia and perispomeni

       For polytonic Greek, 2 or 3 accents can be combined by applying the
       respective accent prefix functions in sequence.  For convenience, the
       most frequent combinations of 2 accents are also available as dedicated
       accent prefix keys as listed above.  Also, modified Ctrl-/Alt-/Alt-
       Ctrl- digit keys are used for polytonic Greek accent prefix functions.
       See Character input support for more details.

        Script highlighting
       To distinguish some Greek letters from Latin look-alikes, Greek is by
       default displayed with colour highlighting.

        Script-specific case conversion
       Case conversion of final sigma is handled properly.  <!p>

   Amharic
        Input method
       Mined supports two built-in input methods for Amharic, one is called
       "Ethiopic" (source: yudit), the other is called "Amharic" and was
       generated from Unicode character names (preferable according to user
       feedback).  Select your preferred input method from the Input method
       menu.  <!p>

   Arabic
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports ISO Arabic (ISO 8859-6),
       MacArabic and DOS Arabic (CP720).  To view and edit a file in one of
       these encodings, select it from the Encoding menu (submenu
       "Greek/Semitic"), or use the respective command line parameter -E:I6 or
       -EA.  See Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs ISO Arabic, make sure to indicate this
       properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Arabic.  Select it from the
       Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       Not yet implemented. Tell me if you have a proposal or preference for
       assignment of accent prefix functions to the keyboard.

        Bidi support
       Mined has implicit primitive support for visual right-to-left input
       which is however not the preferred storage method as complete right-to-
       left text should be stored in logical order.
       Mined auto-detects and cooperates with a bidi terminal (mintty, mlterm)
       in which case visual right-to-left input is disabled.
       A full context-aware bidi display and editing technique would still
       have to be integrated into mined. Tell me if you are interested.  <!p>

   Hebrew
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports ISO Hebrew (ISO 8859-8) and
       Windows Hebrew (CP1255).  To view and edit a file in one of these
       encodings, select it from the Encoding menu (submenu "Greek/Semitic"),
       or use the respective command line parameter -E:I8 or -EE.  See
       Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined supports a built-in input method for Hebrew.  Select it from the
       Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       Not yet implemented. Tell me if you have a proposal or preference for
       assignment of accent prefix functions to the keyboard.

        Bidi support
       Mined has implicit primitive support for visual right-to-left input
       which is however not the preferred storage method as complete right-to-
       left text should be stored in logical order.
       Mined auto-detects and cooperates with a bidi terminal (mintty, mlterm)
       in which case visual right-to-left input is disabled.
       A full context-aware bidi display and editing technique would still
       have to be integrated into mined. Tell me if you are interested.

        Smart replacement
       As a special case of smart dash input replacement (enabled together
       with smart quotes), mined inserts Hebrew Maqaf as a dash in the context
       of Hebrew letters.  <!p>

   Chinese
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports Big5 with HKSCS extension
       (extending CP950), GB18030 (extending CP936, extending GKB, including
       EUC-CN), and CNS (EUC-TW) multi-byte character sets.  To view and edit
       a file in one of these encodings, select it from the Encoding menu
       (section "Chinese"), or use the respective command line parameter -EB
       or -EG or -EC.  See Character encoding flags for details.
       Auto-detection: Big5 and GB18030 text encoding are also auto-detected
       when opening a file (with a certain success rate).  Set the environment
       variable MINEDDETECT="BG" to constrain auto-detection to Big5 and
       GB18030 encodings.  See Mined configuration for details.
       Terminal: Mined supports native CJK terminals; make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       encodings support for details on detection and handling of CJK terminal
       features.

        Input method
       Mined provides the following built-in input methods for Chinese:
       Pinyin, Cangjie, WuBi, 4Corner, Boshiamy, and special support for a
       Radical/Stroke lookup input method.  Select the input method of your
       preference from the Input method menu.

        Han character information display
       Mined provides special support for display of Han character information
       according to the Unihan database. It comprises semantic information and
       Mandarin, Cantonese, Hanyu Pinlu, Hanyu Pinyin, XHC Hanyu pinyin, and
       Tang dynasty pronunciation.

        Accented character input support
       For Latin-based Pinyin transcription of Chinese, the usual accent
       prefix functionality is available.  <!p>

   Japanese
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports JIS character sets in EUC-JP or
       Shift_JIS (CP932) multi-byte encoding →NEW→ and EUC-JIS-2004 (X 0213)
       or Shift_JIS-2004 (X 0213) encoding.  To view and edit a file in one of
       these encodings, select it from the Encoding menu (section "Japanese"),
       or use the respective command line parameter -EJ or -ES.  See Character
       encoding flags for details.
       Auto-detection: EUC-JP/-JIS and Shift_JIS text encodings are also auto-
       detected when opening a file (with a certain success rate).  Set the
       environment variable MINEDDETECT="JS" to constrain auto-detection to
       EUC-JP and Shift_JIS encodings, →NEW→ or MINEDDETECT="Xx" to constrain
       auto-detection to EUC-JIS X 0213 and Shift_JIS X 0213 encodings.  See
       Mined configuration for details.
       Terminal: Mined supports native CJK terminals; make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       encodings support for details on detection and handling of CJK terminal
       features.

        Input method
       Mined provides the following built-in input methods for Japanese:
       Hiragana, Katakana, TUT roma, and special support for a Radical/Stroke
       lookup input method.  Select the input method of your preference from
       the Input method menu.
       Mined does not implement, however, advanced Japanese input methods that
       provide semantics-based Hanja input; for these, you will have to set up
       or use an external input method with your operating environment, which
       is then handled by the terminal which delivers ready-composed
       characters transparently to the application.

        Han character information display
       Mined provides special support for display of Han character information
       according to the Unihan database. It comprises semantic information and
       Japanese and Sino-Japanese pronunciation.

        Accented character input support
       For Latin-based Romaji transcription of Japanese, the usual accent
       prefix functionality is available.  <!p>

   Korean
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports UHC (CP949, including EUC-KR)
       and Johab multi-byte character sets.  To view and edit a file in one of
       these encodings, select it from the Encoding menu (section "Korean"),
       or use the respective command line parameter -EK or -EH.  See Character
       encoding flags for details.
       Auto-detection: UHC text encoding is also auto-detected when opening a
       file (with a certain success rate).  Set the environment variable
       MINEDDETECT="K" to constrain auto-detection to UHC encoding.  See Mined
       configuration for details.
       Terminal: Mined supports native CJK terminals; make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       encodings support for details on detection and handling of CJK terminal
       features.

        Input method
       Mined provides the following built-in input methods for Korean: Hangul,
       Hanja, and special support for a Radical/Stroke lookup input method.
       Select the input method of your preference from the Input method menu.

        Han character information display
       Mined provides special support for display of Han character information
       according to the Unihan database. It comprises semantic information and
       Hangul and Korean pronunciation.  <!p>

   Vietnamese
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports VISCII, TCVN and →NEW→ Windows
       Vietnamese (CP1258) character sets.  To view and edit a file in one of
       these encodings, select it from the Encoding menu (section
       "Vietnamese"), or use the respective command line parameter -EV or -EN.
       See Character encoding flags for details.
       Auto-detection: VISCII text encoding is also auto-detected when opening
       a file (with a certain success rate).  Set the environment variable
       MINEDDETECT="V" to constrain auto-detection to VISCII encoding.  See
       Mined configuration for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined provides the following built-in input methods for Vietnamese: VNI
       and VIQR.  Select the input method of your preference from the Input
       method menu.
       It may be more convenient, however, to use the extensive accented
       character input support provided by mined together with a normal Latin-
       based keyboard (so without a keyboard-mapping input method), see
       Character input support for Vietnamese below.

        Character input support
       Mined provides input support for multiple accented characters as used
       in Vietnamese, as well as convenient accent prefix functions for
       combinations of two Vietnamese accents.  Modified Ctrl-/Alt-/Alt-Ctrl-
       digit keys are used for Vietnamese accent prefix functions.
       Alternatively, mnemonic character input can be used.  See Accented and
       mnemonic input support for details, and see below for some introducing
       comments.

       An accent prefix can either be applied to the plain Latin base letter,
       or to a precomposed Vietnamese letter which already has one of the
       accents.  These are:

              U+00C2  LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH CIRCUMFLEX

              U+00E2  LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH CIRCUMFLEX

              U+00CA  LATIN CAPITAL LETTER E WITH CIRCUMFLEX

              U+00EA  LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH CIRCUMFLEX

              U+00D4  LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH CIRCUMFLEX

              U+00F4  LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH CIRCUMFLEX

              U+0102  LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH BREVE

              U+0103  LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH BREVE

              U+01A0  LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH HORN

              U+01A1  LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH HORN

              U+01AF  LATIN CAPITAL LETTER U WITH HORN

              U+01B0  LATIN SMALL LETTER U WITH HORN

       Examples: Suppose your keyboard is mapped to have Vietnamese characters
       like A with circumflex available. Then:

       ^V Â ' (Ctrl-V A-circumflex apostrophe)
              enters the composite character U+1EA4 (A with circumflex and
              acute)

       ^V ~ Ô (Ctrl-V O-circumflex tilde)
              enters the composite character U+1ED6 (O with circumflex and
              tilde)

       Ctrl-6 A
              enters U+00C2 (A with circumflex)

       Alt-4 A
              enters U+1EAA (A with circumflex and tilde)

       Ctrl-Alt-3 A
              enters U+1EB2 (A with breve and hook above)

       Ctrl-Alt-3 O
              enters U+1EDE (O with horn and hook above)

       Note: Using composite base characters in mined character mnemonics or
       accent prefix combinations as just described also works in non-UTF-8
       text encoding mode (e.g. in VISCII or TCVN encoding).  <!p>

   Thai
        Character sets
       In addition to Unicode, mined supports the TIS-620 character set (with
       CP874 extensions).  To view and edit a file in this encoding, select it
       from the Encoding menu (section "Thai"), or use the respective command
       line parameter -ET.  See Character encoding flags for details.
       Terminal: If your terminal runs this encoding, make sure to indicate
       this properly with an environment variable (LC_* / LANG).  See Terminal
       environment for details.

        Input method
       Mined provides a built-in Thai input method.  Select the input method
       from the Input method menu.

        Accented character input support
       Not yet implemented. Tell me if you have a proposal or preference for
       assignment of accent prefix functions to the keyboard.

Character handling support
       This chapter describes mined features for character manipulation and
       display of characters and character properties. Unicode and CJK
       specific features are described in the respective chapters.  Character
       input support is described separately in the subsequent chapter.

   Script highlighting
       It may be desirable to distinguish characters in different script by
       displaying their glyphs in different colours.  (This especially allows
       to distinguish easier between similar glyphs as they occur in
       Latin/Greek/Cyrillic scripts.)
       Script highlighting is currently pre-configured for Greek and Cyrillic.
       It uses the terminal's 256-colour mode if available.
       The scripts to highlight and the colour values to use can be configured
       at compile-time.  See Mined configuration below.

   Combining characters
       When editing text in Unicode or any encoding that contains combining
       characters, mined supports display and editing of combining and
       combined characters.

       (Note: Terminal support for combining characters is auto-detected;
       additional command line options are available in case this fails.)
       If mined operates on a terminal that handles combining characters, it
       offers two editing modes: combined or separated.  They can be toggled
       by clicking the Combining display flag in the Quick Options (Mode
       indication) flags area (right part of the top screen line), or by the
       menu entry "Options - Combined display"; separated display mode can
       also be selected by the command line option -c.

       Combined display and editing mode (Combining display flag ç)
              Combined characters are displayed as intended (i.e., combined).

       •      Micro movement into combined characters:

              •      The cursor can be moved into a combined character with
                     Ctrl-cursor-left and Ctrl-cursor-right, or ^V cursor-left
                     and ^V cursor-right.

              •      You can determine the exact position of the cursor if
                     permanent character info is switched on (by HOP ESC u or
                     with HOP "Toggle Char info" in the Options menu).

       •      Partially editing combined characters:

              •      If the cursor is on a combined character, delete next
                     character (e.g. Del on small keypad) will delete the
                     whole combined character, with all combining accents.

              •      If the cursor is on a combined character, Ctrl-Del will
                     delete only the base character, leaving combining accents
                     which may then be combined with the previous character.

              •      If the cursor is within a combined character, delete next
                     character will delete the current combining accent only.

              •      Smart backspacing: Ctrl-Backarrow or F5 Backarrow
                     ("Delete single") behind or within a combined character
                     will only delete the rightmost combining accent
                     (preceding the cursor position) while Backarrow would
                     delete the whole combined character.
                     Note:→NEW→ Configuration option plain_BS (command line
                     option +Bp) switches the Backarrow key from smart
                     backspacing to plain backspacing, i.e. no auto-undent and
                     only delete one combining character of a combined
                     character.  Use Shift-Control-Backarrow to perform smart
                     backspacing then.

              •      You can also position the cursor as described above and
                     use copy-and-paste operations.
       Note: Ctrl-cursor-left and Ctrl-cursor-right only work if these keys
       are configured to emit distinguished escape sequences with Control key
       held down.  With xterm or mintty, this works by default.  With rxvt,
       use the small keypad cursor keys, or enable Control on the right keypad
       with the sample configuration file Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime
       support library.  With mlterm, enable this with the sample
       configuration file mlterm/key in the Mined runtime support library.
       Ctrl-Backarrow can also be configured to work with xterm but doesn't
       appear to work with rxvt or mlterm, use F5 Backarrow instead.

       Separated display and editing mode (Combining display flag `)
              Combined characters are separated into base character and
              combining character(s) for display and editing. Combining
              characters are indicated with coloured background.

              •      In separated display mode, all cursor and text
                     modification operations work on the combining parts as
                     displayed.

       Input support: For input of Unicode combining characters,
              see Combining character input below.

       Note: Unicode combining characters (according to the
              most recent version of Unicode known to mined) that are not
              handled as combining characters by the terminal (which might
              implement an older version of Unicode) are always displayed like
              in separated display mode.

       Note: Isolated combining characters, i.e. those
              appearing at a line beginning or after a TAB character, are
              always displayed like in separated display mode.

   Character information display
       The command ESC u displays character encoding information in the bottom
       status line (conforming to ISO 14755); it displays the character code
       in the selected encoding (UTF-8 byte sequence in UTF-8 mode) and the
       ISO-10646 (Unicode) value of the current character, as well as Unicode
       script range and character category, width, and combining information.
       The Unicode value is displayed with 4 hexadecimal digits if the
       character is in the Unicode BMP (Basic Multilingual Plane, 16 bit),
       with 6 digits if it is a Unicode character outside of the BMP, and 8
       digits if it is an ISO-10646 character outside of the Unicode range.
       The information displayed also indicates all kinds of encoding
       irregularities.
       For the Unicode data version used for character properties see the
       mined change log.

       Permanent display of character information is toggled with HOP ESC u or
       by selecting "Char info" in the Info menu (or with HOP "Toggle Char
       info" in the Options menu).

       In the Info menu, attributes that are shown with the character
       information can be selected: Unicode script name, Unicode character
       name, →NEW→ Unicode named sequence, Unicode character decomposition,
       list of input mnemonics.  Note that Unicode named sequence information
       only applies to a small number of named sequences, otherwise normal
       character information is shown instead; also, it is only shown in
       combined display mode, so normal information can be quickly toggled by
       switching to separated display mode (middle-click on ç flag).

       Character information display can be selected with the +?c command line
       parameter (see parameter description for further options).  To
       preselect continuous character information display, append +?c to the
       environment variable MINEDOPT or enable option "display_charinfo" in
       the runtime configuration file $HOME/.minedrc.

        Han character information display
       CJK-specific character information (semantic and pronuciation hints) is
       described below in section Han character information display.

   Character conversion features
        Case conversion
       The case conversion functions (ESC C, HOP ESC C, F11, HOP F11, Shift-
       F3) cover the full Unicode range.  They also handle special cases like
       Greek final sigma, optionally Turkish "i", case mapping to multiple
       characters, and Lithuanian special conditions.  Japanese characters are
       toggled between Hiragana and Katakana by the same functions.
       Shift-F3 cycles casing of a word between all small, title case
       (beginning capital), and all capitals. It handles title casing, using
       Unicode title case characters for the first character when appropriate.
       For Japanese script, it toggles the word between Hiragana and Katakana.
       The case mapping is based on the most recent Unicode version compiled
       into mined (for the actual version see the mined change log and the
       Options menu About command).  It is applicable in all text encodings.

        Line end type conversion
       In the Options menu, a submenu "Lineend type..." offers functions to
       convert the line end of the current line to LF or CRLF, or to convert
       the line end type of all lines that do not have a special line end to
       LF or CRLF.

        Numeric conversion
       Commands are available to insert characters corresponding to a
       hexadecimal character code or hexadecimal/octal/decimal Unicode value
       contained in the text, to insert a respective value corresponding to
       the current character, or to toggle the preceding character and its
       hexadecimal Unicode value (Alt-x).  For details, see the section Code
       conversion in the Command reference.

        Numeric entity (HTML/URL) conversion
       HTML numeric character entities (e.g. &#x40; or &#64; for @) or URL
       escape notation (e.g. %20 for space, %C3%86 for Æ) can be converted
       into unescaped characters. Use one of the Mnemonic character
       substitution commands (ESC _ or national variants) described below.

        Mnemonic conversion
       A character mnemonic at the cursor position can be replaced with its
       associated character. Use one of the Mnemonic character substitution
       commands (ESC _ or national variants) described below.

        Encoding conversion support
       A special feature offers interactive conversion to or from Unicode
       character encoding, see Encoding conversion support in chapter Unicode
       support below.

        Unicode Copy/Paste buffer
       The Copy/Paste buffer can be operated in Unicode mode in which case it
       converts between text edited in different character encodings.  See
       Unicode Copy/Paste buffer conversion below.

   Smart quotes
       In Smart quotes mode, straight (double or single) quote characters «"»
       or «'» are automatically substituted with an opening or closing
       typographic quotation mark, depending on the text context, or an
       apostrophe where appropriate.  Also, an acute accent key enters a
       typographic apostrophe.  →NEW→ Alt-" or Alt-' enter the respective
       quotation marks of the previous or standby style (see below).
       Quote marks style selection:

              •      Select the quotation marks style to be applied from the
                     Smart Quotes selection menu (open with ESC Q or Alt-Q or
                     right-click on the smart quotes indication in the flags
                     area in the top screen line).

              •      To toggle between the current and the previous smart
                     quotes style, middle-click or double-click the smart
                     quotes flag or select "standby" from the menu.

              •      To select the smart quotes style suitable for the current
                     locale, select "by locale" from the menu. This is also
                     achieved with the configuration option smart_quotes or
                     the command line option -q.
       Quotation marks style can be preselected by either of the mechanisms
       described below.

       The smart quotes left/right selection algorithm considers both the text
       context and the state (whether an open quote was inserted before) to
       automatically support smart quotes also in CJK text, and to try to
       distinguish an apostrophe from a quote mark.  At a line beginning,
       always a left (opening) quotation mark is chosen, supporting the habit
       in some languages to repeat opening quote marks for each new paragraph
       inside a quotation.
       French quotation marks spacing is automatically applied (using no-break
       space U+00A0) if French style has been selected from the menu or by
       locale.
       A typographic apostrophe can also be inserted with HOP ' (^G ') or with
       HOP ´ (acute accent), regardless of smart quotes mode.  In smart quotes
       mode, a typographic apostrophe is also inserted on input of ´ (acute
       accent).
       Straight quotes or accent marks (" ' ` ´) can be inserted with mnemonic
       compose pairs (^V ^ " or ^V ^ ' or ^V ^ ` or ^V ^ ´, or ^V"# or ^V'# or
       ^V`# or ^V´# respectively).
       Smart quotes are applicable in all text encodings provided the desired
       quote marks are contained in the selected encoding.

       When a file is loaded, mined tries to determine the applicable
       quotation marks style in two ways: With file position memory (see File
       info: Memory of file position and editing style parameters above),
       mined also remembers the last selected smart quotes mode for the file.
       If that information is not available, mined auto-detects existing
       quotation marks in the file and adjusts its smart quotes mode
       accordingly. The option -q overrides this detection.

       With command-line option -q alone, quotation marks style is derived
       from locale information (environment variables LANGUAGE, TEXTLANG,
       LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG), or from a locale value given with the option
       as -q=locale.  For some languages, two styles are predefined, using the
       primary style as active smart quotes style, and the secondary or
       alternate style as standby style, for quick toggling with a middle
       mouse click on the Quotes flag (or using the standby entry from the
       Quote marks menu).  The active quote marks style can also be derived
       explicitly from the locale with the Quotes menu option "by locale".
       Option +q exchanges primary and alternate quotation marks style,
       setting the alternate style active.
       Without an option -q, the primary locale-derived quote marks style is
       always set as standby style to be quickly available.
       Note: Language-dependent quotations marks styles are determined using
       the compile-time configuration file quotes.cfg.  See Quotation Marks
       Styles on the mined web site for a listing.
       Note: Smart quotes style can also be preselected giving the desired
       quotation marks directly, either as command line option like -q="«»" or
       with the environment variable MINEDQUOTES (see under Environment
       configuration hints below); this overrides both auto-detection and the
       preference saved with the cursor position.

        Smart text replacements: apostrophe, smart dashes, arrows and glottal
       stop
       If smart quotes are active, some other smart input text replacements
       are applied to respective characters being entered.  (Replacement of
       subsequent character input sequences is suppressed during a repeat
       command entering multiple characters.)

       --     if preceded by a Space character: en dash (U+2013)
              otherwise: em dash (U+2014)

       -  or -TAB
              →NEW→ if leading a line (only white space before): en dash
              (U+2013)

       -      →NEW→ if embedded in spaces: minus sign (U+2212)

       -      if an adjacent character is in the Hebrew script range: Hebrew
              hyphen mark Maqaf (U+05BE)

       <-     leftwards arrow (U+2190)

       ->     rightwards arrow (U+2192)

       <>     left right arrow (U+2194)

       ´      apostrophe (U+2019 right single quotation mark)

       `      glottal stop (U+02BB modifier letter turned comma)

       Note: →NEW→ Mined smartly avoids inappropriate placement of smart
       replacements as well as double spaces by redundant combination of smart
       spaces and explicitly entered spaces, so you can seamlessly type either
       "bonjour" or " bonjour " to enter « bonjour » with French quotes, or a
       -- b to enter an en dash although a space is initially inserted after
       it.

Character input support
       Some character input support features support international scripts
       (especially with Keyboard Mapping and Input Methods), others mainly
       address composite characters.  For the latter, it is useful to explain
       a few notions:

       Combining character:
              A character (usually in Unicode) that is defined to combine with
              the previous character into a combined character, to be
              displayed as a single glyph (visual unit).

       Combined character:
              The glyph combination of a Unicode character (base character)
              with one or more Unicode combining characters.

       Composed character (or composite character):
              A character that has one or more accents composed into it, or is
              otherwise composed of components, like the ae ligature, to be
              displayed as a single glyph. It can be a single Unicode
              character or a Unicode combined character consisting of a
              Unicode base character and one or two Unicode combining
              characters.

       Accented character (or diacritic character):
              A special case of a composite character where a letter is
              composed with one or more accents.

       Compose key:
              A number of system and keyboard vendors have equipped their
              keyboards with a "Compose" or "Combine" key. This key - when
              configured and interpreted properly by the operating environment
              - produces a composed character which is then provided as input
              to the application.

   Accented and mnemonic input support
       Function keys or character mnemonics can be used to enter accented or
       other composite characters.  (This is also known as digraph function
       with some editors.)
       These character composition functions also work on the prompt line.
       (Any composite character configured on your keyboard can of course also
       be entered directly or using the Compose/Combine key of your keyboard.)

       Note that mnemonic input and accent prefix keys can be
              combined in flexible ways, e.g.

       ^V ' Ctrl-F6 e
              or

       F6 ^V e ^
              which both enter U+1EBF (e with circumflex and acute)

       Mnemonic input can be applied recursively to compose a character
              for further composition, e.g.

       ^V ' ^V a e
              enters U+01FD (æ with acute)

       Accent prefix keys can use an already precomposed base
              character for further composition; if this does not match an
              explicitly known mnemonic, the base character is decomposed
              first to find a match, e.g.

       F6 ü   or

       F5 ú   which both enter U+01D8 (u with diaeresis and acute)

       Up to three accent prefix keys can be combined by entering
              them in sequence in order to compose characters with multiple
              accents, e.g.

       F5 F6 u
              enters U+01D8 (u with diaeresis and acute)

       Ctrl-2 Ctrl-7 a
              enters U+1EB1 (a with grave and breve)

       Ctrl-- Ctrl-: u
              enters U+1E7B (u with macron and diaeresis)

       Ctrl-, Ctrl-( e
              enters U+1E1D (e with cedilla and breve)

       Alt-7 Ctrl-, < alpha >

       Alt-F6 Shift-F6 Ctrl-, < alpha >

       Ctrl-< Ctrl-` Ctrl-, < alpha >
              all enter U+1F82 (alpha with psili and varia and ypogegrammeni)
              where < alpha > indicates the Greek letter alpha, which may e.g.
              be entered by selecting the Greek input method and typing the
              "a" key

        Accent prefix keys
       General notes on using keys with Control, Shift, Alt modifiers:
              Especially for accented character input, mined makes use of key
              combinations modified with Control, Shift, Alt, or a combination
              of them.  Some of these key combinations may be limited by local
              environment, especially the window system, or may need extra
              configuration to be enabled.

              •      Hint on input of Alt/Ctrl-modified function keys: These
                     are often intercepted by window systems for special
                     functions.

                     •      Alt: Alternatively to using the Alt key, the ESC
                            key can be used as a prefix to a function key to
                            achieve the same modified function, e.g. ESC F6
                            instead of Alt-F6.  Note, however, that there is
                            an ESCAPE delay (default 450 ms) during which the
                            subsequent function key should be pressed.

                     •      Control: Alternatively to using the Control key,
                            Ctrl-V can be used as a prefix to a function key
                            to achieve the same modified function, e.g. Ctrl-V
                            F6 instead of Ctrl-F6.
              Specific advice:

              Window system
                     suppresses
                     remedy

              KDE    Ctrl-Fn, Ctrl-Shift-Fn, Alt-Fn
                     press the "Window key" additionally at the same time,
                     e.g. Window-Alt-F6 or use ESC or Ctrl-V prefixes, e.g.
                     ESC F6 (be fast!), Ctrl-V Shift-F5

              gnome-wm
                     Alt-F5
                     Window-Alt-F5 or ESC F5 (be fast!)

              fvwm2  Alt-Fn
                     ESC Fn (be fast!)

              Exceed Alt-Fn, Alt-Shift-Fn
                     ESC Fn, ESC Shift-Fn (be fast!)
                     or: configure ("Tools - Configuration... - Keyboard
                     Input") "Windows Modifier Behavior - Alt Key:" and select
                     "To X"

              •      Modified digit keys (e.g. Alt-2) as well as Ctrl-modified
                     punctuation keys (e.g. Ctrl-;) are used as extended and
                     intuitive accent prefix keys.  To enable them, either use
                     a recent version of xterm (216) or configure them with
                     your terminal.
                     Configuration instructions for older versions of xterm
                     and for rxvt can be found in the sample file
                     Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support library.

              •      Note: In rxvt, Ctrl-modified and shifted punctuation keys
                     (if enabled by configuration following the hint above)
                     interfere with ISO 14755 input mode of rxvt; if the
                     following key is entered twice, that mode is aborted and
                     the modified punctuation key becomes effective as an
                     accent prefix in mined.

              •      Warning: The Alt-F4 key combination should not accidently
                     be hit as many window managers use it to kill the
                     terminal window!

       The following table lists the accent prefix keys:

       F5     (Sun: R4/-) diaeresis (umlaut) / dialytika

       Shift-F5
              (Sun: R5/÷) tilde / perispomeni

       Ctrl-F5
              (Sun: R6/×) ring / cedilla / iota (ypogegrammeni)

       Alt-F5 stroke

       Ctrl-Shift-F5
              ogonek / prosgegrammeni

       Alt-Shift-F5
              breve / vrachy

       F6     (Sun: R3) acute (accent d'aigu) / tonos

       Shift-F6
              (Sun: R1) grave / varia

       Ctrl-F6
              (Sun: R2) circumflex / oxia

       Alt-F6 caron / psili

       Ctrl-Shift-F6
              macron / descender

       Alt-Shift-F6
              dot above / dasia

       Ctrl-1 acute

       Ctrl-2 grave

       Ctrl-3 hook above

       Ctrl-4 tilde

       Ctrl-5 dot below

       Ctrl-6 circumflex

       Ctrl-7 breve

       Ctrl-8 horn

       Ctrl-9 stroke

       Ctrl-0 ring / cedilla

       Alt-1  circumflex and acute

       Alt-2  circumflex and grave

       Alt-3  circumflex and hook above

       Alt-4  circumflex and tilde

       Alt-5  circumflex and dot below

       Ctrl-Alt-1
              breve/horn and acute (composes following A/a with breve and
              acute, or following O/o or U/u with horn and acute)

       Ctrl-Alt-2
              breve/horn and grave

       Ctrl-Alt-3
              breve/horn and hook above

       Ctrl-Alt-4
              breve/horn and tilde

       Ctrl-Alt-5
              breve/horn and dot below

       Alt-6  psili and oxia

       Ctrl-Alt-6
              dasia and oxia

       Alt-7  psili and varia

       Ctrl-Alt-7
              dasia and varia

       Alt-8  psili and perispomeni

       Ctrl-Alt-8
              dasia and perispomeni

       Ctrl-' (Ctrl-apostrophe) acute (d'aigu) / tonos

       Ctrl-´ (Ctrl-acute) acute (d'aigu) / oxia

       Ctrl-` (Ctrl-grave) grave / varia

       Ctrl-^ circumflex / oxia

       Ctrl-~ tilde / perispomeni / titlo

       Ctrl-: diaeresis (umlaut) / dialytika

       Ctrl-" diaeresis (umlaut) / dialytika

       Ctrl-, cedilla / ring / iota (ypogegrammeni)

       Ctrl-/ stroke

       Ctrl-- (Ctrl-minus) macron / descender

       Ctrl-< caron / psili

       Ctrl-. dot above / dasia (with i or j: dotless)

       Ctrl-( breve / vrachy

       Ctrl-; ogonek / prosgegrammeni / tail / tick / upturn

       Ctrl-) inverted breve

       Ctrl-& hook

       Ctrl-- Ctrl-&
              middle hook

       Note: If your keyboard assignment provides its own accent prefix keys
       ("dead keys"), pressing the key twice usually delivers the
       corresponding spacing character which can then be used for the extended
       accent prefix functionality of mined; e.g. hold Control, then press ´
       (acute key) twice, to invoke the acute/oxia prefix function of mined.

       Note: For combining multiple accents, in most
              cases their order does not matter. As an exception, to combine
              dot above and macron, enter prefix keys in this order, as s
              macron and dot above will be interpreted as dot below.

       dot macron
              e.g. Ctrl-. Ctrl-- dot above and macron (on A or O)

       macron dot
              e.g. Ctrl-- Ctrl-.  dot below

       Note: For the sake of accepting Ctrl--
              intuitively both as an accent prefix for macron as well as an
              accent modifier to place an accent below a letter, the macron
              accent prefix combined with another accent prefix key is also
              interpreted as applying that accent below. As a workaround to
              ambiguous cases, it has to be applied twice with diaeris for
              diaeresis below (U), and three times for line below.

       macron macron diaeresis
              e.g. Ctrl-- Ctrl-- Ctrl-: diaeresis below

       macron diaeresis
              e.g. Ctrl-- Ctrl-: macron and diaeresis

       diaeresis macron
              e.g. Ctrl-: Ctrl-- diaeresis and macron

       macron macron macron
              e.g. Ctrl-- Ctrl-- Ctrl-- line below

       Note: Some accent prefix keys, when applied twice in
              sequence, are mapped to a single accent as follows:

       acute acute
              e.g. F6 F6 double acute accent

       grave grave
              e.g. Shift-F6 Shift-F6 double grave accent

       macron macron
              e.g. Ctrl-- Ctrl-- bar/topbar

       cedilla cedilla
              e.g. Ctrl-, Ctrl-, psili/comma below

   Combining character input
       Unicode combining characters can be entered
              by applying accent prefix keys to the Tab key. They will be
              visually combined with the previous character by rules of
              Unicode (and by terminal implementation). Examples:

       Ctrl-, Tab
              combining cedilla

       F6 F6 Tab
              combining double acute accent

   Special character input shortcuts
       Typographic quotation marks can be entered
              by applying accent prefix keys to the space key as follows, or
              using certain input mnemonics or shifted combinations (see
              below):

       (twice) grave space
              (double) left quotation mark

       (twice) acute space
              (double) right quotation mark

       acute space
              e.g. F6 space or Ctrl-' space also serves for input of
              typographic apostrophe (or HOP ')

       (twice) cedilla space
              (double) low-9 quotation mark

       (twice) dot above space
              (double) high-reversed-9 quotation mark

       ^V < < or ^V > >
              double angle quotation marks « »

       ^V < space or ^V > space
              single angle quotation marks

       " or ' outer or inner quotation mark of selected quote marks style

       Alt-" or Alt-'
              →NEW→ outer or inner quotation mark of previous/standby quote
              marks style

       Some characters are specifically mapped to special key
              combinations or specific applications of accent prefix keys for
              convenience or for Windows compatibility:

       Ctrl-Shift-space
              no-break space (U+00A0)

       Ctrl-@ a/A
              å/Å

       Ctrl-& a/A
              æ/Æ

       Ctrl-& o/O
              oe/OE ligature

       Ctrl-& s
              ß

       Ctrl-? ¿

       Ctrl-! ¡

       As with modified keys in general, these shortcuts may depend on proper
       terminal configuration according to the sample files in the Mined
       runtime support library.

   Line ends
       Key combinations are available to enter specific kinds of line ends
              (works in xterm and mintty):

       Ctrl-Alt-Enter
              DOS or Unix line end (if editing Unix or DOS file, respectively)

       Ctrl-Shift-Alt-Enter
              Mac line end

       Ctrl-Enter
              Unicode line separator (if editing Unicode text)

       Shift-Enter or HOP Enter
              Unicode paragraph separator (if editing Unicode text)

       →NEW→ Control-Shift-Enter
              ISO 8859 Next Line (if editing Unicode or ISO 8859 text)

       Also, the line end type of a line can be changed from a submenu
              of the Options menu.

   Character input mnemonics
       The enter-control-code prefix (^V by default, ^Q in emacs keyboard
       mode, ^_ in Windows and pico keyboard modes, ^P in WordStar keyboard
       mode) can be used for mnemonic character composition.  This covers
       accented characters and other mnemonics.  The available mnemonics
       include RFC1345 mnemonics (extended to provide generic accent mnemonics
       for Unicode characters), mnemonics known from HTML and TeX, →NEW→ groff
       glyphs (roff special characters), and useful supplementary mnemonics.
       See Character Mnemos reference on the mined web site for a listing.
       Supplementary character mnemonics are consistent with generic RFC1345
       mnemonics; scripts covered are Latin, Greek, Cyrillic.

       For accent compositions, mnemonic patterns (generic accent mnemonics)
       are listed in the following table; the respective letter to place the
       accent(s) on is indicated with an "x" below.

       For Greek and Cyrillic accented characters, mnemonics combining accents
       with Greek or Cyrillic base characters are generated automatically from
       the UnicodeData.txt database.
       Greek and Cyrillic accent prefix keys reuse those for Latin accents and
       are listed in the sections on Greek and Cyrillic script support (see
       Language support).

       generic mnemonic
              accent placed on the base character ("x")

       x: or "x
              diaeresis (umlaut)

       x' or ´x
              acute (accent d'aigu)

       x! or `x
              grave

       x> or ^x
              circumflex

       x? or ~x
              tilde

       x0 or °x
              ring above

       x,     cedilla

       x-     macron

       x(     breve

       x.     dot above / middle dot

       x_ or _x
              line below

       x/     stroke

       x" or x''
              double acute

       x;     ogonek

       x<     caron

       x2     hook above

       x9     horn

       x-> or >x
              circumflex below

       x-. or .x
              dot below

       x--. or .x-
              dot below and macron

       x.-. or .x.
              dot below and dot above

       x7 or x.-
              dot above and macron

       x~- or x?-
              tilde and macron

       x;-    ogonek and macron

       x:-    diaeresis and macron

       x-:    macron and diaeresis

       x-'    macron and acute

       x-!    macron and grave

       -x or x--
              topbar

       --x or x--
              bar

       ,x or x-,
              comma below / left hook

       x# or x!!
              double grave

       x)     inverted breve

       x&     hook

       %x     retroflex hook

       x,,    palatal hook

       x~~    middle tilde

       x}     curl

       x-? or ?x
              tilde below

       x--: or :x
              diaeresis below

       x-0 or ox
              ring below

       x-( or (x
              breve below

       x(-. or .x(
              breve and dot below

       x>-. or .x>
              circumflex and dot below

       x9-. or .x9
              horn and dot below

       x'.    acute and dot above

       x('    breve and acute

       x(!    breve and grave

       x(2    breve and hook above

       x(?    breve and tilde

       x<.    caron and dot above

       x,'    cedilla and acute

       x,(    cedilla and breve

       x>'    circumflex and acute

       x>!    circumflex and grave

       x>2    circumflex and hook above

       x>?    circumflex and tilde

       x:'    diaeresis and acute

       x:<    diaeresis and caron

       x:!    diaeresis and grave

       x9'    horn and acute

       x9!    horn and grave

       x92    horn and hook above

       x9?    horn and tilde

       x0'    ring above and acute

       x/'    stroke and acute

       x?'    tilde and acute

       x?:    tilde and diaeresis

       See also the description of the ^V function below for more input
       options.
       Two-letter mnemonics can also be entered in reverse order if this is
       unambiguous.  Detection of reverse order mnemomics (two letters or one
       letter and multiple accents) as well as the generic accent mnemonics "
       ^ ` ~ ¨ ¯ ´ ¸ ° works with both short mnemonic entry (two-letter
       "^Vxy") and full mnemonic entry ("^V xy... ").

       Mnemonic character substitution commands (ESC _ and national variants)
       replace characters at the cursor position with the respective character
       described by them.  The following substitute descriptions are detected:

              •      Two-character mnemonic

              •      HTML character mnemonic

              •      HTML numeric character entity

              •      URL escape notation (bytewise hexadecimal with %
                     prefixes)

   Keyboard Mapping and Input Methods
       Mined supports optional keyboard mapping which is especially useful for
       Unicode or CJK editing.  When a keyboard mapping is selected, input
       characters or sequences are transformed to other characters or
       sequences, typically of a certain Unicode script range.
       Keyboard mappings for Greek, Cyrillic, Hebrew, Arabic, and major CJK
       input methods are preconfigured (they have been ordered in the Input
       Method menu according to the order of their respective basic ranges in
       the Unicode character set, or to the order of the letters of the usual
       abbreviation CJKV for East Asian text processing - Chinese, Japanese,
       Korean, Vietnamese). The Radical/Stroke input method provides
       additional functionality as a special case.
       Mined provides compile-time configuration of additional input methods;
       for this aim, further mappings can be generated using the mkkbmap
       script (from tables in various formats as used by other editors or
       supplied by the m17n multilingualization package) and then compiled
       into mined.  See Mined configuration below for details.

       Keyboard mapping works as follows: You enter a key sequence that is
       mapped to a character sequence in the selected keyboard mapping table.
       The transformed character sequence is used as input.
       As some typical keyboard mappings contain ambigous key sequences where
       one may be a prefix of another, a short delay is applied in these cases
       to allow recognition of any such sequence to be mapped. After a
       timeout, the shorter sequence already matching will be used; the
       timeout can be cut short by typing a Space key, the Space character
       itself will then be discarded. (The timeout value is 900 ms by default
       and can be configured with the environment variable MAPDELAY.)

        Pick lists
       Some keyboard mappings, especially for CJK input methods, contain
       multiple choice mappings. In these cases, a selection menu is displayed
       that offers a "pick list" to select a character from. A character can
       be picked with a mouse click, or by navigation to the desired choice
       with the cursor keys (down/up, right/left, page down/up) or the '<'/'>'
       keys , or by just selecting the menu row first (cursor-up/down), then
       typing a digit 1-9 or 0 to select the numbered character.
       The Space key can be configured to either navigate to the next choice,
       the next row, or to select the current choice; see option -K.  If the
       pick list is too large to fit on the screen, the menu will be
       scrollable or pageable (using cursor keys).

       While navigating through the pick list, the line and the selected item
       in the line are highlighted accordingly; if the current item is a CJK
       character, also its character information (description and optionally
       pronunciations as configured with the Han info option of the '?'
       information flag menu) is displayed on the status line. If the item is
       a word comprising multiple CJK characters, the information for only the
       first of them is shown. The available information is derived from the
       Unihan database.

       Keyboard mapping data are based on Unicode. So in CJK text mode, the
       selection menu (the pick list) may contain symbols that are not mapped
       to the active CJK text encoding. In a UTF-8 terminal, these will still
       be displayed but cannot be inserted. In a CJK terminal, some characters
       may not be displayed; an empty entry is shown instead. (In a non-
       Unicode, when editing text in a different encoding, there may even be
       characters that cannot be displayed in the selection menu but can be
       inserted.)

        Input method selection
       An active and a standby input method (keyboard mapping) are maintained.
       They can be toggled quickly for text input, also on the prompt line.
       The current mapping is indicated as the Input Method flag by its two-
       letter script tag in the flags area, showing "--" if no mapping is
       active.

       The active mapping can be selected in the following ways:

       ESC k or Alt-k or Ctrl-Alt-F12 or left click on Input Method flag
              toggles between current (active) and previously selected
              (standby) input method (keyboard mapping)
              (Alt- toggle functions also work on prompt line)

       HOP ESC k (or HOP Alt-k)
              clears input method, i.e. resets keyboard mapping to none
              (unmapped input)

       ESC I or Alt-I or ESC K or Alt-K or Ctrl-F12
              opens the Input Method (Keyboard Mapping) selection menu
              (Alt-I or Alt-K or Ctrl-F12 also work on prompt line)

       right click on Input Method flag
              opens the Input Method selection menu

       HOP ESC K or HOP Alt-K
              cycles through available input methods / keyboard mappings

            If file position memory is enabled (see File info: Memory of file
       position and editing style parameters above), mined also remembers the
       last selected input method for the file.

       Note: For preselecting the active or standby input method by
       environment configuration, see about usage of the environment variable
       MINEDKEYMAP below.

       Note: Keyboard mapping is implicitly suppressed temporarily where it is
       not useful: during mnemonic character input, HTML marker input, command
       letter entry, help selection, yes/no prompting.

Character encoding support
       A character encoding for interpretation and handling of text is
       selected in one of the following ways:

              •      Interactively from the Encoding Menu (one of the flag
                     menus), the encoding interpretation can be changed while
                     editing; to open it, click with the right mouse button on
                     the encoding indication in the flags area of the top
                     line, or type Alt-E.  See also Quick Options (Mode
                     indication) flags for an overview.  To toggle between the
                     current and the previously selected encoding, click the
                     Encoding flag with the left mouse button.

              •      Explicitly with a command line option -E...  with a
                     number of options to specify the desired text encoding
                     (see the encoding command line options above).

              •      By auto-detection (heuristic counting of valid character
                     codes).  Note: The encodings to be taken into account for
                     auto-detection can be configured with the MINEDDETECT
                     environment variable. Set it to the desired list of
                     single-letter encoding indications to disable auto-
                     detection of other encodings.  Recognised encoding
                     indications are mentioned in the list of auto-detected
                     encodings below (they are the same as used with the -E
                     parameter); UTF-8 auto-detection cannot be disabled this
                     way.

              •      By either environment variable LANGUAGE or TEXTLANG (see
                     Locale configuration), which overrides other locale
                     variable settings for the purpose of text encoding
                     without affecting them otherwise.

              •      By checking the locale environment (see Locale
                     configuration).

   Auto-detected character encodings
       The following encodings are auto-detected unless overridden with a -E
       command line option (or -l or -u); the preceding one-letter tag can be
       used for auto-detection configuration with the environment variable
       MINEDDETECT:

       -      UTF-8

       -      UTF-16 encoding (big or little endian) with or without BOM (byte
              order marker)

       8      any 8 bit encoding; this is auto-detected in a generic way; the
              actual 8 bit encoding assumed corresponds to the terminal
              encoding if it is an 8 bit terminal; otherwise, Latin-1 is
              assumed; using "8" in the environment variable MINEDDETECT
              excludes all CJK encodings from auto-detection (but not UTF-8),
              and adds all 8 bit encodings that are not included by default

       L      Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1)

       W      Windows Western ("ANSI", CP1252)

       P      PC Latin-1 (CP850)

       M      MacRoman

       -      CJK encoding (with unspecified mapping) is pre-auto-detected in
              a generic way; usually the actual CJK encoding is determined,
              too

       G      GB18030 (including CP936)

       B      Big5 (including CP950)

       J      EUC-JP

       X      →NEW→ EUC-JIS-2004 / EUC-JIS X 0213

       S      Shift_JIS / CP932

       x      →NEW→ Shift_JIS-2004 / Shift_JIS X 0213

       K      UHC / CP949 (including EUC-KR)

       V      VISCII

       Note: For new files, the text encoding is derived from the locale
       environment.  →NEW→ With command line option -E- or -E auto-detection
       is disabled and text encoding is always derived from the locale
       environment.

   CJK and mapped 8 bit encoding support
       Mined supports major CJK encodings as well as mapped 8 bit encodings
       ("character sets").  Mined has built-in support for a large number of 8
       bit encodings which appear to be in use or unique for a region. The
       Encoding menu has been structured with submenus to provide a concise
       menu selection feature.

   →NEW→ EBCDIC support
       Mined supports EBCDIC encoded files (transparently transforming them
       for internal handling) in the "bracket" codepage CP1047 as used by the
       UNIX System Services (USS) on IBM z/OS.  CP1047 is selected with
       command line option -E=cp1047 or -E.EBCDIC or -E:47.  The character
       encoding flag indicates EBCDIC with "47".
       New files in EBCDIC encoding will by default use Next Line as line
       separators; add option -r to prefer LF.
       New lines can be added selecting LF or NL lineend type explicitly with
       Ctrl-Enter or Shift-Enter.
       →NEW→ Auto-detection of EBCDIC can be enabled by including the letter
       "E" in the environment variable MINEDDETECT.

   →NEW→ ISO 6937 support
       Mined supports ISO-6937 encoded files as defined by CCITT/ITU-T for
       telematic services/Teletex, with Euro extension as used for DVB.  ISO
       6937 is selected with command line option -E=ISO-6937 or -E:I9.  The
       character encoding flag indicates ISO 6937 with "I9".

   Combining characters
       In all character encodings handled by mined that contain combining
       characters, mined handles them and provides partial editing and an
       optional separated display mode as described above in section
       Combining characters.  (CJK encodings EUC-JIS-2004, Shift_JIS-2004 and
       GB18030, Vietnamese TCVN and Windows Vietnamese (CP1258), Thai TIS-620,
       ISO Arabic, Mac Arabic, DOS Arabic, ISO Hebrew, Windows Hebrew).
       Handling of combining text characters is properly coordinated with the
       set of combining characters supported by the terminal.

       For Japanese X 0213 encodings, the character codes that map to two
       Unicode characters are supported.

   Character code related commands
       The command ESC u displays character encoding information in the bottom
       status line (conforming to ISO 14755); this includes the character
       code, the mapped Unicode character value, and optionally script and
       character category information, character and named sequence name,
       combining and Unicode decomposition information, and mined mnemonic
       input information, as configured in the Info menu.  For CJK characters,
       also Han pronunciation and description information is available.  See
       Character information display for details.
       With HOP ESC u, permanent display is toggled.

       Other commands insert the code of the current character, insert a
       character taking its character code or Unicode value from the text, or
       toggle the preceding character and its hexadecimal Unicode value (Alt-
       x).  For details, see Code conversion in the Command reference.

   Terminal environment for CJK encoding support
       Mined supports handling of CJK text encoding in any terminal (see
       Terminal encoding support below).  However, proper display of a wide
       range of CJK characters can obviously only work in either a Unicode
       terminal (recommended) or in a native CJK terminal that runs the same
       encoding as the selected text encoding.

       CJK terminals: For terminals that support native CJK encodings (e.g.
       cxterm, kterm, hanterm), the terminal encoding assumed by mined can be
       specified with a command line option or by proper locale indication in
       one of the environment variables LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE or LANG.  For
       available encodings, see Quick Options (Mode indication) flags.  For
       usage of the +E options, see the description of the Terminal encoding
       options above.  For usage of the locale environment variables, see
       Locale configuration.

       Note: In native CJK terminals, it is often troublesome to find a
       working encoding configuration and font setup, and the locale
       environment is not automatically set by the terminals.  A collection of
       wrapper scripts is available ( http://towo.net/mined/terminals.tar.gz)
       to help with this setup problem and demonstrate the invocation of a
       number of different CJK and 8 bit encoded terminal windows, along with
       selection of suitable fonts and proper locale environment setting.

       Note: Native CJK terminals have a different assumption of the range of
       character codes supported in an encoding family, e.g. Big5 / Big5 with
       HKSCS, GB2312 / GBK / GB18030, EUC-KR / UHC, EUC-JP without/with 3 byte
       codes.  For compact handling, mined always assumes the largest superset
       of these encoding families. It does, however, have some features to
       prevent display garbage in most cases when a terminal supports a
       smaller character set: By default, mined does not display the following
       CJK character codes in a native CJK terminal, i.e. it displays a
       substitute indication for them (see CJK character display above):

              •      Unknown characters: CJK characters that have no defined
                     mapping to a valid Unicode character.  Use the +C option
                     to override this display suppression and enforce
                     transparent display of unknown characters in a CJK
                     terminal.

              •      Invalid characters: CJK characters that do not match the
                     encoding scheme (e.g. wrt. to specified byte ranges) of
                     the selected encoding.  Use the +CC option to override
                     this display suppression and enforce transparent display
                     of invalid character codes in a CJK terminal.

              •      Extended characters: CJK characters encoded with 3 or 4
                     bytes.  Use the +CCC option to override this display
                     suppression and enforce transparent display of extended
                     character codes in a CJK terminal.

       Regardless of all these features and options, it may not always be
       possible to prevent display garbage, especially if the font used by the
       terminal does not cover the needed character range.  To avoid these
       problems in general, it is recommended to use a Unicode terminal for
       editing CJK encoded files.

       See also Terminal interworking problems for special hints about certain
       terminals.

   VT100 special graphics character set display support
       Mined can display and edit files containing codes for VT100 line
       drawing graphics characters, showing corresponding small letters as
       their respective graphic symbol.  This option can be toggled from the
       Options menu and will be cleared also on an explicit screen redraw
       command (ESC .).

Unicode support
   Introduction: handling Unicode encodings
       Mined interprets UTF-8 which is a multi-byte character encoding of the
       ISO-10646 character set, part of which is also known as Unicode.  When
       reading a file, it detects UTF-8 encoding automatically (unless
       overridden by explicitly selecting a text encoding with a command line
       option -u or -l or -E...).  It can also edit UTF-16 encoded Unicode
       files (UTF-16 can represent the complete 21 bit Unicode subset of
       ISO-10646).  UTF-16 big or little endian with or without BOM (byte
       order mark U+FEFF) is auto-detected or can be selected with a command-
       line option (see notes under Locale configuration below).
       UTF-16 is maintained transparently, i.e. a UTF-16 encoded file is
       written back in UTF-16, and if it was beginning with a BOM this is
       maintained.  No explicit UTF-16 entry exists, however, in the Encoding
       menu since the text is internally handled in UTF-8. However, the
       character encoding flag indicates UTF-16 file encoding with either "16"
       (big endian) or "61" (little endian).

   UTF-8 internal representation, transparent handling of other text
       Mined handles UTF-8 representation internally and also edits and keeps
       illegal UTF-8 sequences. This way, if you happen to open a Latin-1 or
       CJK or any other encoded file in UTF-8 mode, or switch encoding while
       editing, or edit a file with mixed encoding, the text contents can
       still be edited and you will not loose any file contents information.

   Character encoding indication
       The upper-right flags area has a character encoding indication which
       shows "U8" if UTF-8 text interpretation is selected. For Latin-1 text
       interpretation "L1" is shown, for others see Quick Options (Mode
       indication) flags.  You may click on the indication flag to toggle
       between the current and the previous selected encoding.

   Character information display
       The Character information display command ESC u is described above;
       character information display can also be preselected by environment
       configuration.  In UTF-8 mode, information shown includes the UTF-8
       encoding byte sequence.

   Character input support
       With ^V, mined's special character input support is invoked (both while
       editing text and entering text on the prompt line, e.g. as a search
       expression).  With this feature, (in addition to plain control
       characters) a composite character can be entered by its accent
       combination or other mnemonic character description; a more-than-two
       letter character mnemonics would be embedded in space characters after
       the ^V.  In addition, numeric character codes or values can be entered
       with leading ^V#, octal/decimal with ^V##/^V#=, Unicode with optional
       u/U/+.  (For examples, see description of the ^V function below.)  With
       numeric character input, mined supports successive multiple character
       entry according to ISO 14755; if the numeric code is terminated by a
       Space key, another numeric character can be entered subsequently; an
       Enter key terminates numeric character input.

       See also the generic section Character input support above for input
       support for accented characters and keyboard mapping.

   Encoding conversion support
       Two functions support interactive character encoding conversion
       (Latin-1 to UTF-8 or UTF-8 to current encoding) to partially fix files
       with mixed encoding.  In either text encoding mode, the search function
       looks for characters encoded in UTF-8 (when not editing in UTF-8 mode)
       or not (when editing in UTF-8 mode); the command is HOP ESC ( or Alt-
       F11 .  Then, convert the character with ESC _ or its national variant
       (see mnemonic character substitution commands in the Command
       reference).
       For repeated interactive conversion, both functions can be combined
       into Alt-Shift-F11 (convert current character, then search next).

        Unicode Copy/Paste buffer conversion
       For the Copy/Paste buffer, Unicode mode can be selected which maintains
       its contents always in Unicode, so that Copy/Paste of text works
       between differently encoded files (or sections of a file, if encoding
       is switched while editing) with automatic character code conversion.
       This mode is only effective while editing with non-Unicode encoded text
       interpretation.
       Select this mode with the command line option -Eu or in the Paste
       buffer menu (righ-click on the Buffer mode flag "=" or "+") and select
       "Unicode".
       Unicode buffer mode is indicated by cyan background of the Paste buffer
       flag (then "=" or "+"), except in Unicode text mode.

   Smart quotes and dashes
       If smart quotes mode is enabled (see the Quotes style menu under the
       Quotes flag left to the Encoding flag and menu), quote mark keys will
       enter typographic smart quotes instead. Smart dashes also apply.  See
       Smart quotes above for more details.

   Bidirectional terminal support
       A bidirectional terminal (such as mintty, mlterm) will probably also
       apply Arabic LAM/ALEF ligature joining. Mined auto-detects this feature
       and enables bidi terminal handling automatically.  Otherwise, bidi
       terminal handling can be configured with the option +UU.
       In this mode, when displaying a menu, underlying text lines that
       contain right-to-left characters are cleared first in order to prevent
       display confusion between the terminal's bidi algorithm and the menu
       position.
       Also, with bidi terminal handling enabled, mined assumes that the
       terminal applies Arabic LAM/ALEF ligature joining and properly accounts
       for this feature in display position handling.
       In separated display mode, the joining part of the ligature is
       indicated similar to the handling of combining characters.

   Input support for right-to-left scripts ("poor man's bidi" mode)
       This support feature for input of right-to-left text pieces is enabled
       by default unless the terminal is detected to be in bidi mode itself
       (e.g. mlterm).
       "Poor man's bidi" mode is suitable to insert small pieces of right-to-
       left text (words, phrases) within left-to-right text, it stores right-
       to-left text in visual order (see below) and works as follows:
       After entering a right-to-left Unicode character, the cursor position
       is moved left of it, so subsequent characters will be appended left and
       the text shifted right. Characters are stored in visual order while
       input support is implicit, based on the characters being typed.
       Entering a left-to-right character will automatically skip behind the
       previously entered right-to-left text on the line and switch to left-
       to-right direction; this behaviour optimizes inserting small pieces of
       right-to-left text into basically left-to-right text; this priority is
       justified by the assumption that this mode (with visual storing order)
       is only useful for inserting small right-to-left quotations into left-
       to-right text and not for editing right-to-left documents (which should
       be stored in logical order).
       Newline, Space, Tab, and combining characters attempt to behave well
       according to what was entered before; however, intermediate cursor
       movement is not considered.
       Note: For proper support of right-to-left text editing stored in
       logical order, please use mined in a right-to-left terminal (mintty,
       mlterm). Adding a feature for advanced bidi support in all terminals is
       being considered.
       Note: Poor man's bidi mode also works in non-Unicode text encodings.
       Note: Poor man's bidi mode is similar to the "revins" (reverse insert)
       option of vim.

   Unicode line ends
       Mined detects and handles Unicode line separators and paragraph
       separators (unless disabled with +u-u).  They are displayed as shown
       above.  Interpretation of these characters as line ends is disabled if
       a file is explicitly opened in non-Unicode encoding (but not if non-
       Unicode encoding is just auto-detected).
       If editing Unicode text, HOP Enter will insert a Unicode paragraph
       separator, Enter in a line that already has a Unicode line end will
       insert a Unicode line separator.  Also, the keys Shift-Enter or Ctrl-
       Enter insert a paragraph separator or line separator respectively.
       Configuration: In order to enable shift and control with the Enter
       keys, xterm or rxvt must be configured as shown in the example
       configuration file Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support
       library.

   Unicode display
       In UTF-8 terminal mode, mined displays all Unicode characters if they
       are contained in the font used by the terminal.  Fonts usually have a
       substitute glyph to indicate characters not contained in the font.
       Wide characters (double-width glyphs) are displayed in a double-width
       character cell of the terminal.  Combining characters are displayed
       either combined or separated (see Combining characters below).

       Illegal UTF-8 sequences are displayed with highlighted background,
       using the following indications.  Furthermore, control characters
       encoded as a UTF-8 sequence and control characters in the "C1" range
       (values 0x80..0x9F) will be displayed similar to normal control
       characters but with coloured highlighting.

       8      for an unexpected UTF-8 continuation byte (range 80-BF)

       4      for a 0xFE (254) byte

       5      for a 0xFF (255) byte

       «      for a too short UTF-8 sequence if followed by a single-byte
              character (00..7F)

       »      for a too short UTF-8 sequence if followed by a multi-byte
              character (C0..FF)

       Illegal or non-Unicode characters are indicated with the following
       replacements:

       �      (or ? or []) a character code ending with FFFE or FFFF (override
              substitution for transparent display with +C)

       �      (or ? or []) a surrogate code point (override substitution for
              transparent display with +CC)

       �      (or ? or []) a code point outside the defined Unicode range
              (override substitution for transparent display with +CCC)

   Character substitution display
       Legal characters (in the effective text encoding) that cannot be
       displayed in a non-Unicode terminal are indicated with the following
       replacements:

       ¤ or   ¤  (if wide) a non-combining Unicode character that cannot be
              displayed

       % or   %  (if wide) (if the terminal cannot display ¤) a non-combining
              Unicode character that cannot be displayed

       ` (or wide)
              a Unicode combining character that cannot be displayed

       " or
               ' (or wide) a double or single quotation mark character
              (typographic quote mark)

       - or   ~ or = (or wide) a dash or hyphen character

       e, ê,  etc a combined or other character that cannot be displayed which
              is based on the displayed character by its Unicode decomposition

       E      the Euro sign € U+20AC

       V,     X, Z the check mark ✓ U+2713, ballot X ✗ U+2717 , zigzag arrow ↯
              U+21AF

        '     glottal stop 'okina ʻ U+02BB

       0 ..9 ,
              A ..Z  etc a corresponding fullwidth ASCII character

       Configuration: Display colour of special or illegal UTF-8 indications
       can be changed with the environment variable MINEDUNI, the value should
       be the numeric part of an ANSI terminal control sequence; optionally,
       the value can be preceded by a character to be used for Unicode
       character indication in non-Unicode terminal mode.
       (The default configuration value is "¤ 46").

   Combining and joining characters
       Mined supports handling of combining characters, featuring optional
       separate display and partial editing, as described above in section
       Combining characters.

        Joining characters
       If mined assumes that the terminal applies LAM/ALEF ligature joining
       (either configured with the +UU right-to-left display option or auto-
       detected; correct native support is known of mlterm), the joined
       character width will be handled correctly in cooperation with the
       terminal.  In all other terminals mined will apply LAM/ALEF joining
       itself.
       Mined supports ligature joining in both combining character display
       modes:

              •      In combined display mode, the screen position is
                     accounted properly.  Also, when deleting a character, a
                     joined ligature is deleted together with the base
                     character, just like combining characters.

              •      In separated display mode, the joining part of the
                     ligature is indicated using the appropriate isolated
                     form, highlighted with Unicode special indication
                     background colour (similar to the handling of combining
                     characters).

   Search expression limitations
       Unicode search ranges can not be very large as all included characters
       are listed in an internal buffer which is limited to ca. 1 KB.

   UTF-8 preservation and byte-transparent editing
       When splitting lines that are too long for internal handling,
       consistency of UTF-8 sequences is preserved (they are not split);
       combining characters may get split off their base characters, however,
       they will join seemlessly as lines are joined again (e.g. when saving
       the file).  Note that isolated combining characters, e.g. at the
       beginning of a line, are always displayed as if in separated display
       mode.

   Terminal environment
       Unicode text can be edited in any terminal encoding (UTF-8, 8 bit,
       CJK), however, a UTF-8 terminal is preferable.  UTF-8 terminal
       operation can be configured in either of these ways:

              •      Auto-detection: If the terminal emits cursor position
                     reports, mined can uniquely recognise UTF-8 terminal
                     encoding and further UTF-8 features (see Terminal
                     encoding support below).

              •      Environment: By proper environment variable settings.
                     For more details, see Locale configuration.
                     Note: In general, it is advisable to start a terminal
                     window using a wrapper script that sets a suitable locale
                     environment at the same time, in order to support all
                     kinds of applications that are more dependent on proper
                     environment setting than mined is.  The mined
                     installation also provides the script uterm for this
                     purpose, with its own manual page.  (In case uterm is not
                     installed, it is also included in the Mined runtime
                     support library.)

              •      Parameter: +EU selects UTF-8 terminal mode.

       See also Terminal interworking
              problems for special hints about certain terminals.

CJK support (Chinese/Japanese/Korean Han character features)
       Mined provides CJK support features uniformly in Unicode and in major
       CJK encodings. For information relating to CJK character encoding see
       Character encoding support below.

   CJK input method support
       Input methods for CJK characters are supported with the keyboard
       mapping feature.  A number of popular input methods for CJK text input
       are pre-configured, others can be added at compile-time with the
       mkkbmap script.

        Radical/Stroke input method
       Mined provides a Radical/Stroke input method for CJK characters with
       specific functionality in addition to keyboard mapping; it works at
       two-levels, selecting a radical first, then a character from a list
       sorted by stroke count.  If this input method is active, a selection
       menu for the 214 CJK radicals is displayed (without prior keyboard
       input).  The menu displays all variations of each radical. After
       selecting a radical from this menu, a second-level menu is displayed,
       showing all CJK characters based on the selected radical, sorted by the
       number of strokes.  Many of these menus will not fit on the screen and
       can be scrolled.  Pressing Escape here would return to the radical
       menu; pressing Escape there would disable the input method.  To enter a
       non-mapped character (e.g. a line end), you need to disable
       Radical/Stroke input method temporarily; just toggle it back on with
       Alt-k (or Esc k) or Ctrl-Alt-F12 and the radical menu will be displayed
       again for continued input.
       For the Unicode version used as the character data source, see the
       Options - About information or the mined change log.

   CJK character display
       Combining characters (in both JIS X 0213 encodings and GB18030) are
       handled and the combined characters are displayed properly in either
       combined or separated display mode in a UTF-8 terminal (like for UTF-8
       encoded text).  The following special CJK character indications apply:

       ¤  or  ¤ CJK character that cannot be displayed in the terminal

       %  or  % (if the terminal cannot display ¤) CJK character that cannot
              be displayed in the terminal

       ` or   `  CJK combining character that cannot be displayed in the
              terminal

       ? or   ?  CJK character code that has no known mapping to Unicode
              (to enforce display on CJK terminal use option +C)

       # or   #  invalid CJK character code that is outside of the code range
              assigned to the encoding scheme
              (to enforce display on CJK terminal use option +CC)

       #      CJK character in extended code range (esp. 3 and 4 byte codes,
              or codes with 0x80...0x9F byte range) that cannot be displayed
              on CJK terminal due to terminal capability limitations
              (to enforce display on CJK terminal use option +CCC)

       <      incomplete or otherwise illegal CJK code

   Han character information display
       When the cursor is on a Han character and either descriptive or
       pronunciation information about this character is available in the
       Unihan database (from unicode.org), mined can optionally display this
       information, with a selection of display details which may include
       semantic information and various pronunciations.
       To enable Han info, select it in the Info menu.  To open the Info menu,
       type Alt-F10 or right-click the "?" flag.  The information can
       optionally be shown on the status line (where it may be truncated if
       too long) or in a pop-up menu next to the character.
       Pronunciation information to be displayed can be selected in the Info
       menu.  While selecting multiple pronunciation options, the menu stays
       open.

       The same information is always shown while you are browsing an input
       method pick list (then on the status line).

       Han character information display can be selected with the +?h command
       line parameter (or +?x for short display on the status line).  To
       preselect continuous Han character information display, append this
       parameter to the environment variable MINEDOPT.

       The information includes the character code (in CJK encoding, both CJK
       code and corresponding Unicode value are shown).  The amount of
       descriptive information (from the Unihan database) to be shown can also
       be preconfigured with the environment variable MINEDHANINFO; see Han
       info configuration below.
       (For the Unicode version used for the Unihan data source, see the
       Options - About information or the mined change log.)

Terminal encoding support
       Mined supports UTF-8 terminals, CJK terminals, Latin-1 and other 8-bit
       encoded terminals.

   Terminal feature detection
       Mined performs auto-detection of a number of terminal features:

              •      For UTF-8 terminals, mined performs auto-detection of
                     terminal features (detection of UTF-8 terminal, different
                     width data and combining data versions, handling of
                     double-width, combining and joining characters).

              •      For CJK terminals, mined performs some auto-detection of
                     specific CJK terminal features (handling of non-EUC code
                     points, handling of extended code range, GB18030, 3-byte
                     and 4-byte encodings, detection of kterm JIS encoding,
                     detection of rxvt emulating CJK encoded terminal, special
                     CJK width properties, and terminal support of combining
                     characters).

              •      For mapped 8-bit terminals, mined performs auto-detection
                     of terminal support of combining characters.

              •      For the Unicode version used for width and combining
                     character properties, see the Options - About information
                     or the mined change log.

              •      CJK terminals cannot always be distinguished from 8-bit
                     terminals by auto-detection. Neither can the encoding of
                     either CJK or 8-bit terminals be auto-detected.  It is
                     thus advisable to setup proper settings of locale
                     environment variables (LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG).
                     Alternatively, the effective terminal encoding can be
                     indicated to mined with a command line option (+EX).  For
                     configuration details, see Locale configuration below.

   Specific terminal properties
       For more specific configuration hints (especially for PC-based
       terminals), see the Terminal environment configuration hints below.
       For interworking issues with specific terminals see also the listing of
       Terminal interworking problems.

Mined Command reference (command and key function assignments)
       General note on using keys with Control, Shift, Alt modifiers: Mined
       makes use of many key combinations modified with Control, Shift, Alt,
       or a combination of them, as a resource for invoking a larger number of
       specific functions, providing modified functionality as well as
       accented character input support.  Some of these key combinations may
       be limited by local environment, especially the window system, or may
       need extra configuration to be enabled.
       Especially modified function keys are often intercepted by window
       systems for special functions.
       In general, mined interprets an ESC prefix as an alternative for an
       Alt-key combination. For further advice and window system specific
       hints on further remedies, as well as configuration hints, to enable
       modified key input see the hint box under Accent prefix keys above.

   Generic command modifiers (esp. HOP key)
       ^Q or ^G or "5" (on keypad) or Menu (in Linux) or * (on keypad) or
       Shift-TAB
              HOP key (except ^G followed by a digit).
              In order to enable the "5" key to invoke the HOP function, or
              assign the HOP function to another key (e.g. on laptops which
              lack the numeric keypad), some configuration may be necessary;
              see Keypad configuration below.

       ESC    Prefix for subsequent "letter commands".
              Also: Generic prefix for "Alt" modified command (to apply to a
              subsequent command for which the terminal does not support the
              Alt key).

       ^V     (Prefix for control character input, but also:)
              Generic prefix for "Control" modified command (to apply to a
              subsequent command for which the terminal does not support the
              Control key).

       Ctrl-< punctuation key >
              (Set of accent prefix keys to enter composed characters.)

   Cursor and screen motion
       ^E or cursor-up
              Move cursor 1 line up.

       ... with HOP:
              Go to top of page.

       ^X or cursor-down
              Move cursor 1 line down.

       ... with HOP:
              Go to bottom of page.

       ^S or cursor-left
              Move cursor 1 character left.

       ... with HOP or Ctrl-Home
              Go to beginning of line.

       ^D or cursor-right
              Move cursor 1 character right.

       ... with HOP or Ctrl-End
              Go to end of line.

       ^A or Shift-cursor-left (on small keypad)
              Move word left (to preceding beginning of a word).

       ... with HOP:
              Go to beginning of sentence.

       ^F or Shift-cursor-right (on small keypad)
              Move word right (to beginning of next word).

       ... with HOP:
              Go to end of sentence.

       Ctrl-Shift-cursor-up
              Move backward to previous beginning of paragraph.

       Ctrl-Shift-cursor-down
              Move forward to next beginning of paragraph.

       Shift-cursor-up (on small keypad)
              Go to top of page.

       Shift-cursor-down (on small keypad)
              Go to bottom of page.

       ^R or PgUp or PrevScreen (VT100)
              Scroll backward 1 page (Top line becomes bottom line).

       ... with HOP:
              Go to beginning of text.

       ^C or PgDn or NextScreen (VT100)
              Scroll forward 1 page (Bottom line becomes top line).

       ... with HOP:
              Go to end of text.

       Home (on small keypad)
              Move to beginning of line.  If already there, move to beginning
              of previous line.  Only if keyboard is configured to emit
              different control sequences for the two keypads, see Keypad
              configuration hints below.

       Ctrl-Home (on small keypad)
              Move to beginning of line.

       End (on small keypad)
              Move to end of line.  If already there, move to end of next
              line.  Only if keyboard is configured to emit different control
              sequences for the two keypads, see Keypad configuration hints
              below.

       Ctrl-End (on small keypad)
              Move to end of line.

       →NEW→ HOP ESC .
              Center current position vertically on screen.

        Navigation support for combined Unicode characters
       Enabling partial editing of base character and combining characters
       (accents) in combined display mode.

       Ctrl-cursor-right or ^V cursor-right
              Micro movement: Move partial character right into Unicode
              combined character.

       Ctrl-cursor-left or ^V cursor-left
              Micro movement: Move partial character left over Unicode
              combining character.

       ^W or Ctrl-PgUp or keypad-Minus (if supported by terminal)
              Scroll screen backward 1 line.

       ... with HOP:
              Scroll backward half a screen.

       ^Z or Ctrl-PgDn or keypad-Plus (if supported by terminal)
              or →NEW→ keypad-Comma (DEC) Scroll screen forward 1 line.

       ... with HOP:
              Scroll forward half a screen.

       ^G nn Enteror ESC g nn Enter
              Move to a line (prompts for line number).  (Terminate command
              with Enter or Space.)

       ^G nn % or ESC g nn %
              Move to position in text determined by percentage.

       ^G nn p or ESC g nn p
              Move to page in text (set page length with ESC P).

       ^G < command > or ESC g < command >
              If not immediately followed by a digit, the positioning command
              works as an alternative HOP key.

        Text marker navigation
       ^G N , or ESC g N ,
              (N=0..15) Set marker N. (Final "m" or "," may be used.)

       ^G N . or ESC g N .
              (N=0..15) Go to marker N. (Final "'" or "g" or "." may be used.)

       ESC m N
              (N=0..9/a..f) Set marker N.

       ESC ' N (deprecated)
              (N=0..9/a..f) Go to marker N.

       HOP Home or ^G ^@ or ^G ^] or HOP ESC ^
              Move to the position previously marked by Home/^@/^]/ESC ^

       ESC Enter or Alt-Enter (Alt-Return) *
              Return backward to the previous position marked in the position
              stack.

       HOP ESC Enter or HOP Alt-Enter (HOP Alt-Return) *
              Return forward to the next position marked in the position
              stack.  * Note that depending on Window system or terminal, Alt-
              Enter may be captured as a function to maximize the window.

       left mouse button
              Move cursor to position.

   Entering text
       To enable combinations of Control and Shift with the Enter key,
       terminal configuration may be needed (see Unicode line ends).

       < printable char >
              Insert the character at cursor position.

       < Enter > or < LF Linefeed char > or < CR Return char >
              Insert a newline at cursor position, clone line end type. Apply
              auto-indentation if enabled.

       Ctrl-Enter (if editing Unicode text)
              Make a new line by inserting a Unicode line separator at cursor
              position (unless disabled with +u-u).

       Shift-Enter (if editing Unicode text)
              Make a new line by inserting a Unicode paragraph separator at
              cursor position (unless disabled with +u-u).

       →NEW→  Control-Shift-Enter (if editing Unicode or ISO 8859 text) Make a
              new line by inserting a Next Line character (U+0085).

       Ctrl-Alt-Enter
              Make a new line by inserting a DOS or Unix line end at cursor
              position (if editing Unix or DOS file, respectively).

       Ctrl-Shift-Alt-Enter
              Make a new line by inserting a Mac line end at cursor position.

       < Tab char >
              Insert a Tab character at cursor position.  with option -+8 or
              -+4 or -+2: Tab expansion; insert as many space characters as
              needed to fill line up to the next Tab position.

       ^V < Tab char >
              Insert a Tab character (even in Tab expansion mode).

       HOP {, HOP (, HOP [, HOP <
              Enter indented pair of matching parentheses.

       HOP /  Enter an indented Javadoc comment frame.

       HOP ' or HOP ´ (acute accent)
              Enter an apostrophe (U+2019).  Note: In smart quotes mode, ´
              alone also enters an apostrophe.

       HOP ` (grave accent)
              Enter a glottal stop / 'okina (U+02BB).  Note: In smart quotes
              mode, ` alone also enters a glottal stop.

       HOP -  Underline the line that starts before the cursor position.

       ^O     Make new line at current position.  If the current line is
              terminated by a Unicode paragraph separator, a line separator is
              inserted.
              Auto-indentation is not applied.

       HOP ^O Split a line in two binary-transparently, i.e.  enter a "NONE"
              virtual line end.

        Accented character input support by accent prefix keys
       Mined defines a number of function keys, modified function keys,
       modifed digit keys, and modified punctuation keys for single and
       multiple accent composition with a subsequently entered character; for
       a detailed listing and description, see Accent prefix function keys
       above.
       Up to three accent prefix keys can be combined by entering them in
       sequence in order to compose characters with multiple accents.   These
       functions also work on the prompt line (e.g.  to enter search
       expressions).

       F5 < character >
              Compose character with diaeresis (umlaut accent), e.g. a » ä

       Shift-F5 < character >
              Compose character with tilde, e.g. a » ã

       Ctrl-F5 < character >
              Compose character with ring or with cedilla, e.g. a » å , c » ç

       Ctrl-Shift-F5 < character >
              Compose character with ogonek.

       Alt-Shift-F5 < character >
              Compose character with breve.

       F6 < character >
              Compose character with acute accent (accent d'aigu), e.g. a » á

       Shift-F6 < character >
              Compose character with grave accent, e.g. a » à

       Ctrl-F6 < character >
              Compose character with circumflex accent, e.g. a » â

       Ctrl-Shift-F6 < character >
              Compose character with macron.

       Alt-Shift-F6 < character >
              Compose character with dot above.

       Ctrl-0 ... Ctrl-9
              Compose character with accent, esp. for Vietnamese accented
              characters.

       (Ctrl-)Alt-1 ... (Ctrl-)Alt-5
              Compose character with two accents, esp. for Vietnamese double
              accented characters.

       (Ctrl-)Alt-6 ... (Ctrl-)Alt-8
              Compose character with two accents for Greek multiple accented
              characters.

       Ctrl-< punctuation key >
              Compose character with accent (looking similar to the modified
              punctuation character, e.g. Ctrl-, composes with cedilla, Ctrl-:
              with diaeresis, Ctrl-minus with macron, Ctrl-( with breve,
              Ctrl-< with caron, Ctrl-/ with stroke, Ctrl-; with ogonek, etc;
              see Accent prefix function keys above for details).

        Input support commands
       Ctrl-V special input support
              These functions also work on the prompt line (e.g.  to enter
              search expressions).

       ^V < control character >
              Enter control character.

       ^V [ or ^V \ or ^V ]
              Enter one of the control characters ^[, ^\, ^].

       ^V ^ ^ or ^V _ _
              Enter one of the control characters ^^, ^_.

       ^V ^ ' or ^V ^ "
              →NEW→ or ^V ^ ` or ^V ^ ´ Enter one of the straight quote marks
              ' or " or plain accents (needed in smart quotes mode)

       ^V < accent > < character >
              Compose accented character.

       ^V # xxxx < Space or Enter >
              Enter character defined by a hexadecimal number being input
              (depending on applicable encoding, byte value, Unicode value, or
              valid CJK code is required).

       ^V # # xxxxxx < Space or Enter >
              Like ^V # but using an octal number.

       ^V # = xxxxx < Space or Enter >
              Like ^V # but using a decimal number.

       ^V # u or U or +
              (followed by a numeric input as described above, with optional #
              or = for octal or decimal input) interprets the input as a
              numeric Unicode value which is converted into the current text
              encoding.

       ^V # ... Space ...
              With numeric character input, mined supports successive multiple
              character entry according to ISO 14755 if the numeric code is
              terminated by a Space key.

       ^V < function key >
              This is not an input support function but rather the function
              key is invoked as if pressed together with the control key.

       Mnemonic character input support
              Mnemonics recognised include the following:

              •      RFC 1345 mnemos (except mappings to Unicode private use
                     areas); in ambiguous cases, the RFC 1345 mnemos must be
                     entered in long mnemonic input mode, e.g. with "^V pi "
                     rather than "^Vpi"

              •      HTML mnemos as listed in HTML living standard, prepended
                     with a "&"

              •      TeX mnemos (macros) and substitutes, leaving out any "\"

              •      →NEW→ groff glyphs (roff special characters), mnemonics
                     beginning with "("

              •      Supplementary mnemos as listed on the mined character
                     mnemos page
       Unless there is an ambiguous mapping, all two-letter mnemonics can also
       be entered in reverse order.

       ^V < Space > < name > < Space or Enter >
              Lookup character mnemonic and enter character. RFC 1345
              mnemonics take precedence in ambiguous cases.

       ^V < character > < character >
              Compose two characters. Non-RFC 1345 mnemonics take precedence
              in ambiguous cases.

       Note: A number of mnemonics are defined with already precomposed base
       characters (especially for Vietnamese input) which can be used for
       further composition.
       ^V can be applied recursively to compose a character for further
       composition.
       See examples with æ below for both cases.

       Examples:

       ^V^A   Enter Ctrl-A.

       ^V^[ or ^V[
              Enter the escape character.

       ^V__   Enter Ctrl-_.

       ^V'e   Enter é (e with accent d'aigu).

       ^Vae   Enter æ (the ae ligature).

       ^V ae'  (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter U+01FD (æ with acute).

       ^Væ'   Enter U+01FD (æ with acute).

       ^V ^Vae'  (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter U+01FD (æ with acute).

       ^V'^Vae
              Enter U+01FD (æ with acute).

       ^VOK or ^Vcm
              Enter the check mark ✓ (U+2713)

       ^Vzz or ^V zigzag (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter the downwards zigzag arrow ↯ (U+21AF)

       ^V-,   Enter ¬ (the negation symbol).

       ^V neg  (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter ¬ (the negation symbol).

       ^Va* or ^V a*  (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter the Greek small letter alpha.

       ^V ae'  (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter the Latin ligature ae with acute accent.

       ^V euro (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter the Euro character.

       ^V#20ac (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter the character with hexadecimal value 20AC (which is the
              Euro character in UTF-8 encoding).

       ^V#U20ac (terminated by Space or Enter)
              Enter the Euro character (which has the hexadecimal Unicode
              value 20AC) encoded in the currently selected text encoding.

       ^V#+20ac < Space > +20ac < Enter >
              Enter two Euro characters in successive multiple character entry
              mode (ISO 14755).

        Input method (Keyboard mapping) selection
       ESC k or Ctrl-Alt-F12 or middle-click on Input Method flag
              Toggle between current and previously selected input method (or
              initially the configured standby input method).  Note: Alt-k or
              Ctrl-Alt-F12 also works on prompt line.

       HOP ESC k
              Clear input method, i.e. resets keyboard mapping to none
              (unmapped input).

       ESC I or ESC K or Ctrl-F12 or right click on Input Method flag (mapping
       indication in flags area)
              Open the Input Method selection menu.  Note: (Alt-I or Alt-K or
              Ctrl-F12 also works on prompt line)

       HOP ESC K
              Cycle through available keyboard mappings / input methods.

   Modifying text
       Note on the Home and End keys
              Sometimes people expect the "Home" and "End" keys to move the
              cursor to the beginning or end of line, respectively.  In the
              keyboard usage approach of mined, these functions can easily and
              quite intuitively be invoked with "HOP left" and "HOP right",
              i.e. by pressing the keypad keys "5 4" or "5 6" in sequence.  So
              there is enough room left for mapping the most frequent paste-
              buffer functions to the keypad as described above which is
              considered much more useful.  Use Ctrl-Home and Ctrl-End for the
              line positioning functions, depending on terminal support and
              configuration; or use the -k option if preferred to switch
              keypad key function assignments for the Home and End keys.  See
              Keypad layout above for a motivating overview of the mined
              keypad assignment features and options.

       Backarrow or ^H
              Dual-mode function:
              If a visual selection is active: Cut selected area to paste
              buffer.
              Otherwise: Delete character left.
              Smart backspacing: If there is only blank space before the
              current position in the current line and the line above and
              auto-indentation is enabled, the auto-undent function (Back-Tab)
              is performed instead, deleting multiple spaces back to the
              previous level of indentation.  Note: Mined tries to map this
              function to the Backarrow key on the keyboard whether it is
              assigned to the Backspace or DEL control characters, by
              inspecting the setting of the terminal interface, see Automatic
              backspace mode adaptation.  Note:→NEW→ Configuration option
              plain_BS (command line option +Bp) switches the Backarrow key
              from smart backspacing to plain backspacing, i.e. no auto-undent
              and only delete one combining character of a combined character.
              Use Shift-Control-Backarrow to perform smart backspacing then.

       Ctrl-Backarrow (if key properly configured) or F5 Backarrow
              "Delete single": Delete only right-most combining accent of
              combined character left of cursor position.  If not next to a
              combined character: delete character left, avoiding auto-undent
              function.

       →NEW→ Shift-Ctrl-Backarrow (if key properly configured) or Shift-F5
       Backarrow
              "Delete smart": Smart backspacing function as described above as
              default behaviour of the Backarrow key.

       Del (on keypad)
              Dual-mode function:
              If a visual selection is active: Cut selected area to paste
              buffer.
              Otherwise: Delete next character right, including any combining
              characters.

       Ctrl-Del (on keypads, if key properly configured)
              Delete character right, excluding any combining characters.

       Shift-Del (on small keypad, if key properly configured)
              Cut selected area to paste buffer.

       DEL (ASCII character)
              If detected to be attached to the keyboard Backarrow key: Delete
              left. (Or delete visual selection, see above.)  (Enforce with
              option -B.)
              Otherwise: Delete right.

       HOP Backarrow
              Delete beginning of line (left of current position).

       ^B     Delete character right (next character).

       ^T     Delete next word.

       ^^ (overridden when used as accent prefix, e.g. with newer xterm)
              Delete previous word.

       ^K     Delete tail of line (from current position to line-end); if at
              end of line, delete line end (joining lines).

       HOP ^K Delete whole line.

        Code conversion
       ESC X  Insert hexadecimal representation of current character code.
              (In UTF-8 mode, this is the UTF-8 byte sequence of the character
              in hexadecimal notation.)

       ... with HOP:
              Insert character with hexadecimal code scanned from text at
              current position.

       ESC U  Insert (hexadecimal) Unicode value of current character (with
              either 4/6/8 hexadecimal digits, depending on the value); in CJK
              or mapped 8 bit encoding mode, the value is transformed from the
              current text encoding into Unicode.

       ... with HOP or Ctrl-Shift-F11
              Insert character with hexadecimal Unicode value scanned from
              text at current position; in CJK or mapped 8 bit encoding mode,
              the value is transformed from Unicode into the current text
              encoding.

       ESC A  Like ESC U but inserting an octal Unicode value.

       ... with HOP:
              Like HOP ESC U but scanning an octal Unicode value.

       ESC D  Like ESC U but inserting a decimal Unicode value.

       ... with HOP:
              Like HOP ESC U but scanning a decimal Unicode value.

       Alt-x  Toggle the preceding character and its hexadecimal Unicode
              value.  The command detects a 2 to 6 hex digit character code
              with a valid Unicode value, or a non-digit Unicode character,
              respectively.

        Case conversion
       ESC C or F11
              Exchange case (low/capital) of character under cursor.  Case
              mapping is based on Unicode (but applicable in all text
              encodings).  Special handling is applied for:

              •      Greek final s

              •      Turkish "i" if the effective locale value (environment
                     variables LANGUAGE, TEXTLANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG)
                     begins with "tr" or "az" →NEW→ or "crh" or "tt" or "ba"

              •      case mappings to multiple characters

              •      Lithuanian special conditions (locale value begins with
                     "lt")

              •      Dutch "IJsselmeer" title casing with Shift-F3 (if the
                     locale value begins with "nl")

              •      Japanese characters are toggled between Hiragana and
                     Katakana.

       ... with HOP or Shift-F11
              Apply case conversion to word from cursor.

       Shift-F3
              Cycle casing of a word between all small, title case, and all
              capitals (title case means the first letter is either capital or
              actually a Unicode title case, the following letters are small).
              For Japanese script, it toggles the word between Hiragana and
              Katakana.

        Mnemonic and special conversion
       ESC _ or Ctrl-F11
              Mnemonic character substitution replaces the two characters at
              the cursor position with a suitable composite character (e.g.
              accented character) if possible.  With Ctrl-F11, transformations
              are the same as with the ^V two-letter character input
              mnemonics.  With ESC _, language-dependent preferences may take
              precedence (see variations below) according to the current
              locale environment.
              Example: ae → æ

        Special conversion features

              •      If the text at the cursor position contains an HTML
                     character tag (starting with "&" and optionally ending
                     with ";"), it is replaced with the actual character it
                     represents.
                     Example: &not; → ¬

              •      If the text at the cursor position contains an HTML
                     numeric character entity (starting with "&#" and
                     optionally ending with ";"), it is replaced with the
                     respective character it denotes.
                     Example: &#x40; → @
                     &#64; → @

              •      If the text at the cursor position contains a URL numeric
                     escape notation (starting with "%") it is replaced with
                     the actual character it represents.
                     Example: %40 → @
                     %C3%86 → Æ (while in UTF-8 text encoding)

              •      The command also transforms between Latin-1 and UTF-8
                     encoded characters if an accordingly encoded character is
                     found at the current position; the current character
                     encoding mode is used to determine the target character
                     set.
                     Example: æ (Latin-1 encoding) → æ (current UTF-8
                     encoding) or
                     æ (UTF-8 encoding) → æ (current encoding)

       As variations of ESC _, there are some commands ESC LETTER using
       national letters that occur on respective national keyboards.  They
       apply basically the same transformations but with some national
       preferences taking precedence:

       ESC ä or ESC ö or ESC ü or ESC ß
              Similar to ESC _, but with German transformation preferences.
              example: ae → ä, oe → ö

       ESC é or ESC è or ESC à or ESC ù or ESC ç
              Similar to ESC _, but with French transformation preferences.
              example: oe → œ (oe ligature U+0153)

       ESC æ or ESC å or ESC ø
              Similar to ESC _, but with Danish transformation preferences.
              example: ae → æ, oe → ø

       →NEW→ ESC ì or ESC ò
              Similar to ESC _, but with Italian accent preferences (è rather
              than é).

       →NEW→ ESC < accented letter typical on East European keyboard >
              (like l with stroke, u with ring, o with double acute, s with
              caron, etc) Similar to ESC _, but with East European accent
              preferences: ogonek rather than cedilla, -d becomes d with
              stroke

       →NEW→ ESC < special key typical on South European keyboard >
              (like n with tilde, g with breve, dotless i) Like ESC _.

        Encoding conversion
       HOP ESC ( or Alt-F11
              Search for a character encoded in the "wrong encoding", i.e. a
              UTF-8 character in non-UTF-8 text mode, or a Latin-1 character
              in UTF-8 text mode.

       ESC _ or ESC ö etc.
              If invoked on a non-ASCII character, UTF-8 / non-UTF-8 character
              encoding conversion is applied: If the character is not encoded
              in the current text encoding it is converted into the current
              text encoding (from UTF-8 or from Latin-1).

       Alt-Shift-F11
              Convert Latin-1 / UTF-8, then search for the next "wrong
              encoded" character.

        Paragraph formatting
       ESC j  ("Clever Justify") Format paragraph by word-wrapping according
              to the currently set right margin value; left margins are
              derived from the contents of the paragraph and line. Heuristic
              detection of numbered items automatically triggers appropriate
              indentation.
              End-of-paragraph is a line without trailing blank space.

       ... with HOP:
              Same, but end-of-paragraph is considered to be a blank line.

       ESC J  ("Normal Justify") Format paragraph by word-wrapping according
              to the currently set left and right margin values.
              End-of-paragraph is a line without trailing blank space.

       ... with HOP:
              Same, but end-of-paragraph is a blank line.

       ESC <  Set left margin for justification.

       ESC ;  Set left margin of first line of paragraph only.

       ESC :  Set left margin of next lines of paragraph only.

       ESC >  Set right margin for justification.

        HTML support
       ESC H (every first time)
              Enter HTML tag (and remember for subsequent ESC H).  (Note that
              Alt-Shift-H will do the same thing if your terminal is
              configured appropriately - see the example configuration file
              Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support library.)  The tag
              can be entered with attributes and values; these will not be
              repeated in the closing tag (see next entry on ESC H).

       ESC H (every second time)
              Enter closing HTML tag.  Any tag attributes and values entered
              with the tag (see previous entry on ESC H) will be left out.

       HOP ESC H
              Put text between mark and current position in HTML tags.  The
              "A" tag gets special treatment.

   Text block and buffer operations
       Note on the Home and End keys
              Sometimes people expect the "Home" and "End" keys to move the
              cursor to the beginning or end of line, respectively.  In the
              keyboard usage approach of mined, these functions can easily and
              quite intuitively be invoked with "HOP left" and "HOP right",
              i.e. by pressing the keypad keys "5 4" or "5 6" in sequence.  So
              there is enough room left for mapping the most frequent paste-
              buffer functions to the keypad as described above which is
              considered much more useful.  Use Ctrl-Home and Ctrl-End for the
              line positioning functions, depending on terminal support and
              configuration; or use the -k option if preferred to switch
              keypad key function assignments for the Home and End keys.  See
              Keypad layout above for a motivating overview of the mined
              keypad assignment features and options.

       ^@ (Ctrl-Space)
              or Home (on right keypad) or Shift-Home
              or ^] or ESC @ or ESC ^
              or Stop (sun)or Select (VT100) Set mark (to remember the current
              location).

       ... with HOP:
              Goto mark or: (if on already marked position) Toggle rectangular
              selection.

       ^Y
              or End (on right keypad) or Shift-End
              or Copy (sun) or Do (VT100) Copy selected text (between mark and
              current position) to paste buffer.  If rectangular copy/paste
              mode is selected: Copy rectangular area spanned by mark and
              current position to paste buffer.

       ... with HOP:
              Append to buffer.

       ^U
              or Del (with visual selection) or Shift-Del (small keypad)
              or Cut (sun) or Remove (VT100) Cut selected text (between mark
              and current position) to paste buffer.  If rectangular
              copy/paste mode is selected: Cut rectangular area spanned by
              mark and current position to paste buffer.

       ... with HOP:
              Append to buffer.

       ^P or Ins or Ctrl-Ins
              or Paste (sun) or InsertHere (VT100) Paste contents of paste
              buffer to current position.  If rectangular copy/paste mode is
              selected: Paste contents of paste buffer as rectangular area to
              current position and corresponding positions of subsequent
              lines.  With ^P or Ctrl-Ins, the cursor is placed before the
              pasted region.  With Ins, the cursor is placed behind the pasted
              region unless the option -V was used.
              In rxvt, with Ins on the left keypad, the cursor is placed
              before (left of) the pasted region.

       ... with HOP: (e.g. HOP Ins or ^G^P)
              Paste from inter-window buffer.  Thus you can quickly copy text
              from one invocation of mined to another.

       Shift-Ins (Windows/cygwin version)
              Insert text from Windows clipboard, adapting lineend types.
              With Ctrl-Shift-Ins, the cursor is also placed before the pasted
              region.

       Alt-Ins or Ctrl-F4
              Replace text just pasted with preceding paste buffer.  This
              command uses a ring of paste buffers (like emacs "yank ring").

       ESC b or Shift-F4
              Copy contents of paste buffer into a file.

       ... with HOP:
              Append to file.

       ESC i or F4
              Insert file at current position.

       Print from File menu
              Print text being edited (to default printer).

       HOP ESC ! or (deprecated) ESC c
              Invoke operating system command (prompted for) with paste buffer
              as input.

   Search
       Note on case-insensitive searching
              Mined applies case-insensitive search pattern matching where the
              search pattern contains small characters, unless when searching
              for an identifier (current identifier occurence, HOP F8, or
              identifier definition, Alt-t). For a case-sensitive search for a
              small letter, use a single-letter range expression like [x] or a
              backslash escape like \x (note, however, that \n and \r have
              special meaning).

       ESC / or Find or F7 or F8 or / (on keypad)
              Search forward (prompt for regular expression).

       ... with HOP:
              Search for current identifier.

       ESC \ or Alt-F7 or Alt-F8 or Alt-/ (on keypad)
              Search backward (prompt for regular expression).

       HOP F8 or Shift-F9
              Search for current identifier.

       HOP Alt-F8 or Alt-Shift-F9
              Search for current identifier backward.

       HOP Shift-F8 or ESC t or Alt-t
              Search for definition of current identifier (using tags file),
              or open file referred to.  See ESC t below for further
              description.

       HOP Ctrl-Shift-F8
              Search for identifier definition (prompts for identifier).

       HOP Ctrl-F8 or Ctrl-Shift-F9
              Search for current character.

       ^N or F9
              Search for next occurence (using previous search expression and
              direction).

       ... with HOP:
              Repeat last but one search; two alternating search expressions
              can be used with this command.

       Alt-F9 Search again (for last expression) but in the opposite
              direction.

       ESC , or Shift-F8
              (Global) Substitute (prompt for search and replacement strings).

       ESC r or Ctrl-F8
              (Global) Replace with confirmation prompting (first prompt for
              strings).

       ESC R or Ctrl-Shift-F8
              (Line Replace) Substitute on current line (prompt for strings).

       ESC ( or ESC ) or ESC { or ESC }
              Perform one of the following matching searches, depending on
              text: Search for corresponding bracket matching the bracket at
              current position in one of the pairs (), [], {}, <>, «».
              (Nested matching bracket pairs are skipped.)  In an HTML or XML
              file, search for matching tag (nesting considered).  Search for
              matching /* */ comment delimiter.  Search for matching #if
              #else/#elif #endif structures (nesting considered).  On an #else
              or #elif directive, the search direction depends on the command
              character, i.e. ESC ( searches backward, ESC ) searches forward.
              In a mailbox file, on any mail header line, search for next or
              previous mail message, depending on the command character, i.e.
              ESC ( searches backward, ESC ) searches forward.  In a mailbox
              file or saved mail message, on a MIME separator, search for next
              or previous MIME separator, depending on the command character,
              i.e. ESC ( searches backward, ESC ) searches forward.

       ESC t or Alt-t or HOP Shift-F8
              Search for and move to the location of the definition of
              identifier at the current cursor position. This command uses the
              tags file that can be generated with the ctags command (Unix).
              It opens another file if necessary and automatically saves the
              current file then.
              On an include statement (line beginning with "include" or
              "#include"), the command opens the included file.
              Like with a number of positioning commands, ESC t places the
              current position on the position marker stack before going to
              the location of the identifier definition. The command ESC Enter
              (Alt-Enter) can move back to that position, even if edited files
              were changed with the command.

       HOP ESC t or HOP Ctrl-Shift-F8
              Similar, but prompts for identifier.

       HOP ESC ( or Alt-F11
              Search for a character encoded in the "wrong encoding", i.e. a
              UTF-8 character in Latin-1 mode, or a Latin-1 character in UTF-8
              mode.

        Search expressions: Special functions
       matches any character

       ^      (at begin of pattern) restricts match to the begin of a line

       $      (at end of pattern) restricts match to the end of a line

       [< character set >]
              matches any one of a set of characters; the set may be given by
              listing elements, denoting a range < c1 >...< c2 >, or negating
              the whole set [^< character set >]

       \< character >
              matches the character literally (except n or r)

       < pattern >*
              (a star appended to a plain character of any of the patterns
              above) matches a repetition of this pattern (zero or more
              times); not applicable to line end patterns

       ^V^J (a literal linefeed character, entered with ^V prefix)
              searches for any real newline (to be used embedded in the search
              pattern, does not match on last line)

       \n     searches for a Unix newline (LF) (to be used embedded in the
              search pattern, does not match on last line)

       \r     searches for DOS/Windows newline (CRLF) (to be used embedded in
              the search pattern, does not match on last line)

       \R     searches for Mac newline (CR) (to be used embedded in the search
              pattern, does not match on last line)

       \0     searches for NUL character, represented as a pseudo line end

       ^V^M   searches for CR (carriage return) character embedded in a line

        Replacement strings: Special functions
       &      is replaced by the matched pattern to be replaced

       ^V^J or \n
              (a linefeed character) embeds a newline (LF character) in the
              replacement string

       \r     (a carriage return character) embeds a CR character in the
              replacement string

       To change the line end type of a line or all lines, use "Lineend
       type..." from the Options menu.

   File operations
       ESC w or F2
              Save (write back) current text to file (only if modified).  Save
              file information (editing position etc), create file info file
              if needed.

       ... with HOP:
              Save current file position and other editing information in file
              info file, so that subsequent editing sessions will start at the
              current position and remember formatting parameters.

       ESC W or Shift-F2
              Save (write back) current text to file (unconditionally).  Also
              enable memory for file positions in current directory (creates
              file info file).

       Alt-F2 Save As; save current text to file with different name; file
              permissions (access modes) are preserved and cloned.

       Ctrl-Shift-F2 or HOP Shift-F2
              Save to file, and enable memory for file positions in current
              directory (creates file info file).

       F3     Edit another file (prompt for save if current text changed).

       Ctrl-F3 or ESC v
              View another file (prompt for save if current text changed).

       ESC V  Toggle between edit mode and view only mode.

       ESC q  Quit the editor (prompt for save if current text changed).

       ESC ESC or Ctrl-F2
              Exit editing current text (save first if changed), continue with
              the next file (from the File switcher list); exit mined if there
              is no subsequent file to edit.  Note: If a file name occurs on
              the command line multiple times (explicitly or by wildcard
              expansion), file list navigation is not linear.  Note: There is
              a small delay after typing ESC ESC.  (This is in order to enable
              recognition of Alt-function key combinations which are
              implemented by some terminals or terminal modes by prefixing ESC
              to the function key escape sequence.) This delay can be avoided
              by using Ctrl-F2.

       ESC +  Edit the next file (from the File switcher list) Note: If a file
              name occurs on the command line multiple times (explicitly or by
              wildcard expansion), file list navigation is not linear.

       ... with HOP:
              Edit the last file.

       ESC -  Edit the previous file (from the File switcher list)

       ... with HOP:
              Edit the first file.

       ESC #  Ask for index into the list of files and edit that file.

       ^G N # or ESC g N #
              Edit Nth file.  (^G N f also works.)

       ESC # #
              Reload file currently being edited.

   Menu
       ESC Space or Alt-Space or Shift-F10
              Open Popup menu.

       ESC F10 or Alt-F10 or Ctrl-F10
              Open first flag menu (Info menu).

       ESC f or Alt-f or F10
              Open File menu.

       ESC < letter > or Alt-< letter >
              Open menu.

       ESC I or Alt-I or ESC K or Alt-K or Ctrl-F12
              Open the Input Method selection menu.  (Alt-I/Alt-K/Ctrl-F12
              also works on prompt line)

       ESC Q or Alt-Q
              Open the Smart Quotes selection menu.

       ESC E or Alt-E
              Open the Encoding selection menu.

   Miscellaneous
       ESC = < count >
              Repeat a command < count > times (prompts for count).  Example:
              ESC=7< cursor down > moves the cursor 7 lines down.  Note: If
              the function to be repeated is a character to be inserted and
              the input is keyboard mapped to a multi-character sequence, only
              the first character of the sequence is inserted repeatedly.

       ESC < count >
              Repeat a command < count > times (prompts for rest of count);
              this short form is only accepted, however, if the repeat count
              consists of at least two digits (this is to avoid confusion with
              function key escape sequences of certain terminals).  Example:
              ESC77. enters a line of 77 dots, ESC07x enters "xxxxxxx".

       ^V < function key >
              Invoke function as if pressed together with the control key.
              E.g. ^V < cursor-left > moves left into the parts of a combined
              character just like Ctrl-cursor-left would do (the latter may
              depend on proper terminal setup).

       ^\     Abort current command, e.g. while on prompt line.

       ESC ?  Show the current status of the file (name, whether modified,
              current line, number of lines, characters, and bytes).

       ... with HOP:
              Toggle permanent display of text status line.  Note that when
              editing a file that does not fit completely in memory (e.g.
              large file on old system), this option may cause considerable
              swapping. In that case, do not use the feature.

       ESC u  Display the character code of the current character in the
              bottom status line.  (In UTF-8 encoded text mode, both the UTF-8
              byte sequence and the Unicode value are displayed; in CJK or
              mapped 8 bit encoded text mode, Han or 8 bit character values
              and corresponding Unicode values are displayed when applicable.)
              In non-Latin-1 encoded text mode, additional Unicode information
              is included, indicating the script, character category, width,
              combining, and surrogate properties of the character.

       ... with HOP:
              Toggle permanent character code display.

       ESC T  Toggle Tab width.  Alternates the width interpretation of Tab
              characters between 2-4-8.

       ... with HOP:
              Toggle Tab expansion (input substitution with spaces).

       ESC P  Set page length (number of lines that mined assumes to be on a
              page). (Useful for status display.)

       ESC a  Toggle append mode (append to text buffer/file instead of
              overwriting).

       ESC d  Show current directory / change to another one (also change
              drive in MSDOS version).
              The assumed (relative) file path name as well as file
              permissions (access modes) are preserved.

       ESC n or Set Name... from File menu
              Change the file name associated with the text being edited; the
              file is not actually saved yet but only the new file name is
              used for saving the next time.  The text is detached from the
              file previously loaded which is not affected.
              All current text editing properties (assumed encoding, smart
              quotes style, margins, ...) as well as file permissions (access
              modes) are preserved.

       ESC .  Redraw the screen.

       Alt-F12
              (In terminals that support an alternate screen view:)
              Switch to normal screen (to view command line history and
              possibly mouse-copy/paste) until next input.

       ESC l  Make screen lower (decrease number of screen lines).

       ESC L  Make screen higher (increase number of screen lines).

       ESC %  Make screen smaller (decrease screen size).

       ESC &  Make screen bigger (increase screen size).

       Shift-keypad-Minus
              Make font smaller. (Works in mintty and natively in xterm.)

       Shift-keypad-Plus
              Make font bigger. (Works in mintty and natively in xterm.)

       ESC z  Suspend editor process; first write back file if modified (no
              write if HOPped or given empty file name on prompting).  Mined
              detects (by checking process and group IDs and terminals)
              whether it is safe to suspend and rejects it otherwise (e.g. if
              it is run embedded within a terminal, without underlying shell,
              or from a shell script).

       ESC !  Fork off a shell and wait for it to finish.

       ... with HOP:
              Invoke operating system command (prompted for) with paste buffer
              as input.

       F1 or Help or Alt-h or ESC h
              Interactive help function.  Selection of help topics is offered
              and prompted; after entering the initial letter, the respective
              help section is shown.
              If another (modified) F1 key, a modified digit key, or a Ctrl-
              modified punctuation key is entered, a corresponding key
              assignment help bar is displayed (see F1 F1 etc. below).
              The help file mined.hlp is installed with the Mined runtime
              support library. If this is not installed in one of the standard
              locations, the environment variable MINEDDIR should be set to
              point to the directory so mined can find its help file.

       F1 F1 or Shift-F1 or Ctrl-F1 or Alt-F1 or Ctrl-Shift-F1 or Alt-Shift-F1
              Display a help bar (in the bottom status line) with short
              indications of the functions assigned to the function keys F2...
              in the corresponding modified mode (i.e. with Control, Shift,
              and Alt as requested for the help bar).

       ... with HOP:
              Toggle permanent help bar display.

       F1 Ctrl-1 or F1 Alt-1 or F1 Alt-Ctrl-1
              Display a help bar (in the bottom status line) with short
              indications of the accent prefix functions assigned to the digit
              keys 1..9, 0 in the corresponding modified mode (i.e. with
              Control and Alt as requested for the help bar).

       ... with HOP:
              Toggle permanent help bar display.

       F1 Ctrl-< punctuation key > e.g. F1 Ctrl-,
              Display a help bar (in the bottom status line) with short
              indications of the accent prefix functions assigned to the Ctrl-
              modified punctuation keys.

       ... with HOP:
              Toggle permanent help bar display.

       ESC    While a command is active and prompting (e.g. for a search
              expression), ESC aborts the current command.

       ESC Space
              Do nothing, so the Space key aborts the ESC command.

   MSDOS keyboard functions
       Ctrl-Alt-Space
              Set mark (to remember the current location).

       Alt-TAB (not in Windows)
              HOP / Go to.

       Ctrl-* (on keypad)
              HOP / Go to.

       Ctrl-/ (on keypad)
              Search forward.

       Alt-/ (on keypad)
              Search backward.

       Screen size change functions
              MSDOS screen size changes depend on a table of common VGA video
              modes (dosvideo.t).
              In the presence of a TSR driver which can change fonts and
              screen modes while running a program (e.g. the excellent
              VGAMAX), the actual change effective may occasionally be
              unexpected. Mined recognises such changes after the next
              character input and adjusts to them.

       Alt-- (on keypad)
              Change video lines mode to the mode with the next smaller number
              of lines but same number of columns.  (The number of lines is
              first tried to be decreased within the current video mode. If it
              is already the lowest, the next video mode is chosen.)

       Alt-+ (on keypad)
              Change video lines mode to the mode with the next higher number
              of lines but same number of columns.

       Ctrl-- (on keypad)
              Change video mode to the mode with the next smaller total
              resolution (lines * columns).

       Ctrl-+ (on keypad)
              Change video mode to the mode with the next higher total
              resolution.

       HOP Ctrl-/Alt- +/- (on keypad)
              Several other video mode settings are prompted for
              (experimental).

       <!p>

   Emacs mode
       Mined emulates emacs keyboard layout and some specific functions if
       invoked with the option -e or with the command name alias minmacs.
       In emacs mode, emacs command key assignments to control keys, ESC (Meta
       commands) and ^X (C-X commands) are configured.  In addition, the
       following emacs-compatible changes apply:

              •      The mined ESC commands can be reached via M-x.  (Function
                     keys remain unaffected.)

              •      The Del key (on the small keypad) is configured to delete
                     the previous character.

              •      The control key insertion prefix is ^Q.

              •      The quit character (e.g. for the prompt line) is ^G.

              •      The emacs multiple buffer ring is fully enabled.

              •      Paragraph justification mode is set to consider an empty
                     line as paragraph separation by default.

              •      Mined ESC commands can be reached via M-x (Alt-X).

              •      ^\ (Ctrl-\) is interpreted as an additional HOP key.

              •      Keyboard mapping (input method) can be toggled with Ctrl-
                     Alt-F12

       Command overview:

       ^A, ^B, ^E, ^F, ^N, ^P, ^V, M-v, M-b, M-f, M-a, M-e, M-< , M->, ^X[,
       ^X]    cursor and screen movement

       ^D     delete character

       ^O     insert new line

       ^Q     insert literal character

       ^@     mark position

       ^W / M-w
              cut / copy to buffer

       ^K     delete to end of line / delete line end, and append to buffer

       M-d / M-k
              delete word / delete end of sentence, and append to buffer

       ^Y     paste buffer

       M-y    paste previous buffer, replacing text just pasted

       M-u    transform word upper-case

       M-l    transform word lower-case

       M-c    transform word capitalised (initial upper-case)

       ^S, ^R search forward / reverse

       M-%    replace with confirmation

       M-.    search for identifier definition (using tags file)

       ^X^S, ^Xs
              save file

       ^X^W   save file as (using different name)

       ^X^F   edit other file (prompts for name)

       ^X^B   edit previous file (among those listed on command line)

       ^X^C   quit editor, prompt for saving text first

       ^Xk    discard current edit buffer (after confirmation), open new one

       ^Xi    insert file

       ^X=    display file statistics

       ^L     refresh display

       ^U, ^X^[
              repeat (not as generic numeric command parameter)

       ^H     help

       ^Z, M-z, ^X^Z
              suspend editor

       ^\ (mined add-on)
              HOP (generic function amplifier / expander)

       M-x (Deprecated mined add-on)
              invoke mined ESC command

       ESC ESC (mined add-on)
              invoke mined ESC command

       <!p>

   Windows keyboard mode
       Mined emulates typical Windows control key functions if invoked with
       the option +ew; this is enabled automatically when invoking mined via
       the wined.bat script or from the Windows explorer context menu of a
       text file.
       The usual Escape commands and function key assignments of mined also
       apply in Windows keyboard mode. Also, ^@ and ^_ are included to provide
       the respective functionality.

       ^@     mark position

       ^C     copy selected text area (between marked and current position)

       ^F     search

       ^G     goto

       ^H     replace (with confirm)

       ^O     open other file

       ^P     print

       ^Q     quit

       ^S     save file

       ^V     paste

       ^W     close file

       ^X     cut selected text area (between mark and current position)

       ^_     insert control character

       <!p>

   WordStar mode
       Mined emulates WordStar keyboard layout and some specific functions if
       invoked with the option -W or with the command name alias mstar.
       The usual Escape commands and function key assignments of mined also
       apply in WordStar mode.
       In prefixed two-key commands, the control state and case of the second
       key does not matter, e.g. ^K^B, ^KB and ^Kb are identical.

       ^S, ^D, ^E, ^X, ^A, ^F, ^R, ^C, ^W, ^Z, ^H
              cursor and screen movement

       ^G     delete character

       ^T     delete word

       ^Y     delete line

       ^Q^Y   delete to end of line

       ^N     insert new line

       ^P     insert control character

       ^Q^W, ^Q^Z
              scroll multiple screen lines

       ^Q^F   find

       ^Q^A   find and replace (with HOP: with confirm)

       ^L     repeat last search

       ^Q     HOP key

       ^Q, ^K, ^O
              two-key command prefixes

       ^Q^Q   repeat following command

       ^B     paragraph justification (word wrap)

       ^OL    set left margins

       ^OG    set left margin for first line of paragraph

       ^OR    set right margin

       ^KB    set marker

       ^QB    goto marker

       ^Kn    (n=0..9) set marker n

       ^Qn    (n=0..9) goto marker n

       ^KK    copy between here and marker (not exactly WS function)

       ^KC    copy (paste) saved text here (not exactly WS function)

       ^KY    delete between here and marker (not exactly WS function)

       ^KV    copy (paste) saved text here (not exactly WS function)

       ^KW    write paste buffer to file

       ^KR    read (insert) file here

       ^KS    write (save) edited text to file

       ^KD    write (save) edited text to file, edit next file

       ^KX    exit (and save)

       ^KQ    quit (don't save)

       ^KL    change current directory

Configuration of user preferences
       User preferences can be configured in a runtime configuration file
       $HOME/.minedrc. (On Windows systems, if the environment variable %HOME%
       is not set, %USERPROFILE%\.minedrc will be used.)  It is possible to
       configure conditional preferences based on file type (filename pattern)
       or terminal type.
       A documented sample file is included in the Mined runtime support
       library as conf_user/minedrc or in the web documentation.
       Volatile preferences when editing multiple files:
       Note that options relating to editing features (such as tabwidth) will
       be re-established on each file opened, while options relating to
       interactive behaviour or display features (such as file_chooser sorting
       options) will remain changed after they are toggled interactively (e.g.
       from the Options menu), so the preference selected here is volatile for
       them.

Environment interworking and configuration hints
       A number of configuration options have already been addressed
       throughout the manual page. A few more configuration features are
       mentioned here. For more details, examples, and other display settings
       see the example script conf_user/profile.mined in the Mined runtime
       support library.

   Mined runtime support library
       The mined distribution provides a collection of runtime support files
       (in subdirectory usrshare); if mined is installed into standard
       locations, they are copied to one of the directories /usr/share/mined,
       /usr/share/lib/mined, /usr/local/share/mined, /opt/mined/share,
       $HOME/opt/mined/share (depending on operating system and installation
       options).

       Mined runtime support includes:

              •      Package documentation

              package_doc/*
                     mined package overview, introduction, change log, license

              •      Web documentation

              doc_user/*
                     copy of the homepage / web documentation including the
                     HTML version of the mined manual page

              •      Interactive help

              help/mined.hlp
                     help file (for F1 commands)

              •      Configuration example files

              conf_user/minedrc
                     user preferences configuration sample file; to be copied
                     to $HOME/.minedrc (on Windows systems, if the environment
                     variable %HOME% is not used, copy the sample file to
                     %USERPROFILE%\.minedrc)

              conf_user/profile.mined
                     shell commands to set environment variables for mined,
                     template for inclusion in $HOME/.profile

              conf_user/Xdefaults.mined
                     xterm configuration entries suitable for mined, template
                     for inclusion in $HOME/.Xdefaults or $HOME/.Xresources

              conf_user/xinitrc.mined
                     shell commands to activate Xdefaults.mined, template for
                     inclusion in $HOME/.profile

              conf_user/kp5
                     shell script to assign the X key symbol Menu to the
                     middle keypad key ("5") as a remedy to the inability of
                     the KDE konsole terminal to recognise that key (due to a
                     deficieny in the QT framework), thus enabling the HOP key
                     in konsole

              conf_user/mlterm/main
                     mlterm configuration to enable Alt-key detection, for
                     inclusion in $HOME/.mlterm/main

              conf_user/mlterm/key
                     mlterm configuration for modified (shifted etc) function
                     keys, for inclusion in $HOME/.mlterm/key

              conf_user/konsole/xterm-modified.keytab
                     KDE konsole keyboard configuration providing a terminal
                     (called "xterm with key modifiers" in the konsole menu)
                     with modified (shifted etc) function keys

              conf_user/terminator/options
                     option to be added for the Terminator Java terminal to
                     enable Alt-letter functions

              conf_user/MINED-VMS.COM
                     commands to define mined commands and set up help for DCL
                     on VMS

              •      Scripts to be used at runtime

              bin/uprint
                     script for printing a Unicode file, using either paps or
                     uniprint for formatting; under Windows, it can also use
                     notepad /p for printing

              •      Scripts to start mined

              bin/uterm
                     script to invoke xterm in UTF-8 mode; it should also be
                     installed into the system binary path and has its own
                     manual page

              bin/mterm
                     script to invoke mlterm with suitable options (for bidi
                     support)

              bin/umined
                     script to start mined in a separate xterm window, using
                     UTF-8 mode with most recent version of Unicode width data
                     (specifying wide and combining characters) as built-in to
                     xterm

              bin/xmined
                     script to start mined in a separate xterm window, using
                     same encoding mode as currently set

              bin/wined
                     (on Windows) cygwin script to start mined in a window
                     (using the mintty terminal, applying Windows look-and-
                     feel)

              bin/wined.bat
                     (on Windows) command script to start a mined window in
                     Windows keyboard emulation mode

              •      Files to setup a mined installation

              setup_install/mined.desktop
                     KDE desktop entry to start mined in an xterm from a menu
                     entry, using the uterm script

              setup_install/mined.ico
                     Cygwin/X desktop icon for adding mined to the Cygwin-X
                     Editors section in the Windows Start menu

              •      Scripts to configure an environment for mined

              setup_install/bin/configure-xterm
                     sample configuration script to build xterm with
                     recommended configuration options

              setup_install/bin/makeprint
                     script to search for or retrieve and build the uniprint
                     program from the yudit package

              setup_install/bin/installfonts
                     script for downloading the Unicode-enhanced X screen
                     fonts and installing them with your X server

              setup_install/bin/bdf18to20
                     script to transform an 18x18 pixel double-width screen
                     font into a corresponding 20x20 pixel font matching the
                     10x20 single-width font (which is much nicer than the
                     9x18)

              setup_install/cyg/*
                     optional postinstallation (not in use) for cygwin to
                     install mined with the Windows desktop and the Cygwin/X
                     menu

              setup_install/win/*
                     installation of the Windows stand-alone version

   PC versions
       For Windows with a cygwin system (http://cygwin.com/), mined is
       available as a cygwin package.
       Two other versions are available for DOS/Windows systems:

              •      Stand-alone Windows version, compiled with cygwin. It
                     runs in a Windows console, Windows terminal (e.g.
                     mintty), or X terminal.  It is packaged together with
                     mintty.  Its installation registers its invocation (in
                     mintty) from the Windows context menu for text files.

              •      DOS version, compiled with djgpp. It runs on plain DOS
                     (with some special support of FreeDOS codepage
                     configuration) or in a Windows console window (DOS
                     command window) but not in a typical terminal application
                     like mintty or xterm.  It supports long file names in
                     Windows 98/2000/XP/... (not NT4.0).
       See the mined web site https://mined.github.io for download.

       For hints on PC-specific terminal configuration issues, see PC
       terminals below.

   VMS version
       Mined runs on OpenVMS, with a number of specific adaptations especially
       in file handling.

              •      Options containing capital letters need to be quoted,
                     e.g.  MINED "-Qa" [-]*.com.  Mined options can also be
                     passed in the symbol MINED$OPT.

              •      Filename wildcard expansion is applied, accepting both
                     Unix-like and VMS-native subdirectory notations.

              •      File versions can optionally be specified and are handled
                     properly; for example, an explicit version opened for
                     editing can be saved and will be the most recent version
                     as expected.
                     Note: To combine wildcards with version specifications,
                     use VMS-native pathname notation (and do not use a final
                     ";" without version specification), e.g.: []x*;* to edit
                     all versions of all files x* [.cmd]x*;1 to edit version 1
                     of all files cmd/x*

              •      The file chooser accepts Unix-like or VMS-style directory
                     notations for navigation.  Switching to the current
                     directory (TAB or Enter) which is the first entry of the
                     file chooser list, displayed in VMS style, turns the file
                     list into VMS-style listing of all file versions.
                     Logical names can be used for direct navigation if a
                     final ":" is included (like SYS$LOGIN:).

              •      Note that opening the file chooser may be slow on large
                     directories.

              •      If the terminal window is resized while mined is running,
                     mined will notice and adjust after an explicit refresh
                     (ESC .). The system, however, is not notified of the
                     changed window size in this case. Please resize (again)
                     when back on the command line.

              •      The capability to accept terminal copy-paste is limited
                     by the VMS 80 character input buffer (not limited on
                     emulated VMS, e.g.  on "Personal Alpha"). For some remote
                     terminals (mintty, rxvt), full Unicode data version
                     detection is disabled to reduce start-up delay.

              •      The file info memory files are called .$mined instead of
                     .@mined, recovery files are called $name$ instead of
                     #name#.

              •      In the VAX version, CJK character encodings, Han
                     character information, and Unicode character information
                     tables are not included by default. Alpha and IA64
                     versions include all Unicode and character encoding
                     features.

              •      For hints related to the DECterm window, see below.
       See the template script MINED-VMS.COM in the conf_user subdirectory of
       the Mined runtime support library or the file README.vms (MINED.README
       in the VMS binary package) for installation hints.

   Android version
       There are a number of deviations from typical Linux systems; mined
       provides workarounds where necessary.  Mined runs on Android with these
       Apps installed:

              •      C4droid (needed as container for gcc)

              •      GCC for C4droid (to compile mined)

              •      Better Terminal (recommended, for shell and terminal)

              •      UniversalAndroot (to access gcc from terminal shell) for
                     Android < 4

   Terminal environment
       For terminal-specific hints, see Terminal interworking problems below

       On Unix, the terminal type is determined from the environment variable
       TERM. The termcap/terminfo mechanism is used to derive the actual
       properties of the terminal; for some terminals (cygwin, xterm, rxvt,
       vt*), this information is also built-in as a fallback in case terminal
       information is not available on a system (this is especially useful for
       the cygwin stand-alone version).

       Recognition of some special terminal features or restrictions is
       associated with the setting of TERM (xterm, linux, vt100, sun*, cygwin,
       rxvt, *ansi*, 9780*, hp*, xterm-hp, superbee*, sb*, microb*, scoansi*,
       xterm-sco, cons*, att605-pc, ti_ansi, mgterm).  Non-trivial screen
       features (like scroll reverse, add/delete line, erase multiple
       characters) are used if their support is indicated in the
       termcap/terminfo description of the terminal unless other information
       is available (e.g. after terminal version detection, an older xterm is
       supposed not to support erase characters).  Since colour support is
       often not configured within terminfo but modern terminals do support
       it, mined always tries to apply colour attributes (if the terminal at
       least supports ANSI control sequences). A number of other "best
       practice" approaches are taken to optimize the usage of terminal
       capabilities, esp.  covering different methods of graphics display
       support (for menu borders).

       For detection of function keys and cursor keys, the escape sequences
       being used by terminals are often not known to an operating system
       environment because they are poorly and incompletely configured.
       Because this does usually not work as expected (see this bug report
       just for an example), mined does not rely on the termcap/terminfo
       configuration of function key codes alone (which it considers however
       since mined 2000.14); rather it always accepts a wide variety of
       typical codes.  A few ambiguous codes are resolved according to the
       TERM variable.

       In an xterm, window headline and icon text are set to the current
       filename and "(*)" is added if the text has been modified.

        Locale configuration
       The locale mechanism as implemented on modern systems has a number of
       design problems, one being that there is no explicit distinction
       between text encoding and terminal encoding although this is obviously
       a very different thing and mixed combinations of both may occur and are
       actually supported by mined.
       For this reason, mined extends the locale environment variable
       mechanism with the variable TEXTLANG which is only considered for
       assumed text encoding (with precedence over the standard locale
       variables), and also considers LANGUAGE with precedence.
       If one of these additional locale variables (LANGUAGE or TEXTLANG) is
       used, mined also implicitly enables smart quotes.
       Also mined provides command line parameters to explicit override either
       text or terminal encoding (UTF-8 terminal encoding, however, is always
       auto-detected if the terminal provides the information).

              •      For text encoding, mined checks the variables LANGUAGE,
                     TEXTLANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG in this order.

              •      For terminal encoding, mined checks the variables LC_ALL,
                     LC_CTYPE, LANG in this order.

              •      Explicit command line parameters are available to specify
                     either terminal encoding (+E) or text encoding (-E). They
                     override environment variable settings.

              •      UTF-8 terminal auto-detection overrides other terminal
                     encoding settings.

              •      Text encoding auto-detection overrides environment
                     settings but not command line settings.

              •      Assumed text encoding can be switched while editing.

       For encoding recognition from locale environment variables, mined
       recognises locale specifications typically found in system
       installations, including those which do not include an explicit
       encoding suffix. Known character encoding suffixes ("codeset" component
       of locale name, starting with ".") are recognised regardless of whether
       the given locale is installed or not. Other encodings are recognised by
       region suffix (starting with "_") or full locale name or alias.
       In addition to hard-coded locale recognition (especially for CJK),
       locale values and associated encodings are configured in the compile-
       time configuration file locales.cfg which especially lists locale names
       that do not have an explicit encoding suffix.  You can use these
       settings (known locale name or generic locale name suffix) even on
       legacy systems without locale support to indicate the terminal
       environment properly to mined.  For encoding recognition from command-
       line parameters, mined provides the following options:

              •      -EX or +EX with a single-letter encoding tag as listed
                     with the description of the -E options; further encoding
                     tags are configured in the compile-time configuration
                     file charmaps.cfg.

              •      -E=charmap or +E=charmap with a character encoding name
                     (as reported by the locale charmap command).

              •      -E.suffix or +E.suffix with a character encoding suffix
                     ("codeset" of locale name).

              •      -E:flag or +E:flag with a 2-letter indication used by
                     mined to indicate the respective text encoding in the
                     Encoding flag.

              •      →NEW→ -E- or -E disables text encoding auto-detection
                     which is then derived from the locale environment.

       In these options, -E specifies
              text encoding while +E would specify terminal encoding to be
              assumed.

       The following table lists encodings and major codepages that are
       recognised by a generic locale suffix or country code; in addition (as
       mentioned above), a large number of locale names without encoding
       suffix as found on various systems is known to mined and will cause it
       to assume the corresponding terminal encoding.

       Unicode: UTF-8
              suffixes: .UTF-8 / .utf8

       Traditional Chinese (Hongkong): Big5 with HKSCS (includes CP950)
              suffixes: .BIG5* / .Big5* / .big5* / _HK / _TW (_TW ambiguous,
              following encoding overrides)

       Simplified Chinese: GB18030 (includes CP936, GBK and GB2312)
              suffixes: .GB* / .gb* / .EUC-CN / .euccn / _CN.EUC / _CN

       Traditional Chinese (Taiwan): CNS (EUC-TW)
              suffixes: .EUC-TW / .euctw / .eucTW / _TW.EUC

       Japanese: EUC-JP
              suffixes: .EUC-JP / .eucjp / .eucJP / .ujis / _JP.EUC / _JP /
              .euc (.euc ambiguous, more specific string overrides)

       Japanese: Shift_JIS / CP932
              suffixes: .Shift_JIS / .shiftjis / .sjis / .SJIS

       Korean Unified Hangul: UHC / CP949 (includes EUC-KR)
              suffixes: .UHC / .EUC-KR / .euckr / .eucKR / _KR.EUC / _KR

       Korean: Johab
              suffixes: .JOHAB

       Vietnamese: VISCII
              suffixes: .viscii

       Vietnamese: TCVN
              suffixes: .tcvn

       Thai: TIS-620
              suffixes: .tis* / .TIS* / _TH / .iso8859[-]11 / .ISO8859[-]11

       Latin-9: ISO 8859-15
              suffixes: @euro / .iso8859[-]15 / .ISO8859[-]15

       Cyrillic: ISO 8859-5
              suffixes: @cyrillic (unless preceded by uz_UZ which indicates
              UTF-8)

       Latin or other: ISO 8859 encodings
              suffixes: .iso8859[-]N / .ISO8859[-]N (with number N)

       Russian Cyrillic: KOI8-R
              suffixes: .koi8r

       Ukrainian Cyrillic: KOI8-U
              suffixes: .koi8u

       Tadjikistan Cyrillic: KOI8-T
              suffixes: .koi8t

       Russian, Ukrainian, Byelorussian Cyrillic: KOI8-RU
              suffixes: .koi

       MacRoman:
              suffixes: .roman

       Windows Latin: CP1252
              suffixes: .cp1252

       Windows Cyrillic: CP1251
              suffixes: .cp1251

       PC Latin: CP850
              suffixes: .cp850

       Windows Hebrew: CP1255
              suffixes: .cp1255

       Georgian: Georgian-PS
              suffixes: .georgianps

       Armenian: ARMSCII
              suffixes: .ARMSCII-8

       Kazachstan Cyrillic: PT154
              suffixes: .pt154

       Examples: To indicate that mined is running in a UTF-8 terminal
       (normally auto-detected, included here for demonstration) and should
       assume GB18030 text encoding by default, invoke either of:

       LC_ALL=whatever.UTF-8 TEXTLANG=zh_CN.gbk mined

       LC_CTYPE=whatever.UTF-8 LANGUAGE=chinese mined

       LANG=whatever.UTF-8 mined -EG

       LC_ALL=en_IN mined -E.gbk

       mined +EU -E.EUC-CN

       mined +EU -E=GB18030

       mined +EU -E:GB

       Selecting UTF-16 text mode: To tell mined to interpret a file (or make
       a new file) in UTF-16 encoding, use the following command line options
       (first two little endian, then big endian):

       mined -E:61

       mined -E=UTF-16LE

       mined -E:16

       mined -E=UTF-16BE

       mined -E=UTF-16

       Selecting ASCII terminal mode: To tell mined to assume that a terminal
       cannot display anything but ASCII characters, use the command line
       option +E:AS.  Mined implicitly assumes this setting if the environment
       variable TERM indicates a VT52 terminal.

        PC terminals
       Character encoding of PC terminals is an even greater mess than on Unix
       systems. Mined provides heuristic best-guess assumptions about terminal
       encoding, supporting both local invocation as well as remote login from
       a PC (e.g. to a Unix machine).

       The following assumptions are made based on environment variables or
       command-line parameters:

       encoding ("codepage")
              environment
              option
              examples

       CP850 (PC mapping of Latin-1 character set)
              TERM=ansi, ansi-nt, pcansi*, hpansi*, interix* or TERM=cygwin
              and CYGWIN contains "codepage:oem" or LC_*/LANG indicates
              ".CP850"
              +EP

       •      Windows console (DOS prompt) window

       •      Windows console mode telnet (even if called from cygwin console,
              sets TERM=ansi)

       CP437 (IBM PC VGA encoding)
              TERM=nansi*, ansi.*, opennt*, *-emx* or LC_*/LANG indicates
              ".CP437"
              +Ep

       •      plain DOS

       CP1252 (Windows ANSI extension of Latin-1)
              TERM=cygwin (unless LC_*/LANG or CYGWIN indicates other
              encoding)
              +EW

       •      cygwin 1.5 console or application

       •      older Windows GUI telnet (sets TERM=ansi)

       UTF-8
              LC_*/LANG indicates ".UTF-8" or (for cygwin 1.7 beta)
              TERM=cygwin and CYGWIN contains "codepage:utf8"
              +U

       •      cygwin 1.7 console or application configured for UTF-8 mode

              •      Note: Windows console in UTF-8 mode provides extended
                     Unicode font support if you select "Lucida Console"
                     TrueType font from its Properties menu.

       other codepages
              LC_*/LANG indicates codepage, e.g. ".CP1250" or ".CP858"
              or triggered by DOS codepage information (djgpp version, see
              note)
              +E=CP1250 or other codepage, or respective shortcut

       •      cygwin 1.7 console or application configured for respective
              codepage

       Note: It is not unlikely that the assumption about the terminal
       encoding taken by mined does not match the actual terminal encoding
       (e.g. mined cannot determine the encoding based on the ambiguous
       setting TERM=ansi). Environment variables that indicate the character
       encoding are unfortunately not maintained through telnet or remote
       login.
       Explicitly setting TERM to a suitable value after remote login may help
       but may not always work (e.g. pcansi is not a known terminal on SunOS).
       Explicitly setting locale variables, e.g. LC_CTYPE, may indicate the
       encoding to mined but may cause trouble otherwise; some systems like
       SunOS are dogmatic about interpreting locale variables and strictly ask
       corresponding locale data to be installed or they will flood you with
       bogus error messages.  Also not all encodings, esp. PC "codepages", are
       known as a "locale charmap" on other systems.
       In these cases, you can use the explicit +E option to force mined to
       assume a specific terminal encoding; see the option values listed above
       for the main DOS encodings.

       Note: The encoding emulated by cygwin (as configured, or by default
       typically CP1252 for cygwin 1.5, UTF-8 for cygwin 1.7) is not the
       encoding natively applied by the Windows console window (by default
       typically the DOS codepage CP850).  This means that the effective
       encoding may be different if you invoke the cygwin-compiled mined
       version and the djgpp-compiled mined version alternatingly; you may
       notice this by a different range of characters that can be displayed
       when opening the same file with the two mined versions.
       Some Windows Latin characters are poorly displayed by the Windows
       console in default configuration; cygwin 1.7 can display all characters
       properly if the Windows console font is configured to "Lucida Console"
       rather than "Raster Fonts".
       In a cygwin console on a non-cygwin system (after remote login), mined
       assumes ASCII as the terminal encoding by default unless properly
       indicated by environment variables.

       Note: The following DOS codepages are supported; they are mainly
       provided as terminal codepages, they do not appear in the Encoding
       menu.  However, if you need, you can ask mined to use them as either
       the assumed terminal encoding (e.g. +E=CP1250 or +E:WE) or even text
       encoding (e.g. -E=CP1250 or -E:WE) using the names or shortcuts from
       the list:

       →NEW→ VGA
              VG
              VGA (CP437 plus graphics in control character range)

       CP437
              PC
              DOS US

       CP720
              DA
              →NEW→ DOS Arabic

       CP737
              37
              DOS Greek

       CP775
              75
              DOS Baltic

       CP850
              PL
              DOS Western European

       CP852
              52
              DOS Central European

       CP853
              53
              South European, Esperanto

       CP855
              55
              DOS Cyrillic

       CP857
              57
              DOS Turkish

       CP858
              58
              DOS Western, CP850 with Euro symbol

       CP860
              60
              DOS Portuguese

       CP861
              61
              DOS Icelandic

       CP862
              62
              DOS Hebrew

       CP863
              63
              DOS French Canadian

       CP864E
              64
              DOS Arabic (CP864E, variant of AR864 (superset of CP864))

       CP865
              65
              DOS Nordic

       CP866
              66
              DOS Russian

       CP869
              69
              DOS Modern Greek

       CP874
              TI
              Windows Thai, superset of ISO-8859-11/TIS-620

       CP1125
              25
              DOS Ukraine

       CP1131
              31
              →NEW→ DOS Byelorussian/Ukrainian

       CP1250
              WE
              Windows Central European

       CP1251
              WC
              Windows Cyrillic

       CP1252
              WL
              Windows Western European

       CP1253
              WG
              Windows Greek

       CP1254
              WT
              Windows Turkish

       CP1255
              He
              Windows Hebrew

       CP1256
              WA
              Windows Arabic

       CP1257
              WB
              Windows Baltic

       CP1258
              WV
              →NEW→ Windows Vietnamese

       Note: For the djgpp version of mined, even the font chosen for the
       Windows console window may affect the effective display encoding.
       Configure "Raster Fonts" (except of size "10 x 20"!), not "Lucida
       Console" in order to make sure the effective visual codepage is the
       same as the one selected with the respective DOS tools (e.g. chcp) and
       assumed by mined.

       Note: Mined (djgpp) tries to determine the DOS/Windows codepage using
       the DOS API; this can only work if the codepage was properly configured
       with DOS means (e.g. with CP858 using CHCP 858 or MODE CON CP
       SELECT=858, maybe enabled by DEVICE=...\DISPLAY.SYS CON=(EGA,858) on
       old DOS, or MODE CON CP PREP=((codepage list) ...\ega.cpi)); if only
       the font is switched to a differently encoded one, there is no way to
       detect this - in this case you can still use environment setting or the
       +E option as described above to indicate the terminal encoding.

       Note: To enable mouse operation in a Windows console window, deactivate
       "QuickEdit mode" in the properties menu.

       Note: If the DOS screen size is changed by a TSR (e.g. VGAMAX using a
       hotkey), mined does not notice this immediately; in that case, mined
       adjusts its screen display only after the next key is typed.

       Note: Running mined (djgpp) in a dosemu session (DOS emulator on Linux)
       works fine, even in an xterm-embedded session although not perfectly in
       that case: ^S and ^Q are interpreted for flow control (thus ^S will
       hold all output until ^Q is entered), and the mined option -Qa should
       be used to tune menu borders right.

        Terminal setup and configuration
       The Mined runtime support library includes a number of configuration
       files providing settings that should be applied to various terminals
       for proper operation of several features as described throughout this
       manual:

              •      Xdefaults.mined for major X Windows terminals: xterm,
                     rxvt, some CJK xterm derivates (cxterm, kterm). The
                     script xinitrc.mined (and optionally kp5) can be used to
                     establish the suggested settings.

              •      konsole/xterm-modified.keytab for KDE konsole keyboard
                     definitions

              •      mlterm/key and mlterm/main for mlterm keyboard
                     definitions

              •      terminator/options for terminator keyboard definitions

       In some terminals, the cursor may not be well visible or not visible at
       all if the cursor is on a character with reverse background (control
       character, occurs e.g. in xterm) or highlighted background (invalid
       character code, occurs e.g.  in xterm and rxvt).  See the X resource
       parameters for "cursorColor" in the example configuration file
       Xdefaults.mined for remedy.

       If mouse wheel movement moves more than expected, especially if it
       cannot move by single items in a menu, this is probably a configuration
       issue with your mouse driver.  You are probably running a Windows-based
       X server which is (often by default) configured to generate multiple
       mouse wheel events on each actual mouse wheel movement.  Often not even
       in the Control Panel mouse section, but only in a configuration menu of
       mouse-specific setup software (e.g. "Browser Mouse Settings"),
       configure the scroll unit to 1.

        Terminal interworking problems
       With some terminals, problems are known due to missing terminal
       features or terminal bugs:

       any terminal: menu border display

       •      If the borders of mined menus appear as letters rather than
              graphic borders, the terminal can unexpectedly not handle VT100
              graphics.  Use the option -Qa to switch to ASCII borders, or
              -fff to limit font assumptions.
              In a UTF-8 terminal, mined uses Unicode Box Drawing characters
              by default.  If they don't display they are missing in the font
              used by the terminal.  Use the option -Qv to switch to VT100
              graphics or -Qa to switch to ASCII graphics. If borders are
              visible but without corners, use -Qs to switch to simple
              rectangular borders.

       any terminal: slow terminal feature auto-detection

       •      On a slow remote terminal connection, escape sequences from the
              terminal (sent for function keys or requested terminal
              responses) may get delayed and split up.  Mined tries to handle
              delayed parts of escape sequences graciously; however, this is
              limited as the explicit ESC key shall also be recognised.
              If messages like "Late screen mode response - ..." (after
              startup), "...awaiting slow terminal response" (esp.  after
              startup), "...awaiting slow key code sequence" or "...absorbing
              delayed terminal..." occur, escape sequence detection may be
              adjusted by setting the environment variable ESCDELAY to a value
              of 2000 or 3000.  (Delay during startup may apparently also be
              caused by on-demand font loading of rxvt or mlterm, however,
              mined applies special handling for this case.)

       •      If proper terminal detection fails for delay reasons, mined may
              especially not be aware of the terminal encoding (and display
              line markers as blocks). In this case, exiting and restarting
              mined should resolve the issue.

       xterm

       •      To enable proper Alt-letter command input (for opening and
              navigating menus), set the xterm resource metaSendsEscape to
              true (or with older versions of xterm, set eightBitInput to
              false) in your X configuration (usually $HOME/.Xdefaults or
              $HOME/.Xresources) as suggested in the example file
              Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support library.

       •      Although it is a waste of keyboard resources to have two
              indistinguishable sets of keypad keys, most terminals provide no
              means of distinguish them towards the applications, at least not
              by default. Especially for a text editor, it is highly desirable
              to distinguish them in order to have a rich intuitive function
              key mapping at disposition which mined tries to achieve.
              One approach to improve mapping of useful key functions would be
              actual keyboard remapping (applicable on some terminals); this
              is a delicate approach, though, because it may create
              incompatibilities with other programs that rely strictly on
              installed terminfo information. Mined provides remapping
              recommendations for shifted keypad keys (with Shift, Control,
              Alt and combinations of them) in the configuration sample files
              Xdefaults.mined (for xterm), konsole/xterm-modified.keytab (for
              KDE konsole), mlterm/key (for mlterm), in the Mined runtime
              support library.
              Due to the compatibility limitations mentioned above, however,
              the two Ins keys remain indistinguishable, and the two Del keys
              are only distinguishable if the xterm configuration resource
              *VT100*deleteIsDEL is set. Also, keypad and function key
              modification with Alt is ensured with the xterm resource
              *VT100*metaSendsEscape. Both resources are set to true in the
              configuration sample file just mentioned.
              These two resources can also be set dynamically with xterm.
              Mined can be told to do so with the command line option +D.
              (Unfortunately this handling cannot be enabled by default as it
              cannot be undone because the previous state cannot be detected.)

       •      Mined determines the xterm version in order to apply certain
              workarounds conditionally.

       •      If you run xterm in VT220 keyboard mode (using xterm option -kt
              vt220 or setting the configuration resource *keyboardType:
              vt220) you should make sure to also set the environment variable
              TERM=vt220 (e.g. using the xterm option -tn vt220 or setting the
              configuration resource *termName: vt220) so mined can properly
              set up the keypad functions.

       •      If you run xterm with the resource modifyCursorKeys or
              modifyFunctionKeys set to value 1, mined will recognise the
              according keyboard sequences with the environment variable
              setting TERM=xterm-sco.

       xterm on cygwin

       •      On cygwin, as on other systems, the script uterm is recommended
              to invoke an xterm that is properly configured to run UTF-8, and
              also to use a best choice of fonts for optimal Unicode coverage.
              See README.cygwin for more detailed advice.

       xterm legacy CJK width mode

       •      Mined auto-detects and supports xterm legacy CJK width
              compatibility mode (xterm -cjk_width); character width and menu
              border layout are properly adjusted, stylish menu borders (-QQ)
              and fine-grained scroll bar display are disabled by default.
              (Note: In this mode, combining characters could unexpectedly
              change the width of a character by being substituted with its
              wide precomposed form (e.g. 'a' combined with U+0300) - which an
              application can hardly handle; this bug was fixed in xterm 224
              with a patch contributed by the mined author.)

       rxvt

       •      When starting mined in a fresh rxvt terminal, and maybe even
              after starting your X server, some display (font?)
              initialization may take extremely long. If this results in an
              error message, restart mined to ensure proper terminal
              properties auto-detection.

       •      Rxvt does not distinguish between Shift-F1 and F11 / Shift-F2
              and F12 / Ctrl-Shift-F1 and Ctrl-F11 / Ctrl-Shift-F2 and Ctrl-
              F12, so that the F1 and F2 keys modified with Shift cannot be
              recognised in rxvt by default.  They can however be enabled with
              the keysym definitions in the file Xdefaults.mined in the Mined
              runtime support library.

       •      In rxvt, the two keypad Del keys (small keypad, numeric keypad)
              are automatically distinguished from each other and invoke the
              Delete character (small keypad) and Cut (numeric keypad)
              functions, respectively (Ctrl-/Shift-/Alt- alternatives are
              supported as described in this manual).  This works, however,
              only if mined can recognise rxvt; it is generally a bad idea to
              set TERM=xterm in rxvt, see also hint below.

       •      Also in rxvt, the two keypad Ins keys (small keypad left,
              numeric keypad right) are distinguished. The left Ins key
              positions the cursor left of the pasted region, the right Ins
              key positions it right.

       •      By setting rxvt in the mode that enables distinction between the
              two keypads, it can unfortunately not distinguish the right
              keypad modified with Ctrl- anymore, so Ctrl-Home/End/Del cannot
              work as desired.

       •      Ctrl-modified punctuation keys can be enabled by following the
              configuration samples of the file Xdefaults.mined in the Mined
              runtime support library.
              Note: Ctrl-modified and shifted punctuation keys interfere with
              ISO 14755 input mode of rxvt; if the following key is entered
              twice, that mode is aborted and the modified punctuation key
              becomes effective as an accent prefix in mined.

       •      To enable proper Alt-letter command input (for opening and
              navigating menus), set the rxvt resource meta8 to false in your
              X configuration (usually $HOME/.Xdefaults or $HOME/.Xresources)
              as suggested in the example file Xdefaults.mined in the Mined
              runtime support library.

       •      Later rxvt-unicode provides a CJK terminal emulation.  CJK
              display is buggy for characters that rxvt thinks cannot be
              displayed, especially for GB18030 (LC_CTYPE=zh_CN.gb18030 rxvt)
              but also e.g. for EUC-JP (LC_CTYPE=ja_JP.eucjp rxvt); single
              bytes are then interpreted instead which amounts to an
              unpredictable screen width and cannot be correctly handled.
              (This applies mainly to character codes that are not mapped to
              Unicode but also to many that are mapped.)
              Moreover, CJK width handling is inconsistent for many characters
              in rxvt CJK mode (rxvt claims to adhere to the locale mechanism
              in this respect but that's not the case here - character widths
              are inconsistent with the locale, too).
              Remedy: Don't use rxvt in CJK-encoded mode; mined CJK terminal
              support is tailored to native CJK terminals (such as cxterm,
              kterm, hanterm) where it works fine - if you use a UTF-8-capable
              terminal, use it in UTF-8 mode! Mined can edit CJK-encoded files
              well in a UTF-8-encoded terminal.

       •      In rxvt, Unicode characters that are Not Assigned are always
              displayed as a single-width replacement character. This is not
              consistent with xterm behaviour which would display them as a
              double-width replacement if they are located within a double-
              width Unicode range (which sounds reasonable). This would cause
              display positioning inconsistencies. Mined has a workaround for
              some of these cases (assuming that rxvt runs the most recent
              Unicode width data version available; or actually the same as
              mined assumes - handling of multiple auto-detected terminal
              Unicode versions does not cover this special case).

       •      If the X windows servers has duplicate fonts installed under a
              common name (e.g. if it comes with a 10x20 non-Unicode font and
              you install a 10x20 Unicode font in addition), rxvt seems to use
              the wrong (i.e., non-Unicode) version of the font and does not
              find special characters like the default marker used in the
              flags menus (this was observed since rxvt 7.5, rxvt 5.8 was
              finding the proper font). Use the mined option -F to adapt mined
              to limited font usage, or fix the X server installation.  Or use
              the script uterm to start rxvt-unicode. To start rxvt-unicode
              from an xterm, use uterm -rx.

       •      Due to the scrollbar display workaround for hanterm (see above),
              the scrollbar position may be shown as blank space instead of
              coloured (only in rxvt CJK mode with Korean encoding and if you
              explicitly set TERM=xterm which you shouldn't anyway in rxvt).
              In this case, coloured scrollbar foreground can be enabled with
              the environment variable MINEDSCROLLFG="44;36" or
              MINEDSCROLLFG="38;5;45".

       •      As a workaround for an xterm bug on cygwin, mined applies
              terminal size re-adjustment. This may confuse rxvt (being
              resized to an unexpectedly large window) if it pretends to be
              xterm.
              Remedy: in rxvt, make sure that the environment variable
              TERM=rxvt (or rxvt-unicode); the according X resource
              (Rxvt.termName: rxvt) is also listed in the file Xdefaults.mined
              in the Mined runtime support library.

       •      Mined determines the rxvt version in order to use certain
              features conditionally.

       •      CJK-mode rxvt: rxvt has some character width bugs when running
              in CJK encoding; e.g. when running rxvt in Big5 terminal
              encoding (locale zh_TW), U+FA18 is displayed with wrong screen
              width while in older version U+FFED was display with wrong
              screen width; when running rxvt in Shift_JIS terminal encoding,
              a number of character width bugs occur. Mined does not implement
              workarounds for those; in general UTF-8 terminal encoding is
              advisable to be on the safe side.

       urxvt

       •      This is rxvt-unicode as packaged for cygwin. Invoke it with a
              proper locale environment variable set to enable UTF-8.  See
              also README.cygwin for more detailed hints.

       mlterm

       •      Bidirectional display handling of mlterm is based on the final
              display, not regarding any context (such as positioning control,
              that's why mined implements a workaround for menu display on
              mlterm). Since version 3.0.7, mlterm supports logical order
              mouse positioning over right-to-left lines.

       •      For Shift selection, use the small keypad.

       •      Recent mlterm before version 3.1.3 has a problem with colour
              control that may render text unreadable.

       •      In recent mlterm versions, Control-function keys cannot be used
              in mined since they are captured as mlterm hotkeys.  Use a
              Control-V prefix as a workaround.

       •      (Not essential anymore with recent mlterm versions) The Mined
              runtime support library includes a configuration file mlterm/key
              which defines enhanced escape sequences for function keys and
              other modified keys in order to enable the functionality
              described in this manual. (It also enables the keypad on systems
              lacking its configuration for mlterm.)  It is essential to use
              this configuration especially for the HOP key (keypad "5") which
              is oppressed by mlterm by default, and also for Control-
              punctuation accent prefix functions, and some others.

       •      In old versions of mlterm, mouse wheel scroll navigation in
              menus did not work seamlessly due to incorrect escape sequences.

       •      Do not use mlterm option -n ! It may produce display garbage on
              unknown and other characters.

       cxterm

       •      Proper configuration is needed to ensure cxterm uses a non-CJK
              font of appropriate size to avoid ragged display: parameter -fn
              "-misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--18-*-*-*-*-*-*-*" or X resource
              cxterm*font: -misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--18-*-*-*-*-*-*-*.

       •      EUC-JP half-width characters (8EA1-8EDF) are not properly
              displayed by cxterm in EUC-JP mode (cxterm -JIS, not available
              in "classic" cxterm).

       •      Due to the scrollbar display workaround for hanterm (see above),
              the scrollbar position may be shown as blank space instead of
              coloured (only in Korean encoding mode which is probably rarely
              used with cxterm anyway).  In this case, coloured scrollbar
              foreground can be enabled with the environment variable
              MINEDSCROLLFG="44;36" or MINEDSCROLLFG="38;5;45".

       •      Note: The configuration sample file Xefaults.mined in the Mined
              runtime support library includes a section to fix some missing
              keypad assignments, especially the HOP key (keypad "5") which is
              ignored by cxterm by default, and the Home and End keys of the
              numeric keypad.

       kterm

       •      Auto-detection of kterm as a CJK terminal works if the
              environment variable TERM indicates "kterm"; otherwise mined has
              to be told that it runs in a CJK terminal and which encoding to
              use:
              For kterm -km sjis, set LC_CTYPE=ja_JP.sjis (or invoke mined
              +ES).
              For kterm -km euc, set LC_CTYPE=ja_JP.eucjp (or invoke mined
              +EJ).

       •      Note:The configuration sample file Xefaults.mined in the Mined
              runtime support library includes a section to fix some missing
              keypad assignments, especially the HOP key (keypad "5") which is
              ignored by kterm by default, and the Home and End keys of both
              keypads.

       •      Note: Mouse wheel scroll navigation in menus does not work
              seamlessly in kterm because kterm sends incorrect escape
              sequences on mouse wheel scrolling.

       •      Note: By default (i.e., without explicit -km option or
              corresponding *vt100.kanjiMode resource configured), kterm runs
              in ISO 2022 mode (yes, it does indeed) which is not supported by
              mined.

       hanterm

       •      CJK display is buggy at the line beginning or after a Tab, often
              only the second byte of the character code is displayed as an
              ASCII character instead of displaying the complete CJK
              character.

       •      Character attributes in hanterm used to be all mapped to
              reverse, so there was a workaround to enable a visible position
              in the scrollbar which is displayed as blank space. The criteria
              for this workaround to apply are: CJK terminal (detected or
              configured), TERM=xterm, Korean encoding (UHC or Johab)
              configured with parameter or locale. Replaced to enable nicer
              colours in scrollbar. To reactivate workaround for older
              hanterm, set environment variable MINEDSCROLLFG="0".

       KDE konsole

       •      Due to the lack of decent Unicode font support in the default
              configuration of the KDE konsole terminal, menu appearance
              options -QQ and -Qr should not be used; rounded borders are
              disabled by default.

       •      The Mined runtime support library includes a configuration file
              konsole/xterm-modified.keytab which defines enhanced escape
              sequences for function keys and other modified keys in order to
              enable the functionality described in this manual.
              Unfortunately, the qt framework used by konsole inhibits the use
              of some keys and many key combinations.

       •      It is especially irritating that konsole disregards the middle
              keypad key ("5" in application mode) completely; so the mined
              HOP function has to be invoked by alternative means.
              As a remedy, the HOP function is also assigned to the "Menu" key
              (next to the "Windows" key on PC keyboards) by the configuration
              sample file konsole/xterm-modified.keytab; follow the
              installation instruction in that file and select the keyboard
              type it defines ("xterm with key modifiers") in konsole,
              "Settings" - "Keyboard" menu.
              Another remedy is to reassign the middle keypad key to the X key
              symbol Menu (using xmodmap); the script kp5 in the Mined runtime
              support library does this.

       gnome-terminal

       •      The gnome-terminal uses right mouse click for its own terminal
              menu. To open a mined menu, use Ctrl-right-mouse-click.

       •      The gnome-terminal does not support modified keys (e.g.  shifted
              keypad keys).

       •      The gnome-terminal captures a number of Alt-letter key
              combinations for its own menu access (which can however also be
              controlled with the mouse).  To disable this unpleasant
              capturing, so e.g. mined can open its own menus with Alt-letter,
              configure gnome-terminal as follows:
              Open menu "Edit" - "Keyboard Shortcuts..." and check "Disable
              all menu access keys". Even then, however, F1 and Ctrl-F1 are
              suppressed by this quirky terminal.

       •      Mined implicitly assumes its -f option (for limited font usage
              with respect to graphic characters) when detecting gnome-
              terminal.

       Mac OS X Terminal and others

       •      The Mac OS X Terminal app does not support mouse escape
              sequences.  Preferably, use xterm or iTerm 2.

       •      In iTerm 2, enable mouse reporting in the settings menu
              Preferences - Profile - Terminal.

       •      If any Mac terminal (Terminal, xterm, iTerm 2) does not respond
              to the ESC key, it is likely to be captured by Speech
              Recognition.  Disable Speech Recognition or try Ctrl-ESC.

       Linux console

       •      Mined detects F11, F12, Shift-F1...Shift-F8 properly (handling
              the shift of 2 applied by the Linux console to shifted function
              key codes compared with other terminals); further modified
              function keys are apparently not supported in the Linux console.

       screen

       Screen, like luit (see below), is a middle layer between the
              actual terminal and the user terminal environment.
              Running screen in a cygwin console produces initial garbage
              input in mined.
              [Applies to older screen before version 4: Unfortunately, screen
              does not pass character width handling of its host terminal
              transparently to the application but apparently it maintains
              cursor position information with reference to the system-
              installed locale data. Which, however, does not always reflect
              the terminal properties!  Yet mined detects the proper width
              properties of the host terminal (by using pass-through escape
              sequences of "screen") but only if the environment variable is
              set to "screen" (the default of "screen").]
              Worse, however, screen apparently transforms cursor positioning
              commands from the application into relative cursor positioning
              towards the host terminal, which results in grossly incorrect
              display positionining if e.g. screen runs in a UTF-8 terminal
              but assumes an 8 bit terminal. Also, it interprets certain UTF-8
              continuation bytes as control characters, so even using a
              workaround it is not possible to fix display for all cases.
              Mined applies a workaround to fix text positioning and menu
              display problems with screen.  Another workaround fixes many
              cases of UTF-8 character display but cannot fix all (since
              screen captures the output of the 0x9C byte).  It is recommended
              to invoke screen only with properly configured locale
              environment variables to match the actual terminal encoding.

       mintty ("Cygwin Terminal")

       Mintty is a Windows-based (non-X) terminal running with cygwin.
              Mined auto-detects mintty and adjusts certain properties and
              features accordingly.

       •      Mintty supports all kinds of special keyboard features.

       •      Mined detects font changes that change the CJK ambiguous
              character width properties of the terminal when notified by
              mintty if running in UTF-8 mode.

       •      For good coverage of Unicode characters, recommended fonts for
              use with mintty are DejaVu Sans Mono, Lucida Console, Courier
              New, Andale Mono, Everson Mono, SimSun. Discouraged are Lucida
              Sans Typewriter, Letter Gothic, Courier, Monaco, and older MS
              CJK fonts, at least for their lack of (proper) graphic
              characters (for menu borders).  Mined uses the glyph detection
              feature of mintty (since 0.9.9) to configure a nice set of
              useful line markers and menu graphics.

       •      If break interruption (Control-\ key) does not work on
              international keyboards (if AltGr is involved), use the special
              Control-Break keyboard function instead.

       •      Note: For right-to-left text editing, the bidi feature of mintty
              interferes with the scrollbar of mined; you may disable the
              scrollbar with -o to reduce visual confusion.  (Context-
              dependent scrollbar display is planned for a later version.)

       •      Note: With the command scripts wined or wined.bat, mined is
              invoked in a separate Windows terminal session, using mintty if
              available.

       •      Note: On some systems, mouse wheel scrolling does not work in
              mintty if the mintty scrollbar is enabled. It can be disabled in
              the mintty "Options..." menu, section "Window".

       •      Note: Mined temporarily disables mintty shortcut keys for
              Windows functions (like Alt-function keys, Alt-space, Alt-Enter)
              in order to use them itself. To toggle mintty full-screen mode,
              open the mintty menu with Shift-right mouse button, item
              "Fullscreen".
              (With mintty versions before 0.5.1, for proper usage of Unix-
              like keyboards functions, the following settings are
              recommended: In Options - Keys, disable the Shortcuts "Window
              commands" and "Copy and paste".  In Options - Text, disable
              "Show bold as bright".)

       Cygwin console

       •      The cygwin console terminal emulation does not support Shift-F1,
              Shift-F2 (which cannot be distinguished from F11, F12), Shift-
              F11, Shift-F12; Control or Alt modified function keys are
              supported beginning cygwin 1.7.2.

       •      Mined detects UTF-8 mode of cygwin 1.7 console (by LC_*/LANG
              setting or for cygwin 1.7 beta by CYGWIN containing
              "codepage:utf8").
              Note: After rlogin from this console, UTF-8 indication has to be
              ensured explicitly, e.g. by environment setting, or by mined
              option +U.

       •      Note: Cygwin console in UTF-8 mode provides extended Unicode
              font support if you select "Lucida Console" or another TrueType
              font from its Properties menu.

       •      If the Windows program chcp.com is used within cygwin, and the
              console window is set up to use "Raster Fonts", non-ASCII
              characters may be mangled.

       •      Mouse coordinates are not properly reported with wheel scrolling
              in the cygwin console; for that reason, opening a menu with
              mouse scrolling does not work.

       •      See also README.cygwin for more detailed hints on weird details
              about the Windows console in different modes.

       •      See also PC terminals above.

       Windows console window (DOS command prompt)

       •      The Windows console window is normally configured to run in
              CP850 encoding or other legacy encodings (depending on localized
              Windows configuration), it may also turn out to be using CP437.
              Non-displayable characters are replaced as usual.  The
              configured font may also affect the effective display character
              set.

       •      However, if running a cygwin application (like the cygwin
              version of mined) from a Windows console, the cygwin emulated
              terminal encoding applies instead, e.g. UTF-8.

       •      Note: The (djgpp-compiled) DOS version of mined automatically
              adjusts to the selected console codepage (e.g. using the chcp
              command), it is advisable to set up the console windows to use
              "Raster Fonts" if this is used.  With the cygwin-compiled
              version, on the other hand, using a TrueType font is more stable
              with respect to character set problems.

       •      With the djgpp-compiled version apparently there is a Ctrl-C
              problem on older Windows versions. Every first Ctrl-C will
              display ^C on the screen at the current position without mined
              noticing it, while every second Ctrl-C will be passed to mined.
              This problem does not occur on Windows XP.  It does occur on
              Windows ME in a Windows console window.  It does not occur with
              the cygwin-compiled version.

       •      See also PC terminals above.

       Windows PowerShell

       •      Mined detects a Windows PowerShell window and adjusts to its
              limitations.

       Poderosa

       •      This Windows terminal emulator can be used for UTF-8 editing.
              To ensure proper function, do not use Terminal Type "kterm" or
              Encoding "euc-jp" or "shift-jis"

       •      Mined auto-detection and terminal initialization can cause
              Poderosa to display warning popups. To avoid them, Select Tools
              - Options... - Terminal; for "Behavior in case of unexpected
              chars", disable "Display a message box".  If you get a notice
              "Failed to decode characters by the current encoding utf-8.",
              click "Do not display this message from next time".

       •      Poderosa does not provide mouse support for applications.

       Terminator

       •      In Edit - Preferences, enable "Use alt key as meta key".

       •      Terminator does not provide mouse support for applications.

       PuTTY

       •      This Windows terminal emulation for remote login provides
              various keyboard (esp. keypad and function key) assignment
              emulations. In SCO mode, shifted function keys are different
              from those of xterm SCO function key emulation; both are
              supported.

       Better Terminal and Terminal Emulator (Android)

       •      There are lots of deficiencies in screen control; mined adapts
              to Better Terminal.

       •      There are lots of deficiencies in using a real keyboard.

       •      To use a real keyboard, in the terminal settings, map Control to
              Left Alt key.

       luit

       •      The locale support add-on for text terminals luit which applies
              encoding transformations (e.g. with LC_ALL=zh_CN.gb18030) often
              maps characters incorrectly, including using the wrong cell
              width.

       DECterm

       On a VMS system, a DECterm window should be started with:
              CREATE /TERMINAL /DETACH

       •      Mined cannot disable flow control option (terminal using ^S and
              ^Q characters) despite its handling of the TTSYNC and HOSTSYNC
              terminal driver options. To make them usable, DECterm needs to
              be configured manually: Options menu - Keyboard... - disable
              Ctrl-Q, Ctrl-S = Hold; then Options - Save Options.

       •      On a remote DECterm, numeric keypad and function keys may not
              work properly without additional X configuration (xmodmap). Also
              the AltGr key does not work, making some characters unreachable
              on international keyboards.

       •      For VT100 graphics characters (used for menu borders), the
              DECtech fonts (X fonts with -DEC-DECtech encoding) need to be
              installed on the X server. If the Cygwin/X server is used, the
              font-bitstream-dpi* packages should be installed to this aim.

       dtterm

       •      With the SCO default font, dtterm does not display non-ASCII
              characters and even worse, they corrupt further display.  Mined
              does not, however, set its screen encoding assumption to ASCII
              as dtterm behaves properly with all other fonts (e.g. 10x20,
              lucidasanstypewriter, courier).

       •      Home/End, PgUp/PgDn, and HOP keys need to be used with Shift.

       SCO Caldera Linux (konsole and xterm)

       •      Window size change signals don't seem to be supported.

       Haiku Terminal

       For a number of deficiencies of the Haiku Terminal application,
              it is preferable to use xterm instead.  Most notable are display
              problems with the VT Gothic font; use DejaVu Sans Mono instead.

       •      No wide characters and combining characters.

       •      No Alt-letter escape sequences.

       •      No modified function and cursor keys.

       •      Ignorance of middle keypad key.

       •      Cursor visibility problems (cursor colour vs. reverse mode).

       •      Wrong Control-space key (sends Control-C).

       •      No mouse controls for wheel scrolling.

       •      Unconforming mouse mode handling.

        Work-around support to enable 8-bit character set on weird terminals
       There exist some exceptionally weird 7 bit terminals that have an
       alternative character set containing composed characters which can be
       displayed simultaneously with the default character set. For those
       there is optional output translation which embeds non-ASCII characters
       into the respective code switching sequences. To enable output
       character transformation, set the environment variable MINEDOUT to
       contain the upper half (with respect to an 8 bit character set) of the
       translation table into the terminal's alternate character set.
       (Character set switching will be done as specified in the termcap
       (as/ae) or terminfo (smacs/rmacs) entry.)  An example setting of
       MINEDOUT is included in the environment sample file profile.mined in
       the Mined runtime support library for Siemens 9780x terminals.

        Concerning some especially stupid terminal drivers
       There used to be terminal drivers which make use of the soft handshake
       mechanism by exchange of ^S and ^Q characters but yet pass them through
       to application programs which is quite stupid.  If it is necessary to
       ignore such hazardous ^S and ^Q keys, the environment variable NoCtrlSQ
       or NoControlSQ must be set.  Mined will then not disable the tty
       channel soft handshake setting either.

   Keyboard mapping / Input method preselection
       With the environment variable MINEDKEYMAP the active or standby mapping
       or both can be preselected. The value is a two-letter script tag to set
       the active mapping, or it is prepended with "-" to set the standby
       mapping, or a combination.
       Example: export MINEDKEYMAP=-gr will set Greek keyboard mapping
       standby.  export MINEDKEYMAP=py-rs will set Pinyin input method active
       and Radical/Stroke input method standby.
       The respective tags attached to the keyboard mappings can be looked up
       in the Input Method flag menu; the HOP function toggles between display
       of the full input method name and its tag.

   Smart Quotes style configuration
       Smart quotes style can also be preselected with the environment
       variable MINEDQUOTES (in addition to command line option -q=...,
       standard locale environment variables, or additional locale environment
       variables LANGUAGE or TEXTLANG which also implicitly set smart quotes
       mode).
       The value of MINEDQUOTES should contain the opening/closing quote pair
       (or just the opening quote mark, double or single quotes) and must be
       UTF-8 encoded. It can optionally append a space and an inner quotation
       mark (as used for nested quotations) for more specific selection. It
       can also indicate French spacing as shown in the example.
       Examples (for values of -q parameter or MINEDQUOTES variable): » sets
       »Danish« quotes style and corresponding single smart quotes.  »» sets
       »Finnish» quotes style and corresponding single smart quotes.  «» ''
       (where '' denotes a left double quotation mark U+201C) sets «Spanish»
       quotes style with English style inner quotation marks.  « » sets «
       French » quotes style with embedded spacing.
       See Smart Quotes for more options.

   Han info configuration
       With the environment variable MINEDHANINFO, the information shown for
       Han characters can be preselected.  If the variable is defined, Han
       info mode is enabled.  It may contain letters to select description,
       pronunciation information, and display mode to be used:

       M      show Mandarin pronunciation

       C      show Cantonese pronunciation

       J      show Japanese pronunciation

       S      show Sino-Japanese pronunciation

       H      show Hangul pronunciation

       K      show Korean pronunciation

       V      show Vietnamese pronunciation

       P      show Hanyu Pinlu pronunciation

       Y      show Hanyu Pinyin pronunciation

       X      show XHC Hanyu Pinyin pronunciation

       T      show Tang pronunciation

       D      show character description

       F      display full information (in popup-menu form); without F, the
              information will be shown on the status line where it is subject
              to truncation

   Common paste buffer configuration
       The paste buffers, used for cut/copy/paste operations, as well as the
       inter-window paste buffer, are located in a temporary directory, using
       system conventions by default.  To maintain the inter-window paste
       functionality even remotely, mined uses the environement variables
       MINEDTMP and MINEDUSER which, in combination, point to a user-defined
       temporary directory and file name pattern to be used for buffer files:

              •      Set MINEDTMP to refer to a common mounted network
                     directory on all machines which means that the value of
                     $MINEDTMP may have to be different to reflect different
                     mount points across the network.  (On VMS, use
                     SYS$MINEDTMP).

              •      Set MINEDUSER to the same name within the network even if
                     using different user name accounts.
       For details, see also the FILES section below.

   Keypad configuration
       Some X configuration may have to be applied to enable keyboard input
       features as used by mined:

              •      Alt key modifier for quicker entry of "ESC" commands.

              •      Assignment of the HOP function to the middle keypad key
                     ("5").

              •      Assignment of the HOP function to other keys (especially
                     for convenience on laptops which do not have the numeric
                     keypad), e.g. the Pause or Scroll Lock key.

              •      Distinguish "Home" and "End" keys of the two keypads in
                     order to make use of this redundancy of typical keyboard
                     layout (which is actually a waste of physical resources,
                     causing unnecessary wrist strain because it increase the
                     distance to be moved over for reaching to the mouse).

              •      Enable control and shift modifiers for keypad and
                     function keys.

              •      Enable control and shift modifiers for digit keys (for
                     use as accent prefix).

              •      Enable control modifier for punctuation keys (for use as
                     accent prefix).
       See the example file Xdefaults.mined in the Mined runtime support
       library for suggestions.

   Printing configuration
       Mined uses the script uprint from the Mined runtime support library to
       print the current contents of the text being edited in any selected
       encoding (unless the environment variable MINEDPRINT is set to direct
       mined to use a different print command).
       If the support library is not installed in one of its standard
       locations (system-dependent), it should be made available in the usual
       command search path.
       The script offers a choice of configured printers to select one (using
       either Windows registry or →NEW→ CUPS lpstat).
       The script uses either paps or uniprint for actual formatting (print
       preprocessing).  Under Windows (cygwin/stand-alone/djgpp versions),
       mined also considers printing with notepad /p.
       paps is available at https://github.com/dov/paps and uses the Pango
       layout engine for formatting.  uniprint is part of the yudit
       distribution; if you don't have it installed on your system, there is
       another script makeprint in the support library which can be used to
       download and build the needed uniprint program.  The mined print script
       (uprint) prefers paps if it is available as it has more capabilities
       for printing a wide range of Unicode characters, and it does right-to-
       left formatting.
       The font to be used with uprint can be configured with the environment
       variables FONT, FONTPATH, FONTSIZE.  It is recommended to put a
       sufficient font in the directories of $FONTPATH, e.g. DroidSansMono,
       LucidaTypewriterRegular, Bitstream Cyberbit.
       The preferred printer can be configured as usual with the environment
       variable PRINTER.  In addition, uprint checks an environment variable
       LPR for an alternative for the system printing command (lpr/lp) if that
       is needed.
       Note: If printing with uprint fails for some reason, mined tries to
       print with either the print command configured in the environment
       variable LPR as a fallback, or with lp/lpr as a last resort. Working
       character encoding support cannot be expected in this case, however.
       See Environment variables to configure Printing for further details.

   Display layout
       Some of the special indication characters (that substitute non-
       displayable contents) and some of the colours used by mined for special
       indications and interactive elements may be configured to the user's
       preference.
       Note: For the configurable character indications, two environment
       variables exist each, to configure an 8 bit value (Latin-1 encoded) and
       to configure a Unicode value (UTF-8 encoded).  The UTF-8 encoded values
       (e.g. MINEDUTFRET) take precedence in a UTF-8 terminal. In an 8 bit
       terminal, or if the respective UTF-8 variable is not configured, the
       Latin-1 encoded value applies.  See the example script profile.mined in
       the Mined runtime support library for more details and for a number of
       suggestions of suitable values.  Mined does not apply any default non-
       Latin-1 indications in order to avoid display problems with fonts that
       do not support them.  Depending on your visual preference, there are a
       number of suitable Unicode characters for use as indications especially
       in the Unicode ranges of Arrows, Geometric Shapes and Symbols
       (U+2190-U+2BFF).
       Note: For the Latin-1 encoded configured indication markers (variables
       MINEDRET etc, not MINEDUTFRET etc), if the configured character is in
       the small letters range (actually
        '`'...DEL) the alternate character set is used for display.  This
       works also in a UTF-8 terminal, provided that the corresponding
       UTF-8-encoded indication configuration variable is not set, e.g.
       MINEDRET=j MINEDUTFRET= (or not defined) would indicate line-ends by
       displaying a graphic lower right corner, MINEDTAB='`' MINEDUTFTAB= (or
       not defined) would indicate Tab characters with VT100 graphics lozenge
       rhombs.
       Note: For the UTF-8-encoded configured indication markers (variables
       MINEDUTFRET etc), if the marker is a double-width character, a
       replacement will be displayed instead.
       Note: Mined reduces its assumptions about available graphic and special
       characters for display purposes with the options -f or -F.  The -F
       option also suppresses the interpretation of the MINEDUTF* environment
       variables.

        Line ends
       Line ends are usually marked by a "«" double left angle character.
       This visual indication can be changed with the environment variable
       MINEDRET (8 bit terminals) or MINEDUTFRET (UTF-8 terminals).  The
       default or configured marker is used as an indicator at the end of
       every text line on screen (so you can see how many blank spaces there
       are).
       Multi-character markers: If a second character is configured, it is
       used to fill the rest of the screen line, a third configured character
       would terminate the indication at the end of the screen line. ("··«" is
       a nice setting for people who used to work at Siemens terminals.)
       Pattern:
                 <span>MINEDRET=123  # line end displays as 122222223
        Suggestion for a nice line end on UTF-8 mode terminals (check if
       character is included in your font, however!):
                 <span>MINEDUTFRET=⏎ # U+23CE

       The indication of DOS line ends (CRLF) and Mac line ends (CR) may be
       configured with the variables MINEDDOSRET or MINEDUTFDOSRET, and
       MINEDMACRET or MINEDUTFMACRET, respectively.  They are also
       distinguished by different colours.

        Paragraph ends
       With the option -p, mined displays distinct indicators for line ends
       and paragraph ends.  A paragraph is defined to continue while lines end
       with white space (space or Tab character).  The default paragraph
       marker is "¶" and is also used to indicate a line ending with a Unicode
       Paragraph Separator. It can be changed with the environment variable
       MINEDPARA or MINEDUTFPARA.

        Tab characters
       Tab characters are usually indicated by a sequence of '·' (middle dot)
       characters.  This can be changed with the environment variable MINEDTAB
       (8 bit terminal) or MINEDUTFTAB (UTF-8 terminals).
       Multi-character markers: If two characters are configured, the second
       is used to mark the middle of the Tab span. If three characters are
       configured, the first and last are used to mark the beginning and end
       of the Tab span.  Pattern:
                 <span>MINEDTAB=123  # Tab displays as 12222223
                 <span>MINEDTAB=12   # Tab displays as 11112111

        Long lines
       Lines which are too long for the screen are usually indicated by a '»'
       double right angle (guillemot) character. If the current position is
       behind the screen margin, the line is shifted out left which is
       indicated by a '«' double left angle.  These markers can be changed
       with the environment variable MINEDSHIFT or MINEDUTFSHIFT. The first
       character is used to indicate a line continued to the left of the
       screen, the second character is used to indicate a line continued to
       the right of the screen.

        Unicode characters
       For a description of special display indications in UTF-8 text editing
       mode see "Unicode display" above.  The indication and highlighting mode
       of a non-displayable Unicode character (typically a UTF-8 character in
       a Latin-1 terminal), as well as the highlighting mode (colour) of the
       indication of illegal UTF-8 sequences, can be configured with the
       variable MINEDUNI.

        Display mode of indicators
       It is recommended to display these indicator characters in a dim
       display mode to prevent distraction from the text contents. The default
       is a red colour which is a moderate dark red in xterm.  The display
       mode can be used by placing the code part of an ANSI display control
       sequence in the environment variable MINEDDIM.  E.g., MINEDDIM=31 would
       select the default mode, red foreground; in xterm only,
       MINEDDIM="38;5;83;38;5;245" gives a moderate gray in either 88 or 256
       color mode; in rxvt only, MINEDDIM="38;5;83" gives a moderate gray.
       MINEDDIM can also be set to an integer percentage value (e.g.
       MINEDIM="50%") to have mined apply dim colour to the indications; the
       colour value is computed from the current foreground and background
       colours (works in xterm, or mintty from version 404). The ANSI colour 7
       (white) is temporarily redefined for this purpose and restored when
       mined exits.

        Display mode of menu borders
       The display colour of menu borders and menu headers can be configured
       with the environment variable MINEDBORDER.  Suitable values are "35"
       (magenta), "34" (blue) and "31" (default).

        Status line highlighting
       Highlighted parts of status line messages (e.g. initial letters for
       help selection after F1) can be configured with the environment
       variable MINEDEMPH, using foreground ANSI modes.  The default is "31"
       (effectively red background).

        Scrollbar colour
       The foreground and background colours of the scrollbar can be
       configured with MINEDSCROLLFG and MINEDSCROLLBG, respectively, using
       ANSI modes; if only the background is configured, the foreground is the
       reverse of it. In general, to support fine-grained scrollbar display in
       UTF-8 terminals, the foreground and background colour settings should
       be the reverse of each other.  The default for the background is
       "46;34;48;5;45" if use of 256 colour mode is enabled, or "46;34" if it
       is disabled.  The default for the foreground is "", meaning that the
       reverse background is used, with a workaround for hanterm (see above).

        Menu colour and border style
       The highlighting background colour of the selected menu item can be
       configured with MINEDSEL, using reverse ANSI modes (i.e.  using
       foreground parameters for the background) and MINEDSELFG for the
       foreground, using reverse ANSI modes. The default values are
       MINEDSELFG="43" and MINEDSEL="34", giving yellow on blue.  If selected
       menu items appear too dark (which mined tries to avoid, depending on
       the terminal), try one of the workarounds MINEDSEL="34;1" or
       MINEDSELFG="43;1".
       Menu border styles can be selected with the option -Q.  For a nice
       selection bar that extends from left to right menu border, the setting
       -QQ is recommended (this is the default unless the terminal is assumed
       not to provide sufficient font configuration for this option; it
       depends on certain graphic Unicode characters being included in the
       terminal font and can be disabled with -Qq).

        Combining character display
       The highlighting background colour of combining characters displayed in
       separated mode can be configured with MINEDCOMBINING, using ANSI
       background modes.  The default value is MINEDCOMBINING=46, to change
       colour e.g.  to yellow background, use MINEDCOMBINING=43.

   Interactive Help access
       Mined looks for its help file in a number of typical directories for
       installation of the Mined runtime support library.  If it is placed in
       a non-standard location, the environment variable MINEDDIR should point
       to the directory.  (Mined also tries to find the help file in the
       directory where it was started from; this is especially useful for the
       DOS/Windows version.)

   Mined compile-time configuration
        Script highlighting
       The the mined distribution contains a file src/colours.cfg; it contains
       entries with the script name (as listed in the Unicode data file
       Scripts.txt), blank space, and a colour index into the xterm 256-colour
       mode. (To make good use of 256 colour mode, the terminal program should
       be compiled with 256 colour support enabled. Configure xterm with
       configure --enable-256-color .)
       Edit colours.cfg before building mined to adapt coloured script display
       to your preferences.

        Encodings and Encoding menu
       The mined distribution contains a file src/charmaps.cfg which defines
       the character encodings that mined knows and how they are presented in
       the Encoding menu, together with flags for indication in the Encoding
       flag and tags for use with the -E and +E options (and the MINEDDETECT
       environment variable).
       The configuration file allows the definition of submenus in the
       Encoding menu.
       Each character encoding entry charmap-name must correspond to an
       existing character mapping file charmaps/charmap-name.map.  Additional
       character mappings can be generated with the script mkchrmap.

        Encodings recognised by locale names
       The mined distribution contains a file src/locales.cfg which maps
       locale names to associated character encodings.  While this list
       contains mainly locale names without explicit encoding suffix, mined
       also checks generic locale name suffix values and assumes the
       corresponding terminal encoding.  Thus the given names or suffixes can
       be used even on legacy systems without locale support to indicate the
       terminal environment and preferred text encoding properly to mined.

        Keyboard mapping (Input method)
       The mined distribution contains a file src/keymaps.cfg and a script
       mkkbmap; go into the src directory and use the script to generate
       additional keyboard mappings: The parameter to the mkkbmap script can
       be one of

              path.../name.mim
                     a keyboard mapping file of the m17n-db
                     multilingualization package

              path.../name.kmap
                     a keyboard mapping file of the yudit text editor

              path.../name.vim
                     a keyboard mapping file of the vim text editor

              path.../name.cit
                     an input method mapping file of the cxterm terminal,
                     binary form; only works if the cxterm binary/text
                     conversion utility cit2tit is accessible

              path.../name.tit
                     an input method mapping file of the cxterm terminal, text
                     form; only works if the character set conversion utility
                     iconv is accessible and works on the mapping file

              path.../name.utf
                     an input method mapping file of the cxterm terminal,
                     already converted to UTF-8 encoding (e.g. with iconv)

              Cangjie [ < HKSCS Changjie table file name > ]
                     with this tag, a keyboard mapping for the Cangjie input
                     method will be generated, taking information from the
                     Unihan database (unicode.org);
                     with a second parameter, a Big5-encoded table of HKSCS
                     Changjie input codes will be merged in, the parameter is
                     either the file name or a + sign which is implicitly
                     expanded to the relative path name
                     etc/charmaps/hkscs/hkscs-2004-cj.txt; the HKSCS input
                     codes file should be taken from
                     http://info.gov.hk/digital21/eng/hkscs/

              MainlandTelegraph , TaiwanTelegraph
                     with one of these tags, a keyboard mapping will be
                     generated using one of these telegraph codes as an input
                     method, taking information from the Unihan database
                     (unicode.org)

              Cantonese , HanyuPinlu , Mandarin , Tang
                     with one of these tags, a keyboard mapping will be
                     generated using the according Chinese pronunciation as an
                     input method, taking information from the Unihan database
                     (unicode.org)

              JapaneseKun , JapaneseOn
                     with one of these tags, a keyboard mapping will be
                     generated using Japanese or Sino-Japanese pronunciation
                     as an input method, taking information from the Unihan
                     database (unicode.org)

              Korean , Vietnamese
                     with one of these tags, a keyboard mapping will be
                     generated using Korean or Vietnamese pronunciation as an
                     input method, taking information from the Unihan database
                     (unicode.org)

              VIQR , VNI , Vtelex
                     with one of these tags, a keyboard mapping will be
                     generated for the respective Vietnamese input methods,
                     taking character information from the Unicode database
                     (unicode.org)

              script tag
                     for many scripts listed in the UnicodeData.txt database,
                     character names listed there can build a useful keyboard
                     mapping; mkkbmap will then generate an according keyboard
                     mapping file, e.g. for Bopomofo
       Each successful generation of a mapping table adds an entry to the
       configuration file keymaps.cfg; the entry is however initially disabled
       as it usually needs manual adjustment: edit the configuration file;
       enable the new entry by removing the leading '#' character, check the
       first element which will be the name of the mapping to appear in the
       Input Method menu, check the last element of the entry which is a two-
       letter shortcut and must be unique for all mappings, then move the
       entry to the position where you want it to appear in the menu. You can
       also group mappings by adding "-" lines in this configuration file.
       For the Unicode data version used for included keyboard mappings, see
       the mined change log.
       For the keyboard mappings generated from Unihan data, characters are
       sorted according to the priorities of their Unicode ranges (assigning
       lower priority to "Supplement" and "Extension" and "Compatibility"
       ranges).  So for some input mnemos, the "pick list" for the Cangjie
       input method is displayed more in order of relevance.
       For keyboard mappings for CJK encodings, mkkbmap will add appropriate
       punctuation mapping entries for Chinese, Japanese, Korean,
       respectively, in addition to the entries derived from the respective
       data source.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       Environment variables for configuration of mined are listed in the
       script file profile.mined in the Mined runtime support library together
       with explanations and suggested values.
            Further variables used by mined in the usual meaning are:

            HOME

            USER

            SHELL

            MINEDOPT

            LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG
              Locale variables affect assumed terminal encoding, default text
              encoding, and language-related features (such as quote style).

            LANGUAGE
              Affects language-related features. Affects assumed text encoding
              only if it has an explicit encoding suffix (like .UTF-8).  Does
              not affect assumed terminal encoding.

            TEXTLANG
              Deprecated: like LANGUAGE.

            CYGWIN

            TMPDIR

            TMP

            TEMP (MSDOS)

            SYS$SCRATCH (VMS)

            TERM
              Terminal type to be assumed.

            ESCDELAY
              Delay after an ESCAPE character that mined waits for recognition
              of a function key control sequence. Default is 450 ms.

            MAPDELAY (non-standard)
              Similar delay that mined applies to wait for subsequent input
              characters when applying keyboard mapping for an input method.
              Default is 900 ms.

            LINES, COLUMNS (MSDOS ANSI mode only)
              Line / column count of terminal to be assumed.

            windir
              Used to determine if it runs under MS Windows and set some
              defaults (screen output delay) accordingly.

        Environment variables to configure Printing
            MINEDPRINT
              Print command to use instead of uprint; the value must contain
              the string '%s' (quoting recommended) to insert the file name.

            FONT
              Name of a font file, e.g. LucidaBrightRegular or bodoni.ttf for
              use with uprint/uniprint (the file must reside in the configured
              font path), or name of a font as specified with fontconfig (in
              $HOME/.fonts.conf or /etc/fonts/fonts.conf) for use with
              uprint/paps.

            FONTPATH
              Directory search path (separate directory names with ":") for
              use with uprint/uniprint which uses Truetype fonts.

            FONTSIZE
              Font size to be used with uprint (paps or uniprint).

            LPR
              Print spooling command to be used by uprint (or mined itself if
              uprint does not work) instead of the system-specific print
              spooling command (e.g. lpr).

            PRINTER
              Name of printer to spool to.

FILES
   Unix
       $MINEDDIR
              directory in which the Mined runtime support library is
              installed, including the help file mined.hlp and the printing
              script uprint

       mined.hlp
              help file for interactive hints (F1 commands); mined looks for
              the file in $MINEDDIR/help, $0, and a number of other typical
              directories where program support files are installed on various
              systems

       $MINEDTMP
              directory for auxiliary files, first attempt Using this variable
              and $MINEDUSER (see below), you can establish copy and paste
              among machines that share network directories but are normally
              configured to use separate (usually local) temporary
              directories.

       $TMPDIR
              directory for auxiliary files, next attempt

       $TMP   directory for auxiliary files, next attempt

       $TEMP  directory for auxiliary files, next attempt

       /usr/tmp
              directory for auxiliary files, next attempt

       /tmp   directory for auxiliary files, next attempt

       Note: $MINEDUSER
              user name assumed instead of $USER for building auxiliary file
              names; using this, common copy-and-paste buffers can be used on
              a network file system from different machines where the user
              possibly has different user names

       $HOME/.fonts.conf
              fonts configuration file for use with uprint/paps; for
              description, see http://fontconfig.org/fontconfig-user.html or
              man fonts.conf

       minedbuf.< USER >.< PID >.< NN >
              temporary file for paste buffer; USER is either $MINEDUSER or
              $USER

       minedbuf.< USER >
              file for inter-window paste buffer; USER is either $MINEDUSER or
              $USER; see descriptions of $MINEDTMP and $MINEDUSER above for
              how to set up a common inter-window paste buffer in a
              heterogeneous network

       minedrecover.< USER >.< PID >
              panic file to rescue text in case of crash or external signal
              caught

   VMS
       SYS$MINEDTMP:$MINED$user_BUF.pid_nn
              paste buffer

       SYS$MINEDTMP:$MINEDBUF$user
              inter-window paste buffer

       SYS$SCRATCH:$MINEDRECOVER$user$pid
              panic file

       SYS$SCRATCH:$MINEDPRINT$user$pid$n.lis
              print spool file

       MINED$HELP
              help file (may be configured as a logical name)

       If SYS$MINEDTMP is not available,
              SYS$SCRATCH is used instead. If SYS$SCRATCH is not available,
              SYS$LOGIN is used instead.

   MSDOS / Windows
       %MINEDDIR%\help\mined.hlp
              help file, first attempt (to find it)

       mined.hlp (in mined program directory)
              help file, next attempt

       %MINEDTMP%\minedbuf.nn
              paste buffer

       %MINEDTMP%\minedbuf
              inter-window paste buffer

       %MINEDTMP%\minedbuf.%MINEDUSER%
              inter-window paste buffer, as configured to use the same file as
              other mined versions in a heterogeneous network; note, however,
              that %MINEDUSER% will be shortened to 3 characters in pure DOS

       %MINEDTMP%\minedsv_.*
              panic file

       If %MINEDTMP% is not available,
              %TEMP% or %TMP% or \ are used.

DIAGNOSTICS
       In all cases where it is considered sensible, the appropriate message
       of a system error occurred is displayed (instead of printing numerical
       hieroglyphs or indistinguished commonplace messages as many other UNIX
       tools do).

BUGS
       In an extremely narrow terminal window (less than 8 characters), if
       lines are shifted out of the display, moving the cursor around may
       cause positioning errors and display garbage.

       (MSDOS, Windows:) With non-cygwin versions (djgpp), piped editing from
       standard input does not work for unknown reason.

       (Windows:) Non-cygwin versions (djgpp) do not work in xterm, rxvt, or
       mintty.

AUTHOR AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Long ago, the initial version of mined was written for the Minix
       educational operating system by Michiel Huisjes.  It was adapted to
       Unix by Achim Müller who added termcap support.  Mined was later
       debugged, partly rewritten and enhanced and is now maintained by Thomas
       Wolff.

   Homepage
       Mined information is provided on mined.github.io.  Download links and
       issue reporting can be found from there.  Mined also used to be hosted
       as a sourceforge project (sf.net/projects/mined).

   Acknowledgements

              •      Thanks to Nadim Shaikli < shaikli @ yahoo.com > for
                     discussion of right-to-left issues and interworking with
                     mlterm.

              •      Thanks to Mike Fabian < mfabian @ suse.de > for making
                     the RPM package included in the SuSE distribution.

              •      Thanks to Ziying Sherwin < sherwin @ nlm.nih.gov > and R.
                     P. Channing Rodgers < rodgers @ nlm.nih.gov > for
                     suggestions and information about CJK input method
                     support and multiple choice handling (pick lists).

              •      Thanks to Tobias Ernst < tobias_ernst @ eml.cc > for
                     providing a Mac OS X makefile and suggestion and
                     information to implement Emacs command mode.

              •      Thanks to 吴咏炜 (Wu Yongwei) < yongwei @ eastday.com >
                     for suggestions and information about Pinyin input
                     methods, for discussion about keyboard mappings for CJK
                     punctuation, and for further maintaining the Pinyin input
                     method.

              •      Thanks to Ramakrishnan Muthukrishnan
                     < rkrishnan @ debian.org > for making the Debian package.

              •      Thanks to Thierry Thomas < thierry @ FreeBSD.org > for
                     making the FreeBSD package.

              •      Thanks to Tobias Nygren < tnn @ NetBSD.org > for making
                     the NetBSD package.

              •      Thanks to Jim Breen for suggesting better overview of
                     input methods and more language-specific advice for non-
                     techy persons which led to the new chapter on Language
                     support.

mined 2022.27                    December 2022                        mined(1)
