MISCOM(6)                            Games                           MISCOM(6)

NAME
       miscom - defend cities from missile attack (curses game)

SYNOPSIS
       miscom

DESCRIPTION
       In miscom you must defend cities from missile attack. You do this by
       launching missiles of your own (in a point-and-blast fashion) to
       destroy the enemy missiles before they land.

       The enemy's missiles are either normal missiles or `smart' ones which
       attempt to avoid explosions. (Both look the same.) Further missiles may
       be launched at low-level by an enemy plane. (Indicated by the
       terminal's cursor; it's a bit weird, but you'll know it when you see
       it.) Some missiles may split into multiple warheads. This is extremely
       nasty, so watch out for it.

       You have three bases which can launch missiles. When you press fire to
       launch a missile at the current cursor position, the closest base to
       the target (with ammo remaining) launches it. Ammo remaining is
       indicated under each base. Note that bases can be blown up too - but
       unlike cities, these are restored at the start of the next level.

       Lose all the cities and it's game over (though only after the current
       level has finished). There are no bonus cities.

KEYS
       Use h/j/k/l to move left/down/up/right. Space fires. P pauses the game.

HINTS AND TIPS
       You can use the explosion from one enemy missile to destroy another -
       chaining explosions together like this is the key to not running out of
       ammo. Tricky to do under pressure though.

       It's probably best to tap the movement buttons N times to move rather
       than holding them down.

BUGS
       There are some display glitches. Hopefully they don't get in the way of
       the gameplay. Some of them are intentional to try and keep the speed up
       on slower terminals, but not all can be excused like this.

       There aren't any hi-scores.

       The title screen is crap. Sorry. :-)

       There may be other bugs, but I've tested it a fair bit and it seems to
       work well enough.

       The level numbering starting at zero is, ISTR, not a bug.

AUTHOR
       Graham Richards.

       Russell Marks cleaned it up a bit, added colour and sound, and wrote
       this man page and other documentation.

Version 1.0                    15th March, 1997                      MISCOM(6)
