mit-scheme(1)                                                    mit-scheme(1)

NAME
       mit-scheme - The MIT/GNU Scheme development environment

SYNOPSIS
       mit-scheme [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       MIT/GNU Scheme is an implementation of the Scheme programming language,
       providing an interpreter, compiler, source-code debugger, integrated
       Emacs-like editor, and a large runtime library.  MIT/GNU Scheme is best
       suited to programming large applications with a rapid development
       cycle.

OPTIONS
       These are some of the more common command-line options.  For full
       information about available options, see the Texinfo documentation.
       Additional options may also be supported by the band.  Use the --help
       option (last) to see descriptions of all available command-line
       options.

       --version
              Report various version numbers, then exit.

       --heap NBLOCKS
              Specify the size of the heap in 1024-word blocks.

       --stack NBLOCKS
              Specify the size of the stack in 1024-word blocks.

       --library PATH
              Specify where to look for Scheme's binary files.  PATH should be
              a colon-separated list of directory names.

       --option-summary
              Print the actual values of the machine parameters (like those
              above).

       --no-init-file
              Don't load the user's init file.

       --edit
              Start the text editor after starting Scheme.

       --eval EXPRESSION...
              Evaluate the specified expressions after starting Scheme.

       --load FILENAME...
              Load the specified files after starting Scheme.

FILES
       .scheme.init or SCHEME.INI
              Scheme loads this file first, if it exists in the user's home
              directory.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       MIT/GNU Scheme refers to a large number of environment variables.  See
       the Texinfo documentation for details.

EXAMPLES
       To use the evaluator in a command-line interface, type:

       mit-scheme

       To start the editor and use it as a front-end to the evaluator, type:

       mit-scheme --edit

AUTHORS
       The MIT/GNU Scheme Team <bug-mit-scheme@gnu.org>

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for MIT/GNU Scheme is maintained as a set of
       Texinfo manuals.  If the info program is properly installed at your
       site, the command

              info "MIT/GNU Scheme User"

       should give you access to the complete user's manual.  Programming
       information is located in the Info topics "MIT/GNU Scheme Ref" and
       "SOS".

MIT/GNU Scheme Team                  12.1                        mit-scheme(1)
