mlx5tool(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            mlx5tool(8)

NAME
     mlx5tool – Utility for managing Connect-X 4/5/6 Mellanox network adapters

SYNOPSIS
     mlx5tool -d domain:bus:slot:func -E
     mlx5tool -d domain:bus:slot:func -e
     mlx5tool -d domain:bus:slot:func -f file.mfa2
     mlx5tool -d domain:bus:slot:func -o file -w
     mlx5tool -d domain:bus:slot:func -r
     mlx5tool -d domain:bus:slot:func -z

DESCRIPTION
     The mlx5tool utility is provided for management of the Connect-X4, 5 and
     6 network adapters in the aspects not covered by the generic ifconfig(8)
     command, mostly related to the PCIe attachment and internal card working.
     The utility executes commands on specific adapter, which is addressed
     using device:bus:slot:function conventions of the PCIe buses.  You can
     match adapters ethernet name and addresses using the utility.  The
     address is passed as an argument of the -d option, which must be
     specified for each invocation.

     When the driver detects the malfunctioning of the hardware, or by user
     request, it is possible to create firmware dump, which contains debugging
     information about internal device state, for analysis of the failure by
     the Mellanox support team.

     The following commands are currently implemented:

     -E      Print EEPROM information

     -e      Take the snapshot of the firmware registers state and store it in
             the kernel buffer.  The buffer must be empty, in other words, no
             dumps should be written so far, or existing dump cleared with the

     -f      Flashes the firmware image file.mfa2 to the specified adapter.
             Image must be in MFA2 pack format and contain a component
             suitable for the adapter hardware.

             Typically, PCIe link-level reset is required to activate the
             newly flashed image, which can be performed by the system reboot
             or using the -z option.  -r command for the specified device.

     -r      Clear the stored firmware dump, preparing the kernel buffer for
             the next dump.

     -w      Fetches the stored firmware dump and writes it into the file
             specified by the -o option argument.

     -z      Performs PCIe link-level reset on the specified device.

FILES
     The /dev/mlx5ctl devfs(5) node is used to pass commands to the driver.

SEE ALSO
     mlx5en(4), mlx5ib(4), mlx5io(4), ifconfig(8) and pciconf(8).

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1           May 7, 2019          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
