MLXCONTROL(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          MLXCONTROL(8)

NAME
     mlxcontrol – Mylex DAC-family RAID management utility

SYNOPSIS
     mlxcontrol ⟨command⟩ [args]
     mlxcontrol status [-qv] [drive]
     mlxcontrol rescan controller [controller ...]
     mlxcontrol detach drive [drive ...]
     mlxcontrol detach -a
     mlxcontrol check drive
     mlxcontrol config controller
     mlxcontrol help command

DESCRIPTION
     The mlxcontrol utility provides status monitoring and management
     functions for devices attached to the mlx(4) driver.

     Controller names are of the form "mlxN" where N is the unit number of the
     controller.  Drive names are of the form "mlxdN" where N is the unit
     number of the drive.  Do not specify the path to a device node.

     status   Print the status of controllers and system drives.  If one or
              more drives are specified, only print information about these
              drives, otherwise print information about all controllers and
              drives in the system.  With the -v flag, display much more
              verbose information.  With the -q flag, do not print any output.
              This command returns 0 if all drives tested are online, 1 if one
              or more drives are critical and 2 if one or more are offline.

     rescan   Rescan one or more controllers for non-attached system drives
              (e.g. drives that have been detached or created subsequent to
              driver initialisation).  If the -a flag is supplied, rescan all
              controllers in the system.

     detach   Detach one or more system drives.  Drives must be unmounted and
              not opened by any other utility for this command to succeed.  If
              the -a flag is supplied, detach all system drives from the
              nominated controller.

     check    Initiate a consistency check and repair pass on a redundant
              system drive (e.g. RAID1 or RAID5).  The controller will scan
              the system drive and repair any inconsistencies.  This command
              returns immediately; use the status command to monitor the
              progress of the check.

     rebuild  Requires two arguments, controller and physdrive as specified in
              the output of the status command.  All system drives using space
              on the physical drive physdrive are rebuilt, reconstructing all
              data on the drive.  Note that each controller can only perform
              one rebuild at a time.  This command returns immediately; use
              the status command to monitor the progress of the rebuild.

     config   Print the current configuration from the nominated controller.
              This command will be updated to allow addition/deletion of
              system drives from a configuration in a future release.

     help     Print usage information for command.

AUTHORS
     The mlxcontrol utility was written by Michael Smith <msmith@FreeBSD.org>.

BUGS
     The config command does not yet support modifying system drive
     configuration.

     Error log extraction is not yet supported.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         April 10, 2000         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
