WA_KEYRING(1)                       WebAuth                      WA_KEYRING(1)


NAME
       wa_keyring - WebAuth keyring manipulation tool

SYNOPSIS
       wa_keyring [-hv] -f file command [arg ...]

       wa_keyring -f keyring add valid-after

       wa_keyring -f keyring gc oldest-valid-after-to-keep

       wa_keyring -f keyring list

       wa_keyring -f keyring remove id

DESCRIPTION
       wa_keyring is a command line tool to manage WebAuth key ring files,
       which contain the private AES keys used by mod_webauth and mod_webkdc.
       It supports the following individual commands:

       add valid-after
           Adds a new key to the key ring.  valid-after uses the format:

               nnnn[s|m|h|d|w]

           to indicate a time relative to the current time. The units for the
           time are specified by appending a single letter.  That letter can
           be any of s, m, h, d, or w, which correspond to seconds, minutes,
           hours, days, and weeks respectively.

           For example: 10d is 10 days from the current time, and -60d is 60
           days before the current time.

       gc oldest-valid-after-to-keep
           Garbage collects (removes) old keys on the key ring.  Any keys with
           a valid-after date older then the specified time will be removed
           from the key ring.

           The format for oldest-valid-after-to-keep is the same as valid-
           after from the add command.  Note that this means that times given
           to the gc command should generally be negative, to remove keys that
           have expired in the past.

       list
           Lists all the keys in the key ring.  By default, a brief listing is
           used, but a verbose listing can be requested with the -v option.

           The following fields are present in a short listing:

           id  The index/position of the key in the key ring.

           Created
               The date the key was created.

           Valid after
               The date at which the key becomes valid (in other words, the
               point at which the WebAuth server will start using it to
               encrypt and decrypt new data).

           Fingerprint
               The MD5 digest of the key data.  Used to compare keys in two
               key rings.

           The following fields are present in the long listing:

           Key-Id
               The index/position of the key in the key ring.

           Created
               The date the key was created.

           Valid-After
               The date at which the key becomes valid (in other words, the
               point at which the WebAuth server will start using it to
               encrypt and decrypt new data).

           Key-Type
               The type of key.  Currently, AES is the only supported key
               type.

           Key-Size
               Length in bytes of the key.

           Fingerprint
               The MD5 digest of the key data. Used to compare keys in two key
               rings.

       remove id
           Remove the key with ID id from the key ring.

       For any of the commands that change the keyring, wa_keyring must have
       write access to the directory containing the keyring, since keyrings
       are updated by writing out the new file to a separate name and then
       atomically replacing the file.

       Ownership (user and group) of the existing keyring file will be
       preserved if possible without overwriting the existing file.
       Permissions will also be preserved, with the exception that permissions
       will not be copied to the new file if the old file was group-readable
       or group-writable and setting the group ownership failed.

EXAMPLES
       Add a key to the keyring valid as of the current time:

           wa_keyring -f keyring add 0d

       Add a key to the keyring that will be valid three days from now:

           wa_keyring -f keyring add 3d

       Remove keys from the key ring that became invalid more than 90 days
       ago:

           wa_keyring -f keyring gc -90d

       Remove the first key in the keyring.

           wa_keyring -f keyring remove 0

       Display a verbose listing of all of the keys in the key ring:

           wa_keyring -f keyring -v list

       Note that a WebAuth server will normally manage its keyring file by
       itself, and wa_keyring is normally only used for debugging purposes.
       However, if you are setting up a load-balanced pool of servers that
       need to all share the same keys, turn off automatic keyring handling by
       putting the line:

           WebAuthKeyringAutoUpdate off

       to your Apache configuration, running a script periodically from cron
       on one server that does something like:

           wa_keyring -f keyring gc -90d
           wa_keyring -f keyring add 2d

       and then copying (in a secure manner!) the new keyring file to all of
       the other servers.

AUTHOR
       Roland Schemers <schemers@stanford.edu>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2002, 2004, 2005, 2014 The Board of Trustees of the Leland
       Stanford Junior University

       Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
       are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
       without any warranty.

4.7.0                             2014-12-10                     WA_KEYRING(1)
