ML(1)                               Modules                              ML(1)

NAME
       ml - handy command interface to the Modules package

SYNOPSIS
       ml [switches] [sub-command [sub-command-args]]

       ml [switches] [[-]modulefile...]

DESCRIPTION
       ml is a user interface to the Modules package. The Modules package
       provides for the dynamic modification of the user's environment via
       modulefiles.

       ml acts as a shortcut command to the module command thus it supports
       all the command line switches and module sub-commands that are
       supported by module.

       ml also provides handy shortcuts to list currently loaded modulefiles,
       when no argument is provided to ml; to load modulefiles, when
       modulefile names are passed right after ml command name; to unload
       modulefiles, when modulefile names prefixed by a minus sign (-) are
       passed right after ml command name.

       Multiple modulefiles to load and to unload can be specified on a single
       ml command line. In this situation unloads are treated first in
       specified order, then loads are processed also in specified order (see
       EXAMPLES section below).

       If an error occurs among either modulefile loads or unloads, command
       line processing is stopped and every unloads and loads performed are
       rolled back.  Conversely, if ml is removed from abort_on_error
       configuration option list or if --force option is set, unload and load
       sequence continues: already achieved module evaluations are kept and
       unload then load sequence is resumed with the remaining modulefiles.

       ml command line is parsed first to match every known command line
       switches or module sub-commands. So to load a modulefile via the ml
       shortcut syntax, modulefile name should not equal a module sub-command
       name.  Moreover to unload a modulefile via the ml shortcut syntax,
       modulefile name should not equal a command line switch short name.

       See the DESCRIPTION section in module for the list of supported command
       line switches and module sub-commands.

EXAMPLES
       Loading modulefile foo then look at currently loaded modulefiles:

          $ ml foo
          $ ml
          Currently Loaded Modulefiles:
           1) foo

       Unloading modulefile foo then list modulefiles still loaded:

          $ ml -foo
          $ ml
          No Modulefiles Currently Loaded.

       Mixing load and unload of modulefiles in a single command. All
       specified unloads are processed first then loads are performed:

          $ ml -v -foo bar -baz qux
          Unloading foo
          Unloading baz
          Loading bar
          Loading qux

EXIT STATUS
       The ml command exits with 0 if its execution succeed. Elsewhere 1 is
       returned.

ENVIRONMENT
       See the ENVIRONMENT section in module for the list of supported
       environment variables.

SEE ALSO
       module, modulefile

COPYRIGHT
       1996-1999 John L. Furlani & Peter W. Osel, 1998-2017 R.K.Owen,
       2002-2004 Mark Lakata, 2004-2017 Kent Mein, 2016-2024 Xavier Delaruelle

5.4.0                             2024-02-20                             ML(1)
