mfsexports.cfg(5)           This is part of MooseFS          mfsexports.cfg(5)

NAME
     mfsexports.cfg - MooseFS access control for mfsmounts

DESCRIPTION
     The file mfsexports.cfg contains MooseFS access list for mfsmount
     clients.

SYNTAX
     Syntax is:

     ADDRESS DIRECTORY [OPTIONS]

     Lines starting with # character are ignored as comments.

     ADDRESS can be specified in several forms:

     *                   all addresses
     n.n.n.n             single IP address
     n.n.n.n/b           IP class specified by network address and number of significant bits
     n.n.n.n/m.m.m.m     IP class specified by network address and mask
     f.f.f.f-t.t.t.t     IP range specified by from-to addresses (inclusive)

     DIRECTORY can be / or path relative to MooseFS root; special value .
     means MFSMETA companion filesystem.

     OPTIONS list:

     ro, readonly
            export tree in read-only mode; this is default

     rw, readwrite
            export tree in read-write mode

     alldirs
            allows to mount any subdirectory of specified directory (similarly
            to NFS)

     dynamicip
            allows reconnecting of already authenticated client from any IP
            address (the default is to check IP address on reconnect)

     ignoregid
            disable testing of group access at mfsmaster level (it's still
            done at mfsmount level) - in this case "group" and "other"
            permissions are logically added; needed for supplementary groups
            to work (mfsmaster receives only user primary group information)

     admin  administrative privileges:
            changing quota values
            storage classes management - adding, deleting, modifying
            patterns management - adding, deleting
            using storage classes with admin flag (setting, overwriting)
            manipulating UNDELETABLE, APPENDONLY and IMMUTABLE flags in
            filesystem objects

     maproot=USER[:GROUP]
            maps root (uid=0) accesses to given user and group (similarly to
            maproot option in NFS mounts); USER and GROUP can be given either
            as name or number; if no group is specified, USER's primary group
            is used. Names are resolved on mfsmaster side (see note below).

     mapall=USER[:GROUP]
            like above but maps all non privileged users (uid!=0) accesses to
            given user and group (see notes below).

     umask=0###
            this umask is added (OR) to user's umask and the resulting umask
            is used in this mount point

     sclassgroups=-|N[:N[:...]]
            if this option is not defined, any storage class can be set by
            user in this mount point, if it is defined, only storage classes
            belonging to listed groups can be set; to define no groups (user
            cannot set any storage class) use '-' (minus) sign; for
            explanation on how to add a storage class to a group see
            mfsscadmin(1); for more detailed explanation see STORAGE CLASS
            GROUPS

     password=PASS, md5pass=MD5
            requires password authentication in order to access specified
            resource

     minversion=VER
            rejects access from clients older than specified

     mintrashretention=TIME, maxtrashretention=TIME
            specify range in which trash retention can be set by users

     mintrashtime=TDUR, maxtrashtime=TDUR
            deprecated options (function similalry as above)

     disable=OPERATION[:OPERATION[:...]]
            do not allow the client to perform certain operations

     Default options are: ro, maproot=999:999, mintrashretention=0,
     maxtrashretention=4294967295.

     Note! Default value for maxtrashretention is impossible to be set by
     user, so if the value is not set, then it can be considered close to
     infinity, but if it is set, then the maximum is 65535 hours (~390 weeks).

NOTES
     USER and GROUP names (if not specified by explicit uid/gid number) are
     resolved on mfsmaster host.

     TDUR (deprecated) can be specified as number without time unit (number of
     seconds) or combination of numbers with time units. Time units are:
     W,D,H,M,S. Order is important - less significant time units can't be
     defined before more significant time units.

     TIME can be specified as a number of hours (integer) or as a time period
     in one of two possible formats: first format: #.#T where T is one of: h-
     hours, d-days or w-weeks; fractions of minimum unit will be rounded to
     integer value; second format: #w#d#h, any number of definitions can be
     omitted, but the remaining definitions must be in order (so #w#h is still
     a valid definition, but #h#w is not); ranges: h: 0 to 23, d: 0 to 6, w is
     unlimited and the first definition is also always unlimited (i.e. for
     #d#h d will be unlimited)

     Time units/periods are case insensitive.

     Option mapall works in MooseFS in different way than in NFS, because
     MooseFS is using FUSE's "default_permissions" option. When mapall option
     is used, users see all objects with uid equal to mapped uid as their own
     and all other as root's objects. Similarly objects with gid equal to
     mapped gid are seen as objects with current user's primary group and all
     other objects as objects with group 0 (usually wheel). With mapall option
     set attribute cache in kernel is always turned off.

     Option disable can take many parameters (operations to disable) in two
     ways: as a list separated by colons (:) or by repeating the option many
     times.  List of operations that can be disabled:
     chown        - don't allow the client to perform the chown operation
     chmod        - don't allow the client to perform the chmod operation
     symlink      - don't allow the client to create symbolic links
     mkfifo       - don't allow the client to create FIFOs
     mkdev        - don't allow the client to create devices
     mksock       - don't allow the client to create sockets
     mkdir        - don't allow the client to create directories
     unlink       - don't allow the client to remove non directory objects (will also deny move/rename operation if target inode already exists!)
     rmdir        - don't allow the client to remove directories (will also deny move/rename operation if target inode already exists!)
     rename       - don't allow the client to change inodes (files, directories) names
     move         - don't allow the client to move inodes (files, directories) to another path
     link         - don't allow the client to create hard links
     create       - don't allow the client to create new files
     readdir      - don't allow the client to list directories ('ls' command will not work)
     read         - don't allow the client to read from files
     write        - don't allow the client to write to files
     truncate     - don't allow the client to shorten the length of a file with truncate command
     setlength    - don't allow the client to increase the length of a file with truncate command
     appendchunks - don't allow the client to add chunks from one file to another (mfsappendchunks)
     snapshot     - don't allow the client to create snapshots
     settrash     - don't allow the client to change trash retention time
     setsclass    - don't allow the client to set storage classes
     seteattr     - don't allow the client to set mfs extra attributes
     setxattr     - don't allow the client to set XATTRs
     setfacl      - don't allow the client to set ACLs

   STORAGE CLASS GROUPS
     A system admin may not want MooseFS users to be able to apply just any
     Storage Class to data, for security reasons. Therefore MooseFS provides a
     way to only allow for certain Storage Classes to be used in a mountpoint.

     First, selected Storage Classes must be assigned to one of 16 (numbered
     from 0 to 15) Storage Class Groups. This is done when creating or
     modifying a Storage Class with mfsscadmin tool (see mfsscadmin(1)). Once
     a group is properly defined, when option sclassgroups is used in a
     definition of a mountpoint export, a user using this mountpoint export
     can only apply (set) Storage Classes from the defined group, when they
     use the mfssclass tool.

     Example: if there are four different Storage Classes defined in a
     cluster, two of them assigned to group 0, two to group 1, and a
     mountpoint export only allows to use Storage Classes from group 1, users
     will only be able to set the two Storage Classes that are assigned to
     group 1, an attempt to set a Storage Class assigned to group 0 will
     result in an error and the file's class will not be changed. This does
     NOT affect the Storage Class inheritance rule, that is, if a user creates
     a new file in a directory belonging to a Storage Class in group 0, this
     file will belong to the same class in group 0. But if the user
     subsequently changes the file's Storage Class to one of the classes they
     are allowed to use (from group 1), they cannot change it back to its
     original Storage Class, as that class belongs to "forbidden" group 0.

     Important! Default Storage Class group is 0, unless another is explicitly
     set when creating or modifying a Storage Class, so for the purpose of
     limiting the availability of Storage Classes for users it's better to use
     group numbers greater than 0.

     Legacy systems Up to MooseFS version 4.56.6 the mechanism of Storage
     Class Groups did not exist. Instead, there were two options mingoal and
     maxgoal, inherited from previous versions of MooseFS. If any of them were
     set, a user would be allowed to use only legacy Storage Classes (classes
     with IDs 1 to 9, named "1" to "9", with KEEP definitions 1* to 9*) with
     name not lower than mingoal and not higher than maxgoal plus any admin
     defined classes (ID>9). To simulate this behaviour, in case of an upgrade
     from a version that still had these classes and also used mingoal and
     maxgoal in config, the system will assign those legacy classes "1" to "9"
     to groups 1 to 9, respectively and will convert any mingoal and maxgoal
     to appropriate sclassgroups expression. Example: if mingoal is set to 3
     and maxgoal is set to 5, sclassgroups will be set to 0,3,4,5 - 0 to allow
     users to use admin-defined classes, 3,4,5 to allow the use of legacy
     classes "3","4" and "5". The old settings should not be used, system
     admins should instead define Storage Class Groups of their choice and use
     the sclassgroups option explicitly.

EXAMPLES
     *                    /       ro
     192.168.1.0/24       /       rw
     192.168.1.0/24       /       rw,alldirs,maproot=0,password=passcode
     10.0.0.0-10.0.0.5    /test   rw,maproot=nobody,password=test
     10.1.0.0/255.255.0.0 /public rw,mapall=1000:1000
     10.2.0.0/16          /       rw,alldirs,maproot=0,mintrashretention=2d12h,maxtrashretention=2w
     192.168.1.0/24       /       rw,disable=unlink:rmdir:truncate
     192.168.1.0/24       /       rw,disable=unlink,disable=rmdir,disable=truncate

REPORTING BUGS
     Report bugs to <bugs@moosefs.com>.

COPYRIGHT
     Copyright (C) 2026 Jakub Kruszona-Zawadzki, Saglabs SA

     This file is part of MooseFS.

     MooseFS is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
     the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
     Software Foundation, version 2 (only).

     MooseFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
     ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
     FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
     more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
     with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

SEE ALSO
     mfsmaster(8), mfsmaster.cfg(5)

MooseFS 4.59.1-1                   May 2026                  mfsexports.cfg(5)
