MORSE(6)                     FreeBSD Games Manual                     MORSE(6)

NAME
     morse – reformat input as morse code

SYNOPSIS
     morse [-elrps] [-d device] [-w speed] [-c speed] [-f frequency]
           [string ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The morse command reads the given input and reformats it in the form of
     morse code.  Acceptable input are command line arguments or the standard
     input.

     Available options:

     -l      The -l option produces output suitable for led(4) devices.

     -s      The -s option produces dots and dashes rather than words.

     -p      Send morse the real way.  This only works if your system has
             speaker(4) support.

     -w speed
             Set the sending speed in words per minute.  If not specified, the
             default speed of 20 WPM is used.

     -c speed
             Farnsworth support.  Set the spacing between characters in words
             per minute.  This is independent of the speed that the individual
             characters are sent.  If not specified, defaults to the effective
             value of the -w option.

     -f frequency
             Set the sidetone frequency to something other than the default
             600 Hz.

     -d device
             Similar to -p, but use the RTS line of device (which must be a
             TTY device) in order to emit the morse code.

     -e      Echo each character before it is sent, used together with either
             -p or -d.

     -r      Decode morse output consisting of dots and dashes (as generated
             by using the -s option).

     The -w, -c and -f flags only work in conjunction with either the -p or
     the -d flag.

     Not all prosigns have corresponding characters.  Use ‘#’ for AS, ‘&’ for
     SK, ‘*’ for VE and ‘%’ for BK.  The more common prosigns are ‘=’ for BT,
     ‘(’ for KN and ‘+’ for AR.

     Using the -d flag, it is possible to key an external device, like a
     sidetone generator with a headset for training purposes, or even your ham
     radio transceiver.  For the latter, simply connect an NPN transistor to
     the serial port device, emitter connected to ground, base connected
     through a resistor (few kiloohms) to RTS, collector to the key line of
     your transceiver (assuming the transceiver has a positive key supply
     voltage and is keyed by grounding the key input line).  A capacitor (some
     nanofarads) between base and ground is advisable to keep stray RF away,
     and to suppress the minor glitch that is generated during program
     startup.

ENVIRONMENT
     Your LC_CTYPE locale codeset determines how characters with the high-
     order bit set are interpreted.

     ISO8859-1
     ISO8859-15      Interpret characters with the high-order bit set as
                     Western European characters.

     KOI8-R          Interpret characters with the high-order bit set as
                     Cyrillic characters.

     ISO8859-7       Interpret characters with the high-order bit set as Greek
                     characters.

FILES
     /dev/speaker      speaker(4) device file

SEE ALSO
     speaker(4)

HISTORY
     Sound support for morse added by Lyndon Nerenberg (VE6BBM)
     <lyndon@orthanc.ca>.

     Ability to key an external device added by Jörg Wunsch (DL8DTL).

     Farnsworth support for morse added by Stephen Cravey (N5UUU).

BUGS
     Only understands a few European characters (German and French), no Asian
     characters, and no continental landline code.

     Sends a bit slower than it should due to system overhead.  Some people
     would call this a feature.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         January 5, 2018        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
