MOUNT_CD9660(8)         FreeBSD System Manager's Manual        MOUNT_CD9660(8)

NAME
     mount_cd9660 – mount an ISO-9660 file system

SYNOPSIS
     mount_cd9660 [-begjrv] [-C charset] [-o options] [-s startsector]
                  special node

DESCRIPTION
     The mount_cd9660 utility attaches the ISO-9660 file system residing on
     the device special to the global file system namespace at the location
     indicated by node.  This command is normally executed by mount(8) at boot
     time.

     The options are as follows:

     -b      Relax checking for Supplementary Volume Descriptor Flags field
             which is set to a wrong value on some Joliet formatted disks.

     -e      Enable the use of extended attributes.

     -g      Do not strip version numbers on files.  (By default, if there are
             files with different version numbers on the disk, only the last
             one will be listed.)  In either case, files may be opened without
             explicitly stating a version number.

     -j      Do not use any Joliet extensions included in the file system.

     -o      Options are specified with a -o flag followed by a comma
             separated string of options.  See the mount(8) man page for
             possible options and their meanings.  The following cd9660
             specific options are available:

             extatt        Same as -e.
             gens          Same as -g.
             nojoliet      Same as -j.
             norrip        Same as -r.
             brokenjoliet  Same as -b.

     -r      Do not use any Rockridge extensions included in the file system.

     -s startsector
             Start the file system at startsector.  Normally, if the
             underlying device is a CD-ROM drive, mount_cd9660 will try to
             figure out the last track from the CD-ROM containing data, and
             start the file system there.  If the device is not a CD-ROM, or
             the table of contents cannot be examined, the file system will be
             started at sector 0.  This option can be used to override the
             behaviour.  Note that startsector is measured in CD-ROM blocks,
             with 2048 bytes each.  This is the same as for example the info
             command of cdcontrol(1) is printing.  It is possible to mount an
             arbitrary session of a multi-session CD by specifying the correct
             startsector here.

     -C charset
             Specify local charset to convert Unicode file names when using
             Joliet extensions.

     -v      Be verbose about the starting sector decisions made.

EXAMPLES
     The following command can be used to mount a Kodak Photo-CD:

           mount_cd9660 -o rw -v -s 0 /dev/cd0 /cdrom

SEE ALSO
     cdcontrol(1), mount(2), unmount(2), cd9660(5), fstab(5), mdconfig(8),
     mount(8)

HISTORY
     The mount_cd9660 utility first appeared in 4.4BSD.

     The Unicode conversion routine was added by Ryuichiro Imura
     <imura@ryu16.org> in 2003.

BUGS
     POSIX device node mapping is currently not supported.

     Version numbers are not stripped if Rockridge extensions are in use.  In
     this case, accessing files that do not have Rockridge names without
     version numbers gets the one with the lowest version number and not the
     one with the highest.

     There is no ECMA support.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 11, 2018        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
