MOUNTD(8)               FreeBSD System Manager's Manual              MOUNTD(8)

NAME
     mountd – service remote NFS mount requests

SYNOPSIS
     mountd [-2delnrS] [-h bindip] [-p port] [exportsfile ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The mountd utility is the server for NFS mount requests from other client
     machines.  It listens for service requests at the port indicated in the
     NFS server specification; see Network File System Protocol Specification,
     RFC1094, Appendix A and NFS: Network File System Version 3 Protocol
     Specification, RFC1813, Appendix I.

     The following options are available:

     -2      Allow the administrator to force clients to use only the version
             2 NFS protocol to mount file systems from this server.

     -d      Output debugging information.  mountd will not detach from the
             controlling terminal and will print debugging messages to stderr.

     -e      Ignored; included for backward compatibility.

     -h bindip
             Specify specific IP addresses to bind to for TCP and UDP
             requests.  This option may be specified multiple times.  If no -h
             option is specified, mountd will bind to INADDR_ANY.  Note that
             when specifying IP addresses with -h, mountd will automatically
             add 127.0.0.1 and if IPv6 is enabled, ::1 to the list.

     -l      Cause all succeeded mountd requests to be logged.

     -n      Allow non-root mount requests to be served.  This should only be
             specified if there are clients such as PC's, that require it.  It
             will automatically clear the vfs.nfsd.nfs_privport sysctl flag,
             which controls if the kernel will accept NFS requests from
             reserved ports only.

     -p port
             Force mountd to bind to the specified port, for both AF_INET and
             AF_INET6 address families.  This is typically done to ensure that
             the port which mountd binds to is a known quantity which can be
             used in firewall rulesets.  If mountd cannot bind to this port,
             an appropriate error will be recorded in the system log, and the
             daemon will then exit.

     -r      Allow mount RPCs requests for regular files to be served.
             Although this seems to violate the mount protocol specification,
             some diskless workstations do mount requests for their swapfiles
             and expect them to be regular files.  Since a regular file cannot
             be specified in /etc/exports, the entire file system in which the
             swapfiles resides will have to be exported with the -alldirs
             flag.

     exportsfile
             Specify an alternate location for the exports file.  More than
             one exports file can be specified.

     -S      Tell mountd to suspend/resume execution of the nfsd threads
             whenever the exports list is being reloaded.  This avoids
             intermittent access errors for clients that do NFS RPCs while the
             exports are being reloaded, but introduces a delay in RPC
             response while the reload is in progress.  If mountd crashes
             while an exports load is in progress, mountd must be restarted to
             get the nfsd threads running again, if this option is used.

     When mountd is started, it loads the export host addresses and options
     into the kernel using the mount(2) system call.  After changing the
     exports file, a hangup signal should be sent to the mountd daemon to get
     it to reload the export information.  After sending the SIGHUP (kill -s
     HUP `cat /var/run/mountd.pid`), check the syslog output to see if mountd
     logged any parsing errors in the exports file.

     If mountd detects that the running kernel does not include NFS support,
     it will attempt to load a loadable kernel module containing NFS code,
     using kldload(2).  If this fails, or no NFS KLD was available, mountd
     exits with an error.

FILES
     /etc/exports         the list of exported file systems
     /var/run/mountd.pid  the pid of the currently running mountd
     /var/db/mountdtab    the current list of remote mounted file systems

SEE ALSO
     nfsstat(1), kldload(2), nfsv4(4), exports(5), nfsd(8), rpcbind(8),
     showmount(8)

HISTORY
     The mountd utility first appeared in 4.4BSD.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 1, 2019         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
