mp3blaster(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          mp3blaster(1)

NAME
       mp3blaster - An interactive text-console based mp3 player.

SYNOPSIS
       mp3blaster [options]

       mp3blaster [options]  [file ...]
              Play one or more audio files from the command-line

       mp3blaster [options] --list|-l playlist.lst
              Load a playlist at startup but don't start playing.

       mp3blaster [options] --autolist|-a playlist.lst
              Load a playlist at startup and start playing.

DESCRIPTION
       Mp3blaster is an interactive audio player for the text-console with
       unique playlist abilities no other programs offer. Its interface is at
       least equally powerful as those featured in GUI players, without
       requiring bulky graphical environments.

       The most important feature of mp3blaster however is the playlist, which
       structure is comparable to that of a filesystem: Songs (files) can be
       grouped together in `groups' (directories). With one function, you can
       load all your albums as groups into mp3blaster's playlist, so that you
       can shuffle your albums instead of your songs. Of course, you can also
       load all files into the playlist and shuffle them, just like regular
       players.

       The interface is described in the INTERFACE ELEMENTS section.

       The configuration file is described in the MP3BLASTERRC section.

       The different program modes are described in the PROGRAM MODES section.

       The playlist playback modes are described in the PLAYMODES section.

       Who coded this program? How to report bugs? It's in the AUTHORS and
       BUGS section at the end of this manual.


COMMAND-LINE PARAMETERS
       --downsample,-2
              Downsample audio to 22Khz (necessary on some ancient soundcards,
              but it can also be used to use less CPU time)

       --8bits,-8
              Convert audio to 8bits (necessary on 8bit soundcards, but it can
              also be used to use less CPU time)

       --chroot=rootdir, -o=rootdir
              Set <rootdir> as mp3blaster's root dir. This affects ALL file
              operations in mp3blaster!! (including reading and writing of
              playlists).  Note that only users with uid 0 (i.e. root) can use
              this option (yet). This feature should be changed so it won't
              require root privileges. Only install it suid root if you trust
              all local users!!!!.

       --config-file,-c=<file>
              Use <file> as config-file instead of ~/.mp3blasterrc

       --debug, -d
              Log debug-info in $HOME/.mp3blaster (use this when sending
              bugreports!)

       --status-file, -f
              Write info on the mp3's being played to the specified file.

       --help,-h
              Gets you this nice list of command-line parameters.

       --mixer-device/-m=<devicename>
              Set the mixer device to use (default = /dev/mixer). For NAS
              audio mixing, use 'NAS'.  (NOTE: NAS support doesn't work in
              version 3.0 or above yet)

       --no-mixer, -n
              Don't start the built-in mixer.

       --playmode/-p=(onegroup,allgroups,allrandom}
              Default playing mode is resp. Play first group only, Play all
              groups, Play all songs in random order.

       --dont-quit,-q
              Don't quit after playing all command-line supplied mp3's (only
              makes sense in combination with --autolist or files from
              command-line)

       --repeat/-R
              Repeat the playlist indefinitely.

       --runframes/-r=<number>
              Number or frames to decode in one loop. Range: 1 to 10
              (default=5).  On slow machines, a lower number might improve
              reaction time of the interface, but it's quite unlikely this
              will have any effect from version 3.0 on)

       --sound-device/-s=<devicename>
              Select the audio device you wish to use for sound playback
              (default /dev/dsp or /dev/audio for OpenBSD). If you want to
              play over NAS (Network Audio System), give the audioserver's
              address here (usually $DISPLAY, e.g. a host name followed by a
              colon and a server number, like bla.foo.com:0). (NOTE: NAS
              support doesn't work in version 3.0 or above yet)

       --threads/-t=<amount>
              Numbers of threads to use for buffering. Range is 0..500 in
              increments of 50.  0 threads means no buffering (thus no hiccup
              prevention).

       --version,-v
              Displays mp3blaster's version number.


INTERFACE ELEMENTS
       Since version 3.0, mp3blaster's interface has changed drastically to
       make it easier to use, without losing functionality. Press '?' to get a
       description of all the commands within mp3blaster. You can scroll up
       and down this helpfile using the cursor keys and pageup/pagedown. To
       leave the help, press '?' again.

       All keybindings mentioned from here on are the default keybindings.
       Most of them can be altered in mp3blaster's config file (see section
       MP3BLASTERRC)

       Keybindings window
              In the top of the screen is the keybindings window. In it you
              will find all keybindings that you can use in the mode
              mp3blaster is in at that time.  If you change modes, the
              keybindings are dynamically updated. To scroll through this
              window, use '-' and '+'.


       Info window
              This window is located directly beneath the keybindings window.
              It displays the global playmode (see section PLAYMODES), and the
              next song to be played (if appropriate). Next to it is a small
              window which displays technical information about the current
              song.


       Main window
              This window is located directly underneath the info window. Its
              content is usually determined by the mode mp3blaster is in (see
              section PROGRAM MODES).  If you're editing the playlist, the
              playlist is shown. In file manager mode, you will see the
              directory you're currently in. In help mode, the help text is
              being displayed.


       CD-style window
              This is the window next to the main window. Here you will find
              the cd-style controls, as well as checkboxes for shuffle/repeat
              mode. When a song is being played, you can see the elapsed/total
              time here as well.


       Status window
              It's underneath the main window, and displays status information
              like song title, hints, etc. In the top-left, a CD-player style
              symbol is shown to indicate what mp3blaster is doing during
              playback.


       Mixer window
              The mixer is right next to the status window. Although very
              compact, it's a full sound mixer. Press 't' to toggle between
              all available mixer devices.  Press '<' and '>' to
              decrease/increase the volume of the currently selected mixer
              device.


PROGRAM MODES
       Playlist Editor
              By default, mp3blaster starts with the playlist editor. All
              keybindings specific to playlist editing are listed in the
              keybindings window.  The playlist consists of one or more
              groups. Each group can have its own groupname and can contain
              supported audio files. You can toggle shuffle mode for each
              group independently. Many users will simply use the single
              (root) group that mp3blaster starts with. In that case,
              shuffling all songs is simply a question of toggling the
              GroupShuffle mode (default keybinding: F7).

              If you have multiple groups, and you want to shuffle all songs
              from all groups, you will have to set the global playback mode
              (see section PLAYMODES). Without shuffling, the songs will be
              played in the order you added them from the file manager. Groups
              can be nested inside other groups. For example, you could make a
              group for each music genre you are interested in. Within each
              genre, you can add subgenres, and in the subgenres you can add
              albums as groups. Starting and stopping a playlist can be done
              with '5' (default keybinding for the Play button). If you stop
              playback using the Stop button, all information about which song
              has already been played is lost. If you want to stop playback to
              continue later, pause the current song.
              In the main window, the contents of the currently selected group
              is shown.  By default, this is the 'root' group. Other groups
              are denoted by square brackets and a purple colour. You can
              enter other groups simply by highlighting them and pressing
              enter. If you enter the file manager, files will be added in the
              group that was selected in the main window. This even works for
              playlists; if you load a playlist from the file manager (which
              you always do), it will be added in the current group! Using
              this feature, you can merge multiple playlists into one.
              If you're listening to your current playlist, but you want to
              hear another song in between, you can simply do so by
              highlighting this song (either in playlist mode or file manager
              mode) and pressing enter. When the song is finished, the
              playlist continues with the next song in the list.


       File Manager
              You can enter the file manager by pressing F1 from the playlist
              editor. The interface is almost identical to that of the
              playlist editor, but you can tell the mode you're in by looking
              at the keybindings in the keybindings window which is
              automatically updated.  In the file manager, you can add files
              to the group you had currently selected in the playlist editor.
              You can also listen to a file by selecting it with the
              highlighted bar and pressing enter over it.  Adding files can be
              done in 2 ways: Selecting a file by moving the bar over it and
              pressing the spacebar, or by recursively selecting all files in
              the current directory and all directories in it. If you select
              some files, change to another directory (by pressing enter over
              one) and then select some more files, the old selection will not
              be lost, even though you can't see it on your screen at the
              time. As soon as you return to the playlist editor by using F1,
              you will see they have been added to the group in the order in
              which you selected them.  However, you can't deselect selected
              files as soon as you change into another directory: you'll have
              to remove them from the playlist editor.  A quick way of
              selecting *all* files in the current directory is to invert the
              selection (using F2) when none are selected. If you want to
              select all files but one, select the one you don't want and then
              invert the selection.
              The recursive selection can be done in two ways: By pressing F3,
              you add all audiofiles that are found in the current directory
              and all directories in it.  By using F5 (add dirs as groups),
              mp3's are added in groups that are named like the directory the
              mp3's were in. This is an ultimately fast way of making a
              playlist grouped by albums!
              Help for other keybindings can be found inside mp3blaster by
              pressing '?' (note that this leaves file manager mode!)

       Help mode
              You can get in this mode by pressing '?'. Leave it by pressing
              '?' again.  It will always return you to playlist mode.

       Playing Mode
              Mp3blaster versions prior to version 3.0 featured another
              distinctly different mode: the playing mode. The reason for this
              was that it wasn't possible to edit a playlist and play mp3's at
              the same time. Since this is now possible, playing songs is
              possible in all program modes. Keybindings specific to playback
              are always listed in the keybindings window.


PLAYMODES
       The order in which files are played in the playlist is determined by
       two settings: The global playback mode (displayed in the info window),
       and each group's independent shuffle setting. The 'current group' in
       the global playback modes means: The group that is shown in the main
       window at the time the playlist was started. This is important, since
       it enables you to play a subsection of your playlist instead of playing
       the entire list.
       These are the global playback modes:

       Play current group, including subgroups
              Plays all songs shown in the current group, as well as all songs
              in all subgroups. First, all groups will be played in the order
              you have added them (unless the current group's shuffle is
              enabled, then the order is randomly determined). Then, the songs
              in the group itself will be played.  You can determine for each
              individual group whether you want to shuffle the songs in them
              or not, by enabling the group's shuffle setting.

       Play current group, but not its subgroups
              This is essentially the same as the previous mode, except that
              subgroups in this group will be skipped.

       Shuffle all songs from all groups
              This is comparable to the 'shuffle' mode that all players
              support: It ignores the group structure totally, and simply
              shuffles all songs in a completely random order.


MP3BLASTERRC
       You can store many settings and keybindings in a config file. By
       default, mp3blaster will look for ~/.mp3blasterrc, unless you specify
       another file on the command-line (using -c/--config-file).

       The structure of the config file is pretty straightforward. Look at
       sample.mp3blasterrc in your share or share/doc directory for a quick
       example.  Lines starting with a '#' are ignored. You can use them to
       put comments on.  All other lines consist of a keyword/value pair like
       this:

       Keyword = Value

       Some keywords can have multiple values, in that case it's:

       Keyword = Value1, Value2

       Escape comma's in a value with a backslash (). If you want a literal
       backslash, escape it with another backslash (\). Keywords are case-
       sensitive.

       There are a few types of values: numbers, booleans, keybindings,
       colours, and everything else is a string. The syntax of these types
       are:

       numbers
              Numerical values, in decimal notation.

       booleans
              yes/no, 1/0, or true/false (case-insensitive)

       keybindings
              Single-character keybindings represent themselves. If you want
              to specify a scancode, the syntax is 's<hex-digit><hex-digit>'.
              All others are special canonical names: 'spc' (space), 'ent'
              (enter), 'kp0'..'kp9' (keypad 0..9), 'ins' (insert), 'hom'
              (home), 'del' (delete), 'end' (end), 'pup' (pageup), 'pdn'
              (pagedown), 'f1'..'f12', 'up'/'dwn'/'lft'/'rig' (cursor keys),
              'bsp' (backspace).

       colours
              One of: black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white

       These keywords are currently supported:

       AudioDriver (string)
              Which audiodriver to use for playback. Currently, you can choose
              between the following drivers: oss, esd, nas and sdl. If SDL is
              available, it will be used by default. OSS is the next
              alternative. ESD should only be used if everything else fails.
              Note that, if you use SDL as audio driver, you can select from
              many output devices by setting the environment variable
              SDL_AUDIODRIVER. This is an SDL feature, please refer to the FAQ
              on libsdl.org for more information.

       AudiofileMatching (list of strings)
              List of file patterns (in regexp format) that determines which
              files will be considered audiofiles (default: all files ending
              on .mp3, .wav, and files starting with 'http://' for http
              streaming). Check sample.mp3blasterrc for a good example.

       CharsetTable (string)
              Specify a character recoding table which maps ID3 songinfo to
              your local charset. For more info about how to create one, see
              the README in the installed mp3blaster documentation (usually
              /usr/local/share/mp3blaster) for more information. An example
              which recodes the Russian win1251 charset to the koi8-r charset
              is included.


       DownFrequency (boolean)
              If true, downsample audio output to 22Khz instead of 44Khz
              (necessary on some ancient soundcards, like genuine Soundblaster
              Pro's)

       File.ID3Names (boolean)
              If enabled, the display mode in the file manager will show mp3's
              by their ID3-tag by default, instead of their filename.
              (default: disabled) (TODO: Make this directive a string with
              printf-like format for the id3tag fields).

       File.SortMode (string)
              Determines the default file sorting mode for the file manager.
              Valid modes are: alpha (default), alpha-case, modify-new,
              modify-old, size-small, size-big, none.

       HideOtherFiles (boolean)
              If enabled, non-audio/playlist files will not be shown in the
              file manager.

       MixerDevice (string)
              Mixer device to use for mixing (default: /dev/mixer).

       PlaylistDir (string)
              Directory path where playlists are stored (default:
              ~/.mp3blaster_playlists)

       PlaylistMatching (list of strings)
              List of file patterns (in regexp format) that determine which
              files are considered playlists (default: all files ending on
              .lst/.m3u). Syntax identical to that of AudiofileMatching.

       ScanMP3 (boolean)
              If set, it will read each mp3 file before playing, to calculate
              VBR total time. This might be impractical if mp3's are streamed
              over a slow network connection, because the entire file will be
              read. Scanning is unnecessary if the mp3 has a so-called XING
              header (which most VBR mp3's have, nowadays).  Default:
              disabled.

       SelectItems.UnselectFirst (boolean)
              When selecting files from the filemanager or playlist using
              'Select some items', unselect previously selected items prior to
              selecting matching new ones if this option is set. (default:
              disabled)

       SelectItems.SearchRegex (boolean)
              If set, use extended regular expression to match files instead
              of using the global (fnmatch-style) matching. This is for the
              'Select some items' feature.  (default: disabled)

       SelectItems.SearchCaseInsensitive (boolean)
              If set, search case-insensitive when using 'Select some items'
              feature. (default: enabled)

       SkipLength (number)
              How many seconds to skip when forwarding or rewinding a song.
              Default is 10.  Change to your liking.

       PanSize (number)
              Number of characters to pan content to the left or right in
              scrollable window.  Default = 5. Range is 1..40.

       WrapAround (boolean)
              If disabled, the scrollable window will not wrap around when you
              use attempt to go past the upper or lower boundary using the
              arrow keys. (default: enabled)

       SoundDevice (string)
              Sound device to use for audio output (default /dev/dsp
              (/dev/audio on OpenBSD)).

       Threads (number, range 50..500)
              Amount of threads to use for buffering. More threads means more
              buffering (thus better hiccup prevention)

       WarnDelay (number, obsolete)
              Time before a warning popup will disappear. Currently not in
              use.

       Now a list of keywords that set colours. Not all keywords are well
       tested to do the right thing at the time of writing..

       Color.Default.fg (colour)
              Default foreground colour

       Color.Default.bg (colour)
              Default background colour

       Color.Popup.fg (colour)
              Popup window foreground colour

       Color.Popup.bg (colour)
              Popup window background colour

       Color.PopupInput.fg (colour)
              Popup window input box foreground color

       Color.PopupInput.bg (colour)
              Popup window input box background color

       Color.Error.fg (colour)
              Error message foreground colour

       Color.Error.bg (colour)
              Error message background colour

       Color.Button.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of CD-player buttons

       Color.Button.bg (colour)
              Background colour of CD-player buttons

       Color.ShortCut.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of keybindings

       Color.ShortCut.bg (colour)
              Background colour of keybindings

       Color.Label.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of .. something :)

       Color.Label.bg (colour)
              Background colour of .. something :)

       Color.Number.fg (colour)
              Foreground color for numbers and similar status indicators.

       Color.Number.bg (colour)
              Background color for numbers and similar status indicators.

       Color.FileMp3.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of mp3 files in file manager

       Color.FileDir.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of directories in file manager

       Color.FileLst.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of playlist files in file manager

       Color.FileWin.fg (colour)
              Foreground colour of other files in file manager

       This is the list of all keybindings. It should be obvious from their
       names which function they're attached to.

       Key.SelectFiles (keybinding)

       Key.AddGroup (keybinding)

       Key.LoadPlaylist (keybinding)

       Key.WritePlaylist (keybinding)

       Key.SetGroupTitle (keybinding)

       Key.ToggleRepeat (keybinding)

       Key.ToggleShuffle (keybinding)

       Key.TogglePlaymode (keybinding)

       Key.ToggleDisplay (keybinding)

       Key.ToggleSort (keybinding)

       Key.StartPlaylist (keybinding)

       Key.ChangeThread (keybinding)

       Key.ToggleMixer (keybinding)

       Key.MixerVolDown (keybinding)

       Key.MixerVolUp (keybinding)

       Key.MoveAfter (keybinding)

       Key.MoveBefore (keybinding)

       Key.QuitProgram (keybinding)

       Key.Help (keybinding)

       Key.Del (keybinding)

       Key.Select (keybinding)

       Key.Enter (keybinding)

       Key.Refresh (keybinding)

       Key.PrevPage (keybinding)

       Key.NextPage (keybinding)

       Key.Up (keybinding)

       Key.Down (keybinding)

       Key.Left (keybinding)

       Key.Right (keybinding)

       Key.Home (keybinding)

       Key.End (keybinding)

       Key.StartSearch (keybinding)

       Key.File.Enter (keybinding)

       Key.File.Select (keybinding)

       Key.File.AddFiles (keybinding)

       Key.File.InvSelection (keybinding)

       Key.File.RecursiveSelect (keybinding)

       Key.File.SetPath (keybinding)

       Key.File.Delete (keybinding)

       Key.File.DirsAsGroups (keybinding)

       Key.File.Mp3ToWav (keybinding)

       Key.File.AddURL (keybinding)

       Key.File.UpDir (keybinding)

       Key.Play.Previous (keybinding)

       Key.Play.Play (keybinding)

       Key.Play.Next (keybinding)

       Key.Play.Rewind (keybinding)

       Key.Play.Stop (keybinding)

       Key.Play.Forward (keybinding)

       Key.Play.NextGroup (keybinding)

       Key.Play.PrevGroup (keybinding)

       Key.HelpPrev (keybinding)

       Key.HelpNext (keybinding)

       Key.File.MarkBad (keybinding)

       Key.ClearPlaylist (keybinding)

       Key.DeleteMark (keybinding)

BUGS
       If you find bugs, please report them on the sourceforge project site.

AUTHOR
       mp3blaster has been written written and performed by Bram Avontuur
       <bram@avontuur.org> <http://www.stack.nl/~brama/>

       The mpegsound lib used is written by many people. The latest port from
       windows c++ source to unix was done by Jung woo-jae. Several
       alterations have been applied since.

       Please leave comments, suggestions, complaints, bug fixes, coffee and
       porting experiences on the sourceforge project page. If you want to
       report a bug, please include the version number.

                                                                 mp3blaster(1)
