MTEST(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               MTEST(8)

NAME
     mtest – test multicast socket operations

SYNOPSIS
     mtest

DESCRIPTION
     The mtest utility is a small program for testing multicast socket
     operations.

     It accepts the following commands, interactively, or as part of a
     scripted input file (useful for automated testing):

           a ifname mac-addr         Join the link-layer group address
                                     mac-addr on interface ifname.  The group
                                     address should be in IEEE 802 MAC format,
                                     delimited by colon (':') characters.
           d ifname mac-addr         Leave the link-layer group address
                                     mac-addr on interface ifname.
           m ifname 1/0              Set or reset ALLMULTI mode on interface
                                     ifname.  This option is deprecated and is
                                     now a no-op.
           p ifname 1/0              Set or reset promiscuous mode on
                                     interface ifname.

           j mcast-addr ifname [source-addr]
                                     Join the multicast address mcast-addr on
                                     the interface with name ifname.

                                     If an optional source source-addr is
                                     specified, a source-specific join will be
                                     performed; if mtest is already joined to
                                     the multicast address, the source will be
                                     added to its filter list.

           l mcast-addr ifname [source-addr]
                                     Leave the multicast address mcast-addr on
                                     the interface with address ifname.  If a
                                     source source-addr is specified, only
                                     that source will be left.
           i mcast-addr ifname n source-addr ...
                                     Set the socket with membership of
                                     mcast-addr on interface ifname to include
                                     filter mode, and add n sources beginning
                                     with source-addr to the inclusion filter
                                     list.
           e mcast-addr ifname n source-addr ...
                                     Set the socket with membership of
                                     mcast-addr on interface ifname to exclude
                                     filter mode, and add n sources beginning
                                     with source-addr to the exclusion filter
                                     list.
           t mcast-addr ifname source-addr
                                     Set the socket with membership of
                                     mcast-addr on interface ifname to block
                                     traffic from source source-addr.
           b mcast-addr ifname source-addr
                                     Set the socket with membership of
                                     mcast-addr on interface ifname to allow
                                     traffic from source source-addr.

           g mcast-addr ifname n     Print n source filter entries for
                                     mcast-addr on interface ifname.

           f filename                Read commands from the file filename.
           s n                       Sleep for n seconds.
           ?                         List legal commands.
           q                         Quit the program.

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     For each command implemented by mtest, the address family of each
     argument must be identical; it is not possible to mix IPv4 multicast
     memberships with IPv6, for example.

     To support IPv6, all commands have now changed to accept an interface
     name rather than an interface address.  For IPv4, the program will
     perform a lookup of the primary IP address based on the interface name.
     This may fail if no primary IP address is assigned.

SEE ALSO
     D. Thaler, B. Fenner, and B. Quinn, Socket Interface Extensions for
     Multicast Filters, RFC 3678.

AUTHORS
     Bruce Simpson
     Steve Deering
     Wilbert De Graaf

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         April 29, 2009         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
