MTM(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 MTM(1)

NAME
     mtm – a micro-terminal multiplexer

SYNOPSIS
     mtm [-T HOST] [-t TERM] [-c CHARACTER]

DESCRIPTION
     mtm is a terminal multiplexer, a program that allows multiple terminal
     sessions to run within a single (physical or virtual) terminal session.

     The options are

     -T HOST
             Assume that the host terminal (i.e. the terminal under which mtm
             is running) is of type HOST. By default, the contents of the TERM
             environment variable are used.

     -t TERM
             Set the TERM environment variable within the mtm session to TERM.
             By default, this is screen-bce, or screen-256color-bce if mtm
             detects that the host terminal supports 256 colors.  Note that
             this default can be changed at compile time, and thus may differ
             in your installation.

     -c CHARACTER
             Commands are prefixed using CHARACTER in combination with the
             “control” key.  By default this is “g.” Note that this default
             can be changed at compile time, and thus may differ in your
             installation.

   Usage
     mtm divides the screen into multiple virtual terminals.  Each virtual
     terminal is updated and accessed independently.  At any given time,
     exactly one virtual terminal is “focused,” meaning that it receives any
     typed characters.  The currently-focused terminal is indicated by the
     location of the cursor.

     While running, the following keys are recognized as commands to mtm when
     prefixed with the command character:

     Up/Down/Right/Left Arrow
             Select the terminal above/below/to the right of/to the left of
             the currently focused one.

     o       (the letter oh) Switch to the last-focused terminal.

     h or v  Split the focused terminal in half and stack horizontally (for
             'h') or stack vertically (for 'v';) the newly-created terminal
             will be focused.

     w       Delete the currently focused terminal.

     l       (the letter ell) Redraw the screen.

     PgUp/PgDown/End
             Scroll the terminal up/down/to the bottom.  By default, mtm
             stores up to 1000 lines of scrolling history.  Note that if the
             screen is currently scrolled back (that is, the scrollback buffer
             is not at the bottom) these keys need not be prefixed with the
             command key.  mtm will also scroll to the bottom on user input.

     Note that these command keys can be changed at compile time, and
     therefore may be different for this installation of mtm.

     mtm will exit when its last virtual terminal is closed.

   The Value of -t
     The terminal name passed to -t does not change how mtm interprets command
     sequences, but rather changes what kind of terminal mtm claims to be.
     Safe bets for this value are

     mtm     This is the terminal described by the mtm.ti terminfo(5)
             description that shipped with mtm. It is not necessarily
             installed on your system, but if it is, it will tell terminfo(5)
             -aware programs how to use all of the mtm features.  Note that
             there aren't any user-visible features added here, but mtm
             supports some extra cursor-movement commands, and thus using this
             terminal type where available may result in slightly speedier
             screen updates.

     mtm-256color
             This is the same as the mtm terminal type, but advertising
             256-color support.  This can be used if the mtm terminfo(5)
             description is installed and the host terminal supports 256 or
             more colors.

     screen-bce
             This is the default if 256-color support is not detected.  It is
             widely supported and its description is installed by default on
             most systems.  This is a good choice if the mtm terminfo(5)
             description is not installed everywhere you expect to use mtm.

     screen-bce-256color
             This is the default if 256-color support is detected.  The same
             advice given for screen-bce above applies here too.

   The mtm Environment
     mtm sets the MTM environment variable to its process ID (see getpid(2)).
     Programs can test for the presence of this variable to determine if they
     are running inside of a mtm instance.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables affect the operation of mtm:

     TERM    Names the hosting terminal's type.  This can be overridden using
             the -T option.

     ESCDELAY
             This variable specifies the number of milliseconds mtm will wait
             after seeing an escape character for a special character sequence
             to complete.  By default this is 1000 (one second.)

     LC_CTYPE LC_ALL LANG
             These variables are consulted to determine the encoding used for
             textual data.

     SHELL   If set, mtm will launch the program named by this command in new
             virtual terminals.  If this is unset, mtm will use the value of
             the “command interpreter” field of the password database (see
             passwd(5)) if available, and will finally fall back to /bin/sh.

SEE ALSO
     sh(1) terminfo(5)

BUGS
     mtm will attempt to fit all virtual terminals in the window at once.  If
     many terminals are created and the containing window is shrunk too small,
     the display will be suboptimal.

     The only human language in which output is generated and in which
     documentation is available is English, regardless of the user's preferred
     language.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 17, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
