mumble-server(1)        FreeBSD General Commands Manual       mumble-server(1)

NAME
       mumble-server - VoIP server.

SYNOPSIS
       mumble-server [-ini inifile] [-fg] [-v]
       mumble-server -supw password [serverid]
       mumble-server -readsupw [serverid]
       mumble-server -disablesu [serverid]
       mumble-server -limits
       mumble-server -wipessl
       mumble-server -wipelogs
       mumble-server -loggroups
       mumble-server -logacls
       mumble-server -license
       mumble-server -authors
       mumble-server -third-party-licenses
       mumble-server -version|--version
       mumble-server -h|-help|--help

DESCRIPTION
       mumble-server is the server component of Mumble, a low-latency, high
       quality VoIP application.

OPTIONS
       -h, -help, --help
              Show a summary of the options.

       -ini inifile
              Specify which ini file to use. Without this option,
              mumble-server will search for a murmur.ini file and will fall
              back to builtin defaults if one isn't found.

       -fg    Run in the foreground (do not fork).

       -v     Verbose mode, slightly more information is logged.

       -supw password [serverid]
              This sets the SuperUser password for a server. SuperUser is a
              special account (similar to root) which bypasses all access
              controls. This command may be used while the server is running.
              Optionally takes a serverid representing the virtual server to
              set the password for.

       -readsupw [serverid]
              Reads SuperUser password from stdin. Optionally takes a serverid
              representing the virtual server to set the password for.

       -disablesu [serverid]
              Disables the SuperUser account. Optionally takes a serverid
              representing the virtual server to disable the SuperUser account
              on.

              Disabling the SuperUser account makes it impossible to log in as
              SuperUser until a new password is set. You can set a new
              SuperUser password with the -supw parameter.

       -limits
              Tests and shows how many file descriptors and threads can be
              created. The purpose of this option is to test how many clients
              the server can handle. The server will exit after this test.

       -wipessl
              Remove SSL certificates from database.

       -wipelogs
              Remove all log entries from database.

       -loggroups
              Turns on logging for group changes for all servers.

       -logacls
              Turns on logging for ACL changes for all servers.

       -license
              Show mumble-server's license.

       -authors
              Show mumble-server's authors.

       -third-party-licenses
              Show licenses for third-party software used by mumble-server.

       -version, --version
              Show version information.

SIGNALS
       SIGHUP Perform a log rotation.  This causes mumble-server to re-open
              its log file.

       SIGUSR1
              Gracefully reload the TLS settings specified in murmur.ini
              without interrupting service.

              When this signal is received, the server will apply the new TLS
              settings (certificate, private key, and Diffie-Hellman
              parameters) to all virtual servers that use the TLS settings
              from murmur.ini.

              Virtual servers that have overridden the settings from
              murmur.ini will not be affected by this signal. Those servers
              can be updated using the updateCertificate RPC call.

SEE ALSO
       mumble(1), murmur-user-wrapper(1).

AUTHORS
       mumble and mumble-server were written by The Mumble Developers.

                                  2016 May 9                  mumble-server(1)
