MUPDF(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               MUPDF(1)



NAME
     mupdf - MuPDF is a lightweight PDF viewer written in portable C


SYNOPSIS
     mupdf [options] file[page_number]


DESCRIPTION
     MuPDF is a document viewer that can show PDF, XPS, EPUB, XHTML, CBZ, and
     various image formats such as PNG, JPEG, GIF, and TIFF.


OPTIONS
     A description of each of the supported options is included below.


     -b box-name
            Use the given page box (MediaBox, CropBox, BleedBox, TrimBox, or
            ArtBox)

     -c profile-filename
            Set the display ICC profile to the one in the named file.

     -p password
            Uses the given password to open an encrypted PDF file.  The
            password is tried both as user and owner password.

     -r resolution
            Changes the initial zoom level, specified as the resolution in
            dpi.  The default value is 72.

     -A bits
            Changes the anti-aliasing quality, specified as a number of bits
            between 0 (off) and 8 (best).  The default value is 8.

     -B RRGGBB
            Sets the full-page black tint using hexadecimal color syntax.  The
            default value is 303030.

     -C RRGGBB
            Sets the full-page white tint using hexadecimal color syntax.  The
            default value is FFFFF0.

     -H height
            Page height in points for EPUB layout.

     -I     Invert colors.

     -J     Disable JavaScripts in PDF forms.

     -R extraction-options
            Enable reflow and set the text extraction options.

     -S size
            Font size in points for EPUB layout.

     -U CSS-file
            User style sheet for EPUB layout.

     -W width
            Page width in points for EPUB layout.

     -X     Disable document styles for EPUB layout.

     -Y factor
            Set the UI scaling factor.


MOUSE BEHAVIOR
     Left mouse button click
            A left click on a hyper link follows the link.  In presentation
            mode advances to the next page.

     Right mouse button click
            In presentation mode goes back to the previous page.

     Left mouse button drag
            Pan the page.  Panning beyond the bottom or top edge will go to
            the next or previous page.

     Right mouse button drag
            Select text in an area.  On X11, the selected text can be pasted
            in another application with a middle click.  Press Ctrl+C to copy
            the selected text to the clipboard.  On Windows, the selected text
            will automatically be copied to the clipboard.

     Scroll wheel
            Pan page up or down.  Does not change page when reaching the
            bottom or top edge.

     Shift + Scroll wheel
            Pan page left or right.

     Control + Scroll wheel
            Zoom in or out.


KEY BINDINGS
     Page navigation:

     . pgdn space
            Go to the next page.

     , pgup b
            Go to the previous page.

     123g   Go to page 123.

     g, G   Go to the first or last page.

     m      Mark current page for snap back.  Up to 256 pages can be marked.

     t      Go backward one step in mark history.

     T      Go forward one step in mark history.

     [0–9]m Save the current page number in the numbered register.

     [0–9]t Go to the page saved in the numbered register.


     Zooming and rotating:

     +, -   Zoom in or out.

     W, H   Zoom page to exactly fit width/height of window.

     Z      Zoom page to fit either to width or height of window.

     z      Reset zoom level.

     [, ]   Rotate page left (counter-clockwise) or right (clockwise).

     w      Shrinkwrap window to fit the page.

     f      Toggles fullscreen mode.


     Panning:

     h, left, j, k, l, right
            Pan page left, down, up, or right.


     Searching:

     /, ?   Search for text forwards or backwards.

     n, N   Find the next/previous search result.


     Miscellaneous:

     F1     Show key bindings help.

     Escape Stop searching and/or remove focus from annotation/widget.

     <, >   Increase/decrease EPUB/XHTML font size.

     r      Reload file.

     p      Toggle presentation mode. (mupdf-x11 only)

     c      Toggle between color and grayscale rendering. (mupdf-x11 only)

     C      Toggle full-page color tinting.

     I      Toggle between normal and inverted color rendering.

     E      Toggle ICC color mode.

     e      Toggle spot color mode.

     A      Set bit of anti-aliasing to use. The default is 8.  0 means no
            anti-aliasing, 9 means no anti-aliasing, centre-of-pixel rule, 10
            means no anti-aliasing, any-part-of-a-pixel rule.

     P      Show page number and total number of pages.

     i      Show dialog box with informationa about the openend document.

     B      Change used page box. (MediaBox, CropBox, BleedBox, TrimBox, or
            ArtBox) The active page box is mentioned in the information dialog
            box.

     o      Show/hide document outline panel.

     a      Show/hide annotation panel.

     R      Show/hide redaction panel.

     u      Show/hide undo/redo panel.

     Y      Show/hide layers list.

     o      Start/stop highlighting links.

     F      Start/stop highlighting form widgets.

     ` F12  Show JS console.

     S      Save updated document file.

     q      Quit.


SIGNALS
     SIGHUP Sending a SIGHUP signal to the mupdf process will also cause the
            viewed file to be reloaded automatically, for use in e.g. build
            scripts.


SEE ALSO
     mutool(1).


AUTHOR
     MuPDF is Copyright 2006–2025 Artifex Software, Inc.

                                 April 9, 2025                        MUPDF(1)
