MC(1)                   FreeBSD General Commands Manual                  MC(1)

NAME
       6m

SYNOPSIS
       6m -[?hioSG9d] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       The ?m compiler family compiles Myrddin source into object files for
       the corresponding architecture. Each architecture gets its own compler.
       Unless otherwise specified, if the input file is named filename.myr
       then the the object file that is generated will be named filename.o.

       Any text between the first '+' in the file name and the suffix are
       stripped. This functionality is used to specify system tags for tools
       like 'mbld'.

       If the filename does not end with the suffix .myr then the object
       suffix .o will simply be appended to it.


       The following architectures are currently supported:

       6m     x86-64


       The compiler options are:


       -d [flTriu]
              Print debugging dumps. Additional options may be given to give
              more debugging information for specific intermediate states of
              the compilation.


       -h, -? Print a summary of the available options.


       -I path
              Add 'path' to the search path for unquoted use statments. This
              option does not affect the search path for local usefiles, which
              are always searched relative to the directory containing the
              output file. Without any options, the search path defaults to
              /usr/include/myr.


       -o output-file
              Specify that the generated code should be placed in output-file
              instead of the default location.


       -S     Generate assembly code along with the object file.


       -G     Generate assembly in the Gnu As syntax.


       -O out Output code to output path 'out'


       -T     Compile in test mode. This implies that pkglocal functions are
              available.


       -9     Generate assembly in the Plan 9 syntax.


EXAMPLE
           6m foo.myr
           6m bar.myr
           ld -o foobar foo.o bar.o


FILES
       The source code for this compiler is available from
       git://git.eigenstate.org/git/ori/mc.git


SEE ALSO
       muse(1) ld(1) as(1)


BUGS
       The language is not yet complete, and the compilers often omit useful
       constructs in spite of their desirability.

       There are virtually no optimizations done, and the generated source is
       often very poorly performing.

       The current calling convention is stack-based and not register-based,
       even on architectures where it should be register-based.

       The calling convention is not compatible with C.

                                                                         MC(1)
