CHECK_HP_BLADECHASSIS(8)         Nagios plugin        CHECK_HP_BLADECHASSIS(8)


NAME
       check_hp_bladechassis - Nagios plugin for checking the status of HP
       blade enclosures via SNMP

SYNOPSIS
       check_hp_bladechassis -H <HOSTNAME> [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       check_hp_bladechassis is a plugin for the Nagios monitoring software
       that checks the hardware health status of a HP blade enclosure/chassis.
       The plugin is only tested with the c7000 enclosure.

COMMON OPTIONS
       -H, --hostname HOSTNAME
           The transport address (hostname or IP) of the blade enclosure you
           want to monitor. This option is mandatory.

       -C, --community COMMUNITY
           This option expects a string that is to be used as the SNMP
           community name when using SNMP version 1 or 2c.  By default the
           community name is set to "public" if the option is not present.

       -p, --perfdata
           Collect performance data. Performance data collected is total power
           usage.

       -t, --timeout SECONDS
           The number of seconds after which the plugin will abort. Default
           timeout is 30 seconds if the option is not present.

       -i, --info
           Prefix any alerts with the enclosure serial number.

       -v, --verbose
           In case of an alert, the part number, spare part number and serial
           number of the failed component is appended to the alert message.

       -e, --extinfo
           Display a short summary of system information (product, serial
           number, firmware and the number of blades and I/O modules) in case
           of an alert.

       -s, --state
           Prefix each alert with its corresponding service state (i.e.
           warning, critical etc.). This is useful in case of several alerts
           from the same monitored system.

       --short-state
           Same as the --state option above, except that the state is
           abbreviated to a single letter (W=warning, C=critical etc.).

       -d, --debug
           Debug output. Will report status on all monitored subsystems,
           regardless of their alert state. Will also report total power
           usage.

       -h, --help
           Display help text.

       -V, --version
           Display version info.

ADVANCED OPTIONS
       -P, --protocol PROTOCOL
           SNMP protocol version. This option is optional and expects a digit
           (i.e.  1, 2 or 3) to define the SNMP version. The default is 2,
           i.e. SNMP version 2c.

       --port PORT
           SNMP port of the remote (monitored) system. Defaults to the well-
           known SNMP port 161.

       -U, --username SECURITYNAME
           [SNMPv3] The User-based Security Model (USM) used by SNMPv3
           requires that a securityName be specified. This option is required
           when using SNMP version 3, and expects a string 1 to 32 octets in
           lenght.

       --authpassword PASSWORD, --authkey KEY
           [SNMPv3] By default a securityLevel of "noAuthNoPriv" is assumed.
           If the --authpassword option is specified, the securityLevel
           becomes "authNoPriv".  The --authpassword option expects a string
           which is at least 1 octet in length as argument.

           Optionally, instead of the --authpassword option, the --authkey
           option can be used so that a plain text password does not have to
           be specified in a script.  The --authkey option expects a
           hexadecimal string produced by localizing the password with the
           authoritativeEngineID for the specific destination device.  The
           "snmpkey" utility included with the Net::SNMP distribution can be
           used to create the hexadecimal string (see snmpkey).

       --authprotocol ALGORITHM
           [SNMPv3] Two different hash algorithms are defined by SNMPv3 which
           can be used by the Security Model for authentication. These
           algorithms are HMAC-MD5-96 "MD5" (RFC 1321) and HMAC-SHA-96 "SHA-1"
           (NIST FIPS PUB 180-1). The default algorithm used by the plugin is
           HMAC-MD5-96.  This behavior can be changed by using this option.
           The option expects either the string "md5" or "sha" to be passed as
           argument to modify the hash algorithm.

       --privpassword PASSWORD, --privkey KEY
           [SNMPv3] By specifying the options --privkey or --privpassword, the
           securityLevel associated with the object becomes "authPriv".
           According to SNMPv3, privacy requires the use of authentication.
           Therefore, if either of these two options are present and the
           --authkey or --authpassword arguments are missing, the creation of
           the object fails.  The --privkey and --privpassword options expect
           the same input as the --authkey and --authpassword options
           respectively.

       --privprotocol ALGORITHM
           [SNMPv3] The User-based Security Model described in RFC 3414
           defines a single encryption protocol to be used for privacy.  This
           protocol, CBC-DES "DES" (NIST FIPS PUB 46-1), is used by default or
           if the string "des" is passed to the --privprotocol option. The
           Net::SNMP module also supports RFC 3826 which describes the use of
           CFB128-AES-128 "AES" (NIST FIPS PUB 197) in the USM.  The AES
           encryption protocol can be selected by passing "aes" or "aes128" to
           the --privprotocol option.

           One of the following arguments are required: des, aes, aes128,
           3des, 3desde

       --linebreak=STRING
           check_hp_bladechassis will sometimes report more than one line,
           e.g. if there are several alerts. If the script has a TTY, it will
           use regular linebreaks. If not (which is the case with NRPE) it
           will use HTML linebreaks. Sometimes it can be useful to control
           what the plugin uses as a line separator, and this option provides
           that control.

           The argument is the exact string to be used as the line separator.
           There are two exceptions, i.e. two keywords that translates to the
           following:

           REG Regular linebreaks, i.e. "\n".

           HTML
               HTML linebreaks, i.e. "<br/>".

           This is a rather special option that is normally not needed. The
           default behaviour should be sufficient for most users.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The option "--debug" (or "-d") can be specified to display status of
       all components.

DEPENDENCIES
       The perl module Net::SNMP is required on the Nagios host.

EXIT STATUS
       If no errors are discovered, a value of 0 (OK) is returned. An exit
       value of 1 (WARNING) signifies one or more non-critical errors, while 2
       (CRITICAL) signifies one or more critical errors.

       The exit value 3 (UNKNOWN) is reserved for errors within the script, or
       errors getting values via SNMP.

AUTHOR
       Written by Trond H. Amundsen <t.h.amundsen@usit.uio.no>

BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       None known at present.

INCOMPATIBILITIES
       None known at present.

       Note that as of this writing, the plugin is only tested against the
       c7000 enclosure.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <t.h.amundsen@usit.uio.no>

LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
       This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

SEE ALSO
       <http://folk.uio.no/trondham/software/check_hp_bladechassis.html>

check_hp_bladechassis 1.0.1       2009-08-20          CHECK_HP_BLADECHASSIS(8)
