narcissu2(6)               Narcissu Side 2nd manual               narcissu2(6)

NAME
       narcissu2 - Narcissu Side 2nd launcher

SYNOPSIS
       narcissu2 [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       The command "narcissu2" launches the visual novel Narcissu Side 2nd.

       This manpage documents only the launcher command.  Documentation for
       the game itself, including in-game controls, is provided separately in
       the README file.

OPTIONS
       The following named options are recognised by narcissu2, in additional
       to the standard --help and --version flags which should need no further
       introduction:

       --window, --fullscreen
              Sets the initial screen mode (windowed or fullscreen).

              If neither option is specified, the game will default to
              whichever mode it was in most recently, or, on the first run, to
              windowed mode.

       --debug, -d
              Enables debugging mode.

              This turns on Ponscripter's internal debugging feature.  It's
              rather verbose, but may be useful for tracking down problems in
              the (hopefully unlikely) case where you have any.

       --save_path
              Sets the path to use for saved data.

              You should not normally need to use this option; the default,
              ~/.Narcissu_Side_2nd, should be suitable for most users.

       --uninstall
              Uninstalls Narcissu Side 2nd: removes all game data files, the
              launcher script, and this manpage.

              Leaves saved games and settings untouched, partly because it's
              not feasible to remove them for all users, and partly because
              they hardly take up any space and you'll want them when you
              change your mind and install the game again.

BUGS
       We were not aware of any bugs at the time of shipping.  We were
       probably mistaken, and the entire game is probably ridden with the darn
       things.  If you must disillusion us, please do so gently.

SEE ALSO
       ponscr(6)


Narcissu Side 2nd                 2009-01-17                      narcissu2(6)
