GNBD(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                GNBD(8)

NAME
     gnbd – control utility for the network block device GEOM class

SYNOPSIS
     To load the GEOM_NBD module at boot time, add the following line to your
     loader.conf(5):

           geom_nbd_load="YES"

     Usage of the gnbd utility:

     gnbd connect [-c num] [-n name] [-p port] host
     gnbd connect [-c num] [-n name] [-p port] [-A cacert] -C cert -K key host
     gnbd reconnect [-r seconds] host
     gnbd reconnect [-r seconds] [-A cacert] -C cert -K key prov
     gnbd scale -c num prov
     gnbd scale -c num [-A cacert] -C cert -K key prov
     gnbd disconnect prov
     gnbd exports [-p port] host
     gnbd exports [-p port] [-A cacert] -C cert -K key host
     gnbd help
     gnbd list [-a] [prov ...]
     gnbd status [-ags] [prov ...]
     gnbd load [-v]
     gnbd unload [-v]

DESCRIPTION
     The gnbd utility is used to configure network block device (NBD) GEOM
     providers.

     The following is a list of the most important features:

           •   Established connections are handed off to the kernel, allowing
               reroot onto the network-backed devices.
           •   Supports using multiple connections to the NBD server to
               parallelize commands.
           •   Supports optional TLS encryption using ktls(4).
           •   Zero copies are performed for writes where possible.  Work is
               needed to support cxgbe(4) TCP-offload module DDP for zero-copy
               reads.

     The first argument to gnbd indicates an action to be performed:

     connect     Connect to an NBD server.

                 -c connections
                             Use this many parallel connections.  One
                             connection is used if not specified.

                 -n name     Connect to the named export.  The default export
                             is requested if not specified.

                 -A cacert   Verify TLS certificates against the PEM-formatted
                             CA certificate at the given path.  The system
                             root CAs are used if not specified.

                 -C cert     Make a TLS connection using the PEM-formatted
                             client certificate at the given path.

                 -K key      Make a TLS connection using the PEM-formatted
                             client key at the given path.

                 To make TLS connections, both a certificate and key must be
                 given.

                 The path of a UNIX-domain socket may be specified in place of
                 a host.  UNIX-domain sockets are not expected to perform well
                 or be useful with TLS.

     reconnect   Re-establish failed connections.

                 -r seconds  Retry until connections are re-established,
                             waiting this many seconds between successive
                             retries.  This is useful for a devd action in
                             response to the GEOM NBD DISCONNECTED event.

                 When all connections for a device have failed, the provider
                 will persist and can resume normal operation when new
                 connections are established.  The number of connections set
                 by connect or scale is restored.

     scale       Scale the number of connections for an existing device up or
                 down.

                 -c connections
                             Use this many parallel connections.

                 -A cacert   Verify TLS certificates against the PEM-formatted
                             CA certificate at the given path.  The system
                             root CAs are used if not specified.

                 -C cert     Make a TLS connection using the PEM-formatted
                             client certificate at the given path.

                 -K key      Make a TLS connection using the PEM-formatted
                             client key at the given path.

                 To make TLS connections, both a certificate and key must be
                 given.

     disconnect  Disconnect and remove the given provider.

     exports     List exports of an NBD server.

     help        See geom(8).

     list        See geom(8).

     load        See geom(8).

     unload      See geom(8).

TLS
     All TLS certificates and keys must be in PEM format.  TLS certificates
     may be a certificate chain to include intermediary certificates in the
     chain of trust.

SYSCTL TUNABLES
     The following sysctl(8) tunables can be used to control the behavior of
     the NBD GEOM class.  The default value is shown next to each variable.

     kern.geom.nbd.debug: 0
             Debug level of the NBD GEOM class.  This can be set to a number
             between 0 and 3 inclusive.  If set to 0, minimal debug
             information is printed.  If set to 3, the maximum amount of debug
             information is printed.

     kern.geom.nbd.maxpayload: 33554432 (32 MiB)
             Upper limit on the size in bytes of a single transfer over the
             network.

     kern.geom.nbd.sendspace: 1572864 (1536 kiB)
             Size of socket send buffer reservation per connection.

             Note: connections may also be limited by standard socket buffer
             limits.

     kern.geom.nbd.recvspace: 1572864 (1536 kiB)
             Size of socket receive buffer reservation per connection.

             Note: connections may also be limited by standard socket buffer
             limits.

     kern.geom.nbd.identfmt: 0
             Format of the GEOM::ident attribute.

             Setting to 0 uses the format "host:port/name".  Setting to 1 uses
             "name" if the export has a name, falling back to "host:port/name"
             when the name is empty (default export).  Setting to 2 always
             uses "name", even if the name is empty.

             Formats 1 and 2 can be useful when the export names are serial
             numbers.

EXIT STATUS
     Exit status is 0 on success, and 1 if the command fails.

EXAMPLES
     Connect to an NBD server with 4 connections:

           # gnbd connect -c 4 servername
           nbd0

     Connect to an NBD server using TLS with an internal CA and 2 connections:

           # gnbd connect -c 2 -A cacert.pem -C cert.pem -K key.pem servername
           nbd1

     Scale the second provider up to 8 connections:

           # gnbd scale -c 8 -A cacert.pem -C cert.pem -K key.pem nbd1

     Disconnect the previous examples:

           # gnbd disconnect nbd0
           # gnbd disconnect nbd1

SEE ALSO
     cxgbe(4), geom(4), ktls(4), loader.conf(5), geom(8)

AUTHORS
     Ryan Moeller

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4          June 6, 2025                          GNBD(8)
