NBFC(1)                   Chaos Contributed Software                   NBFC(1)


NAME
       nbfc -- The new brainfuck compiler

SYNOPSIS
       nbfc [options] file

DESCRIPTION
       nbfc is a new, completely portable compiler for the brainfuck
       programming language. It will generate and compile C code or as an
       option a Java application.

       nbfc is quite different from the original brainfuck compiler by the
       language's inventor Urban Mueller:

       -   It's portable. The original bfc was for the Amiga only. nbfc should
       run on any unix-like system.

       -   It uses standard tools for its implementation and doesn't try to
       obfuscate the code.

       -   It can compile to C and supports the ''write once, run anywhere''
       concept with  its capability to generate Java applications.

OPTIONS
       -o file
           Generate an executable by the name of file. If the -j switch is
           given, this will be the name of the Java Class generated.

       -k  Keep generated intermediate code (C or Java). The default is to
           delete the .c or .java file that was generated by the compiler and
           just keep the executable or the .class file, respectively.

       -j  Generate and compile a Java class instead of a C executable. The
           default is to use C as an intermediate language.

       -v  Be verbose. By invoking this switch, nbfc will print out lots of
           messages about the state of compilation.

       -g  Don't compile, just generate intermediate file (C or Java). This
           can be used for debugging. This also tells the compiler no to
           delete the generated intermediate file, as if the -k option was
           given.

       -c  Display the copying license. The license is BSD-style and very
           liberal.

       -h  Display a short help screen.

INVOCATION
       When called without any options, nbfc will translate the brainfuck file
       given on the command line to C and call a C compiler to produce an
       executable.

       The executable will have the name bf.out (this can be changed with the
       -o option). The intermediate C file always has the name bf.out.c and
       will be deleted if the -k option is not present.

       When using Java as the intermediate language, the default name for the
       application is bf.out.class, the default name for the Java file is
       bf.out.java. Both the class name and the intermediate Java code file
       name can be changed with the -o option.

THE LANGUAGE
       brainfuck is a simple enough language to include the entire official
       language describtion in this man page. The following is from the
       original brainfuck distribution by Urban Mueller
       <umueller@amiga.physik.unizh.ch>, who also invented the language:

       ''The language brainfuck knows the following commands:

        Cmd  Effect                                 Equivalent in C
        ---  ------                                 ---------------
        +    Increases element under pointer        array[p]++;
        -    Decrases element under pointer         array[p]--;
        >    Increases pointer                      p++;
        <    Decreases pointer                      p--;
        [    Starts loop, counter under pointer     while(array[p]) {
        ]    Indicates end of loop                  }
        .    Outputs ASCII code under pointer       putchar(array[p]);
        ,    Reads char and stores ASCII under ptr  array[p]=getchar();

       All other characters are ignored. The 30000 array elements and p are
       being initialized to zero at the beginning.  Now while this seems to be
       a pretty useless language, it can be proven that it can compute every
       solvable mathematical problem (if we ignore the array size limit and
       the executable size limit).''

BUGS
       There is no checking for balanced brackets; if these are not balanced,
       strange things may happen. The compiler doesn´t optimize. There really
       should be a backend that generates assembly language code (at least for
       Intel and PowerPC machines) instead of only C and Java.

AUTHOR
       Jens Ohlig <jo@koeln.ccc.de>





















3rd Berkeley Distribution                                              NBFC(1)
