NCDU(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                NCDU(1)

NAME
     ncdu – NCurses Disk Usage

SYNOPSIS
     ncdu [-f file] [-o file] [-O file] [-e, --extended, --no-extended]
          [--ignore-config] [-x, --one-file-system, --cross-file-system]
          [--exclude pattern] [-X, --exclude-from file]
          [--include-caches, --exclude-caches]
          [-L, --follow-symlinks, --no-follow-symlinks]
          [--include-kernfs, --exclude-kernfs] [-t, --threads num]
          [-c, --compress, --no-compress] [--compress-level num]
          [--export-block-size num] [-0, -1, -2]
          [-q, --slow-ui-updates, --fast-ui-updates]
          [--enable-shell, --disable-shell]
          [--enable-delete, --disable-delete]
          [--enable-refresh, --disable-refresh] [-r] [--si, --no-si]
          [--disk-usage, --apparent-size] [--show-hidden, --hide-hidden]
          [--show-itemcount, --hide-itemcount] [--show-mtime, --hide-mtime]
          [--show-graph, --hide-graph] [--show-percent, --hide-percent]
          [--graph-style hash | half-block | eighth-block]
          [--shared-column off | shared | unique] [--sort column]
          [--enable-natsort, --disable-natsort]
          [--group-directories-first, --no-group-directories-first]
          [--confirm-quit, --no-confirm-quit]
          [--confirm-delete, --no-confirm-delete]
          [--color off | dark | dark-bg] [path]
     ncdu [-h, --help]
     ncdu [-v, -V, --version]

DESCRIPTION
     ncdu (NCurses Disk Usage) is an interactive curses-based version of the
     well-known du(1), and provides a fast way to see what directories are
     using your disk space.

OPTIONS
   Mode Selection
     -h, --help
             Print a short help message and quit.

     -v, -V, --version
             Print version and quit.

     -f file
             Load the given file, which has earlier been created with the -o
             or -O flag.  If file is equivalent to '-', the file is read from
             standard input.  Reading from standard input is only supported
             for the JSON format.

             For the sake of preventing a screw-up, the current version of
             ncdu will assume that the directory information in the imported
             file does not represent the filesystem on which the file is being
             imported.  That is, the refresh, file deletion and shell spawning
             options in the browser will be disabled.

     dir     Scan the given directory.

     -o file
             Export the directory tree in JSON format to file instead of
             opening the browser interface.  If file is '-', the data is
             written to standard output.  See the examples section below for
             some handy use cases.

             Be warned that the exported data may grow quite large when
             exporting a directory with many files.  10.000 files will get you
             an export in the order of 600 to 700 KiB uncompressed, or a
             little over 100 KiB when compressed with gzip.  This scales
             linearly, so be prepared to handle a few tens of megabytes when
             dealing with millions of files.

             Consider enabling -c to output Zstandard-compressed JSON, which
             can significantly reduce size of the exported data.

             When running a multi-threaded scan or when scanning a directory
             tree that may not fit in memory, consider using -O instead.

     -O file
             Export the directory tree in binary format to file instead of
             opening the browser interface.  If file is '-', the data is
             written to standard output.  The binary format has built-in
             compression, supports low-memory multi-threaded export (in
             combination with -t) and can be browsed without importing the
             entire directory tree into memory.

     -e, --extended, --no-extended
             Enable/disable extended information mode.  This will, in addition
             to the usual file information, also read the ownership,
             permissions and last modification time for each file.  This will
             result in higher memory usage (by roughly ~30%) and in a larger
             output file when exporting.

             When using the file export/import function, this flag should be
             added both when exporting (to make sure the information is added
             to the export) and when importing (to read this extra information
             in memory).  This flag has no effect when importing a file that
             has been exported without the extended information.

             This enables viewing and sorting by the latest child mtime, or
             modified time, using 'm' and 'M', respectively.

     --ignore-config
             Do not attempt to load any configuration files.

   Scan Options
     These options affect the scanning progress, they have no effect when
     importing directory information from a file.

     -x, --one-file-system
             Do not cross filesystem boundaries, i.e. only count files and
             directories on the same filesystem as the directory being
             scanned.

     --cross-file-system
             Do cross filesystem boundaries.  This is the default, but can be
             specified to overrule a previously configured -x.

     --exclude pattern
             Exclude files that match pattern.  The files are still displayed
             by default, but are not counted towards the disk usage
             statistics.  This argument can be added multiple times to add
             more patterns.

     -X, --exclude-from file
             Exclude files that match any pattern in file.  Patterns should be
             separated by a newline.

     --include-caches, --exclude-caches
             Include (default) or exclude directories containing CACHEDIR.TAG.
             Excluded cache directories are still displayed, but their
             contents will not be scanned or counted towards the disk usage
             statistics.  https://bford.info/cachedir/

     -L, --follow-symlinks, --no-follow-symlinks
             Follow (or not) symlinks and count the size of the file they
             point to.  This option does not follow symlinks to directories
             and will cause each symlinked file to count as a unique file.
             This is different from how hard links are handled.  The exact
             counting behavior of this flag is subject to change in the
             future.

     --include-kernfs, --exclude-kernfs
             (Linux only) Include (default) or exclude Linux pseudo
             filesystems such as /proc (procfs) and /sys (sysfs).

             The complete list of currently known pseudo filesystems is:
             binfmt, bpf, cgroup, cgroup2, debug, devpts, proc, pstore,
             security, selinux, sys, trace.

     -t, --threads num
             Number of threads to use when scanning the filesystem, defaults
             to 1.

             In single-threaded mode, the JSON export (see -o) can operate
             with very little memory, but in multi-threaded mode the entire
             directory tree is first constructed in memory and written out
             after the filesystem scan has completed, This causes a delay in
             output and requires significantly more memory for large directory
             trees.  The binary format (see -O) does not have this problem and
             supports efficient exporting with any number of threads.

   Export Options
     These options affect behavior when exporting to file with the -o or -O
     options.

     -c, --compress, --no-compress
             Enable or disable Zstandard compression when exporting to JSON
             (see -o).

     --compress-level num
             Set the Zstandard compression level when using -O or -c.  Valid
             values are 1 (fastest) to 19 (slowest).  Defaults to 4.

     --export-block-size num
             Set the block size, in kibibytes, for the binary export format
             (see -O).  Larger blocks require more memory but result in better
             compression efficiency.  This option can be combined with a
             higher --compress-level for even better compression.

             Accepted values are between 4 and 16000.  The defaults is to
             start at 64 KiB and then gradually increase the block size for
             large exports.

   Interface Options
     -0      Don't give any feedback while scanning a directory or importing a
             file, except when a fatal error occurs.  Ncurses will not be
             initialized until the scan is complete.  When exporting the data
             with -o, ncurses will not be initialized at all.  This option is
             the default when exporting to standard output.

     -1      Write progress information to the terminal, but don't open a
             full-screen ncurses interface.  This option is the default when
             exporting to a file.

             In some cases, the ncurses browser interface which you'll see
             after the scan/import is complete may look garbled when using
             this option.  If you're not exporting to a file, -2 is usually a
             better choice.

     -2      Show a full-screen ncurses interface while scanning a directory
             or importing a file.  This is the only interface that provides
             feedback on any non-fatal errors while scanning.

     -q, --slow-ui-updates, --fast-ui-updates
             Change the UI update interval while scanning or importing.  ncdu
             updates the screen 10 times a second by default (with
             --fast-ui-updates ), this can be decreased to once every 2
             seconds with -q or --slow-ui-updates.  This option can be used to
             save bandwidth over remote connections.  This option has no
             effect in combination with -0.

     --enable-shell, --disable-shell
             Enable or disable shell spawning from the file browser.  This
             feature is enabled by default when scanning a live directory and
             disabled when importing from file.

     --enable-delete, --disable-delete
             Enable or disable the built-in file deletion feature.  This
             feature is enabled by default when scanning a live directory and
             disabled when importing from file.  Explicitly disabling the
             deletion feature can work as a safeguard to prevent accidental
             data loss.

     --enable-refresh, --disable-refresh
             Enable or disable directory refreshing from the file browser.
             This feature is enabled by default when scanning a live directory
             and disabled when importing from file.

     -r      Read-only mode.  When given once, this is an alias for
             --disable-delete, when given twice it will also add
             --disable-shell, thus ensuring that there is no way to modify the
             file system from within ncdu.

     --si, --no-si
             List sizes using base 10 prefixes, that is, powers of 1000 (kB,
             MB, etc), as defined in the International System of Units (SI),
             instead of the usual base 2 prefixes (KiB, MiB, etc).

     --disk-usage, --apparent-size
             Select whether to display disk usage (default) or apparent sizes.
             Can also be toggled in the file browser with the 'a' key.

     --show-hidden, --hide-hidden
             Show (default) or hide "hidden" and excluded files.  Can also be
             toggled in the file browser with the 'e' key.

     --show-itemcount, --hide-itemcount
             Show or hide (default) the item counts column.  Can also be
             toggled in the file browser with the 'c' key.

     --show-mtime, --hide-mtime
             Show or hide (default) the last modification time column.  Can
             also be toggled in the file browser with the 'm' key.  This
             option is ignored when not in extended mode, see -e.

     --show-graph, --hide-graph
             Show (default) or hide the relative size bar column.  Can also be
             toggled in the file browser with the 'g' key.

     --show-percent, --hide-percent
             Show (default) or hide the relative size percent column.  Can
             also be toggled in the file browser with the 'g' key.

     --graph-style hash | half-block | eighth-block
             Change the way that the relative size bar column is drawn.
             Recognized values are hash to draw ASCII '#' characters (default
             and most portable), half-block to use half-block drawing
             characters or eighth-block to use eighth-block drawing
             characters.  Eighth-block characters are the most precise but may
             not render correctly in all terminals.

     --shared-column off | shared | unique
             Set to off to disable the shared size column for directories,
             shared (default) to display shared directory sizes as a separate
             column or unique to display unique directory sizes as a separate
             column.  These options can also be cycled through in the file
             browser with the 'u' key.

     --sort column
             Change the default column to sort on.  Accepted values are
             disk-usage (the default), name, apparent-size, itemcount or
             mtime.  The latter only makes sense in extended mode, see -e.

             The column name can be suffixed with -asc or -desc to change the
             order to ascending or descending, respectively.  For example,
             --sort=name-desc to sort by name in descending order.

     --enable-natsort, --disable-natsort
             Enable (default) or disable natural sort when sorting by file
             name.

     --group-directories-first, --no-group-directories-first
             Sort (or not) directories before files.

     --confirm-quit, --no-confirm-quit
             Require a confirmation before quitting ncdu.  Can be helpful when
             you accidentally press 'q' during or after a very long scan.

     --confirm-delete, --no-confirm-delete
             Require a confirmation before deleting a file or directory.
             Enabled by default, but can be disabled if you're absolutely sure
             you won't accidentally press 'd'.

     --color off | dark | dark-bg
             Set the color scheme.  The following schemes are recognized: off
             to disable colors, dark for a color scheme intended for dark
             backgrounds and dark-bg for a variation of the dark color scheme
             that also works in terminals with a light background.

             The default is off.

CONFIGURATION
     ncdu can be configured by placing command-line options in /etc/ncdu.conf
     or $HOME/.config/ncdu/config.  If both files exist, the system
     configuration will be loaded before the user configuration, allowing
     users to override options set in the system configuration.  Options given
     on the command line will override options set in the configuration files.
     The files will not be read at all when --ignore-config is given on the
     command line.

     The configuration file format is simply one command line option per line.
     Lines starting with '#' are ignored.  A line can be prefixed with '@' to
     suppress errors while parsing the option.  Example configuration file:

           # Always enable extended mode
           -e

           # Disable file deletion
           --disable-delete

           # Exclude .git directories
           --exclude .git

           # Read excludes from ~/.ncduexcludes, ignore error if the file does not exist
           @--exclude-from ~/.ncduexcludes

KEYS
     ?       Open help + keys + about screen

     up, down, j, k
             Cycle through the items

     right, enter, l
             Open selected directory

     left, <, h
             Go to parent directory

     n       Order by filename (press again for descending order)

     s       Order by filesize (press again for descending order)

     C       Order by number of items (press again for descending order)

     a       Toggle between showing disk usage and showing apparent size.

     M       Order by latest child mtime, or modified time (press again for
             descending order).  Requires the -e flag.

     d       Delete the selected file or directory.  An error message will be
             shown when the contents of the directory do not match or do not
             exist anymore on the filesystem.

     t       Toggle dirs before files when sorting.

     g       Toggle between showing percentage, graph, both, or none.
             Percentage is relative to the size of the current directory,
             graph is relative to the largest item in the current directory.

     u       Toggle display of the shared / unique size column for directories
             that share hard links.  This column is only visible if the
             current listing contains directories with shared hard links.

     c       Toggle display of child item counts.

     m       Toggle display of latest child mtime, or modified time.  Requires
             the -e flag.

     e       Show/hide 'hidden' or 'excluded' files and directories.  Be aware
             that even if you can't see the hidden files and directories, they
             are still there and they are still included in the directory
             sizes.  If you suspect that the totals shown at the bottom of the
             screen are not correct, make sure you haven't enabled this
             option.

     i       Show information about the current selected item.

     r       Refresh/recalculate the current directory.

     b       Spawn shell in current directory.

             ncdu determines your preferred shell from the NCDU_SHELL or SHELL
             environment variable (in that order), or calls /bin/sh if neither
             are set.  This allows you to also configure another command to be
             run when he 'b' key is pressed.  For example, to spawn the
             vifm(1) file manager instead of a shell, run ncdu as follows:
                   NCDU_SHELL=vifm ncdu
             The NCDU_LEVEL environment variable is set or incremented before
             spawning the shell, allowing you to detect if your shell is
             running from within ncdu.  This can be useful to avoid nesting
             multiple instances, although ncdu itself does not (currently)
             warn about or prevent this situation.

     q       Quit

FILE FLAGS
     Entries in the browser interface may be prefixed by a one-character flag.
     These flags have the following meaning:

     !       An error occurred while reading this directory.

     .       An error occurred while reading a subdirectory, so the indicated
             size may not be correct.

     <       File or directory is excluded from the statistics by using
             exclude patterns.

     >       Directory is on another filesystem.

     ^       Directory is excluded from the statistics due to being a Linux
             pseudo filesystem.

     @       This is neither a file nor a folder (symlink, socket, ...).

     H       Same file was already counted (hard link).

     e       Empty directory.

EXAMPLES
     To scan and browse the directory you're currently in, all you need is a
     simple:
           ncdu
     To scan a full filesystem, for example your root filesystem, you'll want
     to use -x:
           ncdu -x /

     Since scanning a large directory may take a while, you can scan a
     directory and export the results for later viewing:

           ncdu -1xO export.ncdu /
           # ...some time later:
           ncdu -f export.ncdu
     To export from a cron job, make sure to replace -1 with -0 to suppress
     unnecessary progress output.

     You can also export a directory and browse it once scanning is done:
           ncdu -co- | tee export.json.zst | ./ncdu -f-

     To scan a system remotely, but browse through the files locally:
           ssh user@system ncdu -co- / | ./ncdu -f-
     Remote scanning and local viewing has two major advantages when compared
     to running ncdu directly on the remote system: You can browse through the
     scanned directory on the local system without any network latency, and
     ncdu does not keep the entire directory structure in memory when
     exporting, so this won't consume much memory on the remote system.

SEE ALSO
     du(1), tree(1).

     ncdu has a website: https://dev.yorhel.nl/ncdu

AUTHORS
     Written by Yorhel <projects@yorhel.nl>

BUGS
     Directory hard links and firmlinks (MacOS) are not supported.  They are
     not detected as being hard links and will thus get scanned and counted
     multiple times.

     Some minor glitches may appear when displaying filenames that contain
     multibyte or multicolumn characters.

     The unique and shared directory sizes are calculated based on the
     assumption that the link count of hard links does not change during a
     filesystem scan or in between refreshes.  If this does happen, for
     example when a hard link is deleted, then these numbers will be very much
     incorrect and a full refresh by restarting ncdu is needed to get correct
     numbers again.

     All sizes are internally represented as a signed 64bit integer.  If you
     have a directory larger than 8 EiB minus one byte, ncdu will clip its
     size to 8 EiB minus one byte.  When deleting or refreshing items in a
     directory with a clipped size, the resulting sizes will be incorrect.
     Likewise, item counts are stored in a 32-bit integer, so will be
     incorrect in the unlikely event that you happen to have more than 4
     billion items in a directory.

     Please report any other bugs you may find at the bug tracker, which can
     be found on the web site at https://dev.yorhel.nl/ncdu

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE              May 1, 2025             FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
