NDISCVT(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             NDISCVT(8)

NAME
     ndiscvt – convert Windows® NDIS drivers for use with FreeBSD

SYNOPSIS
     ndiscvt [-O] [-i inffile] -s sysfile [-n devname] [-o outfile]
     ndiscvt [-f firmfile]

DESCRIPTION
     The ndiscvt utility transforms a Windows® NDIS driver into a data file
     which is used to build an ndis(4) compatibility driver module.  Windows®
     drivers consist of two main parts: a .SYS file, which contains the actual
     driver executable code, and an .INF file, which provides the Windows®
     installer with device identifier information and a list of driver-
     specific registry keys.  The ndiscvt utility can convert these files into
     a header file that is compiled into if_ndis.c to create an object code
     module that can be linked into the FreeBSD kernel.

     The .INF file is typically required since only it contains device
     identification data such as PCI vendor and device IDs or PCMCIA
     identifier strings.  The .INF file may be optionally omitted however, in
     which case the ndiscvt utility will only perform the conversion of the
     .SYS file.  This is useful for debugging purposes only.

OPTIONS
     The options are as follows:

     -i inffile
             Open and parse the specified .INF file when performing
             conversion.  The ndiscvt utility will parse this file and emit a
             device identification structure and registry key configuration
             structures which will be used by the ndis(4) driver and
             ndisapi(9) kernel subsystem.  If this is omitted, ndiscvt will
             emit a dummy configuration structure only.

     -s sysfile
             Open and parse the specified .SYS file.  This file must contain a
             Windows® driver image.  The ndiscvt utility will perform some
             manipulation of the sections within the executable file to make
             runtime linking within the kernel a little easier and then
             convert the image into a data array.

     -n devname
             Specify an alternate name for the network device/interface which
             will be created when the driver is instantiated.  If you need to
             load more than one NDIS driver into your system (i.e., if you
             have two different network cards in your system which require
             NDIS driver support), each module you create must have a unique
             name.  Device can not be larger than IFNAMSIZ.  If no name is
             specified, the driver will use the default a default name
             (“ndis”).

     -o outfile
             Specify the output file in which to place the resulting data.
             This can be any file pathname.  If outfile is a single dash
             (‘-’), the data will be written to the standard output.  The
             if_ndis.c module expects to find the driver data in a file called
             ndis_driver_data.h, so it is recommended that this name be used.

     -O      Generate both an ndis_driver_data.h file and an
             ndis_driver.data.o file.  The latter file will contain a copy of
             the Windows® .SYS driver image encoded as a FreeBSD ELF object
             file (created with objcopy(1)).  Turning the Windows® driver
             image directly into an object code file saves disk space and
             compilation time.

     -f firmfile
             A few NDIS drivers come with additional files that the core
             driver module will load during initialization time.  Typically,
             these files contain firmware which the driver will transfer to
             the device in order to make it fully operational.  In Windows®,
             these files are usually just copied into one of the system
             directories along with the driver itself.

             In FreeBSD there are two mechanism for loading these files.  If
             the driver is built as a loadable kernel module which is loaded
             after the kernel has finished booting (and after the root file
             system has been mounted), the extra files can simply be copied to
             the /compat/ndis directory, and they will be loaded into the
             kernel on demand when the driver needs them.

             If however the driver is required to bootstrap the system (i.e.,
             if the NDIS-based network interface is to be used for
             diskless/PXE booting), the files need to be pre-loaded by the
             bootstrap loader in order to be accessible, since the driver will
             need them before the root file system has been mounted.  However,
             the bootstrap loader is only able to load files that are shared
             FreeBSD binary objects.

             The -f flag can be used to convert an arbitrary file firmfile
             into shared object format (the actual conversion is done using
             the objcopy(1) and ld(1) commands).  The resulting files can then
             be copied to the /boot/kernel directory, and can be pre-loaded
             directly from the boot loader prompt, or automatically by editing
             the loader.conf(5) file.  If desired, the files can also be
             loaded into memory at runtime using the kldload(8) command.

             When an NDIS driver tries to open an external file, the
             ndisapi(9) code will first search for a loaded kernel module that
             matches the name specified in the open request, and if that
             fails, it will then try to open the file from the /compat/ndis
             directory as well.  Note that during kernel bootstrap, the
             ability to open files from /compat/ndis is disabled: only the
             module search will be performed.

             When using the -f flag, ndiscvt will generate both a relocatable
             object file (with a .o extension) and a shared object file (with
             a .ko extension).  The shared object is the one that should be
             placed in the /boot/kernel directory.  The relocatable object
             file is useful if the user wishes to create a completely static
             kernel image: the object file can be linked into the kernel
             directly along with the driver itself.  Some editing of the
             kernel configuration files will be necessary in order to have the
             extra object included in the build.

SEE ALSO
     ld(1), objcopy(1), ndis(4), kldload(8)

HISTORY
     The ndiscvt utility first appeared in FreeBSD 5.3.

AUTHORS
     The ndiscvt utility was written by Bill Paul <wpaul@windriver.com>.  The
     lex(1) and yacc(1) INF file parser was written by Matthew Dodd
     <mdodd@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        December 10, 2003       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
