NENSCRIPT(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           NENSCRIPT(1)

NAME
       nenscript - format an ASCII file and convert to PostScript

SYNOPSIS
       nenscript [ -?12BGghlNnRrsVWwZ ] [ -ffont ] [ -Ftitlefont ] [ -bheader
       ] [ -ifiletitle ] [ -Llines ] [ -pfilename ] [ -Pprinter ] [
       -Sclassification ] [ -U1st_page_classification ] [ -Tpapertype ] [
       -ttabstops ] [ -#copies ] [ file...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       Formats the specified ASCII files and produces PostScript output
       conforming to the Adobe Structuring Conventions.  The output pages may
       be in landscape or portrait mode, with one or two columns, with or
       without headers.

       If no input files are specified, then input is accepted from stdin.

       Tabs in the input stream are expanded (by default) to eight character
       positions.

       Formfeed (control-L) characters in the input stream cause a new page or
       column to be started. Form feed characters must be at the start start
       of a line, or preceded only by whitespace.

       PostScript output is directed to a printer using lpr unless otherwise
       specified using the -p option. The printer to use is set by the PRINTER
       environment variable.  If this is not set, then the printer
       "Postscript" ("prn" for MSDOS) will be used.

       Font specifications are formed from the font name and the font size,
       i.e.  Courier10 specifies a 10 point Courier font, and Courier-Bold12
       specifies a bold, 12 point Courier font. Sizes can also be given with a
       decimal point, i.e.  Courier7.5 specifies a 7.5 point font, this might
       however result in a marginal error in the size calculations, since a
       linear approximation of the character width is done.

       The NENSCRIPT environment variable may be used to set default values
       for most configurable attributes. Values set in this way will be
       overridden by any options specified on the commands line.

       The current version of nenscript is 1.13.


OPTIONS
       -?     -h Print usage message.


       -1     Specifies single column output (default).


       -2     Specifies two column output.


       -B     Turns off page titles.


       -bheader
              Print the text specified by header as the title on each page,
              rather than the default header which is composed of the name of
              the source file, the current time and date and the page number.
              If in gaudy mode, the title is displayed in the blank area just
              above the file title.


       -ffont Use font for printing text. Only Courier in sizes 5 to 30 can be
              used for printing text. The default font is Courier10, unless
              two column landscape mode is specified in which case the default
              font is Courier7.


       -Ftitlefont
              Use titlefont for printing titles. Any font in any point size
              can be used for printing titles.The default font is Courier-
              Bold10.


       -G     Enable gaudy mode.


       -g     Disable gaudy mode (default).


       -ifiletitle
              Use the specified string as the displayed filename. Useful when
              inputting from stdin.


       -Llines
              Set the maximum number of lines which will be printed per page
              or column. The actual number of lines which appear may be less
              depending upon the font and paper size.


       -l     Do not set a limit on on the maximum number of lines per page,
              i.e. the number of lines is determined by the font size and the
              paper size (default).


       -N     Precede each line with it's line number relative to the start of
              the file.


       -n     Disable line numbering (default).


       -pfilename
              Direct the PostScript to filename rather than the default
              printer. If '-' is specified as the filename, then the
              PostScript is sent to stdout.


       -Pprinter
              Overrides the PRINTER environment variable in determining the
              printer to spool output to. Ignored if -p is used.


       -R     Don't rotate the page, i.e. output in portrait mode (default).


       -r     Rotate the page, i.e. output in landscape mode.


       -Sclassification
              Prints the string argument in Helvetica-Bold28 at the top and
              bottom of the page in conformance to regulations for printing
              classified material.


       -U1st_page_classification
              Print a different classification header for the first page.
              Useful for marking banner sheets that need to be marked with a
              higher level of classification until the document can be
              reviewed and declassified.


       -s     Disable a previous heading specified with the -S option.


       -Tpapertype
              Sets the output paper type as per the argument. At the moment,
              only two paper types are supported: A4 and US. The default paper
              size will be A4, unless the US_VERSION define is specified at
              compilation time.


       -ttabsize
              Sets the number of columns to which tabs are expanded. The
              default is eight columns.


       -V     Display information identifying the version of nenscript.
              Nothing will be printed regardless of the other arguments.


       -W     Truncate lines which are wide for the page.


       -w     Wrap lines which are too wide for the page onto successive lines
              (default).  Continuation lines are marked with + character
              before the left margin.


       -Z     Check the first two characters of the input for the character
              string %!. If a match is found, the input is copied directly to
              the output with no processing.


       -#copies
              Print each page copies times.


ENVIRONMENT
       PRINTER        Specifies the name of the printer to direct PostScript
                      output to. If not set, the default is a printer named
                      "PostScript".


       NENSCRIPT      If defined, this string is searched for valid options
                      before the command line supplied by the user.


BUGS
       As nenscript does not have access to complete PostScript font tables,
       it must use some other technique for calculating the number of
       characters that fit across the page. The solution was to use a fixed
       table for the Courier font in a range of sizes. If this table was
       extended, other fonts and sizes could be used for printing text.
       Alternatively, if the text processing was done on the printer, then
       there would be no need to know anything about the font sizes...

       No checking is performed on font names, other than checking that only
       Courier can be specified for the text font. If a font is specified that
       is not available on the final printer, the result is undetermined.

       No checking is performed on the input file to detect accidental
       printing of garbage files. Caveat emptor!

       No mapping of the input characters is performed, so output may vary
       depending upon the vagaries of downstream software and hardware.

       No support for manual feed, page prefeed, mail upon completion or any
       of the other rarely used options of enscript.

       No messages are displayed whilst processing.

       Input line lengths are limited to 8192 characters after expansion of
       tabs.

                                28 October 1997                   NENSCRIPT(1)
