NEO(6)                          neo User Manual                         NEO(6)

NAME
       neo - simulate the digital rain from "The Matrix"

SYNOPSIS
       neo [OPTIONS]...

DESCRIPTION
       neo recreates the digital rain effect from "The Matrix". Streams of
       random characters will endlessly scroll down your terminal screen.
       There are many differing depictions of this effect throughout the
       Matrix franchise.  neo attempts to closely mimic the scene from "The
       Matrix" where Cypher explains the code to Neo. It imitates some of the
       finer details such as the characters used (half-width katakana), uneven
       colors, color palette, glitching, and flickering.

       The digital rain is made of many "droplets". Each droplet scrolls
       vertically down a column. There can be multiple droplets in each
       column. Some characters on the screen are "glitched" - their values
       will change randomly until they are erased. The bottom of each droplet
       is a bit brighter than the rest.

       You can run neo without any arguments, but it has many options to
       customize it to your liking. It can also respond to key presses (try
       pressing a number!), and it accepts a color file (see the "COLOR FILE"
       section below), which allows neo to display user-defined colors. neo
       will use Unicode characters by default if it detects a locale that
       supports UTF.

OPTIONS
       neo takes options in two forms: short and long. Short options cannot
       include an equal sign but long options can. Example for -S/--speed:

              These will work:

                     -S 16
                     --speed 16
                     --speed=16

              These will not:

                     -S=16
                     --S 16

       -a, --async
              Makes each column of characters scroll at an independent speed.
              Each column's speed is still limited by the -S/--speed arg. All
              droplets in a column will always scroll at the speed.

       -b, --bold=NUM
              Controls if and how neo displays bold characters.  0=off,
              1=random (default), 2=all.

       -C, --colorfile=FILE
              Read the colors from a file. This option is mutually exclusive
              with the -c/--color and --colormode=0 options. See the "COLOR
              FILE" section below for more info.

       -c, --color=COLOR
              Sets the foreground text color. This option is mutually
              exclusive with the -C/--colorfile and --colormode=0 options. The
              available colors are: green, green2, green3, yellow, orange,
              red, blue, cyan, gold, rainbow, purple, pink, pink2, vaporwave,
              and gray.

       -D, --defaultbg
              Use the default terminal background color. This option is
              mutually exclusive with the -C/--colorfile and --colormode=0
              options.

       -d, --density=NUM
              Controls how many droplets will appear onscreen. NUM is a
              decimal number.  Its default value is 1.0. Values greater than
              0.0 but less than 100.0 are allowed. However, values in the
              range [0.25, 4.0] will probably look best.

       -F, --fullwidth
              Use two columns per character. This option is useful when
              displaying characters that take two columns to display such as
              Greek and full-width katakana.

       -f, --fps=NUM
              Sets a frame rate target. By default, neo will run at 60Hz. neo
              does not attempt to query the OS for any display info. So it
              can't match your monitor's refresh rate by default unless it
              happens to be 60Hz. Lower frame rates will reduce CPU usage and
              improve battery life on portable devices.

       -G, --glitchpct=NUM
              Sets the percentage of characters onscreen that glitch. NUM is a
              decimal number between 0.0 and 100.0 inclusive. The default
              value is 10.0 (i.e. 10%).

       -g, --glitchms=NUM1,NUM2
              Controls how often the characters on screen glitch. A "glitch"
              refers to when a character changes into another. Each glitch is
              accompanied by a flickering of the character's color if colors
              are enabled. After each glitch, neo will wait for some time
              before doing the next glitch. The time it waits is chosen
              randomly to be between the two values provided (inclusive). NUM1
              and NUM2 are positive integers that represent milliseconds.
              Their default values are 300 and 400.

       -h, --help
              Shows the help message.

       -l, --lingerms=NUM1,NUM2
              Controls how long characters stay onscreen after they finish
              scrolling. For each column, neo will pick a random value between
              NUM1 and NUM2 inclusive.  NUM1 and NUM2 are positive integers
              that represent milliseconds. The default values are 1 and 3000.

       -M, --shadingmode=NUM
              Controls how neo assigns color values to characters on the
              screen.  0=random (default), 1=gradient.

       -m, --message=STR
              Displays a message in the center of the screen. The message is
              gradually uncovered as characters stream past it. This effect is
              similar to the title reveal in the movies. The message should be
              surrounded with double quotes.  neo parses arguments using
              getopt_long(), which does not have Unicode support.  So,
              unfortunately, this argument only accepts simple ASCII text. The
              message will not display well if you also use the -F/--fullwidth
              option.  To unveil the message faster, the following options may
              help:

                     neo -m "the message" --speed=12 --density=3
                     --lingerms=1,1 --rippct=0

       -p, --profile
              Turns on the profiling mode. This mode functions as normal
              except it times how long each frame takes and writes the values
              to a file called "time_profile.txt" in the current working
              directory.

       -r, --rippct=NUM
              Sets the percentage of droplets that stop scrolling before
              reaching the bottom of the screen. NUM is a decimal number
              between 0.0 and 100.0 inclusive. The default value is 33.0 (i.e.
              about a third).

       -S, --speed=NUM
              Controls how fast characters scroll down the screen. NUM is a
              decimal number that sets the number of characters drawn per
              second. The default value is 8.0.  If -a/--async is used, this
              option sets an upper bound on the value chosen for each
              droplet's speed.

       -s, --screensaver
              If this option is set, neo will exit on the first key press.

       -V, --version
              Displays the version, build date, copyright, and license.

       --chars=NUM1,NUM2
              Tells neo to display Unicode characters between NUM1 and NUM2
              inclusive.  NUM1 and NUM2 are Unicode code points in hexadecimal
              (e.g. 0x1F030). This argument can be used multiple times. If
              --charset is not used, neo will only use the values provided by
              this option. If a charset is also specified, neo will use both
              the charset and the characters provided by this option.

       --charset=LANG
              Sets the charset that is used to draw characters onto the
              screen. It can be combined with the --chars option. The
              supported charsets are: ascii, extended, english, dec, decimal,
              digits, punc, bin, binary, hex, hexadecimal, katakana, greek,
              cyrillic, arabic, hebrew, devanagari, braille, and runic.

       --colormode=NUM
              Sets the color mode. The accepted values are 0, 16, 32, and 256.
              0 disables color (i.e. mono). 16 selects 16 colors. 32 selects
              32-bit color. 256 selects 256 colors.

       --maxdpc=NUM
              Sets the maximum number of droplets per column. The default
              value is 3.

       --noglitch
              Disables character glitching.

       --shortpct=NUM
              Sets the percentage of shortened droplets. If a droplet is not
              shortened, it will extend from the top of the screen to final
              line, which is often the bottom of the screen but not always
              (see also: -r/--rippct).  NUM is a decimal number between 0.0
              and 100.0 inclusive. The default value is 50.0 (i.e. 50%).

KEYS
       You can press keys while neo is running to control its behavior. The
       key bindings cannot be changed without modifying the program code. Some
       keys can be held to increase their effect (e.g. holding UP increases
       speed further).

       Here are the available key controls:

              ´SPACE' - clears the screen
              ´UP' - increases the scrolling speed
              ´DOWN' - decreases the scrolling speed
              ´RIGHT' - increases the number of characters that are glitchy
              ´LEFT' - decreases the number of characters that are glitchy
              ´TAB' - toggles the shading mode between random and gradient
              ´ESC' - exits neo
              ´+' - increases the number of droplets onscreen
              ´-' - decreases the number of droplets onscreen
              ´a' - toggles asynchronous droplet speed
              ´p' - pauses neo
              ´q' - exits neo
              ´1' - sets the color to green
              ´2' - sets the color to green2
              ´3' - sets the color to green3
              ´4' - sets the color to gold
              ´5' - sets the color to pink2
              ´6' - sets the color to red
              ´7' - sets the color to blue
              ´8' - sets the color to cyan
              ´9' - sets the color to purple
              ´0' - sets the color to gray
              ´!' - sets the color to rainbow
              ´@' - sets the color to yellow
              ´#' - sets the color to orange
              ´$' - sets the color to pink
              ´%' - sets the color to vaporwave

COLOR FILE
       neo can read a file that specifies the background color and all the
       foreground colors. The file is given via the -C/--colorfile option.

       You can write comments using "//", "#", ";", "*", or "@". Comments can
       go on separate lines or after the data on any line. The first line that
       is not blank or a comment should be the version string. The version
       string line should look like:

              neo_color_version N

       where "N" is the color file version number, which is currently 1.  The
       version string is optional, and if it is omitted, then neo will assume
       that the file adheres to the latest version's format. This could
       potentially break old color files. Ye have been warned! neo will try to
       maintain backwards compatability with older color file versions so long
       as their version is actually given.

       Each data line in the file describes a color. The first line is the
       background color. Each subsequent line describes a foreground color.
       Each file must contain at least two lines: one for the background and
       one for the foreground. Typically, you will want to put the foreground
       colors in order of ascending brightness. neo will not sort the colors.
       The last color should usually be very bright (e.g. white).

       Each data line in the file specifies one value or four values. If only
       one value is given, it is treated as a 16 or 256 terminal color code
       (e.g. 16 is black).  If four values are given, the first is treated as
       a 16/256 color code and the other three are the RGB components of the
       32-bit color. Each component is a value from 0 to 1000, which closely
       mimics how ncurses handles color. Each value is separated by a comma,
       and whitespace is allowed.

       If more than one value is given on a line, then all four values must be
       given.  Lines do not all have to have the same number of components
       i.e. some lines can just specify the 16/256 color code while others can
       specify all four values.

       On most systems, if a value of "-1" is provided for the 16/256 color
       code, this will set the color to the system default. This can be useful
       if you want to keep the default background.

       All ncurses implementations should allow you to override at least the
       first 256 colors, assuming your terminal supports it. Some will let you
       override even more than that. ncurses should restore all colors back to
       their previous state as long as neo exits cleanly.

       If either of the 16 or 256 colormode options is used, all 32-bit RGB
       components in the color file will be parsed if they are given, but they
       will be unused.

       Example 1: Blue text on a red background using only 256 color codes

              196
              21

       Example 2: Different shades of purple text on a yellow background with
       some 32-bit color components

              228,917,888,59
              54
              92
              129,750,963,128

       Example 3: Default background and various shades of green using only
       256 color codes

              -1
              34
              40
              46
              82
              231

PERFORMANCE
       neo can have two main performance issues: high CPU utilization and
       stuttering.  A terminal emulator with GPU acceleration (e.g. Alacritty)
       may significantly improve these issues. The CPU utilization by neo
       itself is fairly low, even at high frame rates on large screens.
       However, your terminal emulator may use substantial CPU resources to
       draw everything.  Without a fast terminal emulator, this application
       may use up a whole CPU core or three.

       Sometimes the text will not scroll smoothly. Again, a fast terminal
       emulator will probably help. You will also typically want the frame
       rate (i.e. --fps) to be evenly divisible by the character speed (i.e.
       -S/--speed).  Sometimes, the glitching effect will lead to stuttering
       because a substantial number of characters onscreen will have to be
       redrawn. Reducing the glitchiness (i.e. --glitchpct) or disabling
       glitching (i.e. --noglitch) may help.

       If you experience performance issues, here are some things to try:

              1. Use a GPU-accelerated terminal emulator
              2. Run neo on a smaller screen/window
              3. Reduce the frame rate (e.g. --fps=30)
              4. Reduce the number of droplets onscreen (e.g. -d 0.5)
              5. Reduce the character speed (e.g. --speed=6)
              6. Disabling glitching (i.e. --noglitch)
              7. Disable colors (i.e. --colormode=0)
              8. Disable bold characters (i.e. --bold=0)
              9. Disable Unicode characters (i.e. --charset=ascii)

       Here is a "potato mode" config that should perform well on most
       systems:

              neo --fps=20 -d 0.5 --speed=5 --noglitch --colormode=0 --bold=0
              --charset=ascii

EXAMPLES
       Example 0: Just run it

              neo

       Example 1: Sets a faster, asynchronous scrolling speed with 256 colors

              neo -S 12 -a --color=green3 --colormode=256

       Example 2: Red text with a custom message and Cyrillic characters

              neo --color=red --charset=cyrillic -m "IN SOVIET RUSSIA,
              COMPUTER PROGRAMS YOU!"

       Example 3: Displays golden Greek characters that are full-width

              neo --color=gold --charset=greek -F

       Example 4: Uses --chars to draw Unicode dominoes

              neo --chars=0x1F030,0x1F093 --fullwidth

AUTHORS
       Written by Stewart Reive

REPORTING BUGS
       Create an issue on GitHub: https://github.com/st3w/neo

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2021 Stewart Reive

       License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
       <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  This is free software: you are
       free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the
       extent permitted by law.

DISCLAIMER
       This program is not affiliated with "The Matrix", Warner Bros.
       Entertainment Inc., Village Roadshow Pictures, Silver Pictures, nor any
       of their parent companies, subsidiaries, partners, or affiliates.

SEE ALSO
       locale(1), localectl(1)

AFTERWORD
       You get used to it. I... I don't even see the code.  All I see is
       blonde, brunette, redhead.  Hey! You uh... want a drink? :)

neo version 0.6.1                 Feb 21 2022                           NEO(6)
