NETDUMPD(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            NETDUMPD(8)

NAME
     netdumpd – receive kernel core dumps over the network

SYNOPSIS
     netdumpd [-a addr] [-D] [-d dumpdir] [-i postscript] [-P pidfile]
              [-p path]

DESCRIPTION
     The netdumpd utility listens on a UDP socket for incoming connections
     from a FreeBSD kernel core dumping over the network.  It effectively acts
     as a write-only TFTP server.

     The following options are available:

     -a      Bind the daemon to the given address “addr”.

     -D      Run the utility in debugging mode.  The daemon version is not
             entered while the output is printed entirely on the console.

     -d      Save the core dumps to the specified “dumpdir” directory.  The
             default directory is /var/crash.

             Clients may optionally specify a relative directory path when
             initiating a netdump.  This path is appended to “dumpdir” to
             obtain a directory in which to save the core dump.  The relative
             path may not contain ".." components.  Additionally, no symbolic
             link in the path may contain ".." components.

     -i      Execute the script “script” after each dump received.  The script
             accepts the following strings as parameters: a reason for
             invocation, the client address, the client hostname, the info
             file name and the core dump file name.  The script is executed
             from the “dumpdir” directory.

     -P      Specify an alternative file in which to store the process ID.
             The default is /var/run/netdumpd.pid.

     -p      A directory path relative to “dumpdir” in which to save core
             dumps for clients that do not specify a relative path.  Core
             dumps from clients that specify an invalid directory path are
             saved in the default directory.

SECURITY
     The netdumpd utility does not perform any authentication of clients and
     should therefore be configured to listen only to trusted networks.
     netdumpd can be made to write an arbitrary amount of client data to a
     locally-mounted filesystem.

EXAMPLES
     Run netdumpd in the current directory, without requiring any special
     privileges:

           $ netdumpd -D -d . -P ./netdumpd.pid

SEE ALSO
     netdump(4), dumpon(8)

HISTORY
     The netdumpd utility appeared in FreeBSD 12.0.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             March 5, 2018            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
