NETRIK(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              NETRIK(1)

NAME
       netrik - The ANTRIK internet browser


SYNOPSIS
       netrik [options] URL or filename

       netrik -


DESCRIPTION
       netrik is an advanced text mode HTML (WWW) browser, that is to say a
       web browser running on character cell displays (linux console, xterm
       etc.) -- not unlike w3m, links or lynx.

       When invoked with a filename or URL as argument, the specified document
       is loaded and displayed in interactive mode, so you can start browsing
       the web or some local HTML repository from there. (Alternatively the
       document can be just layouted and dumped to the screen, see OPTIONS
       below.)

       When invoked with '-' instead of a file/URL, an HTML document is read
       from standard input, and displayed just the same.

       If some file name/URL is present in the configuration file
       (~/.netrikrc), you can also start netrik without any non-option
       arguments; the one from the config file will be loaded then. See
       netrikrc(5) for details.

       When multiple non-option arguments are specified, netrik simply takes
       the last one, and ignores the others. (This is for the above to work.)

       The type of the resource to load is automatically determined from the
       argument.  If it starts with "http://", "ftp://" or "file://", the
       corresponding type is used. If none of these is specified, netrik tries
       to guess the type: First it tries to open a local file of the given
       name, and if that fails, it tries HTTP.  Only if both fail, an error is
       generated. (See EXAMPLES below.)

       Local files can be also compressed by gzip or bzip2, which is handled
       transparently, meaning the ".gz" or ".bz2" extension needn't be given
       in the URL.

       Once in the pager, you can explore the web interactively, as with any
       other web browser. The keyboard commands should look familiar if you
       know vi (or some of the myriads of programs with vi-like keys) as well
       as lynx: Use the 'j' and 'k' keys to move around, the up and down arrow
       keys (or capital 'J' and 'K') to select links, and the <return> key to
       follow links. See PAGER COMMANDS below for a description of other
       useful commands.
        (default)

OPTIONS
       Note: netrik is still in early development state; options are subject
       to changes.

       --no-term-width
              When using the pager, this causes a page that contains extremely
              long words to be rendered wider than the screen, instead of
              breaking the word. Note however that side scrolling isn't
              implemented yet -- you won't be able to see the end of the line
              when using this option... In dump mode, this option causes usage
              of the default width of 80 columns instead of what the terminal
              definition says. (Words are always broken in dump mode.)


       --fussy-html
              Abort on any HTML syntax errors or warnings encountered. A short
              error description is printed. (This description may not be
              terribly useful at times...) This mode is primarily intended for
              HTML debugging. (Note however that netrik may oversee some
              errors; but most are reported.)

       --clean-html
              Do not abort on HTML syntax errors. Error descriptions are
              printed for every syntax error (or warning), but netrik tries to
              parse the page anyhow.  Workarounds are used for some typical
              syntax errors (e.g. unescaped '<' or if some error(s) were
              found, a warning message is printed (according to the severity
              of the worst encountered bug), and the pager starts after a
              keypress.

       --valid-html
              This mode is identical to --clean-html, except that netrik
              doesn't pause after loading completes, if only warnings were
              generated but no real errors were encountered. (i.e. constructs
              that are discouraged in the standard, but strictly speaking are
              valid.)

       --broken-html (default)
              This mode is identical to --valid-html, except that netrik also
              doesn't pause if only simple errors with known workaround were
              encountered, which probably won't disturb layouting. Usage
              should be avoided if possible. (The file syntax_error.txt or
              syntax_error.html in the documentation directory (see SEE ALSO
              below) explains why.)

       --ignore-broken
              In this mode no warning is showm for any syntax errors, even if
              they might cause heavily broken layouting. Don't use!


       --debug
              Before displaying (or dumping) the page, some intermediate
              layouting stages are shown. (This output is described in the
              README.) Try it -- it's quite interesting to watch netrik work
              :-) It can be also useful to find HTML errors in a page, as it
              dumps the page while loading/parsing it.
              (This option is not available if compiled with --disable-debug
              to ./configure)

       --warn-unknown
              Issue a warning when encountering an unknown HTML element or
              attribute. This is probably only useful for debugging purposes,
              as there are quite a lot of (legal) HTML facilities netrik
              doesn't know.

       --dump Just dump the file given as argument to the screen and quit,
              instead of starting the pager. (The page is layouted correctly.)

       --no-proxy
              Ignore the "http_proxy" and "HTTP_PROXY" environment variables
              with --builtin-http. (No effect on wget! See below.)

       --no-builtin-http
              Use wget(1) to retrieve pages from a HTTP server, instead of the
              builtin HTTP handling code. Note that HTTP redirects in most
              cases cause relative links in the page to be broken when using
              wget. The builtin HTTP code seems to work good now; using wget
              shouldn't be necessary. (FTP pages however are always loaded via
              wget.)

       --no-anchor-offset
              When jumping to an anchor (following a link with a fragment
              identifier), the page will be scrolled (if possible) so that the
              anchor will stand just below the screen top. (In the second
              line, which is the first line in which links can be activated.)
              By default, the anchor is at about 1/5 of the screen height
              below the top.

       --cursor-keys
              Use the arrow keys to move the cursor, instead of the lynx-like
              navigation used by default. (This is useful for blind users, as
              it allows using the "flash cursor" keys found on braille
              displays.)

       --xterm
              Assume the terminal has xterm-like attribute handling. (i.e.
              needs a workaround to display a bright background color.)
              This setting is used automatically if the terminal type ($TERM
              environment variable) contains the string "xterm", so you only
              need to set it manually if you have some other terminal that
              also needs that workaround or if you have set --console in
              netrikrc(5) and need to override that.
              Note that this workaround works *only* on xterm (and maybe some
              other terminals), but not on linux console, so you can't just
              set it categorically!

       --console
              Assume the terminal doesn't need and understand the xterm
              workaround for bright background colors. (See above.)

       --dark-background
              Use the color definitions from colors-dark.c (formerly
              colors.alt.c). A black background will be used (even if the
              terminal uses a bright background by default!), and a set of
              foreground colors which look very nice on black backgound. (But
              would be unusable on bright background.)
              This is the default now.

       --bright-background
              Use color definitions from colors-bright.c (formerly
              colors.default.c). The terminal's default colors will be used
              for background and normal text, and an alternative color scheme
              suitable for bright background will be used for other text
              types.
              Use this if you have a terminal with bright background (like
              most xterms), and also want to stick to that in netrik.
              Note that this can be used on a terminal with dark background as
              well; some colors are somewhat hard to read, however.

       --no-force-colors
              Use terminal's default colors even with --dark-background,
              instead of forcing usage of netrik's default text colors (white
              on black for normal text).  This is useful if you use the
              default (dark) colors and your terminal has a black background
              anyways -- forcing the default colors is only a waste of time in
              this situation.

       You can also specify any of these options as default in the netrik
       config file ~/.netrikrc, see netrikrc(5).


EXAMPLES
       netrik http://netrik.sourceforge.net/index.html
              Load the netrik web site and start browsing.

       netrik sourceforge.net
              Load a local file named "sourceforge.net" in the current
              directory, or start browing http://sourceforge.net if no such
              local file exists.

       netrik file:///usr/local/share/doc/index.html
              Start browsing the netrik HTML documentation.

       ssh me@someshell.invalid cat foo.html|netrik -
              Load file "foo.html" from your ssh account on someshell.invalid,
              and display in builtin pager.

       netrik --dump foo.html
              Layout and dump the file "foo.html" from current directory.

       TERM=ansi netrik --dump foo.html >foo.rtext (bourne shell version)
              Dump (layouted) content of "foo.html" to the file "foo.rtext",
              which can be viewed on any ANSI compatible color terminal later.
              (Using "less -R" for example.)

       netrik http://foo.invalid/broken.html --dump --debug 2>&1|less -R
              Examine "http://foo.invalid/broken.html" to find the reason for
              some HTML error.

       netrik --broken-html freshmeat.net
              Start browsing freashmeat.net, don't halt on noncritical HTML
              errors.

       netrik --ignore-broken www.cnn.com
              Start browsing cnn.com, don't halt on *any* HTML errors. (Expect
              it to look broken, but that's probably not our fault... If you
              think it is, please file a bug report.)


PAGER COMMANDS
       Similar to vi(1), netrik basically knows two kinds of pager commands.
       Simple commands (presently all of them are one-letter commands) are
       executed directly when the corresponding key is pressed. These are all
       the pager movement commands, plus some more. In the following overview
       they are represented by just the letter for letter keys, or a symbol of
       the form <key> for special keys. Upper case letters mean the letter key
       with <shift>, and letters preceded with '^' mean the letter key with
       <ctrl>.

       The others (presently only two) need to be typed into a command prompt
       (with readline(3) and all), which is activated by pressing ':', and has
       to be confirmed by <return>. These are indicated by a ':' before the
       command name.  (Just as they are typed...)


   MOVEMENT (SCROLLING) COMMANDS
       j      scroll one line forward

       k      scroll one line backward

       <del>  scroll two lines forward

       <ins>  scroll two lines backward

       ^F,<space>
              scroll one screen forward

       ^B     scroll one screen backward

       ^D,<PgDn>
              scroll one half screen forward

       ^U,<PgUp>
              scroll one half screen backward

       g,<Home>
              go to page top

       G,<End>
              go to page end


   CURSOR MOVEMENT COMMANDS
       ^H     cursor left

       ^J     cursor down

       ^K     cursor up

       ^L     cursor right


   HYPERLINK COMMANDS
       <return>
              follow selected link (or manipulate form control)

       J,<down>
              go to next link, or scroll one line forward (if no more links on
              screen)

       K,<up> go to previous link, or scroll one line backward (if no more
              links on screen)

       +,=    go to first link on next line, or scroll one line forward (if no
              more links on screen)

       -      go to first link on previous line, or scroll one line backward
              (if no more links on screen)

       ^,^A   go to first link starting in line

       0      go to first link in line (different from '^' if there is a link
              wrapped from previous line)

       $,^E   go to last link in line

       H      go to first link on screen

       L      go to last link on screen

       M      go to midmost link (first link in second screen half)

       <tab>  go to next link

       p      go to previous link

       <bs>   go to first link on page

       l      activate links by label


   PAGE HISTORY COMMANDS
       ^R     reload current page

       b,<left>
              back to previous page in history

       f,<right>
              forward to next page in history (after 'b')

       B      back to previous site (page before last absolute URL
              entered/followed)

       F      forward to next site

       s      set page mark

       S      remove page mark

       r      return to previous page in history marked with 's' (or first
              page)

       R      forward to next page in history marked with 's' (or last page)


   OTHER COMMANDS
       u      show link URL

       U      show absolute link target URL

       c      show current page URL

       :e URL load document "URL" and display it in the pager (URL relative to
              current page)

       :E URL load document "URL" and display it in the pager (absolute URL)

       /      search for a string in current page

       q      quit netrik

       ^C (SIGINT)
              Interrupt file/HTTP loading (no effect otherwise)

       ^\ (SIGQUIT)
              Immediately quit netrik unconditionally. (Presently, this signal
              violently terminates netrik; thus no cleanup takes place... Use
              only in "emergency".)


ENVIRONMENT
       http_proxy (the uppercase variant HTTP_PROXY is also recognized, but
       discouraged) specifies the address of an optional proxy server.

       TERM specifies a terminal type for which netrik (actually, ncurses)
       will produce output.


EXIT STATUS
       0      Normal exit. (Should occur only if explicitely issued 'q'
              command, or after whole page has been printed with --dump.)

       1      Some condition occured that prevents netrik from continuing
              normal operation. This might be a memory allocation error,
              failure to open some important file etc. Note that it might also
              indicate some bug in netrik; if the error message printed
              doesn't seem to make sense (e.g. a memory allocation error when
              there is plenty of free RAM available), please report that. (See
              BUGS below.)

       2      Operational error: The user induced an error condition that
              netrik can't handle gracefully (yet), e.g. trying to follow a
              relative link where no base URL is available. (On a page loaded
              from standard input, for example.)

       100    One of the internal sanity checks gave alarm. This is a bug in
              netrik! Please report it. (See BUGS below.)

       Other errors codes shouldn't occur. (Note that error codes above 128
       are generated when the program is terminated by a signal, e.g. 139 for
       SIGSEGV, which usually also indicates a bug, unless the signal was
       generated by some user action.)


CONFORMING TO
       Netrik knows most of HTML 4.01 and XHTML 1.0. There are several
       facilities it doesn't recognize yet, though; and some things are
       layouted incorrect.  (Especially space handling is totaly broken.)

       It doesn't conform to XHTML also for the reason that it only warns
       about syntax errors (rather than aborting), and some may even slip
       through alltogether.

       Note that full standards compliance is not a primary developement goal;
       we may ignore known minor incompatibilities, as long as they do not
       undermine W3C's standardization efforts, and there is more important
       work to do...


FILES
       ~/.netrikrc: The netrik configuration file.


VERSION
       This manual page documents netrik version 1.16.1.


BUGS
       Layouting is so strange that it always looks broken...

       Layouting is actually broken. (Wrong space handling.)

       HTML syntax error messages are penetrating.

       The UI is inconsistent.

       Netrik is vaporware.

       Netrik has less command line switches than ls ;-)

       Please report any other problems you find to <netrik-
       general@lists.sourceforge.net>.  Thanks.


AUTHOR
       Netrik was created and is maintained by Olaf D. Buddenhagen AKA antrik
       (<antrik@users.sf.net>), with major contributions from Patrice Neff,
       Sören Schulze, and others. (For a full listing of all contributors see
       AUTHORS in the doc directory, see below.)

       This man page was created by Patrice Neff and modified by antrik.


SEE ALSO
       netrikrc(5)

       The README file, and the complete plain text or html documentation
       (index.txt/index.html) in the doc directory. (The doc directory is
       usually something like /usr/share/doc/netrik when netrik was installed
       from a binary package or /usr/local/share/doc/netrik when compiled from
       source.)

       The netrik website at <http://netrik.sourceforge.net>.

       The netrik mailing list at <netrik-general@lists.sf.net>; see
       <http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/netrik-general> for list
       information.

                             September 21st, 2008                    NETRIK(1)
