NEWSYSLOG(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           NEWSYSLOG(8)

NAME
     newsyslog – maintain system log files to manageable sizes

SYNOPSIS
     newsyslog [-CFNPnrsv] [-a directory] [-d directory] [-f config_file]
               [-S pidfile] [-t timefmt] [[-R tagname] file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The newsyslog utility should be scheduled to run periodically by cron(8).
     When it is executed it archives log files if necessary.  If a log file is
     determined to require archiving, newsyslog rearranges the files so that
     “logfile” is empty, “logfile.0” has the last period's logs in it,
     “logfile.1” has the next to last period's logs in it, and so on, up to a
     user-specified number of archived logs.  It is also possible to let
     archived log filenames be created using the time the log file was
     archived instead of the sequential number using the -t option.
     Optionally the archived logs can be compressed to save space.

     A log can be archived for three reasons:

           1.   It is larger than the configured size (in kilobytes).

           2.   A configured number of hours have elapsed since the log was
                last archived.

           3.   This is the specific configured hour for rotation of the log.

     The granularity of newsyslog is dependent on how often it is scheduled to
     run by cron(8).  Since the program is quite fast, it may be scheduled to
     run every hour without any ill effects, and mode three (above) assumes
     that this is so.

OPTIONS
     The following options can be used with newsyslog:

     -f config_file
             Instruct newsyslog to use config_file instead of
             /etc/newsyslog.conf for its configuration file.

     -a directory
             Specify a directory into which archived log files will be
             written.  If a relative path is given, it is appended to the path
             of each log file and the resulting path is used as the directory
             into which the archived log for that log file will be written.
             If an absolute path is given, all archived logs are written into
             the given directory.  If any component of the path directory does
             not exist, it will be created when newsyslog is run.

     -d directory
             Specify a directory which all log files will be relative to.  To
             allow archiving of logs outside the root, the directory passed to
             the -a option is unaffected.

     -v      Place newsyslog in verbose mode.  In this mode it will print out
             each log and its reasons for either trimming that log or skipping
             it.

     -n      Cause newsyslog not to trim the logs, but to print out what it
             would do if this option were not specified.  This option implies
             the -r option.

     -r      Remove the restriction that newsyslog must be running as root.
             Of course, newsyslog will not be able to send a HUP signal to
             syslogd(8) so this option should only be used in debugging.

     -s      Specify that newsyslog should not send any signals to any daemon
             processes that it would normally signal when rotating a log file.
             For any log file which is rotated, this option will usually also
             mean the rotated log file will not be compressed if there is a
             daemon which would have been signalled without this option.
             However, this option is most likely to be useful when specified
             with the -R option, and in that case the compression will be
             done.

     -t timefmt
             If specified newsyslog will create the “rotated” logfiles using
             the specified time format instead of the default sequential
             filenames.  The filename used will be kept until it is deleted.
             The time format is described in the strftime(3) manual page.  If
             the timefmt argument is set to an empty string or the string
             “DEFAULT”, the default built in time format is used.  If the
             timefmt string is changed the old files created using the
             previous time format will not be automatically removed (unless
             the new format is very similar to the old format).  This is also
             the case when changing from sequential filenames to time based
             file names, and the other way around.  The time format should
             contain at least year, month, day, and hour to make sure rotating
             of old logfiles can select the correct logfiles.

     -C      If specified once, then newsyslog will create any log files which
             do not exist, and which have the C flag specified in their config
             file entry.  If specified multiple times, then newsyslog will
             create all log files which do not already exist.  If log files
             are given on the command-line, then the -C or -CC will only apply
             to those specific log files.

     -F      Force newsyslog to trim the logs, even if the trim conditions
             have not been met.  This option is useful for diagnosing system
             problems by providing you with fresh logs that contain only the
             problems.

     -N      Do not perform any rotations.  This option is intended to be used
             with the -C or -CC options when creating log files is the only
             objective.

     -P      Prevent further action if we should send signal but the “pidfile”
             is empty or does not exist.

     -R tagname
             Specify that newsyslog should rotate a given list of files, even
             if trim conditions are not met for those files.  The tagname is
             only used in the messages written to the log files which are
             rotated.  This differs from the -F option in that one or more log
             files must also be specified, so that newsyslog will only operate
             on those specific files.  This option is mainly intended for the
             daemons or programs which write some log files, and want to
             trigger a rotate based on their own criteria.  With this option
             they can execute newsyslog to trigger the rotate when they want
             it to happen, and still give the system administrator a way to
             specify the rules of rotation (such as how many backup copies are
             kept, and what kind of compression is done).  When a daemon does
             execute newsyslog with the -R option, it should make sure all of
             the log files are closed before calling newsyslog, and then it
             should re-open the files after newsyslog returns.  Usually the
             calling process will also want to specify the -s option, so
             newsyslog will not send a signal to the very process which called
             it to force the rotate.  Skipping the signal step will also mean
             that newsyslog will return faster, since newsyslog normally waits
             a few seconds after any signal that is sent.

     -S pidfile
             Use pidfile as syslogd(8)'s pidfile.

     If additional command line arguments are given, newsyslog will only
     examine log files that match those arguments; otherwise, it will examine
     all files listed in the configuration file.

FILES
     /etc/newsyslog.conf              newsyslog configuration file
     /etc/newsyslog.conf.d            Each file in this directory will be
                                      included by the default newsyslog.conf.
     /usr/local/etc/newsyslog.conf.d  Each file in this directory will be
                                      included by the default newsyslog.conf.

COMPATIBILITY
     Previous versions of the newsyslog utility used the dot (``.'') character
     to distinguish the group name.  Beginning with FreeBSD 3.3, this has been
     changed to a colon (``:'') character so that user and group names may
     contain the dot character.  The dot (``.'') character is still accepted
     for backwards compatibility.

SEE ALSO
     bzip2(1), gzip(1), xz(1), zstd(1), syslog(3), newsyslog.conf(5),
     chown(8), syslogd(8)

HISTORY
     The newsyslog utility originated from NetBSD and first appeared in
     FreeBSD 2.2.

AUTHORS
     Theodore Ts'o, MIT Project Athena

     Copyright 1987, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          July 19, 2018         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
