NFANON(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              NFANON(1)



NAME
     nfanon – anonymize the IP addresses

SYNOPSIS
     nfanon -r path [-w nffile] -K key [-q] [-h]

DESCRIPTION
     nfanon anonimizes all IP addresses ( src, dst, next hop, router IP etc. )
     in the netflow records using the CryptoPAn (Cryptography-based  Prefix-
     preserving Anonymization) module. The key -K is used to initialize the
     Rijndael cipher. The key is either a 32 character string, or a 64 hex
     digit string starting with 0x. See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crypto-
     PAn for more information on CryptoPAn.

     The source specified by argument -r path may point to a single nfdump
     file or to a directory containing many nfdump files.  All files in a
     directory are processed recursively.

     If the output argument -w nffile is given, all anonimized records are
     written into that single file, even if the source is a directory. If no
     argument -w is specified, nfanon overwrites the original source file with
     the anonymized flow records.  If the source is a directory, each flow
     file is anonymized respectively.

     The options are as follows:

     -r path
             Path to read flow files to anonymize. Path may point to a single
             file or a directory containing many flow files.

     [-w nffile]
             File name to write anonymized flow records to. If this argument
             is missing, the source file name is taken, which means the
             original file is overwritten.

     -k key  key is either a 32 character string, or a 64 char hex string
             starting with 0x. This key is used to initialize the anonymizer.

     -q      nfanon prints the file name to be processed and an actifivy
             spinner. This option disables both.

     -h      Print help text to stdout and exit.

EXAMPLES
     To create a random 64 character hex string you may use the following
     command:
           % xxd -u -l 32 -p -c 64 /dev/urandom
     Use the resulting output as key, prepended with 0x as -K argument.

RETURN VALUES
     nfanon returns 0 on success and 255 otherwise.

SEE ALSO
     nfdump(1)

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 17, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
