NFSSTAT(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             NFSSTAT(1)

NAME
     nfsstat – display NFS statistics

SYNOPSIS
     nfsstat [--libxo] [-cdEemszW] [-M core] [-N system] [-w wait]

DESCRIPTION
     The nfsstat command displays statistics kept about NFS client and server
     activity.  For the NFSv4 server, the statistics are for operations within
     the Compound RPCs and not the count of RPCs.  If you wish to compare RPC
     counts between NFSv3 and NFSv4, you must use statistics in the client(s).

     The options are as follows:

     -c      Only display client side statistics.

     -d      Display statistics for the NFS server that are similar to those
             displayed by iostat(8).  This includes kilobytes per transfer,
             transfers per second, and megabytes per second for read, write,
             and all operations.  It also includes the current queue depth,
             the busy percentage, and latency for all operations.  If the -W
             flag is added, commits per second, commit latency, read latency,
             and write latency are also added to the display.  The busy
             percentage shown can exceed 100 at times.  This is because of the
             way busy percentages are calculated.  The busy time is calculated
             by adding the elapsed time between the last time an operation
             started or finished, and the current time.  If there is only one
             operation outstanding, the "busy time" time will get updated with
             the total time of that operation.  That means that the difference
             in the busy time between the two measurement intervals (often 1
             second) will increase by more than the measurement interval.

     -e      Report the extra statistics collected by the NFS client and
             server for NFSv4.

     -E      Similar to -e except that the statistics include NFSv4.1 and the
             numbers aren't clipped at one billion.  Only one of -e or -E can
             be specified.

     -M      Extract values associated with the name list from the specified
             core instead of the default /dev/kmem.

     -m      Report the mount options for all NFS client mounts.  This option
             overrides all others and nfsstat will exit after completing the
             report.

     -N      Extract the name list from the specified system instead of the
             default /boot/kernel/kernel.

     -s      Only display server side statistics.

     -W      Use wide format with interval short summary.  This option is
             especially useful when combined with -c, -d, or -s and a time
             delay.

     -w      Display a shorter summary of NFS activity for both the client and
             server at wait second intervals.

     -z      Reset statistics after displaying them.

     -q      Do not print header

     --libxo
             Generate output via libxo(3) in a selection of different human
             and machine readable formats.  See xo_parse_args(3) for details
             on command line arguments.

FILES
     /boot/kernel/kernel      default kernel namelist
     /dev/kmem                default memory file

SEE ALSO
     fstat(1), netstat(1), ps(1), systat(1), sysctl(3), iostat(8),
     nfsdumpstate(8), pstat(8), vmstat(8)

HISTORY
     The nfsstat command appeared in 4.4BSD.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         October 1, 2018        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
