NG_GIF(4)              FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual              NG_GIF(4)

NAME
     ng_gif – generic tunnel interface netgraph node type

SYNOPSIS
     #include <netgraph/ng_gif.h>

DESCRIPTION
     The ng_gif netgraph node type allows gif(4) interfaces to interact with
     the netgraph(4) networking subsystem.  Once the ng_gif module is loaded
     in the kernel, a node is automatically created for each gif(4) interface
     in the system.  Each node will attempt to name itself with the same name
     as the associated interface.  All ng_gif nodes are persistent for as long
     as the interface itself exists.

     Two hooks are supported: lower and orphans.  The hook name divert may be
     used as an alias for lower, and is provided for compatibility with
     ng_ether(4).  In reality the two names represent the same hook.

     The lower hook is a connection to the raw gif(4) device.  When connected,
     all incoming packets are diverted out this hook.  Writing to this hook
     results in a raw encapsulated packet being transmitted by the device.
     Normal outgoing packets are not affected by lower being connected.

     The orphans hook is equivalent to lower, except that only unrecognized
     packets (that would otherwise be discarded) are written to the hook, and
     normal incoming traffic is unaffected.  At most one of orphans and lower
     may be connected at any time.

     In all cases, frames are raw packets with the address family of the
     packet attached to the front.

     When no hooks are connected, packets flow normally upwards and downwards.

HOOKS
     This node type supports the following hooks:

     lower        Connection to the lower device link layer.

     orphans      Like lower, but only receives unrecognized packets.

CONTROL MESSAGES
     This node type supports only the generic control messages.

EXAMPLES
     This command dumps all unrecognized packets received by the gif0
     interface to standard output decoded in hex and ASCII:

           nghook -a gif0: orphans

SEE ALSO
     gif(4), netgraph(4), netintro(4), ifconfig(8), ngctl(8), nghook(8)

AUTHORS
     Brooks Davis <brooks@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2       September 18, 2001       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
