NMSGTOOL(1)                                                        NMSGTOOL(1)

NAME
       nmsgtool - command line interface to libnmsg

SYNOPSIS
       nmsgtool [OPTIONS...]

DESCRIPTION
       nmsgtool is the command line interface to libnmsg, the reference
       implementation of the NMSG binary structured message interchange
       format.

       The NMSG format is an efficient encoding of typed, structured data into
       payloads which are packed into containers which can be transmitted over
       the network or stored to disk. Each payload is associated with a
       specific message schema. Modules implementing a certain message schema
       along with functionality to convert between binary and presentation
       formats can be loaded at runtime by libnmsg.  nmsgtool provides a
       command line interface to control the transmission, storage, creation,
       and conversion of NMSG payloads.

       nmsgtool is a thin wrapper around libnmsg's I/O engine. In order to
       run, nmsgtool needs to open at least one input and at least one output.
       The supported input types are:

       •   Reading binary NMSG data from a file or socket. See the -r, -l
           options.

       •   Reassembled IP datagrams from a network interface or pcap-
           savefile(5) file. See the -i, -p options.

       •   Reading ASCII presentation form data from a file. See the -f
           option.

       Once input data has been read or converted to NMSG format internally
       with the help of an external module (in the case of pcap or ASCII
       data), it is striped or mirror across one or more outputs. The
       supported output types are:

       •   Writing binary NMSG data to a file or socket. See the -w, -s
           options.

       •   Writing ASCII presentation form data to a file. See the -o option.

       Reading or writing data in a non-NMSG format requires the use of an
       external module (called an "nmsgpb module") to convert to or from NMSG
       format.  nmsgtool selects an nmsgpb module based on a vendor ID and
       message type. For input data, these fields must be set with the -V and
       -T options.

       If one or more inputs have been specified but no outputs have been
       specified, an implicit output of presentation form data to stdout will
       be assumed.

       See the nmsg developer documentation for details on the NMSG wire
       format, how to interface with the nmsg library, and how to extend nmsg
       with new message types.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Display help text and exit.

       -d, --debug
           Increment debugging level.  -dd is verbose and -dddd is very
           verbose.

       -v version
           Print the version number of nmsgtool.

       -V vendor, --vendor vendor
           Set the vendor field of generated NMSG payloads to the vendor
           identified by vname. This is a symbolic string whose allowed values
           are determined at runtime when nmsgpb modules are loaded.

       -T msgtype, --msgtype msgtype
           Set the message type field of generated NMSG payloads to the
           message type identified by msgtype. This is a symbol string whose
           allowed values are determined at runtime when nmsgpb modules are
           loaded.

       -B byterate, --byterate byterate
           Set the maximum bytes-per-second that libnmsg will process from
           file inputs.

       -D daemon
           Fork nmsgtool into the background as a daemon process.

       -P pidfile, --pidfile pidfile
           Write nmsgtool's process ID into a file identified by pidfile.
           When nmsgtool exits, this file's contents will be erased.

       -U username, --username username
           Attempt to drop root privileges and run nmsgtool as user username.
           If the current user is username, nmsgtool will exit.

       -e endline, --endline endline
           Set the string to be used for the end-of-line continuation
           separator. By default this value is set to the newline character.
           This option understands the escape sequences '\n' (newline), '\t'
           (tab), and '\\' (backslash). Setting this option to ' \\\n\t' will
           emulate the line continuation behavior of ncaptool.

       -m mtu, --mtu mtu
           Set the "maximum transmission unit" for writes to datagram socket
           outputs. Note that this option is somewhat misnamed since it does
           not refer to protocol data units of IP but to NMSG containers, so
           the additional small but bounded overhead of the UDP and NMSG
           headers need to be taken into account. Since NMSG's UDP transport
           is tuned for operation on jumbo Ethernet, this value defaults to
           8192. To avoid IP fragmentation over standard Ethernet or Internet
           transport, this value should be lowered to around 1280 to 1400.

           This option does not limit the maximum size of an NMSG payload
           because NMSG containers can be segmented into multiple datagrams.

       -c count, --count count
           Stop the process or (with -k specified) reopen outputs after count
           payloads have been processed. Note that each output keeps its own
           payload output counter and this value refers to that per-output
           value and not to the sum of all output counters.

       -t secs, --interval secs
           Stop the process or (with -k specified) reopen outputs on a time
           interval modulo the secs parameter. For example, -t 3600 means "on
           the hour".

       -R, --randomize
           Randomize the initial offset within the interval that the process
           is stopped or outputs are reopened.

       -k cmd, --kicker cmd
           Make -c and -t continuous. In this mode output file names are
           suffixed with a timestamp and nmsgtool runs continuously, rotating
           output files as payload counts or time intervals expire.  cmd
           specifies the command to run on output files after rotation. If cmd
           is set to the empty string '', then no command is executed and only
           file rotation is performed.

       --kafkakey fieldname
           Use the value of the named NMSG message field in its canonical
           representation as the key for payloads in the JSON format that are
           sent to Kafka. Can also be set via NMSG_KAFKA_KEY environment
           variable.

       --readkafka kafka
           Read NMSG payloads in either binary or JSON format from a Kafka
           endpoint. The address kafka has format
           proto:topic[#partition|%group_id]@broker[:port][,offset]. Either a
           partition number or a consumer group ID may be optionally supplied.
           Also optional is an offset consisting of either a numerical value
           or the string 'oldest' or 'newest' in order to start retrieval at
           the oldest/newest messages in the Kafka topic. An example of a
           possible kafka endpoint is
           "nmsg:ch202#0@kafka.example.com:9092,3000" to indicate that
           nmsgtool shall read nmsg containers from topic "ch202" on partition
           0 at offset 3000 from the Kafka broker at kafka.example.com, port
           9092. Configuration for Kafka can be supplied through the
           NMSG_KAFKA_CONFIG environment variable. This variable accepts
           either key=value pairs separated by colons, or a path to a
           configuration file in INI format.

       -b filter, --bpf filter
           Filter pcap inputs (-p or -i) with the BPF expression filter. Note
           that libnmsg's pcap input is designed for IP datagrams and not
           network frames, so the filter specified by -b will be munged
           internally into several forms in order to receive IP fragments and
           filter the reassembled IP datagrams. Internally, IPv4 and IPv6
           packets are selected for processing, including those received in
           VLAN tagged frames.

       -F dso[,param], --filter dso[,param]
           Filter nmsg payloads with a module loaded from the given DSO file.
           The dso specified may either be a short, human friendly name (like
           sample) which will be expanded into an absolute filename in the
           default system-wide libnmsg module path, or it may be a name
           beginning with / or . (like /usr/lib/nmsg/nmsg_flt1_sample.so), in
           which case the dso value will be treated as an absolute or relative
           path name.

           Filter modules may take a module-defined parameter string param.
           The dso value may be followed by a comma, in which case everything
           after the comma is treated as the module parameter param and passed
           to the module's initialization function. Some modules may require a
           param value or may perform additional validation on the parameter.
           If the module fails to initialize, nmsgtool will exit with an error
           message.

           This option can be specified more than once, in which case the
           filter modules will be loaded in the order they were specified in
           on the command-line, and will form a linear filter chain.

       --policy ACCEPT|DROP
           If any filter modules have been loaded with -F, --policy may be
           used to specify the policy action to take if all filters in the
           filter chain decline to handle a given message. The default policy
           action is --policy ACCEPT, which causes messages that are declined
           by the filter chain to be accepted into the output stream. If
           --policy DROP is specified, any messages which are declined by the
           filter chain will be silently discarded.

       -M dso[,param], --statsmod dso[,param]
           Export nmsg IO statistics through an external statistics module.
           The dso specified may either be a short, human friendly name (like
           sample) which will be expanded into an absolute filename in the
           default system-wide libnmsg module path, or it may be a name
           beginning with / or . (like /usr/lib/nmsg/nmsg_stats1_sample.so),
           in which case the dso value will be treated as an absolute or
           relative path name.

           Statistics modules may take a module-defined parameter string
           param. The dso value may be followed by a comma, in which case
           everything after the comma is treated as the module parameter param
           and passed to the module's initialization function. Some modules
           may require a param value or may perform additional validation on
           the parameter. If the module fails to initialize, nmsgtool will
           exit with an error message.

           This option can be specified more than once, and may also be
           provided using the NMSG_STATSMOD_CONFIG environment variable.

       -r file, --readnmsg file
           Read NMSG payloads from a file.

       -f file, --readpres file
           Read presentation format data from a file and convert to NMSG
           payloads. This option is dependent on the -V and -T options being
           set in order to select a specific nmsgpb module to perform
           presentation format to NMSG payload conversion. Not all nmsgpb
           modules necessarily support this conversion method, in which case
           nmsgtool will print a "function not implemented" message.

       -j file, --readjson file
           Read JSON format data from a file. See documentation for
           --writejson for format details.

       -l addr/port, --readsock addr/port
           Read NMSG payloads from a UDP socket. The addr parameter must be
           set to a valid system or broadcast IPv4 or IPv6 address and the
           port parameter may be a single port number or a range of ports in
           the form port0..portN.

       -C channel, --readchan channel
           Read NMSG payloads from one or more UDP sockets specified by an
           alias channel.  nmsgtool will read aliases from the file named
           nmsgtool.chalias in the system configuration directory (usually
           /etc) or from the file defined by the NMSG_CHALIAS_FILE environment
           variable. The format of this file is one alias per line with each
           line starting with the alias name channel followed by one or more
           whitespace delimited address/port entries (as would be parsed by
           the --readsock option).

           For example, the following alias file would create two channels.
           Calling nmsgtool with -C 123 would be equivalent to calling
           nmsgtool with -l 192.0.2.1/8430 while -C 234 would be equivalent to
           -l 192.0.2.255/8430..8437 -l 192.0.2.255/9430.

           Example 1. nmsgtool.chalias example

               123 192.0.2.1/8430
               234 192.0.2.255/8430..8437 192.0.2.255/9430

       -L zep, --readzsock zep
           Read NMSG payloads from a ZeroMQ endpoint. The endpoint zep is very
           similar to the "transport://address" specifiers used by the libzmq
           library, except that additional configuration may be needed in
           order to set up the ZMQ connection, which is specified by appending
           comma-separated arguments. See the zmq_tcp(7) and zmq_ipc(7)
           manpages for details.

           In addition to the base "transport://address" specifier, the user
           may specifically select between a bound or connected zmq socket by
           appending ",accept" or ",connect" to the zep argument. (If not
           given, nmsgtool behaves as if ",connect" was given.) That is,
           ",accept" uses the zmq_bind(3) function to obtain an zmq endpoint,
           and ",connect" uses the zmq_connect(3) function.

           The user may also select between the ZeroMQ PUB/SUB and PUSH/PULL
           messaging patterns by appending either ",pubsub" or ",pushpull".
           (If not given, nmsgtool behaves as if ",pubsub" was passed.) See
           the zmq_socket(3) manpage for details. When PUB/SUB is used with
           -L, nmsgtool participates in the "SUB" role of the ZeroMQ PUB/SUB
           messaging pattern, and when PUSH/PULL is used, nmsgtool
           participates in the "PULL" role.

           Examples of possible zep arguments to -L include
           "ipc:///tmp/nmsg.sock,accept,pubsub" to indicate a ZeroMQ endpoint
           that accepts PUB/SUB connections on the IPC path /tmp/nmsg.sock (in
           the SUB role), and "tcp://127.0.0.1:5555,accept,pushpull" to
           indicate a ZeroMQ endpoint that listens for PUSH/PULL connections
           on the TCP socket 127.0.0.1:5555 (in the PULL role).

       -S zep, --writezsock zep
           Write NMSG payloads to a ZeroMQ endpoint. The endpoint zep is very
           similiar to the "transport://address" specifiers used by the libzmq
           library, except that additional configuration may be needed in
           order to set up the zmq connection, which is specified by appending
           comma-separated arguments. See the zmq_tcp(7) and zmq_ipc(7)
           manpages for details.

           In addition to the base "transport://address" specifier, the user
           may specifically select between a bound or connected zmq socket by
           appending ",accept" or ",connect" to the zep argument. (If not
           given, nmsgtool behaves as if ",connect" was given.) That is,
           ",accept" uses the zmq_bind(3) function to obtain an zmq endpoint,
           and ",connect" uses the zmq_connect(3) function.

           The user may also select between the ZeroMQ PUB/SUB and PUSH/PULL
           messaging patterns by appending either ",pubsub" or ",pushpull".
           (If not given, nmsgtool behaves as if ",pubsub" was passed.) See
           the zmq_socket(3) manpage for details. When PUB/SUB is used with
           -S, nmsgtool participates in the "PUB" role of the ZeroMQ PUB/SUB
           messaging pattern, and when PUSH/PULL is used, nmsgtool
           participates in the "PUSH" role.

           Examples of possible zep arguments to -S include
           "ipc:///tmp/nmsg.sock,connect,pubsub" to indicate a ZeroMQ endpoint
           that connects to a PUB/SUB socket on the IPC path /tmp/nmsg.sock
           (in the PUB role), and "tcp://127.0.0.1:5555,connect,pushpull" to
           indicate a ZeroMQ endpoint that connects to a PUSH/PULL socket on
           the TCP socket 127.0.0.1:5555 (in the PULL role).

       -p file, --readpcap file
           Read IP packets from a pcap-savefile(5) file file using the pcap(3)
           library. These packets are then reassembled into datagrams which
           are then passed to an nmsgpb module for conversion into NMSG
           payloads. This option is dependent on the -V and -T options being
           set in order to select a specific nmsgpb module to perform IP
           datagram to NMSG payload conversion. Not all nmsgpb modules
           necessarily support this conversion method, in which case nmsgtool
           will print a "function not implemented" message.

       -i if[+][,snap]
           Read IP packets from a network interface if using the pcap(3)
           library. Reassembly is performed as described for --readpcap.  +
           may be appended to the interface name to capture in promiscuous
           mode. The capture length snap may be set by appending ,snap. The
           default capture length is 1522.  -V and -T are required.

       -w file, --writenmsg file
           Write NMSG payloads to a file.

       --writekafka kafka
           Write NMSG payloads in either binary or JSON format to a Kafka
           endpoint. The address kafka has format
           proto:topic[#partition|%group_id]@broker[:port]. Either a partition
           number or a consumer group ID may be optionally supplied. An
           example of a possible kafka endpoint is
           "nmsg:ch202#0@kafka.example.com:9092" to indicate that nmsgtool
           shall write nmsg containers to topic "ch202" on partition 0 to
           Kafka broker kafka.example.com, port 9092. Note that nmsgtool
           ignores offsets for Kafka producers. Configuration for Kafka can be
           supplied through the NMSG_KAFKA_CONFIG environment variable. This
           variable accepts either key=value pairs separated by colons, or a
           path to a configuration file in INI format.

       -o file, --writepres file
           Write presentation format payloads to a file.

       -J file, --writejson file
           Write JSON payloads to a file.

           Payloads are rendered as JSON dictionaries with keys:

           •   time: the payload timestamp

           •   vname: the vendor name identifying the message type

           •   mname: the message type name identifying the message type

           •   source: the message source, if present, as l a hexadecimal
               string

           •   group, operator: the group and operator names or numbers, if
               present.

           •   message: a dictionary of message fields and values

           The value of associated with the 'message' key is a JSON dictionary
           of the message fields. Enumerated types are translated to string
           representation, if possible. Binary data is base64 encoded and
           output as a string. Invalid UTF-8 sequences in string fields are
           replaced with U+FFFD.

       -s addr/port[,rate[,freq]], --writesock addr/port[,rate[,freq]]
           Write NMSG payloads to a UDP socket specified by the system or
           broadcast IPv4 or IPv6 address addr and the UDP port port.
           Optionally the output rate may be limited to rate per second by
           appending ,rate. If an output rate is specified, the scheduling
           frequency freq may be set by appending ,freq. The default
           scheduling frequency for rate limits is 100.

           NMSG payloads are not immediately output to sockets but are instead
           concatenated into a buffer of a certain size (see the --mtu option)
           before being sent. To circumvent this behavior see the --unbuffered
           option.

       -z, --zlibout
           Perform transparent zlib compression of written NMSG containers.
           This applies to both file (-w) and socket (-s) outputs.

       --mirror
           Mirror NMSG payloads across data outputs. By default NMSG payloads
           regardless of input source are striped across all available
           outputs. When --mirror is set, NMSG payloads are duplicated to
           every output. This option has no effect if there is only a single
           output.

       -Z zchannel, --readzchan zchannel
           Read NMSG payloads from a ZeroMQ endpoint as specified by an alias
           zchannel.  nmsgtool will read aliases from the file named
           nmsgtool.chalias in the system configuration directory (usually
           /usr/local/etc or /etc) or from the file defined by the
           NMSG_CHALIAS_FILE environment variable. The format of this file is
           one alias per line with each line starting with the alias name
           zchannel followed by one or more whitespace-delimited ZeroMQ
           endpoints (as described with the --readzsock option).

       --setsource sonum
           Set the "source" field of output NMSG payloads to sonum.

           NMSG payloads have an optional "source" field which is meant to be
           used as a unique opaque identifier identifying the immediate source
           of a redistributed payload. The sonum value should be specified as
           an unsigned 32 bit integer in hexadecimal format with a leading
           "0x".

           In the nmsg presentation form output header, the source field is
           the fourth bracketed value.

       --getsource sonum
           Filter the "source" field of input NMSG payloads against sonum.

       --setoperator opname
           Set the "operator" field of output NMSG payloads to opname.

           NMSG payloads have an optional "operator" field which is meant to
           identify the operator generating a payload. The operator field is
           represented as a 32 bit integer on the wire but is aliased to a
           symbolic string for presentation purposes by the file nmsg.opalias
           in the system configuration directory. The alias file contains one
           number/name pair separated by whitespace per line.

           In the nmsg presentation form output header, the operator field is
           the fifth bracketed value.

       --getoperator opname
           Filter the "operator" field of input NMSG payloads against opname.

       --setgroup grname
           Set the "group" field of output NMSG payloads to grname.

           NMSG payloads have an optional "group" field which is meant to
           identify the campaign or group that a payload belongs to. The group
           field is represented as a 32 bit integer on the wire but is aliased
           to a symbolic string for presentation purposes by the file
           nmsg.gralias in the system configuration directory. The alias file
           contains one number/name pair separated by whitespace per line.

           In the nmsg presentation form output header, the group field is the
           sixth bracketed value.

       --getgroup grname
           Filter the "group" name of input NMSG payloads against grname.

EXAMPLES
       To read NMSG payloads from a socket and write presentation form data to
       stdout:

           nmsgtool -l 192.0.2.1/8430

       To read NMSG payloads from a file and write presentation form data to
       stdout:

           nmsgtool -r /tmp/file.nmsg

       To read NMSG payloads from a socket and write to a binary NMSG file:

           nmsgtool -l 192.0.2.1/8430 -w /tmp/file.nmsg

       To read reassembled IP datagrams from a network interface in
       promiscuous mode, convert these datagrams to NMSG using the base/ncap
       nmsgpb module, and write to a file:

           nmsgtool -i eth0+ -V base -T ncap -w /tmp/ncapfile.nmsg

       To read NMSG payloads from multiple socket inputs and write to a series
       of compressed files, rotated every hour:

           nmsgtool -l 192.0.2.255/8430..8437 -w /tmp/file -t 3600 -k '' -z

       To read NMSG payloads from a ZeroMQ "PULL" socket over a TCP
       connection:

           nmsgtool -L tcp://127.0.0.1:5555,accept,pushpull

       This waits for TCP connections on 127.0.0.1:5555.

       To read NMSG payloads from a file and write them to a ZeroMQ "PUSH"
       socket over a TCP connection:

           nmsgtool -r /tmp/file.nmsg -S tcp://127.0.0.1:5555,connect,pushpull

       This attempts to connect to a TCP reader on 127.0.0.1:5555, such as the
       nmsgtool command in the previous example.

       To read NMSG payloads from an SIE channel named "ch222" and write them
       to stdout while writing IO stats every 3 seconds to a file name
       "ch222.stats":

           nmsgtool -C ch222 -M sample,out=ch222.stats,secs=3

                                  10/02/2024                       NMSGTOOL(1)
