NSCD(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                NSCD(8)

NAME
     nscd – name service caching daemon

SYNOPSIS
     nscd [-dnst] [-i cachename] [-I cachename]

DESCRIPTION
     The nscd utility is the system caching daemon.  It can cache almost all
     types of data and is basically intended to be used with the nsswitch
     subsystem.  The cache is actually per-user.  This means that each user
     can work only with the cached data that were cached by themselves, and
     cannot poison the cache of other users.  The nscd utility supports two
     types of caching:

     Type      Description

     Common caching
               Each cached element is the key+value pair.  This type of
               caching supports policies which are applied when maximum number
               of cached elements is exceeded.  Three policies are available:
               FIFO (first in - first out), LRU (least recently used) and LFU
               (least frequently used).  This type of caching is used with the
               getXXXbyname() family of functions.

     Multipart caching
               Each cached element is the part of the elements sequence.  This
               type of caching is intended to be used with the getXXXent()
               family of functions.

     The nscd utility is able not only to cache elements, but to perform the
     actual nsswitch lookups by itself.  To enable this feature, use the
     perform-actual-lookups parameter in nscd.conf(5).

     The nscd utility recognizes the following runtime options:

     -n      Do not daemonize; nscd will not fork or disconnect itself from
             the terminal.

     -s      Single-threaded mode.  Forces using only one thread for all
             processing purposes (it overrides the threads parameter in the
             nscd.conf(5) file).

     -t      Trace mode.  All trace messages will be written to stdout.  This
             mode is usually used with -n and -s flags are used for debugging
             purposes.

     -i cachename
             Invalidates personal cache.  When specified, nscd acts as the
             administration tool.  It asks the already running nscd to
             invalidate the specified part of the cache of the calling user.
             For example, sometimes you may want to invalidate your “hosts”
             cache.  You can specify “all” as the cachename to invalidate your
             personal cache as a whole.  You cannot use this option for the
             cachename for which the perform-actual-lookups option is enabled.

     -I cachename
             Invalidates the cache for every user.  When specified, nscd acts
             as the administration tool.  It asks the already running nscd to
             invalidate the specified part of the cache for every user.  You
             can specify “all” as the cachename to invalidate the whole cache.
             Only the root can use this option.

FILES
     /etc/nscd.conf      The default configuration file.

SEE ALSO
     nsdispatch(3), nscd.conf(5), nsswitch.conf(5)

AUTHORS
     Michael Bushkov <bushman@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         October 5, 2018        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
