NTPQ(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual (user)             NTPQ(8)

NAME
     ntpq – standard NTP query program

SYNOPSIS
     ntpq [-flags] [-flag [value]] [--option-name[[=| ]value]] [ host ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The ntpq utility program is used to query NTP servers to monitor NTP
     operations and performance, requesting information about current state
     and/or changes in that state.  The program may be run either in
     interactive mode or controlled using command line arguments.  Requests to
     read and write arbitrary variables can be assembled, with raw and
     pretty-printed output options being available.  The ntpq utility can also
     obtain and print a list of peers in a common format by sending multiple
     queries to the server.

     If one or more request options is included on the command line when ntpq
     is executed, each of the requests will be sent to the NTP servers running
     on each of the hosts given as command line arguments, or on localhost by
     default.  If no request options are given, ntpq will attempt to read
     commands from the standard input and execute these on the NTP server
     running on the first host given on the command line, again defaulting to
     localhost when no other host is specified.  The ntpq utility will prompt
     for commands if the standard input is a terminal device.

     ntpq uses NTP mode 6 packets to communicate with the NTP server, and
     hence can be used to query any compatible server on the network which
     permits it.  Note that since NTP is a UDP protocol this communication
     will be somewhat unreliable, especially over large distances in terms of
     network topology.  The ntpq utility makes one attempt to retransmit
     requests, and will time requests out if the remote host is not heard from
     within a suitable timeout time.

     Note that in contexts where a host name is expected, a -4 qualifier
     preceding the host name forces resolution to the IPv4 namespace, while a
     -6 qualifier forces resolution to the IPv6 namespace.  For examples and
     usage, see the “NTP Debugging Techniques” page.

     Specifying a command line option other than -i or -n will cause the
     specified query (queries) to be sent to the indicated host(s)
     immediately.  Otherwise, ntpq will attempt to read interactive format
     commands from the standard input.

   Internal Commands
     Interactive format commands consist of a keyword followed by zero to four
     arguments.  Only enough characters of the full keyword to uniquely
     identify the command need be typed.

     A number of interactive format commands are executed entirely within the
     ntpq utility itself and do not result in NTP requests being sent to a
     server.  These are described following.
           ? [command]
           help [command]  A ‘?’ by itself will print a list of all the
                           commands known to ntpq.  A ‘?’ followed by a
                           command name will print function and usage
                           information about the command.
           addvars name[=value][,...]
           rmvars name[,...]
           clearvars
           showvars        The arguments to this command consist of a list of
                           items of the form name[=value], where the =value is
                           ignored, and can be omitted, in requests to the
                           server to read variables.  The ntpq utility
                           maintains an internal list in which data to be
                           included in messages can be assembled, and
                           displayed or set using the readlist and writelist
                           commands described below.  The addvars command
                           allows variables and their optional values to be
                           added to the list.  If more than one variable is to
                           be added, the list should be comma-separated and
                           not contain white space.  The rmvars command can be
                           used to remove individual variables from the list,
                           while the clearvars command removes all variables
                           from the list.  The showvars command displays the
                           current list of optional variables.
           authenticate [yes|no]
                           Normally ntpq does not authenticate requests unless
                           they are write requests.  The command authenticate
                           yes causes ntpq to send authentication with all
                           requests it makes.  Authenticated requests causes
                           some servers to handle requests slightly
                           differently.  The command authenticate causes ntpq
                           to display whether or not it is currently
                           authenticating requests.
           cooked          Causes output from query commands to be "cooked",
                           so that variables which are recognized by ntpq will
                           have their values reformatted for human
                           consumption.  Variables which ntpq could not decode
                           completely are marked with a trailing ‘?’.
           debug [more|less|off]
                           With no argument, displays the current debug level.
                           Otherwise, the debugging level is changed as
                           indicated.
           delay [milliseconds]
                           Specify a time interval to be added to timestamps
                           included in requests which require authentication.
                           This is used to enable (unreliable) server
                           reconfiguration over long delay network paths or
                           between machines whose clocks are unsynchronized.
                           Actually the server does not now require timestamps
                           in authenticated requests, so this command may be
                           obsolete.  Without any arguments, displays the
                           current delay.
           drefid [hash|ipv4]
                           Display refids as IPv4 or hash.  Without any
                           arguments, displays whether refids are shown as
                           IPv4 addresses or hashes.
           exit            Exit ntpq.
           host [name]     Set the host to which future queries will be sent.
                           The name may be either a host name or a numeric
                           address.  Without any arguments, displays the
                           current host.
           hostnames [yes|no]
                           If yes is specified, host names are printed in
                           information displays.  If no is specified, numeric
                           addresses are printed instead.  The default is yes,
                           unless modified using the command line -n switch.
                           Without any arguments, displays whether host names
                           or numeric addresses are shown.
           keyid [keyid]   This command allows the specification of a key
                           number to be used to authenticate configuration
                           requests.  This must correspond to the controlkey
                           key number the server has been configured to use
                           for this purpose.  Without any arguments, displays
                           the current keyid.
           keytype [digest]
                           Specify the digest algorithm to use for
                           authenticating requests, with default MD5.  If ntpq
                           was built with OpenSSL support, and OpenSSL is
                           installed, digest can be any message digest
                           algorithm supported by OpenSSL.  If no argument is
                           given, the current keytype digest algorithm used is
                           displayed.
           ntpversion [1|2|3|4]
                           Sets the NTP version number which ntpq claims in
                           packets.  Defaults to 3, and note that mode 6
                           control messages (and modes, for that matter)
                           didn't exist in NTP version 1.  There appear to be
                           no servers left which demand version 1.  With no
                           argument, displays the current NTP version that
                           will be used when communicating with servers.
           passwd          This command prompts you to type in a password
                           (which will not be echoed) which will be used to
                           authenticate configuration requests.  The password
                           must correspond to the key configured for use by
                           the NTP server for this purpose if such requests
                           are to be successful.
           poll [n] [verbose]
                           Poll an NTP server in client mode n times.  Poll
                           not implemented yet.
           quit            Exit ntpq.
           raw             Causes all output from query commands is printed as
                           received from the remote server.  The only
                           formating/interpretation done on the data is to
                           transform nonascii data into a printable (but
                           barely understandable) form.
           timeout [milliseconds]
                           Specify a timeout period for responses to server
                           queries.  The default is about 5000 milliseconds.
                           Without any arguments, displays the current timeout
                           period.  Note that since ntpq retries each query
                           once after a timeout, the total waiting time for a
                           timeout will be twice the timeout value set.
           version         Display the version of the ntpq program.

   Control Message Commands
     Association ids are used to identify system, peer and clock variables.
     System variables are assigned an association id of zero and system name
     space, while each association is assigned a nonzero association id and
     peer namespace.  Most control commands send a single message to the
     server and expect a single response message.  The exceptions are the
     peers command, which sends a series of messages, and the mreadlist and
     mreadvar commands, which iterate over a range of associations.
           apeers     Display a list of peers in the form:
                            [tally]remote refid assid st t when pool reach
                            delay offset jitter
                      where the output is just like the peers command except
                      that the refid is displayed in hex format and the
                      association number is also displayed.
           associations
                      Display a list of mobilized associations in the form:
                            ind assid status conf reach auth condition
                            last_event cnt

                            Variable        Description
                            ind             index on this list
                            assid           association id
                            status          peer status word
                            conf            yes: persistent, no: ephemeral
                            reach           yes: reachable, no: unreachable
                            auth            ok, yes, bad and none
                            condition       selection status (see the select field of the
                                            peer status word)
                            last_event      event report (see the event field of the peer
                                            status word)
                            cnt             event count (see the count field of the peer
                                            status word)
           authinfo   Display the authentication statistics counters: time
                      since reset, stored keys, free keys, key lookups, keys
                      not found, uncached keys, expired keys, encryptions,
                      decryptions.
           clocklist [associd]
           cl [associd]
                      Display all clock variables in the variable list for
                      those associations supporting a reference clock.
           clockvar [associd] [name[=value]][,...]
           cv [associd] [name[=value]][,...]
                      Display a list of clock variables for those associations
                      supporting a reference clock.
           :config configuration command line
                      Send the remainder of the command line, including
                      whitespace, to the server as a run-time configuration
                      command in the same format as a line in the
                      configuration file.  This command is experimental until
                      further notice and clarification.  Authentication is of
                      course required.
           config-from-file filename
                      Send each line of filename to the server as run-time
                      configuration commands in the same format as lines in
                      the configuration file.  This command is experimental
                      until further notice and clarification.  Authentication
                      is required.
           ifstats    Display status and statistics counters for each local
                      network interface address: interface number, interface
                      name and address or broadcast, drop, flag, ttl, mc,
                      received, sent, send failed, peers, uptime.
                      Authentication is required.
           iostats    Display network and reference clock I/O statistics: time
                      since reset, receive buffers, free receive buffers, used
                      receive buffers, low water refills, dropped packets,
                      ignored packets, received packets, packets sent, packet
                      send failures, input wakeups, useful input wakeups.
           kerninfo   Display kernel loop and PPS statistics: associd, status,
                      pll offset, pll frequency, maximum error, estimated
                      error, kernel status, pll time constant, precision,
                      frequency tolerance, pps frequency, pps stability, pps
                      jitter, calibration interval, calibration cycles, jitter
                      exceeded, stability exceeded, calibration errors.  As
                      with other ntpq output, times are in milliseconds; very
                      small values may be shown as exponentials.  The
                      precision value displayed is in milliseconds as well,
                      unlike the precision system variable.
           lassociations
                      Perform the same function as the associations command,
                      except display mobilized and unmobilized associations,
                      including all clients.
           lopeers [-4|-6]
                      Display a list of all peers and clients showing dstadr
                      (associated with the given IP version).
           lpassociations
                      Display the last obtained list of associations,
                      including all clients.
           lpeers [-4|-6]
                      Display a list of all peers and clients (associated with
                      the given IP version).
           monstats   Display monitor facility status, statistics, and limits:
                      enabled, addresses, peak addresses, maximum addresses,
                      reclaim above count, reclaim older than, kilobytes,
                      maximum kilobytes.
           mreadlist associdlo associdhi
           mrl associdlo associdhi
                      Perform the same function as the readlist command for a
                      range of association ids.
           mreadvar associdlo associdhi [name][,...]
                      This range may be determined from the list displayed by
                      any command showing associations.
           mrv associdlo associdhi [name][,...]
                      Perform the same function as the readvar command for a
                      range of association ids.  This range may be determined
                      from the list displayed by any command showing
                      associations.
           mrulist [limited | kod | mincount=count | laddr=localaddr |
                      sort=[-]sortorder | resany=hexmask | resall=hexmask]
                      Display traffic counts of the most recently seen source
                      addresses collected and maintained by the monitor
                      facility.  With the exception of sort=[-]sortorder, the
                      options filter the list returned by ntpd(8).  The
                      limited and kod options return only entries representing
                      client addresses from which the last packet received
                      triggered either discarding or a KoD response.  The
                      mincount=count option filters entries representing less
                      than count packets.  The laddr=localaddr option filters
                      entries for packets received on any local address other
                      than localaddr.  resany=hexmask and resall=hexmask
                      filter entries containing none or less than all,
                      respectively, of the bits in hexmask, which must begin
                      with 0x.  The sortorder defaults to lstint and may be
                      addr, avgint, count, lstint, or any of those preceded by
                      ‘-’ to reverse the sort order.  The output columns are:
                            Column     Description
                            lstint     Interval in seconds between the receipt
                                       of the most recent packet from this
                                       address and the completion of the
                                       retrieval of the MRU list by ntpq.
                            avgint     Average interval in s between packets
                                       from this address.
                            rstr       Restriction flags associated with this
                                       address.  Most are copied unchanged
                                       from the matching restrict command,
                                       however 0x400 (kod) and 0x20 (limited)
                                       flags are cleared unless the last
                                       packet from this address triggered a
                                       rate control response.
                            r          Rate control indicator, either a
                                       period, L or K for no rate control
                                       response, rate limiting by discarding,
                                       or rate limiting with a KoD response,
                                       respectively.
                            m          Packet mode.
                            v          Packet version number.
                            count      Packets received from this address.
                            rport      Source port of last packet from this
                                       address.
                            remote address
                                       host or DNS name, numeric address, or
                                       address followed by claimed DNS name
                                       which could not be verified in
                                       parentheses.
           opeers [-4 | -6]
                      Obtain and print the old-style list of all peers and
                      clients showing dstadr (associated with the given IP
                      version), rather than the refid.
           passociations
                      Perform the same function as the associations command,
                      except that it uses previously stored data rather than
                      making a new query.
           peers      Display a list of peers in the form:
                            [tally]remote refid st t when pool reach delay
                            offset jitter
                            Variable   Description
                            [tally]    single-character code indicating
                                       current value of the select field of
                                       the peer status word: decode.html#peer
                            remote     host name (or IP number) of peer.  The
                                       value displayed will be truncated to 15
                                       characters unless the ntpq -w option is
                                       given, in which case the full value
                                       will be displayed on the first line,
                                       and if too long, the remaining data
                                       will be displayed on the next line.
                            refid      source IP address or 'kiss code:
                                       decode.html#kiss
                            st         stratum: 0 for local reference clocks,
                                       1 for servers with local reference
                                       clocks, ..., 16 for unsynchronized
                                       server clocks
                            t          u: unicast or manycast client, b:
                                       broadcast or multicast client, p: pool
                                       source, l: local (reference clock), s:
                                       symmetric (peer), A: manycast server,
                                       B: broadcast server, M: multicast
                                       server
                            when       time in seconds, minutes, hours, or
                                       days since the last packet was
                                       received, or ‘-’ if a packet has never
                                       been received
                            poll       poll interval (s)
                            reach      reach shift register (octal)
                            delay      roundtrip delay
                            offset     offset of server relative to this host
                            jitter     offset RMS error estimate.
           pstats associd
                      Display the statistics for the peer with the given
                      associd: associd, status, remote host, local address,
                      time last received, time until next send, reachability
                      change, packets sent, packets received, bad
                      authentication, bogus origin, duplicate, bad dispersion,
                      bad reference time, candidate order.
           readlist [associd]
           rl [associd]
                      Display all system or peer variables.  If the associd is
                      omitted, it is assumed to be zero.
           readvar [associd name[=value] [, ...]]
           rv [associd name[=value] [, ...]]
                      Display the specified system or peer variables.  If
                      associd is zero, the variables are from the System
                      Variables name space, otherwise they are from the Peer
                      Variables name space.  The associd is required, as the
                      same name can occur in both spaces.  If no name is
                      included, all operative variables in the name space are
                      displayed.  In this case only, if the associd is
                      omitted, it is assumed to be zero.  Multiple names are
                      specified with comma separators and without whitespace.
                      Note that time values are represented in milliseconds
                      and frequency values in parts-per-million (PPM).  Some
                      NTP timestamps are represented in the format YYYYMM DD
                      TTTT, where YYYY is the year, MM the month of year, DD
                      the day of month and TTTT the time of day.
           reslist    Display the access control (restrict) list for ntpq.
                      Authentication is required.
           saveconfig filename
                      Save the current configuration, including any runtime
                      modifications made by :config or config-from-file, to
                      the NTP server host file filename.  This command will be
                      rejected by the server unless saveconfigdir:
                      miscopt.html#saveconfigdir appears in the ntpd(8)
                      configuration file.  filename can use date(1) format
                      specifiers to substitute the current date and time, for
                      example,
                            saveconfig ntp-%Y%m%d-%H%M%S.conf.
                      The filename used is stored in system variable
                      savedconfig.  Authentication is required.
           sysinfo    Display system operational summary: associd, status,
                      system peer, system peer mode, leap indicator, stratum,
                      log2 precision, root delay, root dispersion, reference
                      id, reference time, system jitter, clock jitter, clock
                      wander, broadcast delay, symm. auth. delay.
           sysstats   Display system uptime and packet counts maintained in
                      the protocol module: uptime, sysstats reset, packets
                      received, current version, older version, bad length or
                      format, authentication failed, declined, restricted,
                      rate limited, KoD responses, processed for time.
           timerstats
                      Display interval timer counters: time since reset, timer
                      overruns, calls to transmit.
           writelist associd
                      Set all system or peer variables included in the
                      variable list.
           writevar associd name=value [, ...]
                      Set the specified variables in the variable list.  If
                      the associd is zero, the variables are from the System
                      Variables name space, otherwise they are from the Peer
                      Variables name space.  The associd is required, as the
                      same name can occur in both spaces.  Authentication is
                      required.

   Status Words and Kiss Codes
     The current state of the operating program is shown in a set of status
     words maintained by the system.  Status information is also available on
     a per-association basis.  These words are displayed by the readlist and
     associations commands both in hexadecimal and in decoded short tip
     strings.  The codes, tips and short explanations are documented on the
     Event Messages and Status Words: decode.html page.  The page also
     includes a list of system and peer messages, the code for the latest of
     which is included in the status word.

     Information resulting from protocol machine state transitions is
     displayed using an informal set of ASCII strings called kiss codes:
     decode.html#kiss. The original purpose was for kiss-o'-death (KoD)
     packets sent by the server to advise the client of an unusual condition.
     They are now displayed, when appropriate, in the reference identifier
     field in various billboards.

   System Variables
     The following system variables appear in the readlist billboard.  Not all
     variables are displayed in some configurations.

           Variable   Description
           status     system status word: decode.html#sys
           version    NTP software version and build time
           processor  hardware platform and version
           system     operating system and version
           leap       leap warning indicator (0-3)
           stratum    stratum (1-15)
           precision  precision (log2 s)
           rootdelay  total roundtrip delay to the primary reference clock
           rootdisp   total dispersion to the primary reference clock
           refid      reference id or kiss code: decode.html#kiss
           reftime    reference time
           clock      date and time of day
           peer       system peer association id
           tc         time constant and poll exponent (log2 s) (3-17)
           mintc      minimum time constant (log2 s) (3-10)
           offset     combined offset of server relative to this host
           frequency  frequency drift (PPM) relative to hardware clock
           sys_jitter
                      combined system jitter
           clk_wander
                      clock frequency wander (PPM)
           clk_jitter
                      clock jitter
           tai        TAI-UTC offset (s)
           leapsec    NTP seconds when the next leap second is/was inserted
           expire     NTP seconds when the NIST leapseconds file expires
     The jitter and wander statistics are exponentially-weighted RMS averages.
     The system jitter is defined in the NTPv4 specification; the clock jitter
     statistic is computed by the clock discipline module.

     When the NTPv4 daemon is compiled with the OpenSSL software library,
     additional system variables are displayed, including some or all of the
     following, depending on the particular Autokey dance:
           Variable   Description
           host       Autokey host name for this host
           ident      Autokey group name for this host
           flags      host flags  (see Autokey specification)
           digest     OpenSSL message digest algorithm
           signature  OpenSSL digest/signature scheme
           update     NTP seconds at last signature update
           cert       certificate subject, issuer and certificate flags
           until      NTP seconds when the certificate expires

   Peer Variables
     The following peer variables appear in the readlist billboard for each
     association.  Not all variables are displayed in some configurations.

           Variable   Description
           associd    association id
           status     peer status word: decode.html#peer
           srcadr     source (remote) IP address
           srcport    source (remote) port
           dstadr     destination (local) IP address
           dstport    destination (local) port
           leap       leap indicator (0-3)
           stratum    stratum (0-15)
           precision  precision (log2 s)
           rootdelay  total roundtrip delay to the primary reference clock
           rootdisp   total root dispersion to the primary reference clock
           refid      reference id or kiss code: decode.html#kiss
           reftime    reference time
           rec        last packet received time
           reach      reach register (octal)
           unreach    unreach counter
           hmode      host mode (1-6)
           pmode      peer mode (1-5)
           hpoll      host poll exponent (log2 s) (3-17)
           ppoll      peer poll exponent (log2 s) (3-17)
           headway    headway (see Rate Management and the Kiss-o'-Death
                      Packet: rate.html)
           flash      flash status word: decode.html#flash
           keyid      symmetric key id
           offset     filter offset
           delay      filter delay
           dispersion
                      filter dispersion
           jitter     filter jitter
           bias       unicast/broadcast bias
           xleave     interleave delay (see NTP Interleaved Modes:
                      xleave.html)
     The bias variable is calculated when the first broadcast packet is
     received after the calibration volley.  It represents the offset of the
     broadcast subgraph relative to the unicast subgraph.  The xleave variable
     appears only for the interleaved symmetric and interleaved modes.  It
     represents the internal queuing, buffering and transmission delays for
     the preceding packet.

     When the NTPv4 daemon is compiled with the OpenSSL software library,
     additional peer variables are displayed, including the following:
           Variable   Description
           flags      peer flags (see Autokey specification)
           host       Autokey server name
           flags      peer flags (see Autokey specification)
           signature  OpenSSL digest/signature scheme
           initsequence
                      initial key id
           initkey    initial key index
           timestamp  Autokey signature timestamp
           ident      Autokey group name for this association

   Clock Variables
     The following clock variables appear in the clocklist billboard for each
     association with a reference clock.  Not all variables are displayed in
     some configurations.
           Variable   Description
           associd    association id
           status     clock status word: decode.html#clock
           device     device description
           timecode   ASCII time code string (specific to device)
           poll       poll messages sent
           noreply    no reply
           badformat  bad format
           baddata    bad date or time
           fudgetime1
                      fudge time 1
           fudgetime2
                      fudge time 2
           stratum    driver stratum
           refid      driver reference id
           flags      driver flags

OPTIONS
     -4, --ipv4
             Force IPv4 name resolution.  This option must not appear in
             combination with any of the following options: ipv6.

             Force resolution of following host names on the command line to
             the IPv4 namespace.

     -6, --ipv6
             Force IPv6 name resolution.  This option must not appear in
             combination with any of the following options: ipv4.

             Force resolution of following host names on the command line to
             the IPv6 namespace.

     -c cmd, --command=cmd
             run a command and exit.  This option may appear an unlimited
             number of times.

             The following argument is interpreted as an interactive format
             command and is added to the list of commands to be executed on
             the specified host(s).

     -d, --debug-level
             Increase debug verbosity level.  This option may appear an
             unlimited number of times.


     -D number, --set-debug-level=number
             Set the debug verbosity level.  This option may appear an
             unlimited number of times.  This option takes an integer number
             as its argument.


     -i, --interactive
             Force ntpq to operate in interactive mode.  This option must not
             appear in combination with any of the following options: command,
             peers.

             Force ntpq to operate in interactive mode.  Prompts will be
             written to the standard output and commands read from the
             standard input.

     -n, --numeric
             numeric host addresses.

             Output all host addresses in dotted-quad numeric format rather
             than converting to the canonical host names.

     --old-rv
             Always output status line with readvar.

             By default, ntpq now suppresses the associd=... line that
             precedes the output of readvar (alias rv) when a single variable
             is requested, such as ntpq -c "rv 0 offset".  This option causes
             ntpq to include both lines of output for a single-variable
             readvar.  Using an environment variable to preset this option in
             a script will enable both older and newer ntpq to behave
             identically in this regard.

     -p, --peers
             Print a list of the peers.  This option must not appear in
             combination with any of the following options: interactive.

             Print a list of the peers known to the server as well as a
             summary of their state. This is equivalent to the 'peers'
             interactive command.

     -r keyword, --refid=keyword
             Set default display type for S2+ refids.  This option takes a
             keyword as its argument.  The argument sets an enumeration value
             that can be tested by comparing them against the option value
             macro.  The available keywords are:
             hash ipv4
             or their numeric equivalent.

             The default keyword for this option is:
                  ipv4

             Set the default display format for S2+ refids.

     -w, --wide
             Display the full 'remote' value.

             Display the full value of the 'remote' value.  If this requires
             more than 15 characters, display the full value, emit a newline,
             and continue the data display properly indented on the next line.

     -?, --help
             Display usage information and exit.

     -!, --more-help
             Pass the extended usage information through a pager.

     -> [cfgfile], --save-opts [=cfgfile]
             Save the option state to cfgfile.  The default is the last
             configuration file listed in the OPTION PRESETS section, below.
             The command will exit after updating the config file.

     -< cfgfile, --load-opts=cfgfile, --no-load-opts
             Load options from cfgfile.  The no-load-opts form will disable
             the loading of earlier config/rc/ini files.  --no-load-opts is
             handled early, out of order.

     --version [{v|c|n}]
             Output version of program and exit.  The default mode is `v', a
             simple version.  The `c' mode will print copyright information
             and `n' will print the full copyright notice.

OPTION PRESETS
     Any option that is not marked as not presettable may be preset by loading
     values from configuration ("RC" or ".INI") file(s) and values from
     environment variables named:
       NTPQ_<option-name> or NTPQ
     The environmental presets take precedence (are processed later than) the
     configuration files.  The homerc files are "$HOME", and ".".  If any of
     these are directories, then the file .ntprc is searched for within those
     directories.

ENVIRONMENT
     See OPTION PRESETS for configuration environment variables.

FILES
     See OPTION PRESETS for configuration files.

EXIT STATUS
     One of the following exit values will be returned:

     0  (EXIT_SUCCESS)
             Successful program execution.

     1  (EXIT_FAILURE)
             The operation failed or the command syntax was not valid.

     66  (EX_NOINPUT)
             A specified configuration file could not be loaded.

     70  (EX_SOFTWARE)
             libopts had an internal operational error.  Please report it to
             autogen-users@lists.sourceforge.net.  Thank you.

AUTHORS
     The University of Delaware and Network Time Foundation

COPYRIGHT
     Copyright (C) 1992-2017 The University of Delaware and Network Time
     Foundation all rights reserved.  This program is released under the terms
     of the NTP license, <http://ntp.org/license>.

BUGS
     Please send bug reports to: http://bugs.ntp.org, bugs@ntp.org

NOTES
     This manual page was AutoGen-erated from the ntpq option definitions.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         August 14 2018         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
