OFTPD(8)                  Linux System Administration                 OFTPD(8)

NAME
       oftpd - anonymous, read-only FTP server

SYNOPSIS
       oftpd [-p|--port port ] [-i|--interface ip-address ] [-m|--max-clients
       num ] [-l|--local local-logging ] [-N|--nodetach] user-name
       root-directory

DESCRIPTION
       oftpd is an anonymous-only FTP server.

       Although it must be started by the root user, after initialization it
       runs as the user specified by user-name parameter.  This should be a
       user with minimal permissions, preferably from an account set up for
       this purpose only.

       The server uses chroot(2) to change the root directory of the server to
       the root-directory directory.  When a user connects, this is the
       directory that they will start in, and is the top of their directory
       tree.

       When FTP clients connect, they may log in as "ftp" or "anonymous".
       Typically they will then send their e-mail address as password (most
       web browsers send a browser identifier rather than the user's e-mail
       address).  Standard Unix file permissions are enforced for downloading,
       meaning clients may download any file user-name has permission to read.
       No uploads are permitted.  All client activity is logged (see
       DIAGNOSTICS below).

OPTIONS
       -p|--port port
              Use the specified port to listen for client connections.  If not
              specified, the default FTP port (number 21) is used.

       -i|--interface ip-address
              Use the interface connected to the IP address ip-address to
              accept connections.  If not specified, the server listens on all
              interfaces.

       -m|--max-clients num
              Accept at most num simultaneous clients.  If not specified, 250
              will be the limit.

       -l|--local local-logging
              Normally oftpd logs messages to syslog as the FTP daemon.  With
              this option, the specified local-logging level will be used
              instead.  Valid numbers are 0-8.

       -N|--nodetach
              Do not run in the background; for running from init(8) or for
              testing.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Syntax errors will result in a help message being displayed, and a non-
       zero exit code returned.  Otherwise the server will exit without
       output, and return zero.

       After the server has started, you should check the appropriate log
       produced by sysklogd(8) for the FTP daemon to insure that startup
       completed correctly.  Certain errors occur only after the server has
       disconnected from the TTY, so can only be recorded via the log
       mechanism.

       If the server must terminate for any reason, it will also be logged, as
       will other non-fatal internal errors.  They are logged with attention
       to how serious the condition is believed to be, as documented in the
       syslog(3) library call.

       Client activity will also be logged through this mechanism.  This
       includes connect and disconnect (or rejection due to too many
       simultaneous users), the e-mail address reported as password, and file
       transfers.  All client commands are logged as sent at the DEBUG level.
       To fully monitor client activity you may configure sysklogd(8) to
       record these.

NOTES
       oftpd does not use inetd(8) to run.  It is a stand-alone server.  There
       is no need to configure the /etc/inetd.conf file to run it.  In fact,
       there should be no entry for FTP there at all.

       You can use the kill(1) command to stop oftpd.  When the server
       receives SIGHUP or SIGINT, it will stop listening for new FTP
       connections, and a new FTP server may be started.  Any existing
       connections to the old server will continue to function normally until
       the client disconnects or times out.  After all clients connections
       have closed, the server will exit.

       To shutdown the server and close all client connections immediately,
       use SIGKILL.

AUTHOR
       Shane Kerr <shane@time-travellers.org>

SEE ALSO
       ftp(1)


Linux                             2001-04-03                          OFTPD(8)
