OIDENTD.CONF(5)               oidentd User Manual              OIDENTD.CONF(5)

NAME
       oidentd.conf - oidentd configuration files

DESCRIPTION
       The oidentd configuration files are used to control the responses
       oidentd sends to clients after receiving a query for a connection owned
       by a particular user.

       The system-wide configuration file /usr/local/etc/oidentd.conf
       specifies the types of responses individual users are permitted to
       send.  By default, users must respond with their real username.

       The user configuration files ~/.config/oidentd.conf allow users to send
       custom ident responses or to hide their identities, provided that they
       have been granted the necessary capabilities through the system-wide
       configuration file.  If this file does not exist or oidentd was
       compiled without XDG Base Directory support, the file ~/.oidentd.conf
       is used instead.  Note that user configuration files are read only
       after a connection is determined to belong to the user in question.

SYSTEM-WIDE CONFIGURATION FILE
       The system-wide configuration file is used to grant capabilities to
       users or force users to use a certain capability.  The default behavior
       is not to grant any privileges, which means that all users must send
       their real usernames in response to ident queries.  The system-wide
       configuration file may be empty or missing, in which case this default
       applies.  Changes to this file take effect only after oidentd is
       reloaded (which occurs when a SIGHUP signal is received) or restarted.

       The system-wide configuration file contains zero or one directive of
       the following form:

           default {
                   range-directives...
           }

       This default directive matches all users for which no explicit rules
       have been defined.  Any user directives following this directive
       inherit the capabilities it defines.  If present, the default directive
       should be the first directive in the user configuration file.

       The system-wide configuration file may also contain zero or more
       directives of the following form:

           user username {
                   range-directives...
           }

       This user directive applies only to the specified user.

USER CONFIGURATION FILE
       Each user may create a user configuration file at
       ~/.config/oidentd.conf or ~/.oidentd.conf.  This file must be readable
       by the user oidentd runs as.  The user configuration file is read
       automatically after every successful lookup, so any changes take effect
       immediately.

       The user configuration file contains zero or one directive of the
       following form:

           global {
                   capability-statements...
           }

       This global directive matches all connections owned by the user.  If
       present, it should be the first directive in the user configuration
       file.

       The user configuration file may also contain zero or more directives of
       the following form:

           range-specification {
                   capability-statements...
           }

       This range directive applies only to connections that match the given
       range specification.

RANGE DIRECTIVES
       At most one range directive in any given scope may take the following
       form:

           default {
                   capability-directives...
           }

       This default directive defines rules for all connections that do not
       match any other range directive.  If present, the default directive
       should be the first directive in its scope.

       A range directive may also take the following form:

           range-specification {
                   capability-directives...
           }

       This range directive applies only to connections that match the given
       range specification.

RANGE SPECIFICATIONS
       A range specification consists of filters that define which connections
       a range directive applies to.  It takes the following form:

           to fhost fport fport from lhost lport lport

       This range specification matches only connections with the specified
       foreign host, foreign port, local host, and local port.  At least one
       of these filters must be specified.  Omitted filters match any value.
       Filters may be specified in any order.

       The fhost filter specifies the foreign host or address of a connection,
       from the perspective of the machine running oidentd.

       The fport filter specifies the foreign port or port range of a
       connection.

       The lhost filter specifies the local host or address of a connection,
       from the perspective of the machine running oidentd.  This may be
       useful for supporting virtual hosts on systems with more than one IP
       address.

       The lport filter specifies the local port or port range of a
       connection.

       Ports can be specified either numerically (e.g., 113) or using a
       service name (e.g., ident).  Port ranges are specified numerically as
       min:max.  The min port may be omitted to select all ports less than or
       equal to the max port.  Likewise, the max port may be omitted to select
       all ports greater than or equal to the min port.

CAPABILITY DIRECTIVES
       A capability directive may take one of the following forms:

           allow capability

       In this form, the directive grants the user permission to use the
       specified capability.

           deny capability

       In this form, the directive revokes the user’s permission to use the
       specified capability.

           force capability-statement

       In this form, the directive forces the user to use the specified
       capability.

CAPABILITIES
       The following expressions are valid capabilities:

           forward
           hide
           numeric
           random
           random_numeric

       These capabilities allow users to use the corresponding capability
       statements.

           spoof

       The spoof capability allows users to send custom ident replies.  Note
       that this does not include replying with the name of another user or
       spoofing replies for connections to privileged foreign ports.

           spoof_all

       The spoof_all capability allows users to reply with the names of other
       users.  This capability should be used with care, as it allows users to
       impersonate other users on the local system.  The spoof_all capability
       only works in conjunction with spoof, but does not imply it.

           spoof_privport

       The spoof_privport capability allows users to spoof replies for
       connections to privileged foreign ports (with port numbers below 1024).
       The spoof_privport capability only works in conjunction with spoof, but
       does not imply it.

CAPABILITY STATEMENTS
       A capability statement may take one of the following forms:

           forward host port

       Forward received queries to another ident server.  The target server
       must support forwarding (like oidentd with the --proxy option).

       Additional capabilities may be required for forwarding to succeed.  For
       example, the spoof capability is required if the target server sends a
       response other than the user’s name on the forwarding server.  It may
       therefore be desirable to also grant at least one of hide, spoof,
       spoof_all, and spoof_privport in addition to the forward capability.
       If force forward is used, no additional checks are performed and no
       capabilities are required.

       If forwarding fails, oidentd responds with a "HIDDEN-USER" error or
       with the user’s real username, depending on whether the user has been
       granted the hide capability.  Replies are logged, allowing the system
       administrator to identify which user sent a particular reply.

           hide

       Hide ident replies from clients.  When this capability is used, oidentd
       reports a "HIDDEN-USER" error to ident clients instead of sending an
       ident reply.

           numeric

       Respond with the user ID (UID).

           random

       Send randomly generated, alphanumeric ident replies.  A new reply is
       generated for each ident lookup.  Replies are logged, allowing the
       system administrator to identify which user sent a particular reply.

           random_numeric

       Send randomly generated, numeric ident replies between 0 (inclusive)
       and 100,000 (exclusive), prefixed with "user".  A new reply is
       generated for each ident lookup.  Replies are logged, allowing the
       system administrator to identify which user sent a particular reply.

           reply reply1 [reply2 ...]

       Send an ident reply chosen at random from the given list of quoted
       replies.  When used in a user configuration file, at most 20 replies
       may be specified.  In the system-wide configuration file, up to 255
       replies may be specified.  Replies are logged, allowing the system
       administrator to identify which user sent a particular reply.

EXAMPLES
   SYSTEM-WIDE CONFIGURATION FILE
           default {
                   default {
                           allow spoof
                   }

                   fport 6667 {
                           deny spoof
                           allow hide
                   }
           }

       Allow all users to spoof ident replies, except on connections to port
       6667.  Only on connections to port 6667, allow users to hide their
       ident replies.

           user "root" {
                   default {
                           force hide
                   }
           }

       Hide all connections owned by the root user.

           user "lisa" {
                   lport 1024: {
                           force reply "me"
                   }
           }

       For connections owned by user "lisa" on local port 1024 or greater,
       always reply with "me", ignoring any settings in the user configuration
       file.

   USER CONFIGURATION FILE
           global {
                   reply "paul"
           }

       Reply with "paul" to all ident queries.

           to irc.example.net fport 6667 {
                   hide
           }

       Hide ident replies for connections to irc.example.net on port 6667.

STRING FORMATTING
       Strings may be enclosed in double quotes.  This is useful for strings
       containing special characters that would otherwise be interpreted in an
       unintended way.

       Quoted strings may contain the following escape sequences:

           \a    alert (bell)
           \b    backspace
           \f    form feed
           \n    newline (line feed)
           \r    carriage return
           \t    horizontal tab
           \v    vertical tab
           \\:\    backslash
           \"    double quotation mark
           \\:NNN  the character with octal numerical value NNN
           \xNN  the character with hexadecimal numerical value NN

COMMENTS
       After encountering a number sign ("#"), oidentd ignores any remaining
       text on the same line.  This allows users to add comments to the
       configuration file.  Comments can also be written in the following
       form, which allows them to span multiple lines:

           /* comment */

AUTHOR
       Janik Rabe <oidentd@janikrabe.com>
            <https://oidentd.janikrabe.com>

       Originally written by Ryan McCabe.

BUGS
       Please report any bugs to Janik Rabe <oidentd@janikrabe.com>.

SEE ALSO
       oidentd(8) oidentd_masq.conf(5)

oidentd 2.5.1                                                  OIDENTD.CONF(5)
