BGPD.CONF(5)              FreeBSD File Formats Manual             BGPD.CONF(5)

NAME
     bgpd.conf – BGP routing daemon configuration file

DESCRIPTION
     The bgpd(8) daemon implements the Border Gateway Protocol version 4 as
     described in RFC 4271.

     The bgpd.conf config file is divided into the following main sections:

     MACROS
           User-defined variables may be defined and used later, simplifying
           the configuration file.

     GLOBAL CONFIGURATION
           Global settings for bgpd(8).

     SET CONFIGURATION
           Various lookup tables are defined in this section.

     NETWORK AND FLOWSPEC ANNOUNCEMENTS
           Networks which should be announced by bgpd(8) are set in this
           section.

     MPLS VPN CONFIGURATION
           The definition and properties for BGP MPLS VPNs are set in this
           section.

     NEIGHBORS AND GROUPS
           bgpd(8) establishes sessions with neighbors.  The neighbor
           definition and properties are set in this section, as well as
           grouping neighbors for the ease of configuration.

     FILTER
           Filter rules for incoming and outgoing UPDATES.

     With the exception of macros, the sections should be grouped and appear
     in bgpd.conf in the order shown above.

     The current line can be extended over multiple lines using a backslash
     (‘\’).  Comments can be put anywhere in the file using a hash mark (‘#’),
     and extend to the end of the current line.  Care should be taken when
     commenting out multi-line text: the comment is effective until the end of
     the entire block.

     Argument names not beginning with a letter, digit, or underscore must be
     quoted.

     Additional configuration files can be included with the include keyword,
     for example:

           include "/etc/bgpd/bgpd-10.0.0.1.filter"

MACROS
     Macros can be defined that will later be expanded in context.  Macro
     names must start with a letter, digit, or underscore, and may contain any
     of those characters.  Macro names may not be reserved words (for example,
     AS, neighbor, or group).  Macros are not expanded inside quotes.

     For example:

           peer1="1.2.3.4"
           neighbor $peer1 {
                   remote-as 65001
           }

GLOBAL CONFIGURATION
     These settings affect the operation of the bgpd(8) daemon as a whole.

     AS as-number [as-number]
             Set the local autonomous system number to as-number.  A fallback
             2-byte AS number may follow a 4-byte AS number for neighbors that
             do not support 4-byte AS numbers.  The standard and default
             fallback AS number is 23456.

             The AS numbers are assigned by local RIRs, such as:

             AfriNIC   for Africa
             APNIC     for Asia Pacific
             ARIN      for North America and parts of the Caribbean
             LACNIC    for Latin America and the Caribbean
             RIPE NCC  for Europe, the Middle East, and parts of Asia

             The AS numbers 64512 – 65534 are designated for private use.  The
             AS number 23456 is reserved and should not be used.  4-byte AS
             numbers may be specified in either the ASPLAIN format:

                   AS 196618

             or in the older ASDOT format:

                   AS 3.10

     connect-retry seconds
             Set the number of seconds to wait before attempting to re-open a
             connection.  This timer should be sufficiently large in EBGP
             configurations.  The default is 120 seconds.

     dump [rib name] (table-v2|table-mp|table) file [interval]
     dump (all|updates) (in|out) file [interval]
             Dump the RIB, a.k.a. the routing information base, or dump
             ongoing BGP activity, in Multi-threaded Routing Toolkit (MRT)
             format.  The file is subject to strftime(3)-expansion.

             The table-v2 and table-mp RIB formats store multi-protocol RIBs
             correctly, but the table format does not.  The latter two are
             provided only to support third-party tools lacking support for
             the recommended table-v2 format.  Dump an alternative RIB by
             specifying name.  Specify an interval in seconds for periodic RIB
             dumps.

             The following will dump the entire RIB table, at startup and
             every 5 minutes thereafter, to a new file:

                   dump table-v2 "/tmp/rib-dump-%H%M" 300

             Dumps of ongoing BGP activity include all BGP state transitions,
             and all BGP messages in the specified direction.  Use updates to
             dump only BGP UPDATE messages, without state transitions.
             Specify an interval in seconds to restart periodically with a new
             file:

                   dump all in "/tmp/all-in-%H%M" 300

     fib-priority prio
             Set the routing priority to prio.  The default is 48.

     fib-update (yes|no)
             If set to no, do not update the Forwarding Information Base,
             a.k.a. the kernel routing table.  The default is yes.

     holdtime seconds
             Set the announced holdtime in seconds.  This is exchanged with a
             neighbor upon connection establishment, in the OPEN message, and
             the shortest holdtime governs the session.

             The neighbor session is dropped if the session holdtime passes
             without receipt of a KEEPALIVE or an UPDATE message from the
             neighbor.  The default is 90 seconds.

     holdtime min seconds
             The minimum acceptable holdtime in seconds.  This value must be
             at least 3.

     listen on address [port port]
             Specify the local IP address and optional port for bgpd(8) to
             listen on.  The default is to listen on all local addresses on
             the current default routing domain.

     log updates
             Log sent and received BGP update messages.

     nexthop qualify via (bgp|default)
             If set to bgp, bgpd(8) may verify nexthops using BGP routes.  If
             set to default, bgpd(8) may verify nexthops using the default
             route.  By default bgpd(8) uses only static routes or routes
             added by other routing daemons, such as ospfd(8).

     rde evaluate (default|all)
             If set to all, keep evaluating alternative paths in case the
             selected path is filtered out.  By default if a path is filtered
             by the output filters then no alternative path is sent to this
             peer.

     rde med compare (always|strict)
             If set to always, the MULTI_EXIT_DISC attributes will always be
             compared.  The default is strict, where the metric is only
             compared between peers belonging to the same AS.

     rde rib name [no evaluate]
     rde rib name [rtable number]
             Create an additional RIB named name.  The degree to which its
             routes may be utilized is configurable.  They may be excluded
             from the decision process that selects usable routes with the no
             evaluate flag, and this precludes their export to any kernel
             routing table.  By default its routes will be evaluated, but not
             exported to the kernel.  They may be both evaluated and exported
             if associated with a given rtable number, which must belong to
             the routing domain that bgpd(8) was started in.  This table will
             not be consulted during nexthop verification unless it is the one
             that bgpd(8) was started in.  It is unnecessary to create
             Adj-RIB-In and Loc-RIB, which are created automatically and used
             by default.

     rde rib Loc-RIB include filtered
             Include filtered prefixes in the Loc-RIB.  Filtered prefixes are
             not eligible by the decision process but can be displayed by
             bgpctl(8).

     rde route-age (ignore|evaluate)
             If set to evaluate, the route decision process will also consider
             the age of the route in addition to its path attributes, giving
             preference to the older, typically more stable, route.  This
             renders the decision process nondeterministic.  The default is
             ignore.

     reject as-set (yes|no)
             If set to yes, AS paths attributes containing AS_SET path
             segments will be rejected and all prefixes will be treated as
             withdraws.  The default is yes.

     router-id dotted-quad
             Set the BGP router ID, which must be non-zero and should be
             unique within the AS.  By default, the router ID is the highest
             IPv4 address assigned to the local machine.

                   router-id 10.0.0.1

     rtable number
             Work with the given kernel routing table instead of the default
             table, which is the one bgpd(8) was started in.  For nexthop
             verification, bgpd(8) will always consult the default table.
             This is the same as using the following syntax:

                   rde rib Loc-RIB rtable number

     socket "path" [restricted]
             Create a control socket at path.  If restricted is specified, a
             restricted control socket will be created.  By default
             /var/run/bgpd.sock.<rdomain> is used where <rdomain> is the
             routing domain in which bgpd(8) has been started.  By default, no
             restricted socket is created.

     staletime seconds
             Set the upper bound in seconds stale routes are kept during
             graceful restart.  The default is 180 seconds.

     transparent-as (yes|no)
             If set to yes, attribute transparency is enabled.  AS paths to
             EBGP neighbors are not prepended with the local AS.
             Additionally, the MULTI_EXIT_DISC attribute is passed
             transparently and automatic filtering based on the well-known
             communities NO_EXPORT, NO_ADVERTISE, and NO_EXPORT_SUBCONFED is
             disabled.  The default is no.

SET CONFIGURATION
     bgpd(8) supports the efficient lookup of data within named sets.  An
     as-set, a prefix-set, and an origin-set store AS numbers, prefixes, and
     prefixes/source-as pairs, respectively.  Such sets may be referenced by
     filter rules; see the FILTER section for details.  It is more efficient
     to evaluate a set than a long series of rules for filtering each of its
     members.

     One single roa-set may be defined, against which bgpd(8) will validate
     the origin of each prefix.  The roa-set and the aspa-set are merged with
     the corresponding tables received via rtr sessions.

     A set definition can span multiple lines, and an optional comma is
     allowed between elements.  The same set can be defined more than once, in
     this case the definitions are merged into one common set.

     as-set name { as-number ... }
             An as-set stores AS numbers, and can be used with the AS specific
             parameter in FILTER rules.

     aspa-set { customer-as as-number [expires seconds] provider-as {
             as-number ... } ... }
             The aspa-set holds a collection of Validated ASPA Payloads
             (VAPs).  Each as AS_PATH received from an eBGP peer is checked
             against the aspa-set, and the ASPA Validation State (AVS) is set.
             expires can be set to the seconds since Epoch until when this VAP
             is valid.

                   aspa-set {
                           customer-as 64511 provider-as { 64496 65496 }
                           customer-as 64496 provider-as { 65496 64544 }
                   }

     origin-set name { address/len [maxlen mlen] source-as asn ... }
             An origin-set stores prefix/source-as pairs, and can be used to
             filter on the combination by using the origin-set parameter in
             FILTER rules.

                   origin-set private { 10.0.0.0/8 maxlen 24 source-as 64511
                                        203.0.113.0/24 source-as 64496 }

     prefix-set name { address/len ... }
             A prefix-set stores network prefixes and can be used in place of
             the prefix parameter in FILTER rules, and in network statements.
             A prefix can be followed by the prefixlen operators listed for
             the prefix parameter in the PARAMETERS section.

             The first example below creates a set of prefixes called
             “private”, to hold a number of RFC 1918 private network blocks.
             The second example shows the use of prefixlen operators.

                   prefix-set private { 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12,
                                        192.168.0.0/16, fc00::/7 }
                   prefix-set as64496set { 192.0.2.0/24 prefixlen >= 26,
                                           2001:db8::/32 or-longer }

     roa-set { address/len [maxlen mlen] source-as asn [expires seconds] ... }
             The roa-set holds a collection of Validated ROA Payloads (VRPs).
             Each received prefix is checked against the roa-set, and the
             Origin Validation State (OVS) is set.  expires can be set to the
             seconds since Epoch until when this VRP is valid.

                   roa-set { 192.0.2.0/23 maxlen 24 source-as 64511
                             203.0.113.0/24 source-as 64496 }

     rtr address { ... }
             The rtr block specifies a RPKI to Router (RTR) session.  RTR
             sessions provide another means to load VRP sets into bgpd(8).
             Changes propagated via the RTR protocol do not need a config
             reload and are immediately applied.  The union of all VRP sets
             received via rtr sessions and the entries in the roa-set is used
             to validate the origin of routes.  The rtr session properties are
             as follows:

             descr description
                     Add a description.  The description is used in logging
                     and status reports, but has no further meaning for
                     bgpd(8).

             local-address address
                     Bind to the specific IP address before opening the TCP
                     connection to the rtr server.

                     min-version number Require a minimal RTR version of
                     number.  To ensure that ASPA records are synchronised
                     over RTR a minimal version of 2 is required.

             port number
                     Specify the TCP destination port for the rtr session.  If
                     not specified, the default port is 323.

NETWORK AND FLOWSPEC ANNOUNCEMENTS
     network statements specify the networks that bgpd(8) will announce as its
     own.  An announcement must also be permitted by the FILTER rules.  By
     default bgpd(8) announces no networks.

     network address/prefix [set ...]
             Announce the specified prefix as belonging to our AS.

     network (inet|inet6) connected [set ...]
             Announce routes to directly attached networks.

     network prefix-set name [set ...]
             Announce all networks in the prefix-set name.

     network (inet|inet6) priority number [set ...]
             Announce routes having the specified priority.

     network (inet|inet6) rtlabel label [set ...]
             Announce routes having the specified label.

     network (inet|inet6) static [set ...]
             Announce all static routes.

     Each network statement may set default AS path attributes:

           network 192.168.7.0/24 set localpref 220

     See also the ATTRIBUTE SET section.

     flowspec statements specify the flowspec rules that bgpd(8) will announce
     as its own.  By default bgpd(8) announces no flowspec rules.

     flowspec (inet|inet6) rule [set ...]
             Announce an IPv4 or IPv6 specific flowspec rule including the AS
             path attributes specified by set.

     The following rule parameters can be set.  Most number arguments in the
     below rules can be specified as a list of ranges enclosed in curly
     brackets using these operators:

           =       (equal, default)
           !=      (unequal)
           <       (less than)
           <=      (less than or equal)
           >       (greater than)
           >=      (greater than or equal)
           -       (range including boundaries)
           ><      (except range)

     ‘><’, and ‘-’ are binary operators (they take two arguments).

     from source [port list]
     to dest [port list]
             This rule applies only to packets with the specified source or
             destination addresses and ports.  Addresses can be specified in
             CIDR notation (matching netblocks) or using any to match any
             address.  In most cases a to address must be specified and be
             part of the announced networks.

             Ports can be specified either by number or by name.  For example,
             port 80 can be specified as www.  For a list of all port name to
             number mappings see the file /etc/services.
     flags a/b
             This rule only applies to TCP packets that have the flags a set
             out of set b.  Flags not specified in b are ignored.  The flags
             are: (F)IN, (S)YN, (R)ST, (P)USH, (A)CK, (U)RG, (E)CE, and C(W)R.
     fragment a/b
             This rule only applies to fragmented packets which match the
             specified flags.  The flags are: (D)on't fragment, (I)s fragment,
             (F)irst fragment, and (L)ast fragment.
     icmp-type type [code code]
     icmp6-type type [code code]
             This rule only applies to ICMP or ICMP6 packets with the
             specified type and code.  Text names for ICMP types and codes are
             listed in icmp(4) and icmp6(4).
     length pktlen
             This rule applies only to packets matching the specified pktlen.
     proto protocol
             This rule applies only to packets of this protocol.  Common
             protocols are ICMP, ICMP6, TCP, and UDP.  For a list of all the
             protocol name to number mappings see the file /etc/protocols.
     tos string|number
             This rule applies to packets with the specified TOS bits set.
             string may be one of critical, inetcontrol, lowdelay, netcontrol,
             throughput, reliability, or one of the DiffServ Code Points: ef,
             af11 ... af43, cs0 ... cs7; number may be either a hex or decimal
             number.

     The action taken when a flowspec rules matches depends on extended
     communities.  For example to block all traffic either ext-community
     flow-rate as-number:0 or ext-community flow-pps as-number:0 need to be
     set.

MPLS VPN CONFIGURATION
     A vpn section configures a router to participate in an MPLS Virtual
     Private Network.  It specifies an mpe(4) interface to use, a description,
     and various properties of the VPN:

           vpn "description" on mpe1 {
                   rd 65002:1
                   import-target rt 65002:42
                   export-target rt 65002:42
                   network 192.168.1/24
           }

     bgpd(8) will not exchange VPN routes with a neighbor by default, see the
     NEIGHBORS AND GROUPS section.  The description is used when logging but
     has no further meaning to bgpd(8).

     The mpe(4) interface will be used as the outgoing interface for routes to
     the VPN, and local networks will be announced with the MPLS label
     specified on the interface.  The interface can provide VPN connectivity
     for another rdomain by being configured in that rdomain.  The required
     rdomain must be configured on the interface before bgpd(8) uses it.
     Multiple VPNs may be connected to a single rdomain, including the rdomain
     that bgpd(8) is running in.

     An example hostname.if(5) configuration for an mpe(4) interface providing
     connectivity to rdomain 1:

           rdomain 1
           mplslabel 2000
           inet 192.198.0.1 255.255.255.255
           up

     The VPN properties are as follows:

     export-target subtype as-number:local
     export-target subtype IP:local
             Classify announced networks by tagging them with an extended
             community of the given arguments.  The community subtype should
             be a route target, rt, to ensure interoperability.  The arguments
             are further detailed in the ATTRIBUTE SET section.  More than one
             export-target can be specified.

     fib-update (yes|no)
             If set to no, do not update the Forwarding Information Base,
             a.k.a. the kernel routing table.  The default is yes.

     import-target subtype as-number:local
     import-target subtype IP:local
             The rdomain imports only those prefixes tagged with an extended
             community matching an import-target.  The community subtype
             should be a route target, rt, to ensure interoperability.  The
             arguments are further detailed in the ATTRIBUTE SET section.
             More than one import-target can be specified.

     network argument ...
             Announce the given networks within this VPN; see the NETWORK
             ANNOUNCEMENTS section.

     rd as-number:local
     rd IP:local
             The Route Distinguisher rd supplies BGP with namespaces to
             disambiguate VPN prefixes, as these needn't be globally unique.
             Unlike route targets, the rd neither identifies the origin of the
             prefix nor controls into which VPNs the prefix is distributed.
             The as-number or IP of a rd should be set to a number or IP that
             was assigned by an appropriate authority, whereas local can be
             chosen by the local operator.

NEIGHBORS AND GROUPS
     bgpd(8) establishes TCP connections to other BGP speakers called
     neighbors.  A neighbor and its properties are specified by a neighbor
     section:

           neighbor 10.0.0.2 {
                   remote-as 65002
                   descr "a neighbor"
           }

     Neighbors placed within a group section inherit the properties common to
     that group:

           group "peering AS65002" {
                   remote-as 65002
                   neighbor 10.0.0.2 {
                           descr "AS65002-p1"
                   }
                   neighbor 10.0.0.3 {
                           descr "AS65002-p2"
                   }
           }

     An entire network of neighbors may be accommodated by specifying an
     address/netmask pair:

           neighbor 10.0.0.0/8

     This is a template that recognises as a neighbor any connection from
     within the given network.  Such neighbors inherit their template's
     properties, except for their IP address.  A template may omit remote-as;
     bgpd(8) then accepts any AS presented by the neighbor in the OPEN
     message.

     The neighbor properties are as follows:

     announce (IPv4|IPv6) (none|unicast|vpn|flowspec) [enforce]
             For the given address family, control which subsequent address
             families are announced during the capabilities negotiation.  Only
             routes for that address family and subsequent address families
             will be announced and processed.

             At the moment, only none, which disables the announcement of that
             address family, unicast, vpn, which allows the distribution of
             BGP MPLS VPNs, and flowspec, which allows the distribution of
             Flow Specification Rules, are supported.

             The default is unicast for the same address family of the
             session.

     announce add-path recv (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to yes, the receive add-path capability is announced,
             which allows reception of multiple paths per prefix.  The default
             is no.

     announce add-path send (no|all) [enforce]
     announce add-path send (best|ecmp|as-wide-best) [plus num] [max num]
             [enforce]
             If set to all, best, ecmp, or as-wide-best, the send add-path
             capability is announced, which allows sending multiple paths per
             prefix.  The paths sent depend on which mode is selected:

             no            do not advertise add-path send capability
             all           send all valid paths
             best          send the best path
             ecmp          send paths with equal nexthop cost
             as-wide-best  send paths where the first 8 checks of the decision
                           process match

             plus allows the inclusion of additional backup paths and works
             for best, ecmp, and as-wide-best.  max can be used to limit the
             total amount of paths sent for ecmp and as-wide-best.  Right now
             ecmp and as-wide-best are equivalent.  The default is no.  If
             add-path send is active then the setting of rde evaluate is
             ignored.

     announce as-4byte (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to no, the 4-byte AS capability is not announced and so
             native 4-byte AS support is disabled.  If enforce is set, the
             session will only be established if the neighbor also announces
             the capability.  The default is yes.

     announce enhanced refresh (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to yes, the enhanced route refresh capability is
             announced.  If enforce is set, the session will only be
             established if the neighbor also announces the capability.  The
             default is no.

     announce extended message (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to yes, the extended message capability is announced.  If
             negotiated, the default maximum message size is increased from
             4096 to 65535 bytes.  If enforce is set, the session will only be
             established if the neighbor also announces the capability.  The
             default is no.

     announce extended nexthop (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to yes, the extended nexthop encoding capability is
             announced.  If negotiated, IPv4 unicast and vpn sessions can send
             paths with a IPv6 nexthop.  If enforce is set, the session will
             only be established if the neighbor also announces the
             capability.  The default is no.

     announce graceful notification (yes|no)
             If set to yes, the graceful notification extension to graceful
             restart is announced.  The default is no.  announce refresh must
             be enabled to enable graceful notifications.

     announce policy (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to yes, add the open policy role capability.  If the role
             of the neighbor does not correspond to the expected role then the
             session will be closed.  If enforce is set, the session will only
             be established if the neighbor also announces the capability.
             The default is no.

     announce refresh (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to no, the route refresh capability is not announced.  If
             enforce is set, the session will only be established if the
             neighbor also announces the capability.  The default is yes.

     announce restart (yes|no|enforce)
             If set to no, the graceful restart capability is not announced.
             Currently only the End-of-RIB marker is supported and announced
             by the restart capability.  If enforce is set, the session will
             only be established if the neighbor also announces the
             capability.  The default is yes.

     as-override (yes|no)
             If set to yes, all occurrences of the neighbor AS in the AS path
             will be replaced with the local AS before running the filters.
             The Adj-RIB-In still holds the unmodified AS path.  The default
             value is no.

     demote group
             Increase the carp(4) demotion counter on the given interface
             group, usually carp, when the session is not in state
             ESTABLISHED.  The demotion counter will be increased as soon as
             bgpd(8) starts and decreased 60 seconds after the session went to
             state ESTABLISHED.  For neighbors added at runtime, the demotion
             counter is only increased after the session has been ESTABLISHED
             at least once before dropping.

             For more information on interface groups, see the group keyword
             in ifconfig(8).

     depend on interface
             The neighbor session will be kept in state IDLE as long as
             interface reports no link.  For carp(4) interfaces, no link means
             that the interface is currently backup.  This is primarily
             intended to be used with carp(4) to reduce failover times.

             The state of the network interfaces on the system can be viewed
             using the show interfaces command to bgpctl(8).

     descr description
             Add a description.  The description is used when logging neighbor
             events, in status reports, for specifying neighbors, etc., but
             has no further meaning to bgpd(8).

     down [reason]
             Do not start the session when bgpd(8) comes up but stay in IDLE.
             If the session is cleared at runtime, after a down reason was
             configured at runtime, the reason is sent as Administrative
             Shutdown Communication.  The reason cannot exceed 255 octets.

     dump (all|updates) (in|out) file [interval]
             Dump ongoing BGP activity for a particular neighbor.  See also
             the dump setting in GLOBAL CONFIGURATION.

     enforce local-as (yes|no)
             If set to no, AS paths will not be checked for AS loop detection.
             This feature is similar to allowas-in in some other BGP
             implementations.  Since there is no AS path loop check, this
             feature is dangerous, and requires you to add filters to prevent
             receiving your own prefixes.  The default value is yes.

     enforce neighbor-as (yes|no)
             If set to yes, AS paths whose leftmost AS is not equal to the
             remote AS of the neighbor are rejected and a NOTIFICATION is sent
             back.  The default value for IBGP peers is no otherwise the
             default is yes.

     export (none|default-route)
             If set to none, no UPDATE messages will be sent to the neighbor.
             If set to default-route, only the default route will be announced
             to the neighbor.

     holdtime seconds
             Set the holdtime in seconds.  Inherited from the global
             configuration if not given.

     holdtime min seconds
             Set the minimal acceptable holdtime.  Inherited from the global
             configuration if not given.

     ipsec (ah|esp) (in|out) spi spi-number authspec [encspec]
             Enable IPsec with static keying.  There must be at least two
             ipsec statements per peer with manual keying, one per direction.
             authspec specifies the authentication algorithm and key.  It can
             be

                   sha1 <key>
                   md5 <key>

             encspec specifies the encryption algorithm and key.  ah does not
             support encryption.  With esp, encryption is optional.  encspec
             can be

                   3des <key>
                   3des-cbc <key>
                   aes <key>
                   aes-128-cbc <key>

             Keys must be given in hexadecimal format.  After changing
             settings, a session needs to be reset to use the new keys.  The
             ipsec flows only work with session using the default port 179.

     ipsec (ah|esp) ike
             Enable IPsec with dynamic keying.  In this mode, bgpd(8) sets up
             the flows, and a key management daemon such as isakmpd(8) is
             responsible for managing the session keys.  With isakmpd(8), it
             is sufficient to copy the peer's public key, found in
             /etc/isakmpd/local.pub, to the local machine.  It must be stored
             in a file named after the peer's IP address and must be stored in
             /etc/isakmpd/pubkeys/ipv4/.  The local public key must be copied
             to the peer in the same way.  As bgpd(8) manages the flows on its
             own, it is sufficient to restrict isakmpd(8) to only take care of
             keying by specifying the flags -Ka.  This can be done in
             rc.conf.local(8).  After starting the isakmpd(8) and bgpd(8)
             daemons on both sides, the session should be established.  After
             changing settings, a session needs to be reset to use the new
             keys.  The ipsec flows only work with session using the default
             port 179.

     local-address address
     no local-address
             When bgpd(8) initiates the TCP connection to the neighbor system,
             it normally does not bind to a specific IP address.  If a
             local-address is given, bgpd(8) binds to this address first.  no
             local-address reverts back to the default.

     local-as as-number [as-number]
             Set the AS number sent to the remote system.  Used as described
             above under GLOBAL CONFIGURATION option AS.

             Since there is no AS path loop check, this option is dangerous,
             and requires you to add filters to prevent receiving your ASNs.
             Intended to be used temporarily, for migrations to another AS.

     log no  Disable neighbor specific logging.

     log updates
             Log received and sent updates for this neighbor.

     max-prefix number [restart number]
             Terminate the session when the maximum number of prefixes
             received is exceeded (no such limit is imposed by default).  If
             restart is specified, the session will be restarted after number
             minutes.

     max-prefix number out [restart number]
             Terminate the session when the maximum number of prefixes sent is
             exceeded (no such limit is imposed by default).  If restart is
             specified, the session will be restarted after number minutes.

     multihop hops
             Neighbors not in the same AS as the local bgpd(8) normally have
             to be directly connected to the local machine.  If this is not
             the case, the multihop statement defines the maximum hops the
             neighbor may be away.

     passive
             Do not attempt to actively open a TCP connection to the neighbor
             system.

     port port
             Connect to the peer using port instead of the default BGP port
             179.

     reject as-set (yes|no)
             If set to yes, AS paths attributes containing AS_SET path
             segments will be rejected and all prefixes will be treated as
             withdraws.  The default is inherited from the global reject
             as-set setting.

     remote-as as-number
             Set the AS number of the remote system.

     rde evaluate (default|all)
             If set to all, keep evaluating alternative paths in case the
             selected path is filtered out.  By default if a path is filtered
             by the output filters then no alternative path is sent to this
             peer.  The default is inherited from the global rde evaluate
             setting.

     rib name
             Bind the neighbor to the specified RIB.

     role role
             Set the local role for this eBGP session.  Setting a role is
             required for ASPA verification, the open policy role capability
             and Only-To-Customer (OTC) attribute of RFC 9234.  The role can
             be one of none, provider, customer, rs, rs-client, or peer.  If
             the role is set to none the announce policy will also be
             disabled.  On iBGP session the role setting is ignored and forced
             to none.

     route-reflector [address]
             Act as an RFC 4456 route-reflector for this neighbor.  An
             optional cluster ID can be specified; otherwise the BGP ID will
             be used.

     set attribute ...
             Set the AS path attributes to some default per neighbor or group
             block:

                   set localpref 300

             See also the ATTRIBUTE SET section.  Set parameters are applied
             to the received prefixes; the only exceptions are prepend-self,
             nexthop no-modify and nexthop self.  These sets are rewritten
             into filter rules and can be viewed with “bgpd -nv”.

     staletime seconds
             Set the upper bound stale time in seconds for graceful restart.
             Inherited from the global configuration if not given.

     tcp md5sig password secret
     tcp md5sig key secret
             Enable TCP MD5 signatures per RFC 2385.  The shared secret can
             either be given as a password or hexadecimal key.

                   tcp md5sig password mekmitasdigoat
                   tcp md5sig key deadbeef
             After changing keys, a session needs to be reset to use the new
             keys.

     transparent-as (yes|no)
             If set to yes, attribute transparency is enabled.  See also the
             transparent-as setting in GLOBAL CONFIGURATION.  The default is
             inherited from the global transparent-as setting.

     ttl-security (yes|no)
             Enable or disable ttl-security.  When enabled, outgoing packets
             are sent using a TTL of 255 and a check is made against an
             incoming packet's TTL.  For directly connected peers, incoming
             packets are required to have a TTL of 255, ensuring they have not
             been routed.  For multihop peers, incoming packets are required
             to have a TTL of 256 minus multihop distance, ensuring they have
             not passed through more than the expected number of hops.  The
             default is no.

FILTER
     bgpd(8) filters all BGP UPDATE messages, including its own announcements,
     and blocks them by default.  Filter rules may match on neighbor,
     direction, prefix or AS path attributes.  Filter rules may also modify AS
     path attributes.

     For each UPDATE processed by the filter, the filter rules are evaluated
     in sequential order, from first to last.  The last matching allow or deny
     rule decides what action is taken.  The default action is to deny.

     The following actions can be used in the filter:

     allow     The UPDATE is passed.

     deny      The UPDATE is blocked.

     match     Apply the filter attribute set without influencing the filter
               decision.

PARAMETERS
     The rule parameters specify the UPDATES to which a rule applies.  An
     UPDATE always comes from, or goes to, one neighbor.  Most parameters are
     optional, but each can appear at most once per rule.  If a parameter is
     specified, the rule only applies to packets with matching attributes.

     as-type [operator] as-number
     as-type as-set name
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the AS path matches.  The
             part of the AS path specified by the as-type is matched against
             the as-number or the as-set name:

             AS           (any part)
             peer-as      (leftmost AS number)
             source-as    (rightmost AS number)
             transit-as   (all but the rightmost AS number)

             as-number is an AS number as explained above under GLOBAL
             CONFIGURATION.  It may be set to neighbor-as, which is expanded
             to the current neighbor remote AS number, or local-as, which is
             expanded to the locally assigned AS number.

             When specifying an as-set name, the AS path will instead be
             matched against all the AS numbers in the set.

             The operator can be unspecified (this case is identical to the
             equality operator), or one of the numerical operators

                   =       (equal)
                   !=      (unequal)
                   -       (range including boundaries)
                   ><      (except range)

             >< and - are binary operators (they take two arguments); with
             these, as-number cannot be set to neighbor-as.

             Multiple as-number entries for a given type or as-type as-number
             entries may also be specified, separated by commas or whitespace,
             if enclosed in curly brackets:

                   deny from any AS { 1, 2, 3 }
                   deny from any { AS 1, source-as 2, transit-as 3 }
                   deny from any { AS { 1, 2, 3 }, source-as 4, transit-as 5 }

     avs (valid | unknown | invalid)
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the ASPA Validation State
             (AVS) matches.

     community as-number:local
     community name
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the community path
             attribute is present and matches.  Communities are specified as
             as-number:local, where as-number is an AS number and local is a
             locally significant number between zero and 65535.  Both
             as-number and local may be set to ‘*’ to do wildcard matching.
             Alternatively, well-known communities may be given by name
             instead and include BLACKHOLE, GRACEFUL_SHUTDOWN, NO_EXPORT,
             NO_ADVERTISE, NO_EXPORT_SUBCONFED, and NO_PEER.  Both as-number
             and local may be set to neighbor-as, which is expanded to the
             current neighbor remote AS number, or local-as, which is expanded
             to the locally assigned AS number.

     large-community as-number:local:local
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the Large community path
             attribute is present and matches.  Communities are specified as
             as-number:local:local, where as-number is an AS number and local
             is a locally significant number between zero and 4294967295.
             Both as-number and local may be set to ‘*’ to do wildcard
             matching, neighbor-as, which is expanded to the current neighbor
             remote AS number, or local-as, which is expanded to the locally
             assigned AS number.

     ext-community subtype as-number:local
     ext-community subtype IP:local
     ext-community subtype numvalue
     ext-community ovs (valid | not-found | invalid)
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the extended community
             path attribute is present and matches.  Extended Communities are
             specified by a subtype and normally two values, a globally unique
             part (e.g. the AS number) and a local part.  Both as-number and
             local may be set to neighbor-as, which is expanded to the current
             neighbor remote AS number, or local-as, which is expanded to the
             locally assigned AS number.  Wildcard matching is supported for
             local, numvalue and subtype.  If wildcard matching is used on the
             subtype then numvalue also needs to be set to ‘*’.  See also the
             ATTRIBUTE SET section for further information about the encoding.

     (from|to) peer
             This rule applies only to UPDATES coming from, or going to, this
             particular neighbor.  This parameter must be specified.  peer is
             one of the following:

             any          Any neighbor will be matched.
             ibgp         All IBGP neighbors will be matched.
             ebgp         All EBGP neighbors will be matched.
             address      Neighbors with this address will be matched.
             group descr  Neighbors in this group will be matched.
             AS as-number
                          Neighbors with this AS will be matched.

             Multiple peer entries may also be specified, separated by commas
             or whitespace, if enclosed in curly brackets:

                   deny from { 128.251.16.1, 251.128.16.2, group hojo }

     (inet|inet6)
             Match only routes in the IPv4 or IPv6 address families,
             respectively.  inet is an alias for "prefix 0.0.0.0/0 prefixlen
             >= 0"; inet6 is an alias for "prefix ::/0 prefixlen >= 0".

     max-as-len len
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the AS path has more than
             len elements.

     max-as-seq len
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where a single AS number is
             repeated more than len times.

     max-communities|max-large-communities|max-ext-communities num
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the Basic, Large, or
             Extended Community attribute has more than num elements.

     nexthop address
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the nexthop is equal to
             address.  The address can be set to neighbor in which case the
             nexthop is compared against the address of the neighbor.  Nexthop
             filtering is not supported on locally announced networks and one
             must take into consideration previous rules overwriting nexthops.

     origin-set name
             This rule applies only to UPDATES that match the given origin-set
             name.

     ovs (valid | not-found | invalid)
             This rule applies only to UPDATES where the Origin Validation
             State (OVS) matches.

     prefix address/len
     prefix address/len prefixlen range
     prefix address/len or-longer
     prefix address/len maxlen mlen
             This rule applies only to UPDATES for the specified prefix.

             Multiple entries may be specified, separated by commas or
             whitespace, if enclosed in curly brackets:

                   deny from any prefix { 192.168.0.0/16, 10.0.0.0/8 or-longer }

             Multiple lists can also be specified, which is useful for macro
             expansion:

                   good="{ 192.168.0.0/16, 172.16.0.0/12, 10.0.0.0/8 }"
                   bad="{ 224.0.0.0/4 prefixlen >= 4, 240.0.0.0/4 prefixlen >= 4 }"
                   ugly="{ 127.0.0.1/8, 169.254.0.0/16 }"

                   deny from any prefix { $good $bad $ugly }

             Prefix length ranges are specified by using these operators:

                   =       (equal)
                   !=      (unequal)
                   <       (less than)
                   <=      (less than or equal)
                   >       (greater than)
                   >=      (greater than or equal)
                   -       (range including boundaries)
                   ><      (except range)

             >< and - are binary operators (they take two arguments).  For
             instance, to match all prefix lengths >= 8 and <= 12, and hence
             the CIDR netmasks 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12:

                   prefixlen 8-12

             Or, to match all prefix lengths < 8 or > 12, and hence the CIDR
             netmasks 0–7 and 13–32:

                   prefixlen 8><12

             This will match all prefixes in the 10.0.0.0/8 netblock with
             netmasks longer than 16:

                   prefix 10.0.0.0/8 prefixlen > 16

             or-longer is a shorthand for:

                   prefix address/len prefixlen >= len

             maxlen mlen is a shorthand for:

                   prefix address/len prefixlen <= mlen

     prefix-set name [or-longer]
             This rule applies only to UPDATES that match the given prefix-set
             name.  With or-longer, the UPDATES will match any prefix in the
             prefix-set where

                   address/len prefixlen >= len

     quick   If an UPDATE matches a rule which has the quick option set, this
             rule is considered the last matching rule, and evaluation of
             subsequent rules is skipped.

     rib name
             Apply rule only to the specified RIB.  This only applies for
             received updates, so not for rules using the to peer parameter.

     set attribute ...
             All matching rules can set the AS path attributes to some
             default.  The set of every matching rule is applied, not only the
             last matching one.  See also the following section.

ATTRIBUTE SET
     AS path attributes can be modified with set.

     set can be used on network statements, in neighbor or group blocks, and
     on filter rules.  Attribute sets can be expressed as lists.

     The following attributes can be modified:

     community [delete] as-number:local
     community [delete] name
             Set or delete the COMMUNITIES AS path attribute.  Communities are
             specified as as-number:local, where as-number is an AS number and
             local is a locally significant number between zero and 65535.
             Alternately, well-known communities may be specified by name:
             GRACEFUL_SHUTDOWN, NO_EXPORT, NO_ADVERTISE, NO_EXPORT_SUBCONFED,
             or NO_PEER.  For delete, both as-number and local may be set to
             ‘*’ to do wildcard matching.

     large-community [delete] as-number:local:local
     large-community [delete] name
             Set or delete the Large Communities path attribute.  Communities
             are specified as as-number:local:local, where as-number is an AS
             number and local is a locally significant number between zero and
             4294967295.  For delete, both as-number and local may be set to
             ‘*’ to do wildcard matching.

     ext-community [delete] subtype as-number:local
     ext-community [delete] subtype IP:local
     ext-community [delete] subtype numvalue
     ext-community [delete] ovs (valid | not-found | invalid)
             Set or delete the Extended Community AS path attribute.  Extended
             Communities are specified by a subtype and normally two values, a
             globally unique part (e.g. the AS number) and a local part.  The
             type is selected depending on the encoding of the global part.
             Two-octet AS Specific Extended Communities and Four-octet AS
             Specific Extended Communities are encoded as as-number:local.
             Four-octet encoding is used if the as-number is bigger than 65535
             or if the AS_DOT encoding is used.  IPv4 Address Specific
             Extended Communities are encoded as IP:local.  Opaque Extended
             Communities are encoded with a single numeric value.  The ovs
             subtype can only be set to valid, not-found, or invalid.
             Currently the following subtypes are supported:

                   bdc      BGP Data Collection
                   defgw    Default Gateway
                   esi-lab  ESI Label
                   esi-rt   ES-Import Route Target
                   l2vid    L2VPN Identifier
                   mac-mob  MAC Mobility
                   odi      OSPF Domain Identifier
                   ort      OSPF Route Type
                   ori      OSPF Router ID
                   ovs      BGP Origin Validation State
                   rt       Route Target
                   soo      Route Origin / Source of Origin
                   srcas    Source AS
                   vrfri    VRF Route Import

             Not all type and subtype value pairs are allowed by IANA and the
             parser will ensure that no invalid combination is created.

             For delete, subtype, numvalue, or local, may be set to ‘*’ to do
             wildcard matching.  If wildcard matching is used on the subtype
             then numvalue also needs to be set to ‘*’.

     localpref number
             Set the LOCAL_PREF AS path attribute.  If number starts with a
             plus or minus sign, LOCAL_PREF will be adjusted by adding or
             subtracting number; otherwise it will be set to number.  The
             default is 100.

     med number
     metric number
             Set the MULTI_EXIT_DISC AS path attribute.  If number starts with
             a plus or minus sign, MULTI_EXIT_DISC will be adjusted by adding
             or subtracting number; otherwise it will be set to number.

     origin (igp|egp|incomplete)
             Set the ORIGIN AS path attribute to mark the source of this route
             as being injected from an igp protocol, an egp protocol or being
             an aggregated route.

     nexthop (address|blackhole|reject|self|no-modify)
             Set the NEXTHOP AS path attribute to a different nexthop address
             or use blackhole or reject routes.  blackhole and reject only
             affect the FIB and will not alter the nexthop address.  self
             forces the nexthop to be set to the local interface address.  If
             set to no-modify, the nexthop attribute is not modified for EBGP
             multihop sessions.  By default EBGP multihop sessions use the
             local interface address.  On other IBGP and directly connected
             EBGP sessions no-modify is ignored.  The set address is used on
             IBGP session and on directly connected EBGP session if the
             address is part of the connected network.  On EBGP multihop
             session no-modify has to be set to force the nexthop to address.

                   set nexthop 192.168.0.1
                   set nexthop blackhole
                   set nexthop reject
                   set nexthop no-modify
                   set nexthop self

     pftable table
             Add the prefix in the update to the specified pf(4) table,
             regardless of whether or not the path was selected for routing.
             This option may be useful in building realtime blacklists.

     prepend-neighbor number
             Prepend the neighbor's AS number times to the AS path.

     prepend-self number
             Prepend the local AS number times to the AS path.

     rtlabel label
             Add the prefix to the kernel routing table with the specified
             label.

     weight number
             The weight is used to tip prefixes with equally long AS paths in
             one or the other direction.  A prefix is weighed at a very late
             stage in the decision process.  If number starts with a plus or
             minus sign, the weight will be adjusted by adding or subtracting
             number; otherwise it will be set to number.  Weight is a local
             non-transitive attribute, and is a bgpd(8)-specific extension.
             For prefixes with equally long paths, the prefix with the larger
             weight is selected.

FILES
     /usr/local/etc/bgpd.conf  bgpd(8) configuration file.

SEE ALSO
     strftime(3), ipsec(4), pf(4), rdomain(4), tcp(4), bgpctl(8), bgpd(8),
     ipsecctl(8), isakmpd(8), rc.conf.local(8)

HISTORY
     The bgpd.conf file format first appeared in OpenBSD 3.5.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           January 27, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
