MDNSCTL(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             MDNSCTL(8)

NAME
     mdnsctl – control the Multicast Domain Server daemon

SYNOPSIS
     mdnsctl command [argument ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The mdnsctl program controls the mdnsd(8) daemon, it can perform simples
     MDNS lookups, as well as browsing and publishing MDNS/DNS-SD services.

     The following commands are available:

     lookup [rr-types] host.local
             Look up resource records for host.local.  The optional rr-types
             specifies which type of resource record should be looked up. It
             can be any combination of the following:

             -a   A record (IPv4 Address). This is the default.
             -h   HINFO record (Host Information).
             -s   SRV record (Service). Unimplemented.
             -t   TXT record (Text). Unimplemented.

     rlookup a.b.c.d
             Reverse lookup an IPv4 address in the a.b.c.d form, use this to
             obtain the hostname of the given address.

     browse [-r] [-s] [application proto]
             Browse for application services of type application for the given
             transport protocol proto.  application may be any application
             service type, like http, workstation, ftp, printer...  proto must
             be either tcp or udp. Defaults to all services if none specified.

     publish service-name application proto port text-string
             Publish services via dns-sd, service-name is the unique chosen
             name for the service, it can be any string up to 63 characters.
             The application is the application protocol for the service, like
             http, ftp...  proto is the transport protocol, must be either tcp
             or udp.  port is the tcp or udp port.  text-string is the string
             in the TXT record for the given service, it can be used to
             express additional service information.

     proxy service-name application proto port host address text-string
             Proxy publish a service running on a different machine, in
             addition to the arguments used for publish, host is a fully
             qualified domain name (FQDN) of the target machine, address is an
             IPv4 address for the target machine in the a.b.c.d form.

FILES
     /var/run/mdnsctl.sock    UNIX-domain socket used for communication with
                              mdnsd(8).

EXAMPLES
     The following examples demonstrate some basic uses of mdnsctl.

     # Lookup a host A and HINFO record
     mdnsctl lookup -ah foobar.local

     # Reverse lookup an address
     mdnsctl rlookup 192.168.8.32

     # Browse up all services in the local network
     mdnsctl browse

     # Browse and resolve all services
     mdnsctl browse -r

     # Browse and resolve all services and output in script-readable format
     mdnsctl browse -rs

     # Browse and resolve all the http services in the local network
     mdnsctl browse -r http tcp

     # Publish a simple ftp service
     mdnsctl publish myftp ftp tcp 21 "user=foobar"

     # Proxy publish a https service that has www.mysite.com as the target
     mdnsctl proxy mysite https tcp 443 www.mysite.com 12.3.45.6 "user=foobar"

SEE ALSO
     mdnsd(8)

LICENSE
     mdnsctl is released under the ISC license.

HISTORY
     The mdnsctl program version 0.1 was released in 13 February 2011.

AUTHORS
     Christiano Farina Haesbaert <haesbaert@haesbaert.org>


FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            April 19, 2016            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
