OPENCBM(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             OPENCBM(4)

NAME
     opencbm – OpenCBM driver for parallel-port X[MA]-1541 cables

SYNOPSIS
     opencbm

DESCRIPTION
     The opencbm driver supports Commodore disk drives connected to the
     parallel port using an XM(P)-1541 or XA(P)-1541 cable.

   Loader Tunables
     The following loader tunables are used to set driver configuration at the
     loader(8) prompt before booting the kernel, or they can be stored in
     /boot/loader.conf in order to automatically set them before booting the
     kernel.  It is also possible to use kenv(1) to change these tunables
     before loading the opencbm driver.

     cbm.cable
             Set to 0 or 1 to explicitly select an XM-1541 (0) or XA-1541 (1)
             type cable.  The default value of -1 will attempt to auto-detect
             the cable type, which only works reliably when cbm.reset is
             active and the drive is connected and powered on while loading
             the opencbm driver.

     cbm.hold_clk
             Set to 0 explicitly to release the CLK line of the bus when idle.
             The default (1) is to strictly follow C64 behavior, always
             holding the CLK line.

     cbm.reset
             When set to 1 (default), execute a bus reset and wait for
             response from the drive while loading the opencbm driver.  Set to
             0 explicitly to load the driver without having to wait for the
             bus.  In this case, you should also select a cable type
             explicity.

FILES
     The opencbm driver creates the following device node:

     /dev/cbm
             Device for communicating with a Commodore disk drive over a
             parallel-port cable.

EXAMPLES
     To load the driver with a drive connected and powered on, auto-detecting
     the cable type:

           kldload opencbm

     To load the driver without issuing a bus reset and selecting an active
     (XA-1541) cable:

           kenv cbm.cable=1
           kenv cbm.reset=0
           kldload opencbm

     If you want to load the driver at system startup, adding it to kld_list
     in /etc/rc.conf, it is recommended to disable cbm.reset and explicitly
     select a cable type in /boot/loader.conf, e.g. add the following lines
     for a passive (XM-1541) cable:

           cbm.cable=0
           cbm.reset=0

SEE ALSO
     The cables supported by the opencbm driver (XM-1541, XA-1541 and their
     variations) are described on https://sta.c64.org/xcables.html

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             May 27, 2020             FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
