CVS(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 CVS(1)

NAME
     cvs – OpenCVS Concurrent Versioning System

SYNOPSIS
     cvs [-flnQqRrtVvw] [-d root] [-e editor] [-s var=val] [-T tmpdir]
         [-z level] command ...

DESCRIPTION
     The cvs program acts as both client and server for the use of and
     administration of a CVS source repository.  CVS is used to maintain
     version information on files that are kept in a repository.  Although it
     is more commonly used to track changes in source code, there are no real
     limitations to the type of files that can be stored in a repository.  For
     a general introduction to CVS, see cvsintro(7).

     cvs reads its startup configuration file, .cvsrc, from the home directory
     of the user who invoked it.  This file is used to specify implicit
     options passed to cvs or one of its commands whenever it is invoked.  The
     defaults in the configuration file can be overridden with the -f option
     (see below).  See cvs(5) for further information.

     cvs also supports keyword substitution – see the rcs(1) man page for more
     information.

     The following options are supported:

     -d root
             Use root as the path to the root directory of the CVS repository.
             The value must specify an absolute path.

     -e editor
             Use the program editor whenever editing log information.  This
             option overrides the environment variables CVSEDITOR, VISUAL, and
             EDITOR.

     -f      Do not read the user's configuration file on startup.

     -l      Suppress logging of history information.

     -n      Dry-run mode.  Show which files will be used by the command
             issued without really running it.

     -Q      Be extra quiet.  Only error messages will be displayed.

     -q      Be quiet about reporting.

     -R      Permit checkout from a read-only repository.  Implies -l.  See
             also CVSREADONLYFS, below.

     -r      Extract files in read-only mode.

     -s var=val
             Set the value of the internal variable var to the string val.

     -T tmpdir
             Set the value of the directory where temporary files are to be
             created.  The default is set to /tmp.  This option overrides the
             TMPDIR environment variable.

     -t      Trace program execution.

     -V      Verbose mode.  All messages will be displayed.  This is the
             default.  -V and -Q are mutually exclusive.  If both are
             specified, -Q takes precedence.

     -v      Display version information and exit.

     -w      Extract new files in read-write mode.  Overrides the setting of
             the CVSREAD environment variable.  This is the default unless
             CVSREAD is set or the -r option is specified.

     -z level
             Specify the compression level to gzip(1) when transferring files.
             The compression level ranges from 1 to 9, with 1 being the
             fastest, and 9 providing the best level of compression.  The
             default is 6.

COMMANDS
     cvs supports the following commands: add, admin, annotate, checkout,
     commit, diff, edit, editors, export, history, import, init, kserver, log,
     rannotate, rdiff, release, remove, rlog, rtag, server, status, tag,
     unedit, update, version, watch, watchers.  The commands are fully
     explained in this section.

     Files may be selected by revision or, where no revision is specified, the
     latest revision of the default branch is used.  Revisions are specified
     either by using the -r option or by appending the revision number to any
     option that supports it.

     cvs supports the notion of state.  The state is an arbitrary string of
     characters used to describe a file (or a specific revision of a file).
     States can be set or changed using the -s option, for CVS tools which
     support it.  The state of a file/revision can be modified without having
     to commit a new file/revision.  The default state is ‘Exp’
     (Experimental).  Examples of states could be ‘Dev’, ‘Reviewed’, or
     ‘Stab’.

   add
     Before a file is known to cvs, it must be added to the repository using
     this command.  Adding a file does not actually publish the contents of
     the file: the commit command must also be used to publish it into the
     repository, and thus let others access the file.

     Note: since directories have no versioning system, it is sufficient to
     add them with the add command alone; the commit command is not necessary.

           usage: cvs add [-k mode] [-m msg] file ...

     The add command takes the following options:

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode.

        -m msg  Attach log message msg.  By default, no log message is
                required.

     Aliases: ad, new.

   admin
     The admin command is used to directly modify the RCS files.

           usage: cvs admin [-Iq] [-b branch] [-k mode] [-m rev:msg]
                            [-N tag[:rev]] [-n tag[:rev]] [-o rev]
                            [-s state[:rev]] [-t file | str]

     The admin command takes the following options:

        -b branch
                Set the default branch to branch.

        -I      Command is interactive.

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode.

        -m rev:msg
                Change the log message of a revision.

        -N tag[:rev]
                Same as -n, but override tag if it already exists.

        -n tag[:rev]
                Associate the tag with the rev or the branch given as
                argument.  If the revision or the branch is not specified, the
                tag is deleted.  The ‘:’ character means the association of
                the tag and the latest revision of the default branch.  A
                branch number ending with the ‘.’ character means the current
                latest revision in the branch.  This option is functionally
                the same as the rtag command, but it avoids the check of the
                tags done with the CVSROOT/taginfo file.

        -o rev  Delete one or more revisions.  The specifications of the
                values or revisions are as follows:

                rev     Specific revision.

                rev1:rev2
                        Delete all revisions of a branch between rev1 and
                        rev2.

                rev1::rev2
                        Delete all revisions of a branch between rev1 and rev2
                        without deleting revisions rev1 and rev2.

                :rev    Delete all revisions of the branch until revision rev.

                rev:    Delete all revisions of the branch from revision rev
                        until the last revision of the branch.

        -q      Quiet mode.

        -s state[:rev]
                Change state of a revision.

        -t file | str
                Change the descriptive text.  The descriptive text is taken
                from the file specified as argument or from the string str
                given as argument if it is preceded by the ‘-’ character.  If
                no argument is used, the descriptive text is taken from
                standard input.

     Aliases: adm, rcs.

   annotate
     For each line of any files specified, show information about its last
     revision.  The information given is the last revision when a modification
     occurred, the author's name, and the date of the revision.

           usage: cvs annotate [-flR] [-D date | -r rev] [file ...]

     The annotate command takes the following options:

        -D date
                Show the annotations as of the latest revision no later than
                date.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified tag or
                date is not found.  This can be used in combination with -D or
                -r to ensure that there is some output from the annotate
                command, even if only to show Revision 1.1 of the file.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Show annotations as of revision rev (can be a revision number
                or a tag).

     Aliases: ann, blame.

   checkout
     The checkout command is used to create a local copy of one or more
     modules present on the target CVS repository.

           usage: cvs checkout [-AcflNnPpRs] [-d dir] [-j rev] [-k mode]
                               -D date | -r rev module ...

     The checkout command takes the following options:

        -A      Reset any sticky tags, dates, or keyword substitution modes
                that have been set on the tree.

        -c      Display the list of available modules.

        -D date
                Check out as of the latest revision no later than date
                (implies -P) (is sticky).

        -d dir  Check out in directory dir instead of the directory bearing
                the same name as the module.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified tag or
                date is not found.

        -j rev  Merge in changes made between current revision and rev.  If
                two -j options are specified, only merge the differences
                between the two revisions of the branch.  This allows
                successive merges without having to resolve already resolved
                conflicts again.

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode (is sticky).

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -N      If used in conjunction with the -d option, files are placed in
                local directory module, located in directory dir.

        -n      Do not execute programs listed in the CVSROOT/modules file.

        -P      Prune empty directories.

        -p      Check out files to standard output (avoids stickiness).

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Check out from a particular revision or branch (implies -P)
                (is sticky).

        -s      Like -c, but include module status.

     Aliases: co, get.

   commit
     The commit command is used to send local changes back to the server and
     update the repository's information to reflect the changes.

           usage: cvs commit [-flnR] [-F logfile | -m msg] [-r rev] [file ...]

     The commit command takes the following options:

        -F logfile
                Specify a file which contains the log message.

        -f      Force a file to be committed, even though it is unchanged.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -m msg  Specify a log message on the command line (suppresses the
                editor invocation).

        -n      Do not execute programs listed in the CVSROOT/modules file.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Commit to a particular symbolic or numerical revision.

     Aliases: ci, com.

   diff
     The diff command is very similar to the diff(1) program, except that the
     differential comparisons that it generates are between local or remote
     revisions of files stored in the CVS repository.

           usage: cvs diff [-abcdilNnpRuw]
                           [[-D date1 | -r rev1] [-D date2 | -r rev2]]
                           [-k mode] [file ...]

     The diff command takes the following options:

        -a      Treat all files as ASCII text.  See diff(1) for more
                information.

        -b      Causes trailing blanks (spaces and tabs) to be ignored, and
                other strings of blanks to compare equal.

        -c      Produces a diff with three lines of context.  See diff(1) for
                more information.

        -D date1 [-D date2]
                Differences between the revision at date1 and the working copy
                or date1 and date2 (if specified).

        -d      Try very hard to produce a diff as small as possible.  See
                diff(1) for more information.

        -i      Ignore the case of letters.  For example, ‘A’ will compare
                equal to ‘a’.

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -N      Include added or removed files.

        -n      Produces a diff in the same format as that used by rcsdiff(1),
                with a count of changed lines on each insert or delete
                command.

        -p      With unified and context diffs, show with each change the
                first 40 characters of the last line before the context
                beginning with a letter, an underscore or a dollar sign.  See
                diff(1) for more information.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev1 [-r rev2]
                Differences between revision rev1 and the working copy or rev1
                and rev2 (if specified).

        -t      Will expand tabs in output lines.  Normal or -c output adds
                character(s) to the front of each line which may screw up the
                indentation of the original source lines and make the output
                listing difficult to interpret.  This option will preserve the
                original source's indentation.

        -u      Produces a unified diff with three lines of context.  See
                diff(1) for more information.

        -w      Is similar to -b but causes whitespace (blanks and tabs) to be
                totally ignored.  For example, “if ( a == b )” will compare
                equal to “if(a==b)”.

     Aliases: di, dif.

   edit
     The edit command is used to make a file that is being watched (and
     therefore read-only) readable and writable and to inform others that it
     is in the process of being changed.  Notifications terminate when the
     commit command is issued.  Editing rights on the file can be given up
     using the unedit command, which terminates the temporary notifications.

           usage: cvs edit [-lR] [-a action] [file ...]

     The edit command takes the following options:

        -a action
                Specify the temporary notification wanted:

                commit  Another user has committed changes to the file.
                edit    Another user has issued the edit command on the file.
                unedit  Another user has issued the unedit command on the
                        file.
                all     All of the above.
                none    None of the above.

                The -a flag may appear more than once, or not at all.  If
                omitted, the action defaults to all.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

   editors
     The editors command lists the users with edition rights on a file.  For
     that, pseudo-lock mode must be enabled (see the watch command).  The
     email address of the user editing the file, the timestamp when the
     edition first started, the host from where the edition has been requested
     and the path to the edited file are listed.

           usage: cvs editors [-lR] [file ...]

     The editors command takes the following options:

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

   export
     The export command extracts a copy of module without including the
     directories used for management by cvs.  This eases production of a
     software release.  A date or a revision must be specified for the command
     to be valid, which ensures that later extractions can be reproduced with
     the same options as the release.

     The checked out module's files will be placed in a directory bearing the
     same name as the checked out module, by default.

           usage: cvs export [-flNnR] [-d dir] [-k mode]
                             -D date | -r rev module ...

     The export command takes the following options:

        -D date
                Export as of the latest revision no later than date.

        -d dir  Export in directory dir instead of the directory bearing the
                same name as the module.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified tag or
                date is not found.  This can be used in combination with -D or
                -r to ensure that the export command is valid.

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode: the -k v option is
                often used to avoid substitution of keywords during a release
                cycle.  However, be aware that it does not handle an export
                containing binary files correctly.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -N      If used in conjunction with the -d option, files are placed in
                local directory module, located in directory dir.

        -n      Do not execute programs listed in the CVSROOT/modules file.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Export from a particular symbolic or numerical revision.

     Aliases: ex, exp.

   history
     The history command is used to display the history of actions done in the
     base repository.  This functionality is only available if the
     CVSROOT/history file has been created.  Only the checkout, commit,
     export, release, rtag, and update commands are logged into this file.

           usage: cvs history [-aceloTw] [-b str] [-D date] [-f file]
                              [-m module] [-n module] [-p path] [-r rev]
                              [-t tag] [-u user] [-x ACEFGMORTUW] [-z tz]
                              [file ...]

     The history command takes the following options:

        -a      Display records for all users.  By default, only records from
                the user issuing the history command are displayed.

        -b str  Display everything back to a record containing the string str
                in either the module name, the file name, or the repository
                path.

        -c      Display the archived files (commit command).

        -D date
                Report no later than date.

        -e      Select all records (same as -x with all types).

        -f file
                Display records related to file.

        -l      Show last checkouts of modules with the checkout command.

        -m module
                Look for the module (can be used several times).

        -n module
                Search into the module.

        -o      Report on modules checked out by users.

        -p path
                Display records from the base repository being in the
                directory specified by the path.

        -r rev  Report for a particular revision (checks in the RCS file).

        -T      Report on all tags.

        -t tag  Report since tag record placed in the CVSROOT/history file by
                any user.

        -u user
                Report for a specified user.  Can be used several times to
                match many users.

        -w      Check that records match the current working directory.

        -x ACEFGMORTUW
                Extract by a specific record type specified by a single
                letter.  They can be used in combination.  The available types
                are as follows:

                A       A file has been added with the add command.

                C       A merge has been done, but unresolved conflicts still
                        remain.

                E       Export.

                F       Release.

                G       A merge has been done without conflict.

                M       A file has been modified (using the commit command).

                O       Checkout.

                R       A file has been removed with the remove command.

                T       Rtag.

                U       Normal update.

                W       The file has been deleted from the directory because
                        it does not exist anymore in the base repository.

        -z tz   Display records with the time synchronized with timezone tz.

     All records have the following five first columns:

     -   The record type (the -x option).
     -   The date of the action.
     -   The time of the action.
     -   The time zone.
     -   The user who made the action.

     The other columns vary depending on the command issued:

     For records coming from the rtag command, the additional columns are as
     follows:

           <module> [<tag>:<argument>] {<working directory>}

     For records coming from the checkout and export commands, the additional
     columns are as follows:

           <request> <repository> =<module>= <working directory>

     For records coming from the release command, the additional columns are
     as follows:

           =<module>= <working directory>

     For records coming from the commit and update commands, the additional
     columns are as follows:

           <version> <file> <module> == <working directory>

     Aliases: hi, his.

   import
     Import sources into CVS using vendor branches.

     At least three arguments are required: module specifies the location of
     the sources to be imported; vendortag is a tag for the entire branch;
     releasetag is used to identify the files created with cvs import.

           usage: cvs import [-d] [-b branch] [-I ign] [-k mode] [-m msg]
                             [-W spec] module vendortag releasetag

     The import command takes the following options:

        -b branch
                Specify the first-level branch number.

        -d      Use the file's last modification time as the timestamp for the
                initial revisions.

        -I ign  Ignore files specified by ign.  This option can be used
                several times on the command line.  To see all files, use the
                -I ! specification.

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode (is sticky).

        -m msg  Specify the log message to send.

        -W spec
                Wrappers specification line.

     Aliases: im, imp.

   init
     Create a CVS repository if it doesn't exist.

   kserver
     Start a Kerberos authentication server.

   log
     The log command displays information on a file such as its different
     revisions, description, different tags, as well as the comments, dates,
     and authors of these revisions.  By default, the log command displays all
     the available information; the options are only used to restrict the
     displayed information.

           usage: cvs log [-bhlNRt] [-d dates] [-r revs] [-s state]
                          [-w users] [file ...]

     The log command takes the following options:

        -b      List revisions of the default branch only.

        -d dates
                Specify revisions with dates matching the specification.  The
                specification might be as follows:

                date1<date2 or date2>date1
                        Select all revisions between date1 and date2.

                <date or date>
                        Select all revisions before date.

                >date or date<
                        Select all revisions after date.

                date    Select the latest revision before or equal to date.

                The ‘>’ and ‘<’ characters can be followed by the ‘=’
                character to imply an inclusive specification.  Several
                specifications can be used by separating them with the ‘;’
                character.

        -h      Print header only.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only.

        -N      Do not list tags.

        -R      Print name of RCS file only.

        -r revs
                Specify revision(s) to list:

                rev1,rev2,...
                        A list of revisions is specified by separating names
                        or numbers of revisions by the ‘,’ character.

                rev1:rev2
                        List all revisions between rev1 and rev2 (they must be
                        on the same branch).

                :rev    List all revisions since the beginning of the branch
                        until rev included.

                rev:    List all revisions of the branch beginning with rev.

                branch  List all revisions of a branch.

                branch.
                        List the latest revision of the branch branch.

                branch1:branch2
                        List all revisions of branches between branch1 and
                        branch2.

                Without argument, the -r option means the latest revision of
                the default branch.

        -s state
                List revisions of the specified state only.  Several states
                can be listed by separating them with the ‘,’ character.

        -t      Print header and description only.

        -w users
                Do not list revisions made by specified users.  Usernames
                should be separated by the ‘,’ character.

     Aliases: lo.

   rannotate
     For each line of any files specified, show information about its last
     revision.  The information given is the last revision when a modification
     occurred, the author's name, and the date of the revision.  This command
     does not need a local checkout of the repository to work.

           usage: cvs rannotate [-flR] [-D date | -r rev] module ...

     The rannotate command takes the following options:

        -D date
                Show the annotations as of the latest revision no later than
                date.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified tag or
                date is not found.  This can be used in combination with -D or
                -r to ensure that there is some output from the rannotate
                command, even if only to show Revision 1.1 of the file.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Show annotations as of revision rev (can be a revision number
                or a tag).

     Aliases: rann, ra.

   rdiff
     The rdiff command lists differences between two revisions in a patch(1)
     compatible format.  This command does not need a local checkout of the
     repository to work.

           usage: cvs rdiff [-flR] [-c | -u] [-s | -t] [-V ver]
                            -D date | -r rev [-D date2 | -r rev2]
                            module ...

     The rdiff command takes the following options:

        -c      Produces a diff with three lines of context.  See diff(1) for
                more information.  This is the default.

        -D date [-D date2]
                Differences between the revision at date and the working copy
                or date and date2 (if specified).

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified date or
                revision is not found.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev [-r rev2]
                Differences between revision rev and the working copy or rev
                and rev2 (if specified).

        -s      Create a summary change instead of a whole patch.

        -t      Lists differences between the last two revisions of each file.

        -u      Produces a diff in unidiff format.

        -V ver  Use the RCS version ver for keyword substitution.

     Aliases: pa, patch.

   release
     The release command indicates to cvs that the working copy of a module is
     no longer in use and checks that non archived modifications in the base
     repository do exist.  This command is not mandatory.  Local directories
     could always be removed without using it, but in this case the handling
     of history information will no longer be correct (see the history
     command).

           usage: cvs release [-d] dir ...

     The release command takes the following options:

        -d dir  Remove the directory dir.  Be aware that this option silently
                removes any directories that have been added to the local
                working copy without using the add command.

     For each file not being synchronized with the base repository, a single
     letter prefix is given to specify the state of the file.  The possible
     prefixes are as follows:

     ?       The file is unknown to cvs and is not in the list of files to
             ignore.  Any new directories which have not been added with the
             add command are silently ignored as well as their content.

     A       The file has been added with the add command, but has not been
             committed to the repository with the commit command.

     M       The file has been locally modified; a more recent version might
             exist in the base repository.

     R       The file has been removed with the remove command, but has not
             been committed to the repository with the commit command.

     U       A more recent version of the file does exist but it is not
             locally up to date.

     Aliases: re, rel.

   remove
     The remove command is used to inform cvs that file is scheduled to be
     removed from the repository.  Files are not actually removed from the
     repository until the commit command has been run subsequently.

     There is no way to remove a directory with the remove command.  cvs will
     only remove a directory if it is empty and if the checkout or update
     commands are run with the -P option.  (Note that the export command
     always removes empty directories.)

           usage: cvs remove [-flR] [file ...]

     The remove command takes the following options:

        -f      Force local file removal.  If this flag is not used, the file
                must be locally removed beforehand for the command to be
                valid.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

     Aliases: rm, delete.

   rlog
     The rlog command displays information on a file such as its different
     revisions, description, different tags, as well as the comments, dates,
     and authors of these revisions.  By default, the rlog command displays
     all the available information; the options are only used to restrict the
     displayed information.  This command does not need a local checkout of
     the repository to work.

           usage: cvs rlog [-bhlNRt] [-d dates] [-r revs] [-s state]
                          [-w users] module ...

     The rlog command takes the following options:

        -b      List revisions of the default branch only.

        -d dates
                Specify revisions with dates matching the specification.  The
                specification might be as follows:

                date1<date2 or date2>date1
                        Select all revisions between date1 and date2.

                <date or date>
                        Select all revisions before date.

                >date or date<
                        Select all revisions after date.

                date    Select the latest revision before or equal to date.

                The ‘>’ and ‘<’ characters can be followed by the ‘=’
                character to imply an inclusive specification.  Several
                specifications can be used by separating them with the ‘;’
                character.

        -h      Print header only.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only.

        -N      Do not list tags.

        -R      Print name of RCS file only.

        -r revs
                Specify revision(s) to list:

                rev1,rev2,...
                        A list of revisions is specified by separating names
                        or numbers of revisions by the ‘,’ character.

                rev1:rev2
                        List all revisions between rev1 and rev2 (they must be
                        on the same branch).

                :rev    List all revisions since the beginning of the branch
                        until rev included.

                rev:    List all revisions of the branch beginning with rev.

                branch  List all revisions of a branch.

                branch.
                        List the latest revision of the branch branch.

                branch1:branch2
                        List all revisions of branches between branch1 and
                        branch2.

                Without argument, the -r option means the latest revision of
                the default branch.

        -s state
                List revisions of the specified state only.  Several states
                can be listed by separating them with the ‘,’ character.

        -t      Print header and description only.

        -w users
                Do not list revisions made by specified users.  Usernames
                should be separated by the ‘,’ character.

     Aliases: rlo.

   rtag
     The rtag command adds a symbolic tag to one or more modules.  It is often
     used to create a new branch using the -b option.

           usage: cvs rtag [-abdFflnR] [-D date | -r rev]
                           symbolic_tag module ...

     The rtag command takes the following options:

        -a      Clear tag from files already removed with the remove command.

        -b      Create a branch.

        -D date
                Tag the most recent revision before date.

        -d      Delete tag.

        -F      Move tag if it already exists.  If this option is not used and
                a tag is used a second time, cvs will not execute the action.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified revision
                or date is not found.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -n      Do not execute programs listed in the CVSROOT/modules file.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Tag at revision rev.

     Aliases: rt, rfreeze.

   server
     Server mode.

   status
     The status command is used to display the state of checked out files.

           usage: cvs status [-lRv] [file ...]

     The status command takes the following options:

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -v      Display symbolic tags for file.

                The state may be one of the following:

                Locally Added
                        The file has been added with the add command, but has
                        not been committed to the repository with the commit
                        command.

                Locally Modified
                        The file is up to date, but has been locally modified.

                Locally Removed
                        The file has been removed with the remove command, but
                        has not been committed to the repository with the
                        commit command.

                Needs Checkout
                        The file has not been modified; a new version is
                        available.

                Needs Merge
                        The file has been modified and a newer version is
                        available.

                Needs Patch
                        Same as Needs Checkout but, in client-server mode,
                        only the differences are sent to save network
                        resources.

                Unresolved Conflict
                        A merge has been done, but unresolved conflicts still
                        remain.

                Up-to-date
                        The file is up to date.

     Aliases: st, stat.

   tag
     The tag command adds a symbolic tag to a checked out version of one or
     more files.

           usage: cvs tag [-bcdFflR] [-D date | -r rev] [symbolic_tag]
                          [file ...]

     The tag command takes the following options:

        -b      Create a branch.

        -c      Check that working files are not modified.

        -D date
                Tag the most recent revision before date.

        -d      Delete tag.

        -F      Move tag if it already exists.  If this option is not used and
                a tag is used a second time, cvs will not execute the action.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified revision
                or date is not found.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Tag at revision rev.

     Aliases: ta, freeze.

   unedit
     The unedit command is used to give up an edition on a file and thus
     cancel the wanted temporary notifications.  If the file has been modified
     since the edit command has been issued, cvs will ask if it should go back
     to the previous version, and lose the modifications done on the file, or
     stay in edition mode on it.

           usage: cvs unedit [-lR] [file ...]

     The unedit command takes the following options:

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

   update
     The update command is used to merge any of the changes that have occurred
     on the remote repository into the local one where the command was run.

           usage: cvs update [-ACdflPpR] [-D date | -r rev] [-I ign]
                             [-j rev] [-k mode] [-W spec] [file ...]

     The update command takes the following options:

        -A      Reset any sticky tags, dates, or keyword substitution modes
                that have been set on the tree.

        -C      Overwrite locally modified files with clean repository copies.

        -D date
                Update as of the latest revision no later than date (is
                sticky).

        -d      Create any new directories.  Without this option, cvs does not
                create any new files sitting in these new directories added in
                the base repository since the last update of the working copy,
                or since the last update with the -d option.

        -f      Force the use of the head revision if the specified tag or
                date is not found.

        -I ign  Ignore files specified by ign.  This option can be used
                several times on the command line.  To see all files, use the
                -I ! specification.

        -j rev  Merge in changes made between current revision and rev.  If
                two -j options are specified, only merge the differences
                between the two revisions of the branch.  This allows
                successive merges without having to resolve already resolved
                conflicts again.

        -k mode
                Specify the keyword substitution mode (is sticky).

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -P      Prune any directories that have become empty as a result of
                the update.

        -p      Send the result of the update to standard output (avoids
                stickiness).

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

        -r rev  Update from a particular revision or branch (is sticky).

        -W spec
                Wrappers specification line.

     By default, the update command does not create new directories; the -d
     option must be used for that.

     For each file updated, a single letter prefix is given to specify the
     state of the file.  The possible prefixes are as follows:

     ?       The file is unknown to cvs.

     A       The file has been added with the add command, but has not been
             committed to the repository with the commit command.

     C       A merge, with a more recent version of the file, has been done,
             but unresolved conflicts still remain.

     M       The file has been locally modified; if a more recent version is
             available, the merge has been done without conflict.

     P       The same as ‘U’, but, in client-server mode, only differences are
             sent to save network resources.

     R       The file has been removed with the remove command, but has not
             been committed to the repository with the commit command.

     U       The file is up to date.

     Aliases: up, upd.

   version
     Causes cvs to print its version information.  If this command is issued
     within a local copy of a remote repository or if either the CVSROOT
     environment variable or the -d flag specify a remote repository, cvs will
     also connect to the server and ask it to print its version information.

     Aliases: ve, ver.

   watch
     The watch command switches a file from normal mode to pseudo-lock mode as
     well as handling the notifications associated with it.  Pseudo-lock mode
     means knowing who is editing a file: for that, cvs extracts the file in
     read-only mode.  Users must use the edit command to get the editing
     rights on the file.

     One of the following arguments to the watch command is mandatory: on,
     off, add, or remove.  on switches the file into pseudo-lock mode; off
     switches it back to normal mode; add adds notifications for specific
     actions on the file; remove removes those notifications.

     The notifications are permanent.  They remain in place until the watch
     remove command is issued while the temporary notifications are made
     available with the edit command.

           usage: cvs watch on | off | add | remove [-lR] [-a action]
                            [file ...]

     The watch command takes the following options:

        -a action
                Specify the permanent notification wanted for add | remove:

                commit  Another user has committed changes to the file.
                edit    Another user is editing the file.
                unedit  Another user has finished editing the file.
                all     All of the above.
                none    No notification.

                If no specification is requested using the add or remove
                arguments, it implies the -a all option.

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

   watchers
     The watchers command lists the users who asked for notifications as well
     as the notification details.  The possible notifications are as follows:

     commit  Permanent watch of a commit of a new version of a file.

     edit    Permanent watch of the start of file edition.

     tcommit
             Temporary watch of a commit of new version of a file.

     tedit   Temporary watch of the start of file edition.

     tunedit
             Temporary watch of the end of file edition.

     unedit  Permanent watch of the end of file edition.

     The temporary watches are set using the edit command, until the commit or
     unedit command is issued on a file.

           usage: cvs watchers [-lR] [file ...]

     The watchers command takes the following options:

        -l      Limit the scope of the search to the local directory only and
                disable recursive behaviour.

        -R      Enable recursive behaviour.  This is the default.

ENVIRONMENT
     CVS_CLIENT_LOG
             This variable enables logging of all communications between the
             client and server when running in non-local mode.  If set, this
             environment variable must contain a base path from which two
             paths will be generated by appending ".in" to the value for the
             server's input and ".out" for the server's output.

             The path can contain the following substitutes:

                   %c      the command being run
                   %d      the date
                   %p      the process ID
                   %u      the username of the person running it

             The substitutes are only supported by OpenCVS.

     CVS_RSH
             Name of the program to use when connecting to the server through
             a remote shell.  The default is to use the ssh(1) program.

     CVS_SERVER
             If set, gives the name of the program to invoke as a cvs server
             when using remote shell.  The default is to use `cvs'.

     CVSEDITOR
             Name of the editor to use when editing commit messages.  Checked
             before EDITOR and VISUAL.

     CVSREAD
             If set, cvs extracts files in read-only mode.

     CVSREADONLYFS
             Permit checkout from a read-only repository.  Implies -l.  See
             also -R, above.

     CVSROOT
             When set, this variable should contain the string pointing to the
             root directory of the CVS repository.  The contents of this
             variable are ignored when the -d option is given or if `Root'
             files exist in the checked-out copy.

     EDITOR  Name of the editor to use when editing commit messages.  This is
             traditionally a line-oriented editor, such as ex(1).

     HOME    Directory where the .cvsignore and .cvsrc files are searched for.

     TMPDIR  When set, this variable specifies the directory where temporary
             files are to be created.  The default is set to /tmp.

     VISUAL  Name of the editor to use when editing commit messages.  This is
             traditionally a screen-oriented editor, such as vi(1).

EXIT STATUS
     The cvs utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     diff(1), gzip(1), patch(1), rcs(1), cvs(5), cvsintro(7)

STANDARDS
     The flag [-x] has no effect and is provided for compatibility only.

HISTORY
     The OpenCVS project is a BSD-licensed rewrite of the original Concurrent
     Versioning System written by Jean-Francois Brousseau.  The original CVS
     code was written in large parts by Dick Grune, Brian Berliner and Jeff
     Polk.

AUTHORS
     Jean-Francois Brousseau
     Vincent Labrecque
     Joris Vink
     Xavier Santolaria

CAVEATS
     This CVS implementation does not fully conform to the GNU CVS version.
     In some cases, this was done explicitly because GNU CVS has
     inconsistencies or ambiguous behaviour.  Some things have also been left
     out or modified to enhance the overall security of the system.

     Among other things, support for the pserver connection mechanism has been
     dropped because of security issues with the authentication mechanism.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           December 24, 2015          FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
