OPENVMPSD(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           OPENVMPSD(1)

NAME
       vmpsd - Open Source Cisco VMPS Server

SYNOPSIS
       vpmsd [-d] [-a address] [-f file] [-l level] [-p port]


DESCRIPTION
       vmpsd is a GPL implementation of Cisco's VMPS server. It allows for
       dynamic VLAN creation based upon MAC address, and is particularly
       helpful in smaller environments where a Cisco VMPS server is not
       available or feasible.

       Since Cisco has not released documentation for this protocol, vmpsd was
       based entirely on watching traffic between Cisco VMPS servers and
       clients. As such, it is not warranted to be complete or bug-free.
       Despite this issue, vmpsd is suitable for use in production
       environments, as it has proven to be stable on large networks for long
       periods of time.


OPTIONS
       -a  bind address
              IP address to bind vmpsd to. Requests from clients must come in
              on this address.

       -d     Causes vmpsd to stay in the foreground instead of detaching as a
              daemon. Also logs to stderr.

       -f  config file
              Specify the configuration file that vmpsd will use. The program
              will fail without this option, as currently there is no default
              set.

       -l  log level
              Set the log level vmpsd will use. Options are:

              •   0x0100 -- fatal errors only

              •   0x0200 -- informational messages

              •   0x0400 -- print warnings

              •   0x0800 -- print debug messages; very verbose

              •   0x0001 -- system

              •   0x0002 -- parser

              •   0x0004 -- vqp

       -p  listener port
              Port vmpsd will listen on. Defaults to 1589.


FILES
       vmps.db


SEE ALSO
       vmpsd.db(1)


AUTHORS
       Program: Dori Seliskar dori_seliskar gmail
                David Parsley parsley linuxjedi.org
       Manpage: Alex Kirk alex schnarff.com

                           Version 1.1: 19 Jan 2004               OPENVMPSD(1)
