AMIN(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                AMIN(1)

NAME
       amin - notify writers that you are busy

SYNOPSIS
       amin [-ynesp] command [args...]

DESCRIPTION
       Amin is used when you don't want to be written while running a command.
       It runs the command given normally.  If your message permissions (see
       mesg(1)) are off, it does nothing much else.  If your messages are on,
       people writing you with write(1) will be warned that you are running
       that command and will be given the opportunity to change their minds
       about writing you.

       The -n option may be used to turn your messages entirely off for the
       duration of the execution of command.  People writing you will get
       "Permission denied".  The -y option turns your message permissions on
       for the duration of the execution of the command.  The -e may be used
       after either -n or -y to indicate that the logins listed in the
       .yeswrite or the .nowrite files respectively are exceptions to the
       message permissions set.  The default is -s which leaves your message
       permissions in their original state.  In any case, after the command is
       complete, your permissions will be restored to the original state.

       The -p flag causes all telegrams sent to you while the command is
       running to be saved.  They are displayed as soon as the command is
       complete.  If used with the -n flag, writes are refused, but telegrams
       are still saved.

       If you have designated yourself as a helper, you will still be marked
       on the finger(1) output as a helper while you are running amin but
       people doing ``write help'' will not be connected to you, even if you
       have the helper flag set to ``Y''.

AUTHOR
       Jan Wolter

FILES
       /etc/wrttmp    to find message permissions
       /etc/utmp to find user

SEE ALSO
       mesg(1), finger(1), write(1), huh(1).

7th Edition                      July 1, 1991                          AMIN(1)
