GENPASS(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           GENPASS(1)


NAME
       genpass - Quickly and easily create secure passwords

VERSION
       version 2.401

SYNOPSIS
       genpass [-rlnsv] [long options...]

        Options:
                 --configfile      configuration file to read (YAML, JSON, INI, etc.)
           -r    --readable        create readable passwords
           -l    --length          password length
           -n    --number          how many passwords to create
           -s    --special         use special characters (clashes with readable opt)
           -v    --verify          verify types of characters
                 --lowercase       what lowercase characters to use
                 --uppercase       what uppercase characters to use
                 --numerical       what numerical characters to use
                 --specials        what characters are considered special
                 --unreadable      what characters are considered unreadable
                 --usage           brief usage output
                 --help            what you're currently reading

DESCRIPTION
       genpass creates passwords in a fast and comfortable maner. The idea is
       to be able to do plenty without necessarily needing to.

       The way genpass works is by compiling a list of known characters by
       types (numerical, lowercase, uppercase, etc.) and a list of unreadable
       characters - which are basically characters that can be confused with
       each other (0, O, I, l, 1 and so on). It generates a random by possible
       characters, excluding the non-readable ones, if any exist.

       genpass allows you to pick which characters it will use to create the
       passwords via the longer options for lowercase, uppercase, numerical,
       specials and unreadable.

       Also, any boolean option (readable, special) can be negated using "no",
       such as genpass --nospecial which negates genpass --special.

       genpass also supports configuration files, so you don't have to
       remember all your favorite options and insert them each time. First it
       tries to read a ".genpass.yaml" in your home folder (works with Linux,
       BSD, MacOS, Windows and anything File::HomeDir supports) and if that
       doesn't exist (or is simply unreadable), it looks for a global Unix-
       style conf named "/etc/genpass.yaml".

       You will read below how you can specifically ask to read a completely
       different file instead of the default ones mentioned above.

       Read below for more options and examples.

OPTIONS
       --configfile
           genpass can work with most configuration formats, such as YAML,
           JSON, INI (Apache) and so on. You can configure any part of genpass
           and ask genpass to read a configuration file as such:

               genpass --configfile ~/.genpass.yaml

           Or a global one as such:

               genpass --configfile /etc/genpass.json

           Default: YourHomeFolder/.genpass.yaml, then /etc/genpass.yaml.

       -r | --readable
           A flag to decide whether passwords should be readable. The purpose
           of readability is to create passwords you can give to users or read
           to someone - both of which aren't necessarily good practices, but
           commonly used.

           Readable passwords do not contain the additional type of special
           characters, which is something to consider. Sometimes it doesn't
           matter as much (such as a Windows user on a local LAN machine that
           has no critical data or access anywhere.

               genpass --readable

           Since readable is on by default, you can negate this if you want by
           using the noreadable option:

               genpass --noreadable

           This will turn on the special and possibly unreadable characters
           option.

           Please view unreadable below for more details.

           Default: on.

       -l | --length
           The length of the password.

               # create a 50 character long password
               genpass --length 50

               # create a 7 character long password
               genpass -l 7

           If your configuration requires a certain variety of characters but
           you've asked for a shorter password (one which cannot contain that
           variety), genpass will complain and try to explain what the problem
           is.

               $ genpass -l 2
               You wanted a longer password that the variety of characters you've selected.
               You requested 3 types of characters but only have 2 length.

           Default: 10.

       -n | --number
           How many passwords to create.

               # generate 30 passwords
               genpass -n 30

           Default: 1.

       -s | --special
           Indicates whether to use special characters or not. This basically
           means symbols such as period, exclamation mark, percentage sign,
           etc.

               genpass --special

           You can negate this flag by doing:

               genpass --nospecial

           Default: no.

       -v | --verify
           Whether to verify that the variety of characters you requested is
           included.

           Disabling this gains you speed if you create a rather large number
           of passwords that have a rather large number of characters. Then
           you don't need to worry as much about having that variety since
           probability says you probably will.

           You can negate this using:

               genpass --noverify

           Best to keep it on though.

           Default: yes.

       --lowercase
           Which characters are considered lowercase?

       --uppercase
           Which characters are considered uppercase?

       --numerical
           Which characters are considered numerical?

       --specials
           Which characters are considered special ones?

       --unreadable
           Which characters are considered unreadable?

           This includes a short list of characters that are easily confused
           and the above sequences are stripped of such characters.

EXAMPLES
           # create a 10 character length password
           genpass -l 10

           # create 30 passwords using all possible characters
           genpass -n 30 --noreadable

           # create 5 new passwords of length of 30, long options
           genpass --number 5 --length 30

AUTHOR
       Sawyer X <xsawyerx@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Sawyer X.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2016-10-14                        GENPASS(1)
