Algorithm::Pair::Swiss(3)                  User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Algorithm::Pair::Swiss - Generate unique pairings for tournaments

VERSION
       This document describes Algorithm::Pair::Swiss version 0.14

SYNOPSIS
           use Algorithm::Pair::Swiss;

           my $pairer = Algorithm::Pair::Swiss->new;

           $pairer->parties(1,2,3,4);

           @round_1 = $pairer->pairs;

           $pairer->exclude(@round_1);

           @round_2 = $pairer->pairs;

DESCRIPTION
       This module was created as an alternative for Algorithm::Pair::Best,
       which probably offers more control over the pairings, in particular
       regarding ensuring the highest overal quality of pairings.
       Algorithm::Pair::Swiss is sort of dumb in this regard, but uses a
       slightly more intuitive interface and an algorithm that should perform
       noticably faster. The module was primarily designed based on the Swiss
       rounds system used for Magic: The Gathering tournaments.

       After creating an Algorithm::Pair::Swiss->new object, use the parties
       method to supply a list of parties (players or teams) to be paired. At
       any time the exclude method can be used to indicate which pairs
       shouldn't be generated (probably because they've already been paired in
       an earlier round).

       The list of parties is sorted and the pairer tries to find a set of
       pairs that respects the exclude list, and tries to pair the parties
       that appear first in the sorted list with each other most aggresively.

       To influence the sort order, use objects as parties and overload either
       the cmp or 0+ operators in the object class to sort as desired.

       Algorithm::Pair::Swiss->pairs explores the parties and returns the
       first pairing solution which satisfies the excludes. Because it doesn't
       exhaustively try all possible solutions, performance is generally
       pretty reasonable.

       For a large number of parties, it is generally easy to find a non-
       excluded pair, and for a smaller number of parties traversal of the
       possible pairs is done reasonably fast.

       This module uses the parties as keys in a hash, and uses the empty
       string ('') as a special case in this same hash. For this reason,
       please observe the following restrictions regarding your party values:

       - make sure it is defined (not undef)
       - make sure it is defined when stringified
       - make sure each is a non-empty string when stringified
       - make sure each is unique when stringified

       All the restrictions on the stringifications are compatible with the
       perl's default stringification of objects, and should be safe for any
       stringification which returns a unique party-identifier (for instance a
       primary key from a Class::DBI object).

METHODS
       my $pairer = Algorithm::Pair::Swiss->new( @parties )
           A new Algorithm::Pair::Swiss object is used to generate pairings.
           Optionally @parties can be given when instantiating the object.
           This is the same as using the parties method described below.

       $pairer->parties( @parties )
           Provides the pairer with a complete list of all individuals that
           can be paired. If no parties are specified, it returns the sorted
           list of all parties. This allows you to use this method to extract
           'rankings' if you happen to have implemented a cmp operator
           overload in the class your parties belong to.

       @pairs = $pairer->pairs
           Returns the best pairings found as a list of arrayref's, each
           containing one pair of parties.

       $pair->exclude( @pairs )
           Excludes the given pairs from further pairing. The @pairs array
           should consist of a list of references to arrays, each containing
           the two parties of that pair. This means you can easily feed it the
           output of a previous call to $pair->pairs. The selection given is
           added to previously excluded pairs.

           If there was an odd number of parties, the lowest ranked party will
           be paired with 'undef', unless it has already been paired with
           'undef'. In that case, the second-lowest ranked party will get that
           pairing. Etcetera, etcetera. 'Lowest-ranked' is defined as being
           last in the party-list after sorting. In MTG terms, being paired
           with 'undef' would mean getting a bye (and getting the full three
           points for that round as a consequence).

       $pair->drop( @parties )
           Excludes the given parties from further pairing. The given parties
           will be removed from the internal parties list and won't be
           returned by the parties method anymore. This method is usually used
           when a participant has decided to quit playing.

EXPORT
       None by default.

BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       No bugs that I know of...

       The module's performance will probably break down if you use 1000+
       parties and 100+ rounds though...

REQUIREMENTS
       Perl 5.6.0 or later (though it will probably work ok with earlier
       versions)

SEE ALSO
       o Algorithm::Pair::Best
        The Algorithm::Pair::Best module if you need more control over your
        pairings.

       o overload
        For proper results you'll want to overload the cmp and/or 0+ operators
        of the objects you're using as parties. This will allow for the
        correct sort order, so higher-ranked parties are matched better.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Reid Augustin for by Algorithm::Pair::Best

       Elizabeth Mattijsen for giving me some pointers on getting this module
       CPAN-ready.

AUTHOR
       Gilion Goudsmit, <ggoudsmit@shebang.nl>

       I can also be found on http://www.perlmonks.org as Gilimanjaro. You can
       direct any questions concerning this module there as well.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2006 by Gilion Goudsmit

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.5 or, at
       your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-09         Algorithm::Pair::Swiss(3)
