SPACETRACK(1)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        SPACETRACK(1)


NAME
       SpaceTrack - Perl application to fetch satellite orbit data.

SYNOPSIS
       This application provides a command-line interface to the
       Astro::SpaceTrack module, based on the Astro::SpaceTrack::shell
       subroutine.

       This gives you interactive access to all Astro::SpaceTrack methods,
       plus pseudo output redirection (with tilde expansion) if you want your
       output to go to a file.

       Commands can be passed in on the command line. After all command-line
       commands have been processed, you get an interactive prompt unless one
       of the command-line commands was 'exit'. Beginning with 0.014, commands
       can also be piped in, or redirected in from a file.

       The one and only option is -filter, which sets the 'filter' attribute
       of the "Astro::SpaceTrack" object. This prevents informational output
       (such as the banner and 'OK' messages) to STDOUT. The idea is that with
       -filter asserted, you can pipe the output to another program, and only
       have orbital elements written to the pipe.

       Please see Astro::SpaceTrack for the details.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
       The author wishes to thank Dr. T. S. Kelso of <https://celestrak.org/>
       and the staff of <https://www.space-track.org/> (whose names are
       unfortunately unknown to me) for their co-operation, assistance and
       encouragement in the development of the Astro::SpaceTrack module.

AUTHOR
       Thomas R. Wyant, III (wyant at cpan dot org).

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2005-2006, 2010-2025 by Thomas R. Wyant, III (wyant at
       cpan dot org).

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full
       text of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
       merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

       The data obtained by this script may be subject to the Space Track user
       agreement (<https://www.space-track.org/documentation#/user_agree>).

perl v5.40.2                      2025-06-03                     SPACETRACK(1)
