Alzabo(3)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            Alzabo(3)


NAME
       Alzabo - A data modelling tool and RDBMS-OO mapper

SYNOPSIS
         Cannot be summarized here.

DESCRIPTION
   What is Alzabo?
       Alzabo is a suite of modules with two core functions.  Its first use is
       as a data modelling tool.  Through either a schema creation GUI, a perl
       program, or reverse engineering, you can create a set objects to
       represent a schema.

       Its second function is as an RDBMS to object mapping system.  Once you
       have created a schema, you can use the "Alzabo::Runtime::Table" and
       "Alzabo::Runtime::Row" classes to access its data.  These classes offer
       a high level interface to common operations such as SQL "SELECT",
       "INSERT", "DELETE", and "UPDATE" commands.

       Because you can manipulate construct queries through object-oriented
       Perl, creating complex queries on the fly is much easier than it would
       be if you had to dynamically construct strings of SQL.

       A higher level interface can be created through the use of the
       "Alzabo::MethodMaker" module.  This module takes a schema object and
       auto-generates useful methods based on the tables, columns, and
       relationships it finds in the module.  The code is generates can be
       integrated with your own code quite easily.

       To take it a step further, you could then aggregate a set of rows from
       different tables into a larger container object which could understand
       the logical relationship between these tables.

   What to Read?
       Alzabo has a lot of documentation.  If you are primarily interested in
       using Alzabo as an RDBMS-OO wrapper, much of the documentation can be
       skipped.  This assumes that you will create your schema via a schema
       creation GUI or via reverse engineering.

       Here is the suggested reading order:

       Introduction to Alzabo

       The RDBMS-specific documentation:

           Alzabo and MySQL

           Alzabo and PostgreSQL

       The Alzabo::Runtime::Schema docs - The most important parts here are
       those related to loading a schema and connecting to a database.  Also
       be sure to read about the join() method.

       The Alzabo::Runtime::Table docs - This contains most of the methods
       used to fetch rows from the database, as well as the insert() method.

       The Alzabo::Runtime::Row docs - The row objects contain the methods
       used to update, delete, and retrieve data from the database.

       The Alzabo::Runtime::RowCursor docs - A cursor object that returns only
       a single row.

       The Alzabo::Runtime::JoinCursor docs - A cursor object that returns
       multiple rows at once.

       The Alzabo::MethodMaker docs - One of the most useful parts of Alzabo.
       This module can be used to auto-generate methods based on the structure
       of your schema.

       The Alzabo::Runtime::UniqueRowCache docs - This describes the simple
       caching system included with Alzabo.

       The Alzabo::Debug docs - How to turn on various kinds of debugging
       output.

       The Alzabo::Exceptions docs - Describes the nature of all the
       exceptions used in Alzabo.

       The FAQ.

       The quick reference - A quick reference for the various methods of the
       Alzabo objects.

SCRIPTS
       Alzabo comes with a few handy scripts in the eg/ directory of the
       distribution.  These are:

       •   alzabo_grep

           Given a regex and a schema name, this script will print out the
           table and column name for all columns which match the regex.

       •   alzabo_to_ascii

           Given a schema name, this script will generate a set of simple
           ASCII tables for the schema.

SUPPORT
       The Alzabo docs are conveniently located online at
       http://www.alzabo.org/docs/.

       There is also a mailing list.  You can sign up at
       http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/alzabo-general.

       Please don't email me directly.  Use the list instead so others can see
       your questions.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2000-2003 David Rolsky.  All rights reserved.  This
       program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

       The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
       with this module.

AUTHOR
       Dave Rolsky, <autarch@urth.org>

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-09                         Alzabo(3)
