SATPASS2(1)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          SATPASS2(1)


TITLE
       satpass2 - Script to wrap Astro::App::Satpass2 satellite prediction
       functionality.

SYNOPSIS
        satpass2
        satpass2 'spacetrack stations' 'choose 25544' pass exit
        satpass2 <canned_commands.txt
        satpass2 -help
        satpass2 -version

OPTIONS
       The available options are those of the Astro::App::Satpass2 run()
       method. Briefly and non-definitively,

       -filter
           This option asserts that satpass2 is being run as a Unix filter,
           and suppresses the front matter. It can be negated by specifying
           "-nofilter". It is asserted by default if "STDIN" is not an
           interactive terminal.

       -initialization_file filename
           This option specifies an alternative initialization file. The
           synonym "-initfile" can also be used.

       -gmt
           This option specifies that times are to be displayed in GMT.

       -help
           This option causes the Astro::App::Satpass2 help() method to be
           run. The script then exits.

       -version
           This option causes the front matter (version and copyright) to be
           displayed. The script then exits.

DETAILS
       This script is a wrapper for the Astro::App::Satpass2 package.  All it
       really does is to load the "Astro::App::Satpass2" package and then call
       its run() method.

       What you get is an application similar to the "satpass" script packaged
       with Astro::Coord::ECI, but (hopefully!) more flexible and easier to
       maintain.

       The core functionality is the prediction of satellite passes over a
       given location, plus the prediction of Iridium flares.

       There are also a number of support functions. You can download orbital
       data (via Astro::SpaceTrack) from a number of sources, or you can load
       it from a file or store it in a file. You can define your own commands
       in terms of the existing ones. In the United States, you can geocode
       observing locations to latitude and longitude, and download your height
       above sea level from the U. S. Geological Survey via module
       Geo::WebService::Elevation::USGS.

       Besides the restructuring of the code into an object, the largest
       change from satpass is the extremely flexible templating system used to
       produce output. This should allow broad customization of output to meet
       personal needs. See Astro::App::Satpass2::Format::Template for the
       (unfortunately) gory details.

AUTHOR
       Thomas R. Wyant, III wyant at cpan dot org

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2010-2025 by Thomas R. Wyant, III

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full
       text of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
       merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-05-24                       SATPASS2(1)
