Acme::GuessNumber(3)  User Contributed Perl Documentation Acme::GuessNumber(3)


NAME
       Acme::GuessNumber - An automatic number guessing game robot

SYNOPSIS
         use Acme::GuessNumber;
         guess_number(25);
         # If you are in a hurry
         guess_number(25, HURRY_UP);

DESCRIPTION
       Many people have this experience:  You sit before a gambling table.
       You keep placing the bet.  You know the Goddess will finally smile at
       you.  You just don't know when.  You have only to wait.  As the time
       goes by, the bets in your hand become fewer and fewer.  You feel the
       time goes slower and slower.  This lengthy waiting process become
       painfully long, like a train running straightforwardly into hell.  You
       start feeling your whole life is a failure, as the jackpot never
       comes...

       Hey, why so painfully waiting?  The Goddess always smile at you in the
       end, right?  So, why not put this painfully waiting process to a
       computer program?  Yes.  This is the whole idea, the greatest invention
       in the century::  An automatic gambler!  There is no secret.  It is
       simple brute force.  It endlessly runs toward the final prize.  You can
       go for other business: sleep, eat, work.  When you finally came back,
       you wins.  With it, the hell of gambling is history!

       Remember, that the computer is never affected by emotion, luck,
       everything.  It never gets anxious or depress.  It simply, faithfully,
       determinedly runs the probability until the jackpot.  As you know, the
       anxiety and depression is the enemy of the games, while a simple,
       faithful and determined mind is the only path to the jackpot.  This
       makes computer a perfect candidate as a gambler than an ordinary human
       being.

FUNCTIONS
       guess_number($max, $hurry)
           Start playing.  Give it a maximum range of the numbers, and the
           program will play the number guessing game for you.  If you are in
           a hurry, you can also speed it up by setting $hurry = 1, or use the
           exported symbol HURRY_UP.

NOTES
   It's so funny!  May I join the game?
       No.  That's the whole point of acme.  Human beings are never acme.
       Only machines are acme.  So, in order for everything to be acme, no
       human being is allowed.  This ensures that when guessing, the player is
       never bothered by all kinds of feelings: anxiety, depression, anything.
       It just guesses, precisely.  Nothing more.

BUGS
       No.  This can't possibly be wrong.  This is brute-force.  It will try
       until it succeeds.  Nothing can stop it from success.  You always win!
       You will always win!  The Goddess of fortune will always smile at you!

SEE ALSO
       None.

AUTHOR
       imacat <imacat@mail.imacat.idv.tw>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2007-2008 imacat. All rights reserved. This program is
       free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
       terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2021-02-07              Acme::GuessNumber(3)
