Agent(3)              User Contributed Perl Documentation             Agent(3)


NAME
       Agent - the Transportable Agent Perl module

SYNOPSIS
         use Agent;

         my $a = new Agent( Name => 'path_to_agent.pa', %args );

         $a->run();

DESCRIPTION
       Agent Perl is meant to be a multi-platform interface for writing and
       using transportable perl agents.

       A Perl Agent
           Is any chunk of Perl code that can accomplish some user-defined
           objective by communicating with other agents, and manipulating any
           data it obtains.

           A Perl Agent consists of a knowledge base (variables), a reasoning
           procedure (code), and access to one or more languages coupled with
           methods of communication.  These languages remain largely
           undefined, or rather, user-defined; support for KQML/KIF is under
           development.

       Developing An Agent
           Note that the developer must devise the reasoning procedure and
           knowledge base described above.  Agent Perl does not place any
           restrictions on what you may do; it only tries to make the 'doing'
           part easier.

           An agent is written as an inheriting sub-class of Agent.  Each
           agent's class should be stored in a '.pa' file (perl agent), and
           must contain an agent_main() method.  All agents are objects.  See
           the examples for more details, and learn how Agent.pm works so you
           won't step on its toes!

CONVENTIONS
       Arguments to subroutines are passed in hashes unless otherwise noted.

       Capital-a Agent refers to "Agent.pm" unless the context is obvious.
       Lowercase agent refers to an agent.

CONSTRUCTOR
       new()
           Creates a new agent object.  You must tell new() where to get the
           agent by passing in one of the following arguments (in a hash):

           Stored: The agent stored in a Tom object.

           File: An IO::Handle (or any subclass) file handle from which the
           agent can be read.

           Name: The agent's name.  This prompts new to search @INC and './'
           for the agent's '.pa' source file.

           Code: The agent's source code.

           These are listed in order of precedence.  To handle security
           issues, new() also groks this argument:

           Compartment: A Safe Compartment within which the agent will be
           registered, and later executed.  See the "Safe" pod for details.

           Developers should note that these keywords are reserved.  Any
           additional arguments are passed to the agent being created.

METHODS
       store()
           Returns the agent object in stringified form, suitable for network
           transfer or storage.

       run()
           Executes the agent.  If the Thread argument is passed and your
           system has Thread.pm, run() tries to execute the agent in an
           asynchronous thread via Thread's async() command (see the Thread
           pod for more details).  Additional arguments are passed to the
           agent being run.

       identity()
           Returns a unique string identifying the agent in its present state.

SEE ALSO
       "Agent::Message" and "Agent::Transport" for agent developers.

AUTHOR
       Steve Purkis <spurkis@engsoc.carleton.ca>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1997, 1998 Steve Purkis.  All rights reserved.  This
       package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

THANKS
       James Duncan for the "Tom" module and many ideas; the people of the
       Perl5-Agents mailing list for their support.

perl v5.40.2                      1998-12-15                          Agent(3)
