LOCAL-LIB-HELPER(1)   User Contributed Perl Documentation  LOCAL-LIB-HELPER(1)

NAME
     local-lib-helper - A commandline utility that builds local-lib helper
     scripts

SYNOPSIS
         local-lib-helper

DESCRIPTION
     Although the primary purpose of this distribution is to make it trivial
     to use a given local::lib you may, as part of a custom build or
     deployment system, need an easy way to programmatically create the helper
     scripts for either an activated or precreated local::lib.  This script
     makes that easy.  If you are already in a local::lib managed environment
     this script will detect that fact and automatically install the helpers
     into the "bin" directory of that local::lib.  If there is not a currently
     activated local::lib, you can still install the helpers as long as you've
     already created a local::lib in the past (say via the self bootstrap
     method outlined in the documention, or when you specified a "-l" option
     with App::cpanminus).  In that case since we can't auto detect the
     location of the local::lib you need to use the "target" option, which
     should be the root directory of the local::lib (which is the directory
     that contains the "bin" and "lib" directories of the local::lib you
     previously created).

OPTIONS
     This script has the following options, which can also be veiwed in
     summary by typing "local-lib-helper --help".

     help (--help, -h)
         A summary of the help options.

     which_perl (--which_perl, -p)
         This should be the path to the perl binary that the local::lib is
         built against. This defaults to the path of the perl binary under
         which we are currently running.  You should probably leave this one
         alone :)

     target (--target, -t)
         This is the target directory for the local::lib you want to build the
         helper script against.  By default it will attempt to detect the
         currently running local::lib and use that.  If we can't detect a
         running local::lib and this option is undef, we die with a message.

     helper_name (--helper_name, -n)
         This is the name of the helper utility script.  It defaults to
         'localenv'.

     helper_permissions (--helper_permissions, -p)
         These are the permissions the the helper utility script is set to.
         By default we set the equivilent of 'chmod 755 [HELPER SCRIPT]'

     App::local::lib::helper, App::local::lib::helper::rationale

AUTHOR
     John Napiorkowski " <<jjnapiork@cpan.org"> >

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
     Copyright 2010, John Napiorkowski

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
     under the same terms as Perl itself.

POD ERRORS
     Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
     below:

     Around line 112:
         Unknown directive: =head

perl v5.42.3                      2011-09-10               LOCAL-LIB-HELPER(1)
