Png(3)                User Contributed Perl Documentation               Png(3)


NAME
       Acme::Steganography::Image::Png - hide data (badly) in Png images

SYNOPSIS
         use Acme::Steganography::Image::Png;

         # Write your data out as RGB PNGs hidden in the image "Camouflage.jpg"
         my $writer = Acme::Steganography::Image::Png::RGB::556FS->new();
         $writer->data(\$data);
         my @filenames = $writer->write_images("Camouflage.jpg");
         # Returns a list of the filenames it wrote to

         # Then read them back.
         my $reread =
            Acme::Steganography::Image::Png::RGB::556->read_files(@files);

DESCRIPTION
       Acme::Steganography::Image::Png is extremely ineffective at hiding your
       secrets inside Png images.

       There are 4 implementations

       Acme::Steganography::Image::Png::FlashingNeonSignGrey
           Blatantly stuffs your data into greyscale PNG files with absolutely
           no attempt to hide it.

       Acme::Steganography::Image::Png::RGB::556
           Stuffs your data into a sample image, using the low order bits of
           each colour.  2 bytes of your data are stored in each pixel, 5 bits
           in Red and Green, 6 in Blue. It produces a rather grainy image.

       Acme::Steganography::Image::Png::RGB::323
           Also stuffs your data into a sample image, using the low order bits
           of each colour. Only 1 byte of your data is stored in each pixel, 3
           bits in Red and Blue, 2 in Green. To the untrained eye the image
           looks good. But the fact that it's PNG will make anyone suspicious
           about the contents.

       Acme::Steganography::Image::Png::RGB::556FS
           Stuffs your data into a sample image, using the low order bits of
           each colour.  2 bytes of your data are stored in each pixel, 5 bits
           in Red and Green, 6 in Blue. Changing the value of pixels to store
           data is adding error to the image, in this case rather a lot of
           error. To attempt to conceal some of the graininess Floyd-Steinberg
           dithering is used to spread the errors around. It's not perfect,
           but effects are quite interesting, producing a reasonably nice
           dithered image.

       Write your data out by calling "write_images"

       Read your data back in by calling "read_files"

       You don't have to return the filenames in the correct order.

BUGS
       Virtually no documentation. There's the source code...

       Not very many tests.

       Not robust against missing files when re-reading

       If you want real steganography, you're in the wrong place.

       Doesn't really do enough daft stuff yet to live up to being a proper
       Acme module. There are plans.

AUTHOR
       Nicholas Clark, <nick@ccl4.org>, based on code written by JCHIN after a
       conversation we had.

perl v5.40.2                      2006-10-01                            Png(3)
