BIGTOP(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            BIGTOP(1)

NAME
     bigtop - the parser/generater for the bigtop langauge

SYNOPSIS
     For regnerating pieces of an existing app:

         bigtop [options] file.bigtop all

     Or, for brand new apps:

         bigtop --new AppName 'ascii_art'

     Or, to augment an existing app:

         bigtop --add app.bigtop 'ascii_art'

     Or, to bring a postgres 8 databases into bigtop:

         bigtop -n AppName -s Pg8Live 'dbi:Pg:dbname=yourdb' user pass [schema]

     See "STYLES" below for how this script handles ASCII art or other extra
     command line args (and possibly standard in).

DESCRIPTION
     To learn more about bigtop, consult Bigtop::Docs::TOC.  It has a list of
     all the documentation along with suggestions of where to start.

     This script usually takes a bigtop input file and a list of things to
     build.  The things you can build have the same names as the blocks in the
     config section of your bigtop file.  You may also choose "all" which will
     build all of those things in the order they appear in the config section.

     If you are starting a new app from scratch, you can get a jump start with
     the --new flag (or -n):

         bigtop --new AppName table1 table2

     If you already have a bigtop file, you can add to it with the --add (or
     -a):

         bigtop --add file.bigtop table3 table4

     But, see "STYLES" below for more interesting options than a list of table
     names.

     Both new and add options do an all build when they finish making/updating
     the bigtop file.  If you don't want an immediate all build, try tentmaker
     with the same flags.

     The new option will also try to build a database for the app to use
     immediately, by invoking sqlite (if it can find it in your path).

NON-HELP OPTIONS
     --create (or -c)
         Use this if you already have a bigtop source file and want to make a
         brand new app from it.  Perhaps someone gave you a bigtop file, you
         copied one from the examples directory of the bigtop distribution, or
         you built one with tentmaker.

         This will make an h2xs style path under the current directory for the
         app described in your bigtop file.  It will even copy that bigtop
         file into the docs directory while it builds whatever you ask for.

         Without this option, if the current directory looks like a bad place
         to build, a fatal error will result and you will have to use this
         option.  A bad place to build is a place where building seems not to
         have happened before.  If any of these are missing, then the
         directory is bad:

             Build.PL
             Changes
             t/
             lib/

         When create is in effect, the following bigtop config options affect
         the location of the initial build:

         base_dir
             the directory under which all building will happen. Defaults to
             the current directory.

         app_dir
             the subdirectory of base_dir where Build.PL and friends will
             live.  Defaults to the h2xs style directory name based on your
             app's name.  If your app section starts:

                 app App::Name::SubName

             then the default app_dir is:

                 App-Name-SubName

         When create is not in effect, these config parameters are ignored
         WITH a warning.

     --new (or -n) App::Name style_info...
         See "STYLES" below for what "style_info" can be.  (Hint: it depends
         on which style you are using.)

         Use this option to create a working application from scratch.  If you
         only provide an app name, it will use a minimal bigtop specification.
         The resulting app will not run (or have any code in it).  You must
         then augment the bigtop file with tentmaker or a text editor and
         regenerate to get a running app.

         If you supply optional table names or provide data for a style,
         enough additional items will be added to the bigtop file to make a
         running app (except that you might need to build the database).  Some
         of the extra items will be repeated for each model you request.

         In either case, when bigtop finishes, there will be an App-Name
         subdirectory of the current directory.  In it will be all the usual
         pieces describing an app.  The bigtop file will be in the docs
         directory.

         If you have a working sqlite in your path -- and you specified tables
         or used a style -- -n will also make an sqlite database called app.db
         in the build directory.  As it will tell you, you can change to that
         directory and start the app immediately.

         If you don't have sqlite, a message will explain what to do to start
         the app.  Mostly this boils down to changing into the new build
         directory, creating a database called app.db, and running app.server
         with the proper flags for your database engine.

         This flag uses the default bigtop file from Bigtop::ScriptHelp (which
         you can see by examining examples/default.bigtop in the
         distrubution).  If you like, you may override that default.  To do
         so, copy examples/default.bigtop to either bigtopdef in the directory
         from which you plan to run bigtop -n, or to .bigtopdef in your home
         directory.  Edit the file to your heart's content.

         The result must be a valid bigtop file, with one exception.  The file
         you create will be used as a template toolkit template.  But, only
         three things are available for subsitution:

         app_name
             The name of the app from the command line.

         no_colon_name
             The app name, where all ::'s are replaced with underscores.

         short_name
             Everything after the last :: in the app_name in lower case.

         For example see examples/def.bigtop.tt.

         If you have a ./bigtopdef or ~/.bigtopdef, but don't want to use it
         for a particular instance, set the BIGTOP_REAL_DEF enivornment
         variable in your shell.

     --add (-a )
         If you have an existing bigtop file and want to add tables and their
         controllers to it, use this option like this:

             bigtop --add file.bigtop style_info...

         See "STYLES" below for how to specify table relationships.

         This option reads an existing file.bigtop and adds tables and
         controllers to it, before doing an all build.  (If you don't want an
         all build, use the same options with tentmaker.)

         Any new tables will be created.  Whether existing tables are updated
         depends on you style.

         Note that this option may disturb comments and whitespace in your
         original.  It uses Bigtop::Deparser, which cannonicalizes the
         whitespace.  Basically extraneous whitespace is removed (and
         indenting is regularized).  When new lines are removed, subsequent
         comments drift down in the revised file.

         Revision control is always a good idea.  It is especially important
         here.  Make sure file.bigtop is commited to your revision control
         system prior to running bigtop in add mode.

     --keep_inline (or -k)
         Normally, this script removes all traces of the _Inline directory it
         used while building your app.  Use this option if you want to save a
         microscopic amount of time on each regeneration or if you have an
         incurable curiosity.

         Note that the directory will only be removed if it is really _Inline
         in the current directory.  If you have a .Inline directory under home
         directory etc., the script will not affect it.

     --style (or -s)
         Defaults to Kickstart.  This can be the name of any
         Bigtop::ScriptHelp::Style:: module.  These styles control how your
         command line args, and standard input, turn into bigtop descriptions.
         See the docs for you style to see what input is legal and how it is
         treated.

HELP OPTIONS
     In addition to the flags that do useful things, there are help flags:

     --help or -h
         Prints a multi-line usage message showing all the options.

     --pg_help and --mysql_help
         Print advice on how to start your app.server with a Postgres or MySQL
         database instead of sqlite.  This includes instructions on creating
         and building the database, as well as flags app.server needs in order
         to reach that database.

STYLES
     This section used to explain ASCII art, which was the original style of
     command line input.  Since then, that code has been factored out.  The
     original style is now called the kickstart style, or more precisely
     "Bigtop::ScriptHelp::Style::Kickstart" and is still the default.  See its
     docs for a description of ASCII art.

     You may explicitly choose the original style:

         bigtop -n|-a -s Kickstart 'ascii_art'

     But, you may omit -s to get Kickstart by default.  Further, you can
     replace Kickstart with any module in the Bigtop::ScriptHelp::Style::
     namespace.  For example:

         bigtop -n|-a -s Pg8Live 'dbi:Pg:dbname=yourdb' user pass [schema]

     Again, see the docs for your style to see what command line parameters to
     use.

AUTHOR
     Phil Crow <crow.phil@gmail.com>

COPYRIGHT and LICENSE
     Copyright (C) 2005-7 by Phil Crow

     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
     under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.6 or, at
     your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

perl v5.42.3                      2026-08-16                         BIGTOP(1)
