BRACKUP-MOUNT(1)      User Contributed Perl Documentation     BRACKUP-MOUNT(1)

NAME
     brackup-mount - mount a backup as a filesystem using FUSE

SYNOPSIS
         brackup-mount <metafile> <mountpoint>

DESCRIPTION
     "brackup-mount" allows you to mount a backup into your filesystem at a
     particular mount point. Once it's mounted, you'll have a read-only view
     of the directories and files in the backup at the mountpoint given.

     For example:

         brackup-mount somebackup-20080203.brackup /mnt

     This might be useful if you need to refer to something from a backup but
     you don't want to do a full restore. You can also, if you like, do
     something resembling a restore by mounting a backup and copying the
     contents into your "real" filesystem.

PREREQUISITES
     Before using this utility, you'll need to install the "Fuse" library from
     CPAN:

         perl -MCPAN -e "install Fuse"

     If you're on a Debian-like system then this might be a better idea:

         apt-get install libfuse-perl

WARNING
     This program is EXPERIMENTAL. Do not use it for anything important.

HOW IT WORKS
     "brackup-mount" reads the metafile it is given and uses the metadata
     within to create a filesystem that is exposed via FUSE. All operations
     apart from reading from files operate purely on the in-memory data
     structure created from the metafile, and so you can "ls" and "stat" files
     to your heart's content without worrying about expensive calls to your
     target.

     When a process calls "open" on a file, the file will be effectively
     "restored" from the backup target into a temporary directory, where it
     will remain until it is ultimately "close"d. All "read" operations on the
     file are performed on the temporary file. This means that you can expect
     the "open" call to be the most expensive call against this filesystem.

     If you're paying for data transfer from your target, be aware that the
     local copy retrieved on "open" is thrown away on "close", so if you plan
     to be opening and closing the same file repeatedly you might want to
     force the local copy to be retained for the duration by running something
     like "tail -f filename" in another terminal.

     Since Brackup does not retain information about file ownership, all files
     in the mounted filesystem will be owned by the user that mounted the
     filesystem. The permissions from the brackup metafile are returned to
     "stat" (so you can do "cp -P"), but aren't enforced on "open".

AUTHOR
     Martin Atkins <mart@degeneration.co.uk>

LICENCE
     This program and its associated library are part of the Brackup
     distribution and can be disstributed under the same terms as Brackup
     itself.

perl v5.42.3                      2008-03-23                  BRACKUP-MOUNT(1)
