Class::Accessor::Fast::XS(3)               User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Class::Accessor::Fast::XS - XS replacement for Class::Accessor::Fast

OBSOLETE NOTE
       This module has been stated rudimentary in favor of
       Class::XSAccesor::Compat, that implements the same API.  Steffen
       Mueller did a great job improving concept of XS accessors in
       Class::XSAccesor framework and keep improving it further.

       At this moment (Dec 2010) Class::XSAccesor::Compat generates 25% faster
       accessors than this module and has some thread safety fixes.  There is
       no point in porting fixes or improvements from Steffen's code as you
       can just change the name and switch over.

DESCRIPTION
       This module is a XS based replacement for Class::Accessor::Fast.  Just
       replace Class::Accessor::Fast with Class::Accessor::Fast::XS and it
       should just work.

       Read Class::Accessor::Fast and Class::Accessor for API docs and usage.

       XS is about performance, but usually optimized accessors like
       Class::Accessor::Fast and many other with similar optimizations give
       you enough performance to make accessors NOT a bottleneck.  In a real
       applications switch from Class::Accessor::Fast to this module can give
       you 1-5% boost.

       Want to compare performance of different solutions?  Use
       App::Benchmark::Accessors, but do remember that these benchmarks don't
       take into account various properties and advances of different
       implementations.

CREDITS
       This code is heavily based on Steffen Mueller's Class::XSAccessor.

SEE ALSO
       There are enormous amount of different accessors generators with
       different properties, behavior and performance, here is list of some:

       accessors, Class::Accessor, Class::MethodMaker, Class::XSAccessor,
       Object::Accessor...

AUTHOR
       Ruslan Zakirov <Ruslan.Zakirov@gmail.com>

LICENSE
       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2010-12-04      Class::Accessor::Fast::XS(3)
