PassGen(3)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           PassGen(3)


NAME
       Crypt::PassGen - Generate a random password that looks like a real word

SYNOPSIS
         use Crypt::PassGen qw/ passgen /;

         @passwords = passgen( NWORDS => 10, NLETT => 8 );

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides a single command for generating random password
       that is close enough to a real word that it is easy to remember.  It
       does this by using the frequency of letter combinations in a language
       (the frequency table is generated during installation although multiple
       tables can be generated and used for different languages). The
       frequency table contains the probability that a word will start with a
       specific letter or 2 letter combination and then the frequency of 3
       letter combinations.

       This module should not be used for high security applications (such as
       user accounts) since it returns passwords that are not mixed case, have
       no punctuation and no letters. This word can be used as a basis for a
       more secure password.

       The language of the password depends on the language used to construct
       the frequency table.

FUNCTIONS
       The following functions are provided:

       ingest
           This function is used to create a frequency table to be used later
           by "passgen". This routine is run during the initial install of the
           module so that at least one frequency table is available.

           This function reads a file and for each word that is found
           (ignoring any with non-alphabet characters) notes the starting
           letter, the second letter and each combination of 3 letters. Once
           the file is read the resultant arrays then contain the relative
           occurence of each letter combination. The frequency table will vary
           depending on the language of the input file.

             ingest( DICT   => '/usr/dict/words',
                     FILE   => 'wordfreq.dat',
                     APPEND => 0)

           The input hash can contain keys "DICT", "FILE" and "APPEND" with
           the above defaults. All arguments are optional. If "APPEND" is true
           the frequency table from the input dictionary will be appended to
           an existing table (if it exists).

           Returns 1 if successful and 0 otherwise. On error, the reason is
           stored in $Crypt::PassGen::ERRSTR.

           A default frequency file is provided for "passgen" as part of the
           installation.  This routine is only required to either extend or
           replace the default value.

       passgen
           Generate a password.

             @words = passgen( %options );

           Argument is a hash with the following keys:

            FILE   The filename containing the frequency information. Must
                   have been written using C<ingest>.
            NLETT  Number of letters to use for the generated password.
                   Must be at least 5
            NWORDS Number of passwords to generate

           An array of passwords is returned. An empty list is returned if an
           error occurs (and $Crypt::PassGen::ERRSTR is set to the reason).

ERROR HANDLING
       All routines in this module store errors in the ERRSTR variable. This
       variable can be accessed if the routines return an error state and
       contains the reason for the error.

         @words = passgen( NLETT => 2 )
           or die "Error message: $Crypt::PassGen::ERRSTR";

AUTHORS
       Tim Jenness <tjenness@cpan.org> Copyright (C) 2000-2012 T. Jenness. All
       Rights Reserved.  This program is free software; you can redistribute
       it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

       Based on the PASSGEN program written by Mike Bartman of SAR, Inc as
       part of the SPAN security toolkit.

perl v5.40.2                      2012-09-21                        PassGen(3)
