XMLApplication(3)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    XMLApplication(3)


NAME
       CGI::XMLApplication -- Object Oriented Interface for CGI Script
       Applications

SYNOPSIS
         use CGI::XMLApplication;

         $script = new CGI::XMLApplication;
         $script->setStylesheetPath( "the/path/to/the/stylesheets" );

         # either this for simple scripts
         $script->run();
         # or if you need more control ...
         $script->run(%context_hash); # or a context object

DESCRIPTION
       CGI::XMLApplication is a CGI application class, that intends to enable
       perl artists to implement CGIs that make use of XML/XSLT functionality,
       without taking too much care about specialized errorchecking or even
       care too much about XML itself. It provides the power of the
       XML::LibXML/ XML::LibXSLT module package for content deliverment.

       As well CGI::XMLApplication is designed to support project management
       on code level. The class allows splitting web applications into several
       simple parts. Through this most of the code stays simple and easy to
       maintain. Throughout the whole runtime of a script CGI::XMLApplication
       tries to keep the application stable. As well a programmer has not to
       bother about some of XML::LibXML/ XML::LibXSLT transformation pitfalls.

       The class module extends the CGI class. While all functionality of the
       original CGI package is still available, it should be not such a big
       problem, to port existing scripts to CGI::XMLApplication, although most
       functions used here are the access function for client data such as
       param().

       CGI::XMLApplication, intended to be an application class should make
       writing of XML enabled CGI scripts more easy. Especially because of the
       use of object orientated concepts, this class enables much more
       transparent implemententations with complex functionality compared to
       what is possible with standard CGI-scripts.

       The main difference with common perl CGI implementation is the fact,
       that the client-output is not done from perl functions, but generated
       by an internally build XML DOM that gets processed with an XSLT
       stylesheet. This fact helps to remove a lot of the HTML related
       functions from the core code, so a script may be much easier to read,
       since only application relevant code is visible, while layout related
       information is left out (commonly in an XSLT file).

       This helps to write and test a complete application faster and less
       layout related. The design can be appended and customized later without
       effecting the application code anymore.

       Since the class uses the OO paradigma, it does not force anybody to
       implement a real life application with the complete overhead of more or
       less redundant code. Since most CGI-scripts are waiting for events,
       which is usually the code abstraction of a click of a submit button or
       an image, CGI::XMLApplication implements a simple event system, that
       keeps event related code separated from other events.

       Therefore, a final application class is not meant to have a constructor
       anymore. All functionality should be encapsulated into implicit or
       explicit event handlers. Because of a lack in Perl's OO implementation
       the call of a superclass constructor before the current constructor
       call is not default behavior in Perl. For that reason I decided to have
       special events to enable the application to initialize correctly,
       excluding the danger of leaving important variables undefined. Also
       this forces the programmer to implement scripts more problem
       orientated, rather than class or content focused.

       Another design aspect for CGI::XMLApplication is the strict
       differentiation between CODE and PRESENTATION. IMHO this, in fact being
       one of the major problems in traditional CGI programming. To implement
       this, the XML::LibXML and XML::LibXSLT modules are used by default but
       may be replaced easily by any other XML/XSLT capable modules. Each CGI
       Script should generate an XML-DOM, that can be processed with a given
       stylesheet.

       Pay attention: In this Document XML-DOM means the DOM of XML::LibXML
       and not XML::DOM!

   Programflow of a CGI::XMLApplication
       The following Flowchart illustratrates how CGI::XMLApplication behaves
       during runtime. Also chart shows where specialized application code
       gets control during script runtime.

         ------- CGI Script ------->|<--------- CGI::XMLApplication --------
          .---------------------.    .--------------------.
          | app-class creation  |--- | event registration |
          `---------------------'    | registerEvents()   |
                                     `--------------------'
          .------------------------.            |
          | context initialization |------------'
          |     ( optional )       |
          `------------------------'
                     |
          .-----------------------.  .------------------------.
          | run() function called |--| application initialize |
          `-----------------------'  |      event_init()      |
                                     `------------------------'
                                                 |
                                        .--------'`------------.
                                       / event parameter found? \_
                                       \       testEvent()      / \
                                        `--------.,------------'   |
                                                 |                 |
                                             yes |              no |
                                                 |                 |
                                      .------------.  .------------------.
                                      | call event |  | call             |
                                      |  event_*() |  |  event_default() |
                                      `------------'  `------------------'
                                                 |                |
                                      .---------------------.     |
                                      | application cleanup |-----'
                                      |     event_exit()    |
                                      `---------------------'
                                                 |
                                       .---------'`------------.
                                     _/ avoid XML serialization \
                                    / \   skip_serialization()  /
                                   |   `---------.,------------'
                                   |             |
                               yes |          no |
                                   |             |
                                   |  .--------------------------.
                                   |  | XML generation, XSLT     |
                                   |  | serialization and output |
                                   |  |     serialization()      |
                                   |  `--------------------------'
           .---------------.       |             |
           |      END      |-------+-------------'
           `---------------'

   What are Events and how to catch them
       Most CGI Scripts handle the result of HTML-Forms or similar requests
       from clients. Analouge to GUI Programming, CGI::XMLApplication calls
       this an event. Spoken in CGI/HTML-Form words, a CGI-Script handles the
       various situations a clients causes by pushing a submit button or
       follows a special link. Because of this common events are thrown by
       arguments found in the CGI's query string.

       An event of CGI::XMLApplication has the same name as the input field,
       that should cause the event. The following example should illustrate
       this a little better:

           <!-- SOME HTML CODE -->
           <input type="submit" name="dummy" value="whatever" />
           <!-- SOME MORE HTML :) -->

       If a user clicks the submitbutton and you have registered the event
       name dummy for your script, CGI::XMLApplication will try to call the
       function event_dummy(). The script module to handle the dummy event
       would look something like the following code:

        # Application Module
        package myApp;

        use CGI::XMLApplication;
        @ISA = qw(CGI::XMLApplication);

        sub registerEvents { qw( dummy ); } # list of event names

        # ...

        sub event_dummy {
            my ( $self, $context ) = @_;

            # your event code goes here

            return 0;
        }

       During the lifecircle of a CGI script, often the implementation starts
       with ordinary submit buttons, which get often changed to so called
       input images, to fit into the UI of the Website. One does not need to
       change the code to make the scripts fit to these changes;
       CGI::XMLApplication already did it. The code has not to be changed if
       the presentation of the form changes. Therefore there is no need to
       declare separate events for input images. E.g. an event called evname
       makes CGI::XMLApplication tests if evname or evname.x exist in the
       querystring.

       So a perl artist can implement and test his code without caring if the
       design crew have done their job, too ;-)

       In many cases an web application is also confronted with events that
       can not be represented in with querystring arguments. For these cases
       CGI::XMLApplication offers the possibility to send special events from
       the event_init() function for example in case of application errors.
       This is done with the sendEvent() Function. This will set a new
       parameter to the CGI's querystring after removing all other events. One
       can only send events that are already registred!.

       Although a sendEvent function exists, CGI::XMLApplication doesn't
       implement an event queqe. For GUI programmers this seems like a
       unnessecary restriction. In terms of CGI it makes more sense to think
       of a script as a program, that is only able to scan its event queqe
       only once during runtime and stopped before the next event can be
       thrown. The only chance to stop the script from handling a certain
       event is to send a new event or delete this (or even all) events from
       inside the event_init() function. This function is always called at
       first from the run method. If another event uses the sendEvent
       function, the call will have no effect.

       method registerEvents
           This method is called by the class constructor - namely
           CGI::XMLApplication's new() function . Each application should
           register the events it likes to handle with this function. It
           should return an array of eventnames such as eg. 'remove' or
           'store'. This list is used to find which event a user caused on the
           client side.

       method run
           Being the main routine this should be the only method called by the
           script apart from the constructor. All events are handled inside
           the method run().  Since this method is extremly simple and
           transparent to any kind of display type, there should be no need to
           override this function. One can pass a context hash or context
           object, to pass external or prefetched information to the
           application. This context will be available and accessible in all
           events and most extra functions.

           This function does all event and serialization related work. As
           well there is some validation done as well, so catched events, that
           are not implemented, will not cause any harm.

   The Event System
       A CGI::XMLApplication is split into two main parts: 1) The executable
       script called by the webserver and 2) the application module which has
       to be loaded, initialized and called by the script.

       Commonly applications that make use of CGI::XMLApplication, will not
       bother about the run function too much. All functionality is kept
       inside event- and (pseudo-)callback functions. This forces one to
       implement much more strict code than common perl would allow. What
       first looks like a drawback, finally makes the code much easier to
       understand, maintain and finally to extend.

       CGI::XMLApplication knows two types of event handlers: implicit events,
       common to all applications and explicit events, reflecting the
       application logic. The class assumes that implicit events are
       implemented in any case. Those events have reserved names and need not
       be specified through registerEvents. Since the class cannot know
       something about the application logic by itself, names of events have
       to be explicitly passed to be handled by the application. As well all
       event functions have to be implemented as member methods of the
       application class right now. Because of perls OO interface a class has
       to be written inside its own module.

       An event may return a integer value. If the event succeeds (no fatal
       errors, e.g. database errors) the explicit or common event function
       should return a value greater or eqal than 0. If the value is less than
       0, CGI::XMLApplication assumes an application panic, and will not try
       to generate a DOM or render it with a stylesheet.

       There are 4 defined panic levels:

       -1  Stylesheet missing

       -2  Stylesheet not available

       -3  Event not implemented

       -4  Application panic

       Apart from Application Panic the panic levels are set internally. An
       Application Panic should be set if the application catches an error,
       that does not allow any XML/XSLT processing. This can be for example,
       that a required perl module is not installed on the system.

       To make it clear: If CGI::XMLApplication throws a panic, the
       application is broken, not completely implemented or stylesheets are
       missing or broken. Application panics are meant for debugging purposes
       and to avoid Internal Server Errors. They are not meant as a
       replacement of a propper error handling!

       But how does CGI::XMLApplication know about the correct event handler?

       One needs to register the names of the events the application handles.
       This is done by implmenting a registerEvents() function that simply
       returns an array of event names. Through this function one prepares the
       CGI::XMLApplication to catch the listed names as events from the query
       string the client browser sends back to the script. CGI::XMLApplication
       tries to call a event handler if a name of a registred event is found.
       The coresponding function-name of an event has to have the following
       format:

        event_<eventname>

       E.g. event_init handles the init event described below.

       Each event has a single Parameter, the context. This can be an
       unblessed hash reference or an object, where the user can store
       whatever needed.  This context is useful to pass scriptwide data
       between callbacks and event functions around. The callback is even
       available and useable if the script does not initialize the application
       context as earlier shown in the program flow chart.

       If such a function is not implemented in the application module,
       CGI::XMLApplication sets the Event not implemented panic state.

       All events have to return an integer that tells about their execution
       state as already described.

       By default CGI::XMLApplication does not test for other events if it
       already found one. The most significant event is the first name of an
       event found in the query string - all other names are simply ignored.
       One may change this behaviour by overriding the testEvent() function.

       But still it is a good idea to choose the event names carefully and do
       not mix them with ordinary datafield names.

       function testEvent
           If it is nesseccary to check which event is relevant for the
           current script one can use this function to find out in
           event_init(). If this function returns undef, the default event is
           active, otherwise it returns the eventname as defined by
           registerEvents.

           In case one needs a special algorithm for event selection one can
           override this function. If done so, one can make use of the
           application context inside this function since it is passed to
           testEvent() by the run() function.

       method sendEvent SCALAR
           Sometimes it could be necessary to send an event by your own (the
           script's) initiative. A possible example could be if you don't have
           client input but path_info data, which determinates how the script
           should behave or session information is missing, so the client
           should not even get the default output.

           This can only be done during the event_init() method call. Some
           coders would prefer the constructor, which is not a very good idea
           in this case: While the constructor is running, the application is
           not completely initialized. This can be only ashured in the
           event_init function. Therefore all application specific
           errorhandling and initializing should be done there.

           sendEvent only can be called from event_init, because any
           CGI::XMLApplication will handle just one event, plus the init and
           the exit event. If sendEvent is called from another event than
           event_init() it will take not effect.

           It is possible through sendEvent() to keep the script logic clean.

           Example:

             package myApp;
             use CGI::XMLApplication;
             @ISA = qw(CGI::XMLApplication);

             sub registerEvents { qw( missing ... ) ; }

             # event_init is an implicit event
             sub event_init {
                my ( $self, $context ) = @_;
                if ( not ( defined $self->param( $paraname ) && length $self->param( $paramname ) ) ){
                   # the parameter is not correctly filled
                   $self->sendEvent( 'missing' );
                }
                else {

               ... some more initialization ...

                }
                return 0;
             }

             ... more code ...

             # event_missing is an explicit event.
             sub event_missing {
                my ( $self , $context ) = @_;

                ... your error handling code goes ...

                return -4 if $panic;  # just for illustration
                return 0;
             }

   Implicit Events
       CGI::XMLApplication knows three implicit events which are more or less
       independent to client responses: They are 'init', 'exit', and
       'default'. These events already exist for any CGI::XMLApplication. They
       need not to be implemented separately if they make no sense for the
       application.

       event_init
           The init event is set before the CGI::XMLApplication tries to
           evaluate any of script parameters. Therefore the event_init method
           should be used to initialize the application.

       event_exit
           The event_exit method is called after all other events have been
           processed, but just before the rendering is done. This should be
           used, if you need to do something independend from all events
           before the data is send to the user.

       event_default
           This event is called as a fallback mechanism if CGI::XMLApplication
           did not receive a stylesheet id by another event handler, for
           example if no event is matched.

   the XML Serialization
       The presentation is probably the main part of a CGI script. By using
       XML and XSLT this can be done in a standartised manner. From the
       application view all this can be isolated in a separate subsystem as
       well. In CGI::XMLApplication this subsystem is implemented inside the
       serialize() function.

       For XML phobic perl programmers it should be cleared, that
       CGI::XMLApplication makes real use of XML/XSLT functionalty only inside
       this function. For all code explained above it is not required to make
       use of XML at all.

       The XML serialization subsystem of CGI::XMLApplication tries to hide
       most of non application specific code from the application programmer.

       This method renders the data stored in the DOM with the stylesheet
       returned by the event handler. You should override this function if you
       like to use a different way of displaying your data.

       If the serialization should be skipped, CGI::XMLApplication will not
       print any headers. In such case the application is on its own to pass
       all the output.

       The algorithm used by serialization is simple:

       •   request the appplication DOM through getDOM()

       •   test for XML passthru

       •   get the stylesheet the application preferes through
           selectStylesheet()

       •   parse the stylesheet

       •   transform the DOM with the stylesheet

       •   set Content-Type and headers

       •   return the content to the client

       If errors occour on a certain stage of serialization, the application
       is stopped and the generated error messages are returned.

       CGI::XMLApplication provides four pseudo-callbacks, that are used to
       get the application specific information during serialization. In order
       of being called by CGI::XMLApplication::serialization() they are:

       •   getDOM

       •   setHttpHeader

       •   getStylesheet

       •   getXSLTParameter

       In fact only getStylesheet has to be implemented. In most cases it will
       be a good idea to provide the getDOM function as well. The other
       functions provider a interface to make the CGI output more generic. For
       example one can set cookies or pass XSL parameters to XML::LibXSLT's
       xsl processor.

       These methods are used by the serialization function, to create the
       content related datastructure. Like event functions these functions
       have to be implemented as class member, and like event funcitons the
       functions will have the context passed as the single parameter.

       getDOM()
           getDOM() should return the application data as XML-DOM.
           CGI::XMLApplication is quite lax if this function does not return
           anything - its simply assumed that an empty DOM should be rendered.
           In this case a dummy root element is created to avoid error
           messages from XML::LibXSLT.

       setHttpHeader()
           setHttpHeader should return a hash of headers (but not the Content-
           Type). This can be used to set the nocache pragma, to set or remove
           cookies. The keys of the hash must be the same as the named
           parameters of CGI.pm's header method. One does not need to care
           about the output of these headers, this is done by
           CGI::XMLApplication automatically.

           The content type of the returned data is usually not required to be
           set this way, since the XSLT processor knows about the content
           type, too.

       getStylesheet()
           If the getStylesheet is implemented the CGI::XMLApplication will
           assume the returned value either as a filename of a stylesheet or
           as a XML DOM representation of the same. If Stylesheets are stored
           in a folder accessible for the the web-server, a common path for
           the stylesheets should be set and  CGI::XMLApplication will
           initiate the parsing job.

           In cases the stylesheet is already present as a string (e.g. as a
           result of a database query) one may pass this string directly to
           CGI::XMLApplication.

           selectStylesheet is an alias for getStylesheet left for
           compatibility reasons.

           If none of these stylesheet selectors succeeds the Stylesheet
           missing panic code is thrown. If the parsing of the stylesheet XML
           fails Stylesheet not available is thrown. The latter case will also
           provide details where the stylesheet selection failed.

           selectStylesheet() has to return a valid path/filename for the
           stylesheet requested.

       getXSLTParameter()
           This function helps passing parameters to XML::LibXSLT's xsl
           processor. The function needs only to return a hash and does not
           need to encode the parameters.

           The function is the last callback called before the XSLT processing
           is started.

   Flow Control
       Besides the sendEvent() function, CGI::XMLApplication provides two
       additional functions for controlling the flow of the application.

       These two functions are related to the XML serialization and have not
       affect to the event handling.

       passthru()
           Originally for debugging purposes CGI::XMLApplication supports the
           passthru argument in the CGI query string. It can be used to
           directly pass the stringified XML-DOM to the client.

           Since there are cases one needs to decide from within the
           application if an untransformed XML Document has to be returned,
           this function was introduced.

           If is called without parameters passthru() returns the current
           passthru state of the application. E.g. this is done inside
           serialization(). Where TRUE (1) means the XML DOM should be passed
           directly to the client and FALSE (0) marks that the DOM must get
           XSL transformed first.

           Optional the function takes a single parameter, which shows if the
           function should be used in set rather than get mode. The parameter
           is interpreted as just described.

           If an application sets passthru by itself, any external 'passthru'
           parameter will be lost. This is useful if the application requires
           access to the plain (untransformed) XML Data.

       skipSerialization()
           To avoid the call of serialization() one should set
           skipSerialization.

              event_default {
                 my $self = shift;
                 # avoid serialization call
                 $self->skipSerialization( 1 ); # use 0 to unset

                 # now you can directly print to the client, but don't forget the
                 # headers.

                 return 0;
              }

   Helperfunctions for internal use
       function checkPush LIST
           This function searches the query string for a parameter with the
           passed name. The implementation is "imagesave" meaning there is no
           change in the code needed, if you switch from input.type=submit to
           input.type=image or vv. The algorithm tests whether a full name is
           found in the querystring, if not it tries tests for the name
           expanded by a '.x'. In context of events this function interprets
           each item part in the query string list as an event. Because of
           that, the algorithm returns only the first item matched.

           If you use the event interface with this function, then the HTML-
           forms should pass unique events to the script in order to avoid
           confusing behaviour.

           This function is used by testEvent() so if it is required to change
           the way CGI::XMLApplication selects events, override that function.

       method panic SCALAR
           This a simple error message handler. By default this function will
           print some information to the client where the application failed.
           During development, this is a useful feature, while on a production
           system this may pass vulnerable information about the system to the
           clients. To change the default behaviour,
           $CGI::XMLApplication::Quiet should get set to 1. This will still
           show an error page but without displaying error messages.
           Alternatively, the panic method can be overloaded.

           The current implementation send the 404 status to the client if any
           low level errors occour ( e.g. panic levels > -4 aka Application
           Panic).  Commonly this really shows a "Not Found" on the
           application Level. Application Panics will set the 500 error state.
           This makes this implementation work perfect with a mod_perl
           installation.

           In case mod_perl is used to handle the script one likes to set
           CGI::XMLApplication::Quiet to 2 which will cause
           CGI::XMLApplication just to return the error state while mod_perl
           does the rest.

       method setPanicMsg $SCALAR
           This useful method, helps to pass more specific error messages to
           the user. Currently this method is not very sophisticated: if the
           method is called twice, only the last string will be displayed.

       function getPanicMsg
           This method returns the panic message set by setPanicMsg().

   CGI Extras
       The following functions are some neat features missing in CGI.pm

       function checkFields LIST
           This is an easy way to test whether all required fields are filled
           out correctly. Called in array context the function returns the
           list of missing parameter. (Different to param() which returns all
           parameter names).  In scalar context the function returns a boolean
           value.

       function getParamHash LIST
           This function is a bit better for general data processing as the
           standard CGI::Vars function. While Vars sets a keys for each
           parameter found in the query string, getFieldsAsHash returns only
           the requested fields (as long they aren't NULL). This is useful in
           scripts where the script itself handles different kind of data
           within the same event.

           Since the function relies on Vars the returned data has the same
           structure Vars returns.

   some extra functions for stylesheet handling
       The getStylesheet() function should return either a filename or a
       stringnyfied XSL-DOM. For the first case it can be a restriction to
       return the fully qualified path. The following functions help managing
       the stylesheetpath, system-wide.

       method setStylesheetDir DIRNAME
           alias for setStylesheetPath

       method setStylesheetPath DIRNAME
           This method is for telling the application where the stylesheets
           can be found. If you keep your stylesheets in the same directory as
           your script you might leave this untouched. However, it is
           suggested to store stylesheet files in a directory that is out of
           reach for client access.

       function getStylesheetPath
           This function is only relevant if you write your own
           serialization() method. It returns the current path to the
           application stylesheets.

SEE ALSO
       CGI, perlobj, perlmod, XML::LibXML, XML::LibXSLT

AUTHOR
       Christian Glahn, phish@cpan.org

VERSION
       1.1.5

perl v5.40.2                      2015-08-17                 XMLApplication(3)
