CPANDB(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            CPANDB(1)


NAME
       cpandb - interface to "CPAN::SQLite"

DESCRIPTION
       This script is an interface to the routines of CPAN::SQLite for setting
       up, maintaining and searching a "DBD::SQLite" database of CPAN.
       Available options can be grouped into three categories.

   Common options
       These are options which are common to both setting up and maintaining
       the database or performing queries on it.  These are

       •  "--CPAN  '/path/to/CPAN'"

          This specifies the path to where the index files are to be stored.
          This could be a local CPAN mirror, defined here by the presence of a
          MIRRORED.BY file beneath this directory, or a local directory in
          which to store these files from a remote CPAN mirror. In the latter
          case, the index files are fetched from a remote CPAN mirror, using
          the same list that "CPAN.pm" uses, if this is configured, and are
          updated if they are more than one day old.

          If the "CPAN" option is not given, it will default to "cpan_home" of
          CPAN, if this is configured, with the sources being found under
          "keep_source_where".  A fatal error results if such a directory
          isn't found.  Updates to these index files are assumed here to be
          handled by "CPAN.pm".

       •  "--db_name  'cpan-sqlite'"

          This is the name of the database that "DBD::SQLite" will use. If not
          given, this defaults to "cpandb-sqlite".

       •  "--db_dir  '/path/to/db/dir'"

          This specifies the path to where the database file is found. If not
          given, it defaults to the "cpan_home" directory of "CPAN.pm", if
          present, or to the directory in which the script was invoked.

   Indexing options
       These are options which are used for setting up and maintaining the
       database. These include

       •  "--setup"

          This specifies that the database is to be created and populated from
          the CPAN indices; any exisiting database will be overwritten.

       •  "--update"

          This is used to update an exisiting database, which must have first
          been created with the "setup" option.

       •  "--reindex 'dist_name'"

          This specifies that the CPAN distribution "dist_name" is to be
          reindexed.

   Querying options
       These options are used to query the database. Available options are

       •  "--module Mod::Name"

          This provides information on the specified module name.

       •  "--dist Dist-Name"

          This provides information on the specified distribution name.

       •  "--cpanid CPANID"

          This provides information on the specified CPAN author id

       All search terms are assumed to be exact matches in a case-insensitive
       manner.

SEE ALSO
       CPAN::SQLite.

perl v5.40.2                      2009-09-20                         CPANDB(1)
