Config::Setting(3)    User Contributed Perl Documentation   Config::Setting(3)


NAME
       Config::Setting - Perl extension for configuration files.

SYNOPSIS
         use Config::Setting;
         my $stg = Config::Setting->new;
         $stg->get("section", "key");

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides an OO interface to a file full of settings.
       Settings are assumed to be contained in collections (known as
       "sections").  Each setting has a key and a value. The value of a
       setting may refer to other settings using a similiar syntax to
       variables in perl.

       Whilst this module can be used directly it is anticipated that it will
       be subclassed.  This way policy regarding the location and layout of
       the settings can be determined for your project.

METHODS
       new ( )
           The constructor.  Takes no arguments.

       is_configured ( )
           Returns true if more than one configuration file has been found and
           read.

       provider ( )
           Returns an object which can be used to collect the contents of
           files.  The default returns a Config::Setting::FileProvider object.
           You probably want to override this method when you set up your
           subclass, in order to set the policy for file locations.

       parser ( )
           Returns a parser object.  The default is the
           Config::Setting::IniParser object.  You may want to override this
           in a subclass if you wish to use an alternative format for your
           configuration files.

       sections ( )
           Return a list of which sections are available from this object.

       keylist ( SECTION )
           Return a list of keys that SECTION contains.

       has ( SECTION, KEY )
           Returns true if SECTION contains KEY.

       expand ( )
           Internal use only.

       get ( SECTION, KEY )
           Return the value of KEY in SECTION.  If the value contains any
           variables of the form ${word}, they will be fully expanded in the
           return value.

           When trying to replace a variable "word", first, "word" will be
           looked up as a key in the current section.  If not found, it will
           then be looked up sequentially in all the other sections.  If still
           not found, it will be replaced with an empty string.

           Expansion is recursive, so an expanded variable can contain other
           variables.

TODO
       It would be useful to know where each setting derived from, in order to
       help debugging.

AUTHOR
       Dominic Mitchell, <cpan (at) happygiraffe.net>

SEE ALSO
       Config::Setting::FileProvider, Config::Setting::IniParser,
       Config::Setting::XMLParser.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-10                Config::Setting(3)
