Class::DBI::SAK(3)    User Contributed Perl Documentation   Class::DBI::SAK(3)


NAME
       Class::DBI::SAK - Class::DBI Swiss Army Knife (SAK)

SYNOPSIS
         use Class::DBI::SAK qw[:common :mysql FromCGI];

ABSTRACT
       This module encapsulates the pain and suffering that is importing
       Class::DBI and all it's little helper friends.

DESCRIPTION
       By taking the busy work out of using Class::DBI as you see fit, your
       code becomes more useful by size.  Most of us end up using at least a
       couple Class::DBI extensions in our programs, and it's just a pain.
       Enter the Swiss Army Knife.

       This module is intelligent.  It knows how each module is supposed to be
       used, and which ones override the need to "use base qw[Class::DBI]".

       "Class::DBI::SAK" is not a subclass of "Class::DBI".  If you want to
       subclass "Class::DBI" you do the following.

         use Class::DBI::SAK qw[:useful];
         use base qw[Class::DBI];

       Also, "Class::DBI::SAK" installation recommends that you install the
       described in the ":useful" tag.  No modules described in Tags or
       Modules are bundled with this distribution.  They must be installed by
       you if you want to use them.

   Tags
       Tags may be specified either by groupings, begining with a colon (":"),
       or by the name of the module following the "Class::DBI::" prefix.

       Tags are available for all modules in the Class::DBI namepace, where it
       makes sense to do so, as of the date of this distribution.

       All modules are mentioned without the "Class::DBI::" prefix for
       brevity.

       Groups

       ":all"
           All the modules specified in this module.  This couldn't possibly
           be useful to the end user (you) since so many of them conflict.

       ":useful"
           Modules that are generally useful all the time.  AbstractSearch,
           and Pager.  This is the default if no tags are given at all.

       ":mysql"
           Modules for widened support for Mysql.  mysql,
           mysql::FullTextSearch.

       Modules

       Extension
       FromCGI
       Pg
       Replication
       SQLite

BUGS
       First, this module could get out of date easily.  This is due to the
       nature of the uses of each of the modules.  They are not consistent, so
       I have to know about each one.  Please submit a bug report if you find
       this module out of date.

       Second, no known bugs.

       Send bug reports to http://rt.cpan.org/

AUTHOR
       Casey West, <casey@geeknest.com>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2003 Casey West.  All rights reserved.  This program is
       free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
       terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       perl, Class::DBI.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-10                Class::DBI::SAK(3)
