DJabberd(3)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          DJabberd(3)


NAME
       DJabberd - scalable, extensible Jabber/XMPP server.

SYNOPSIS
        $ djabberd --conf=config-file.conf --daemonize

DESCRIPTION
       DJabberd was the answer to LiveJournal's Jabber (XMPP) server needs.
       We needed:

       •   good performance for tons of connected users

       •   ability to scale to multiple nodes

       •   ability to hook into LiveJournal at all places, not just auth

       Basically we wanted the swiss army knife of Jabber servers (think
       qpsmtpd or mod_perl), but none existed in any language.  While some
       popular Jabber servers let us do pluggable auth, none let us get our
       hands into roster storage, vcards, avatars, presence, etc.

       So we made DJabberd.  It's a Jabber server where almost everything
       defers to hooks to be implemented by plugins.  It does the core spec
       itself (including SSL, StartTLS, server-to-server, etc), but it doesn't
       come with any way to do authentication or storage or rosters, etc.
       You'll need to go pick up a plugin to do those.

       You should be able to plop DJabberd into your existing systems /
       userbase with minimal pain.  Just find a plugin that's close (if a
       perfect match doesn't already exist!) and tweak.

       DJabberd is event-based so we can have really low per-connection memory
       requirements, smaller than is possible with a threaded jabber server.
       Because of this, all plugins can operate asynchronously, taking as long
       as they want to finish their work, or to decline to the next handler.
       (in the meantime, while plugins wait on a response from whatever
       they're talking to, the DJabberd event loop continues at full speed)
       However, that's more work, so some plugins may choose to operate
       synchronously, but they do so with the understanding that those plugins
       will cause the whole server to get bogged down.  If you're running a
       Jabber server for 5 users, you may not care that the SQLite
       authentication backend pauses your server for milliseconds at a time,
       but on a site with hundreds of thousands of connections, that wouldn't
       be acceptable.  Watch out for those plugins.

HACKING
       Read HookDocs.pm, read the major base classes (Authen, RosterStorage,
       PresenceChecker), join the mailing list, ask questions ... we're here
       to help.  If you want more hooks, let us know!  If we forgot one, it
       doesn't hurt us to add more.

COPYRIGHT
       This module is Copyright (c) 2006 Six Apart, Ltd.  All rights reserved.

       You may distribute under the terms of either the GNU General Public
       License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl README file.

WARRANTY
       This is free software. IT COMES WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.

WEBSITE
       Visit:

          http://danga.com/djabberd/

AUTHORS
       Brad Fitzpatrick <brad@danga.com>

       Artur Bergman <sky@crucially.net>

       Jonathan Steinert <jsteinert@sixapart.com>

perl v5.40.2                      2011-06-13                       DJabberd(3)
