Devel::FindPerl(3)    User Contributed Perl Documentation   Devel::FindPerl(3)


NAME
       Devel::FindPerl - Find the path to your perl

VERSION
       version 0.016

SYNOPSIS
        use Devel::FindPerl 'find_perl_interpreter';
        system find_perl_interpreter, '-e', '...';

DESCRIPTION
       This module tries to find the path to the currently running perl. It
       (optionally) exports the following functions:

FUNCTIONS
   find_perl_interpreter($config = ExtUtils::Config->new)
       This function will try really really hard to find the path to the perl
       running your program. I should be able to find it in most
       circumstances. Note that the result of this function will be cached for
       any serialized value of $config. It will return a list that usually but
       not necessarily is containing one element; additional elements are
       arguments that must be passed to that perl for correct functioning.

   perl_is_same($path, @arguments)
       Tests if the perl in $path is the same perl as the currently running
       one.

SECURITY
       This module by default does things that are not particularly secure
       (run programs based on external input). In tainted mode, it will try to
       avoid any insecure action, but that may affect its ability to find the
       perl executable.

SEE ALSO
       •   Probe::Perl

           This module has much the same purpose as Probe::Perl, in fact the
           algorithm is mostly the same as both are extracted from
           Module::Build at different points in time. If I had known about it
           when I extracted it myself, I probably wouldn't have bothered, but
           now that I do have it there are a number of reasons for me to
           prefer Devel::FindPerl over Probe::Perl

           •   Separation of concerns. P::P does 4 completely different things
               (finding perl, managing configuration, categorizing platorms
               and formatting a perl version. Devel::FindPerl is instead
               complemented by modules such as ExtUtils::Config and
               Perl::OSType.

           •   It handles tainting better. In particular,
               "find_perl_interpreter" never returns a tainted value, even in
               tainted mode.

           •   It was written with inclusion in core in mind, though the
               removal of Module::Build from core after perl 5.20 may make
               this point moot.

AUTHOR
       Leon Timmermans <leont@cpan.org>, Randy Sims
       <randys@thepierianspring.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Randy Sims, Leon Timmermans.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2022-07-01                Devel::FindPerl(3)
