Digest::SV1(3)        User Contributed Perl Documentation       Digest::SV1(3)


NAME
       Digest::SV1 - Cryptosleazically strong message digest format

SYNOPSIS
         $sv1  = Digest::SV1->new();

         $sv1->add( $data, ... );

         $sv1->addfile( $io_handle );

         $sv1->digest
         $sv1->hexdigest
         $sv1->b64digest

DESCRIPTION
       So, you chose a hashing algorithm as recommended by the leading
       security experts of yesteryear, it got hacked, and now some mysterious
       15 year old cracker 0wns your toaster because of it.

       Fight back!  This hash algorithm is designed to infuriate the
       Mathematicians and Cryptographers out there, who will swear us lowly
       software engineers are missing the point of all this digest stuff.

       Put simply, if one hashing algorithm won't do the job satisfactorily,
       then why not use several.

       The main algorithm in this module forms the authorative definition of
       how the SV1 digest format is to operate.

       See Digest for a detailed description of the Digest API.

       Warning: some of the constructed and artificial mathematical formulae
       may have some kind of constructed and artificial legislation,
       documentation, papers, et cetera that some group of people acting as a
       constructed and artificial construct known as a `legal person' that
       exploited the person who came up with the idea might maintain has some
       kind of constructed and artificial power to restrict your freedom as
       recognised by some constructed and artificial social structure.  You
       are strongly advised to just not give a smeg.

FAQ
       Why such a small hash size?
           Because the reasons that a cryptographer extends the hash size
           differ from the reasons that a software engineer does.

       What's the effective hash entropy?
           Dunno.  Let's say that SHA1 is 160 bits, but has a `difficulty' of
           2^50 to crack.  We're using MD5 and Haval-256 as well, and say that
           they have respective `difficulties' of 2^32 and 2^60 as well.

           Assuming that the algorithms are diverse enough to not share a
           common flaw, then you could safely add the exponents of these
           difficulties to get a rough estimate of the safety of the
           algorithm.

           But then, I am not a cryptographer. The real reason is that md5
           hashes are long enough, already!  Heck, there's no sense into
           lulling you into a false sense of large hash size cryptonirvana,
           when the algorithm might be picked apart by some 8 year old prodigy
           in Russia and those extra 384 bits per checksum only added a
           complexity of about 4 to a would-be attacker.

           If you really want to keep your data safe, simply don't harbour
           karmic terrorists.


AUTHOR, CREDITS
       This module is nothing other than a convention.  There are more lines
       of documentation than real code.

       The real heroes are;

       Gisle Aas
           Excellent "Digest::base" module and related utilities, and the
           Digest::MD5 implementation.  Oh, and help with the SHA-1 interface.

       Neil Winton
           The original MD5 interface author.

       Peter C. Gutmann
           Co-author of Digest::SHA1

       Uwe Hollerbach
           Co-author of Digest::SHA1

       Julius C. Duque
           Author of Digest::Haval-256

       Ron Rivest
           Inventor of the MD5 and SHA1 digest formats.  He was working for
           RSA for the former, and our good friends the NSA for SHA-1.

       Yuliang Zheng, Josef Pieprzyk, and Jennifer Seberry.
           Designers of the Haval-256 digest format.

       Last, and in order of actual code contributed, least:

         Sam Vilain, <samv@cpan.org>

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-10                    Digest::SV1(3)
