Devel::Modlist(3)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    Devel::Modlist(3)


NAME
       Devel::Modlist - Perl extension to collect module use information

SYNOPSIS
           perl -d:Modlist script.pl

DESCRIPTION
       The Devel::Modlist utility is provided as a means by which to get a
       quick run-down on which libraries and modules are being utilized by a
       given script.

       Just as compiler systems like gcc provide dependancy information via
       switches such as "-M", Devel::Modlist is intended to assist script
       authors in preparing dependancy information for potential users of
       their scripts.

USAGE
       Usage of Devel::Modlist is simple. The primary method of invocation is
       to use the "-d" option of Perl:

           perl -d:Modlist script.pl

       Alternately, one could use the "-M" option:

           perl -MDevel::Modlist script.pl

       In the case of this module, the two are identical save for the amount
       of typing (and option passing, see below). It is not recommended that
       this module be loaded directly by a script via the use keyword, as that
       would cause the dependancy reporting after every invocation until it
       was removed from the code.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be specified to the package. These are
       specified either by:

           perl -MDevel::Modlist=option1[,option2,...]

       or

           perl -d:Modlist=option1[,option2,...]

       Options may also be given in an environment variable, which gets read
       at any invocation in which there are no options explicitly provided. If
       any options are given in the invocation, then the environment variable
       is ignored. Two different names are recognized:

           Devel::Modlist
           Devel__Modlist

       The latter is to accomodate shells that do not like the presence of
       "::" in an environment variable name.

       The options:

       stdout
           By default, the report is printed on the STDERR filehandle. If this
           option is present, it is sent to STDOUT instead.

       cpan
           Reduce the resulting list of modules by using the data maintained
           in the local CPAN configuration area. The CPAN module (see CPAN)
           maintains a very thorough representation of the contents of the
           archive, on a per-module basis.  Using this option means that if
           there are two or more modules that are parts of the same
           distribution, only one will be reported (the one with the shortest
           name). This is useful for generating a minimalist dependancy set
           that can in turn be fed to the CPAN "install" command to ensure
           that all needed modules are in fact present.

       cpandist
           This is identical to the option above, with the exception that it
           causes the reported output to be the CPAN filename rather than the
           module name in the standard Perl syntax. This can also be fed to
           the CPAN shell, but it can also be used by other front-ends as a
           path component in fetching the requisite file from an archive site.
           Since the name contains the version number, this behaves as though
           noversion (see below) was also set. If both cpan and cpandist are
           set, this option (cpandist) takes precedence. If path is also
           specified, this option again takes precedence.

       nocore
           Suppress the display of those modules that are a part of the Perl
           core. This is dependant on the Perl private library area not being
           an exact substring of the site-dependant library. The build process
           checks this for you prior to install.

       noversion
           Suppress the inclusion of version information with the module
           names. If a module has defined its version by means of the accepted
           standard of declaring a variable $VERSION in the package namespace,
           Devel::Modlist finds this and includes it in the report by default.
           Use this option to override that default.

       zerodefault
           Also oriented towards the display of versions, this option tells
           the report to use a zero (0) as the default version if the package
           has not provided a value. Otherwise, an empty string is displayed
           (unless noversion is given).

       path
           Display the path and filename of each module instead of the module
           name. Useful for producing lists for later input to tools such as
           rpm.

       yaml =item yamlheader=NAME =item yamlheaderindent=N =item yamlindent=N
       =item yamlcomplete
           (Experimental, some options and/or features may change in future
           releases.)

           If any yaml option is present, the output format is in YAML rather
           than simple text. Additionally, the options can exert a degree of
           control over the format of the resulting YAML. Those options that
           take value must provide them by using a "=" character immediately
           followed by the value, with no space surrounding the "=".

           yamlheader=NAME
                   Specify a "header" for the YAML section being emitted. This
                   roughly corresponds to the name of the section (or item) in
                   the resulting parsed YAML tree. (See any of the YAML-
                   related modules on CPAN for an explanation of how a YAML
                   file is transformed into a Perl data structure.) If no
                   header value is specified, the default is "Requires". If
                   you wish to suppress this header entirely, pass the special
                   value "none", i.e., "yamlheader=none".

           yamlheaderindent=N
                   Specify the indentation for the section header. By default,
                   the header is flush to the left, an indentation of 0. The
                   value provided specifies the number of space characters
                   printed before the header.

           yamlindent=N
                   Specify the indentation for the key/value pairs (or
                   sequential-list items, see below). This defaults to 4, and
                   represents the number of leading spaces on each line. If
                   yamlheader is set to "none", then this is not given a
                   default, thus allowing the lines to be left-flush in the
                   absence of the header. If you wish the lines to have no
                   indentation, pass this option with a value of 0; the
                   default is only applied if the option is not explicitly
                   present. The indentation is relative to the value of
                   yamlheaderindent, so if you provide a non-zero value for
                   that option, it will be added to this one (unless the
                   header is suppressed by "yamlheader=none").

           yamlcomplete
                   If this option is present, the output will be a complete
                   YAML document, with a comment identifying the generator and
                   a "---" separator. yamlheader may still be set to "none" to
                   supress the header, even when a complete document is being
                   generated.

           The yaml option is just to allow selection of the YAML option
           without making any adjustments to the formatting. If any of the
           other YAML options are present, it will trigger this output format;
           an explicit yaml would be unnecessary.

           The YAML output format respects other options (stdout, noversion,
           zerodefault, etc.). If noversion is given, the output is a
           sequential list rather than key/value pairings. If path is given,
           the keys (or values of the sequential list) are pathnames. Whether
           pathnames or module names are used, those values are always
           explicitly quoted in the YAML output.

       stop
           Exit before the first actual program line is executed. This
           provides for fetching the dependancy list without actually running
           the full program. This has a drawback: if the program uses any of
           require, eval or other such mechanisms to load libraries after the
           compilation phase, these will not be reported.

CAVEATS
       Perl versions up to 5.6.0 cannot accept options to the "-d:" flag as
       with the "-M" flag. Thus, to pass options one must use:

           perl -MDevel::Modlist=option1[,option2,...]

       Unfortunately, this inhibits the stop option detailed earlier. To use
       this option, an invocation of:

           perl -d:Modlist -MDevel::Modlist=option1[,option2,...]

       does the trick, as the first invocation puts the interpreter in
       debugging mode (necessary for stop to work) while the second causes the
       options to be parsed and recorded by Devel::Modlist.

       Versions of Perl from 5.6.1 onwards allow options to be included with
       the "-d:Modlist" flag.

       Because Devel::Modlist uses the "strict" pragma internally (as all
       modules should), that pragma is always removed from the output to avoid
       generating a false-positive.

AUTHOR
       Randy J. Ray <rjray@blackperl.com>, using idea and prototype code
       provided by Tim Bunce <Tim.Bunce@ig.co.uk>

LICENSE
       This module and the code within are released under the terms of the
       Artistic License 2.0
       (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license-2.0.php). This
       code may be redistributed under either the Artistic License or the GNU
       Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1
       (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.php).

perl v5.40.2                      2008-09-05                 Devel::Modlist(3)
