EXCEL2CSV(1)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         EXCEL2CSV(1)


NAME
       excel2csv

SYNOPSIS
       By default, the CSV output goes to STDOUT:

        excel2csv --file file.xlsx > file.csv

       You can also save to a file directly:

        excel2csv --file file.xlsx --output file.csv

       Or even write to STDERR:

        excel2csv --file file.xlsx --output STDERR

       By default, the CSV file will be in the UTF-8 encoding. You can change
       the encoding:

        excel2csv --file file.xlsx --output_encoding CP1252 --output file_cp1252.csv

       It can also autmatically trim whitespace from around all cell values:

        excel2csv --file file.xlsx --trim

       Use the --sheet option to read from a sheet/tab other than the first
       one. The following will pull from sheet 2:

        excel2csv --file file.xlsx --sheet 2

       You do not have to pass the --file and --output option keys. The first
       non-keyed option will be used as the filename, and the second non-keyed
       option will be the output. Other keyed options can still be passed in:

        excel2csv file.xlsx file.csv --trim

       Bash file globbing is also supported.  This will parse through each xls
       file in the current directory and print out the CSV output from each
       one to STDOUT.

        excel2csv *.xls

       gz files can also be parsed:

        excel2csv file.xls.gz
        excel2csv *.xls.gz

       You can even pipe in the binary excel data:

        cat file.xls | excel2csv > file.csv

ARGS
       --file=(string)
           The path to the spreadsheet file.

       --output=(string)
           The path to where you want to store the CSV file.

           If you do not pass this, the CSV output will go to STDOUT.

           If this is a directory, a csv filename will be created
           automatically using the excel filename.  The extension will simply
           be changed to .csv.

       --formatted
           Be default, the raw cell values from xls files will be returned.
           If this is set, the "formatted" cell values will be returned
           instead.

           This is really only useful to get formatted numbers, such as
           currency values that include a currency symbol, or large numbers
           that contain commas.

       --trim
           If set, whitespace around each value will be trimmed.

       --output_encoding=(string)
           The character encoding that you want the CSV output to be in.
           Defaults to UTF-8.

       --max_blank=(integer)
           If this many blank lines are found, parsing will stop.  Defaults to
           10.

       --sheet=(integer)
           The sheet (tab) in the spreadsheet to parse.  Defaults to sheet 1.

           You can pass this option multiple times to parse multiple sheets.
           Each sheet's data will be added sequentially to the same CSV
           output.

       --match=(regex)
           If set, only rows that have a value matching this regex will be
           returned.

       --color
           Use color when outputting results.  This option only makes sense
           when you are outputting to STDOUT.

           When using --match, each match will also be highlighted in red.

perl v5.40.2                      2021-06-23                      EXCEL2CSV(1)
