Forest(3)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            Forest(3)


NAME
       Forest - A collection of n-ary tree related modules

DESCRIPTION
       Forest is intended to be a replacement for the Tree::Simple family of
       modules, and fixes many of the issues that have always bothered me
       about them. It is by no means a complete replacement yet, but should
       eventually grow to become that.

       For more information please refer to the individual module
       documentation, starting with Forest::Tree.

TODO
       More documentation
           This is 0.10 so it is (still) lacking quite a bit of docs (I am
           being really lazy sorry).  Although I invite people to read the
           source, it is quite simple really.

       More tests
           The coverage is in the low 90s, but there is still a lot of
           behavioral stuff that could use some testing too.

SEE ALSO
       Tree::Simple
           I wrote this module a few years ago and I had served me well, but
           recently I find myself getting frustrated with some of the uglier
           bits of this module. So Forest is a re-write of this module.

       Tree
           This is an ambitious project to replace all the Tree related
           modules with a single core implementation. There is some good code
           in here, but the project seems to be very much on the back-burner
           at this time.

       O'Caml port of Forest
           Ask me about the O'Caml port of this module, it is also sitting on
           my hard drive waiting for release. It actually helped quite a bit
           in terms of helping me settle on the APIs for this module. Static
           typing can be very helpful sometimes.

BUGS
       All complex software has bugs lurking in it, and this module is no
       exception. If you find a bug please either email me, or add the bug to
       cpan-RT.

AUTHOR
       Stevan Little <stevan.little@iinteractive.com>

       With contributions from:

       Yuval (nothingmuch) Kogman

       Guillermo (groditi) Roditi

       Florian (rafl) Ragwitz

       Jesse (doy) Luehrs

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2008-2014 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

       <http://www.iinteractive.com>

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2013-12-18                         Forest(3)
