Hash::SharedMem(3)    User Contributed Perl Documentation   Hash::SharedMem(3)


NAME
       Hash::SharedMem - efficient shared mutable hash

SYNOPSIS
           use Hash::SharedMem qw(shash_referential_handle);

           if(shash_referential_handle) { ...

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(is_shash check_shash);

           if(is_shash($arg)) { ...
           check_shash($arg);

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(shash_open);

           $shash = shash_open($filename, "rwc");

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(
               shash_is_readable shash_is_writable shash_mode);

           if(shash_is_readable($shash)) { ...
           if(shash_is_writable($shash)) { ...
           $mode = shash_mode($shash);

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(
               shash_exists shash_length shash_get
               shash_set shash_gset shash_cset);

           if(shash_exists($shash, $key)) { ...
           $length = shash_length($shash, $key);
           $value = shash_get($shash, $key);
           shash_set($shash, $key, $newvalue);
           $oldvalue = shash_gset($shash, $key, $newvalue);
           if(shash_cset($shash, $key, $chkvalue, $newvalue)) { ...

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(
               shash_occupied shash_count shash_size
               shash_key_min shash_key_max
               shash_key_ge shash_key_gt shash_key_le shash_key_lt
               shash_keys_array shash_keys_hash
               shash_group_get_hash);

           if(shash_occupied($shash)) { ...
           $count = shash_count($shash);
           $size = shash_size($shash);
           $key = shash_key_min($shash);
           $key = shash_key_max($shash);
           $key = shash_key_ge($shash, $key);
           $key = shash_key_gt($shash, $key);
           $key = shash_key_le($shash, $key);
           $key = shash_key_lt($shash, $key);
           $keys = shash_keys_array($shash);
           $keys = shash_keys_hash($shash);
           $group = shash_group_get_hash($shash);

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(shash_snapshot shash_is_snapshot);

           $snap_shash = shash_snapshot($shash);
           if(shash_is_snapshot($shash)) { ...

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(shash_idle shash_tidy);

           shash_idle($shash);
           shash_tidy($shash);

           use Hash::SharedMem qw(
               shash_tally_get shash_tally_zero shash_tally_gzero);

           $tally = shash_tally_get($shash);
           shash_tally_zero($shash);
           $tally = shash_tally_gzero($shash);

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides a facility for efficiently sharing mutable data
       between processes on one host.  Data is organised as a key/value store,
       resembling a Perl hash.  The keys and values are restricted to octet
       (Latin-1) strings.  Structured objects may be stored by serialising
       them using a mechanism such as Sereal.

       The data is represented in files that are mapped into each process's
       memory space, which for interprocess communication amounts to the
       processes sharing memory.  Processes are never blocked waiting for each
       other.  The use of files means that there is some persistence, with the
       data continuing to exist when there are no processes with it mapped.

       The data structure is optimised for the case where all the data fits
       into RAM.  This happens either via buffering of a disk-based
       filesystem, or as the normal operation of a memory-backed filesystem,
       in either case as long as there isn't much swapping activity.  If RAM
       isn't large enough, such that the data has to reside mainly on disk and
       parts of it have to be frequently reread from disk, speed will
       seriously suffer.  The data structure exhibits poor locality of
       reference, and is not designed to play nicely with filesystem block
       sizes.

   Consistency and synchronisation
       A shared hash is held in regular files, grouped in a directory.  At all
       times, the OS-visible state of the files provides a consistent view of
       the hash's content, from which read and write operations can proceed.
       It is no problem for a process using the shared hash to crash; other
       processes, running concurrently or later, will be unimpeded in using
       the shared hash.

       It is mainly intended that the shared hash should be held on a memory-
       backed filesystem, and will therefore only last as long as the machine
       stays up.  However, it can use any filesystem that supports mmap(2),
       including conventional disk filesystems such as ext2.  In this case, as
       long as the OS shuts down cleanly (synching all file writes to the
       underlying disk), a consistent state of the shared hash will persist
       between boots, and usage of the shared hash can continue after the OS
       boots again.  Note that only the OS is required to shut down cleanly;
       it still doesn't matter if user processes crash.

       Because the OS is likely to reorder file writes when writing them to
       disk, the instantaneous state of the shared hash's files on disk is
       generally not guaranteed to be consistent.  So if the OS crashes, upon
       reboot the files are liable to be in an inconsistent state (corrupted).

       Maintaining consistency across an OS crash is a feature likely to be
       added to this module in the future.  Durability of writes, for which
       that is a prerequisite, is another likely future addition.

   File permissions
       To read normally from a shared hash requires read and search (execute)
       permission on the shared hash directory and read permission on all the
       regular files in the directory.  To write normally requires read,
       write, and search permissions on the directory and read and write
       permissions on all the regular files.  For security purposes, some
       information about shared hash content can be gleaned by anyone who has
       read or search permission on the directory, and content can be modified
       by anyone who has search permission on the directory and write
       permission on either the directory or any of the regular files.

       The file permission bits on a shared hash are determined by the
       circumstances in which it was created, specifically by the umask in
       effect at the point of creation.  As shared hash creation is
       unavoidably non-atomic, competing creation attempts can cause trouble,
       and the resulting permissions are only guaranteed if all competing
       attempts at creation use the same umask.  After the shared hash is
       fully created, subsequently opening it with the create flag set doesn't
       affect permissions.

       The directory gets permissions "rwxrwxrwx" modified by the creation
       umask, and the regular files in it get permissions "rw-rw-rw-" modified
       by the creation umask.  All the regular files that contain any part of
       the shared hash content will get the same permission bits.  This
       includes files created long after initial creation of the shared hash,
       which are created as part of shared hash write operations; the umask in
       effect at the point of those operations is insignificant.

       File ownership and group assignment are not so controlled.  An attempt
       is made to give all files the same group assignment and ownership,
       determined by the creation of the shared hash, but the ability to do so
       is limited by OS semantics.  Typically, users other than the superuser
       cannot affect ownership, and can only assign files to groups of which
       they are members.  Also, as with permission bits, competing creation
       attempts can make ownerships and group assignments inconsistent, even
       if they are generally controllable.

       Where they can't be freely set, each regular file gets whatever
       ownership and group assignment arise naturally from the circumstances
       in which it was created.  If multiple users write to a single shared
       hash, it is to be expected that the constituent files will end up
       having different owners.  It is up to the user to ensure that the
       varying ownerships combined with the consistent permission bits yield
       compatible permissions for all intended users of the shared hash.
       Group-based permissions should work provided that all writers are
       members of the relevant group.

   Filesystem referential integrity
       If the system calls openat(2) et al are supported by the kernel and the
       C library, then an open shared hash handle contains an OS-supported
       first-class reference to the shared hash to which it refers.
       (Specifically, it has a file descriptor referring to the shared hash
       directory.)  In this situation, the reference remains valid regardless
       of filename changes.  The shared hash can be renamed or moved
       arbitrarily, within the filesystem, or the process can change its
       current directory or root directory, and the handle remains valid.

       If these modern system calls are not available, then an open shared
       hash handle cannot contain a first-class reference to the shared hash
       directory.  Instead it must repeatedly refer to the directory by name.
       The name supplied to "shash_open" is resolved to an absolute pathname,
       so the handle will continue to work if the process changes its current
       directory.  But any renaming of the shared hash, or the process
       changing its root directory, will cause the handle to fail at the next
       operation that requires the use of filenames.  (This is unlikely to be
       the very next operation after the pathname becomes invalid.)  An
       attempt is made to ensure that the stored pathname is still correct
       each time it is used, but there is unavoidably a race condition,
       whereby some very unluckily timed renaming could cause an operation to
       be applied to the wrong directory.

       The means by which shared hash handles reference their directories is
       indicated by the constant "shash_referential_handle".

       When a shared hash is being opened, if it already exists then the name
       passed to "shash_open" is resolved just once to determine to what
       shared hash it refers.  If the modern system calls are supported, this
       yields perfectly clean name resolution semantics.  However, if a shared
       hash does not already exist, its creation cannot currently be so
       perfectly clean.  The name passed to "shash_open" must be resolved at
       least twice, once to create the shared hash directory and once to
       acquire a reference to it (of whichever type).  There is unavoidably a
       race condition here.

   File operations
       Because a shared hash is encapsulated in a directory, rather than being
       a single non-directory file, the ability to perform file operations on
       it is limited.  Although it can be renamed or moved, under POSIX
       semantics such a rename can't atomically replace any file other than an
       empty directory.  In particular, it can't atomically replace another
       shared hash.  It also can't be hard-linked to have multiple names.
       (However, a major use case for link(2), non-overwriting renaming, can
       be achieved through rename(2) due to the latter's limitations for
       directories.)  Finally, it can't be unlinked.  (Linking and unlinking
       directories are possible for root on some systems, but cause
       undesirable filesystem irregularities.)

       A shared hash can be disposed of by applying "rm -r" to its directory.
       This is not equivalent to unlink(2) ("rm") on a regular file, because
       it not only removes the object's name but also disrupts its internal
       structure.  If a process has an open handle referring to the shared
       hash at the time of "rm -r", the use of the shared hash through that
       handle is likely to fail, although probably not immediately.  If a
       process is writing to the shared hash at the time of "rm -r", there is
       a race condition that could prevent the removal from completing.  "rm
       -r" should therefore only be applied after all processes have finished
       using the shared hash.

       A shared hash can be copied by means of "cp -r" (not mere "cp"), "tar",
       or similar means.  It is safe to do this while processes have open
       handles referring to the shared hash, and while processes are reading
       from it.  However, as with most forms of database file, if a process is
       writing to the shared hash then the file copier is liable to pick up an
       inconsistent (corrupted) view of the shared hash.  Copying should
       therefore only be attempted at a time when no write operations are
       being performed.  It is acceptable for processes to have the shared
       hash open in write mode, provided that they do not actually perform any
       write operation while the copy is being made.

       A file-level copying operation applied to a shared hash is likely to
       result in a copy that occupies much more filesystem space than the
       original.  This occurs because most of the time a large part of the
       main data file is a filesystem hole, not occupying any actual storage.
       Some copying mechanisms (such as GNU "cp") can recognise this and avoid
       allocating unnecessary storage for the copy, but others (such as GNU
       "tar") will blindly fill space with a lot of zeroes.  If the copy is
       subsequently used in shared hash write operations, ultimately it will
       recover from this inefficient block allocation.

   Forking
       If a process is duplicated by fork(2) while it holds a shared hash
       handle, the handle is duplicated with the rest of the process, so both
       resulting processes have handles referring to the same underlying
       shared hash.  Provided that the duplication did not happen during a
       shared hash operation, both processes' handles will subsequently work
       normally, and can be used independently.

       Things are more difficult if a fork(2) happens while a shared hash
       operation is in progress.  This should not normally be possible to
       achieve from Perl code: arbitrary Perl code should not run during the
       critical part of an operation.  If a shared hash operator is given a
       tied variable as a parameter, the magic method call for access to that
       parameter occurs before the critical part, so a fork in that method is
       safe.  If a signal is received during a shared hash operation, any
       signal handler installed in %SIG will be deferred until the operation
       is complete, so a fork in such a signal handler is also safe.  A
       problematic fork(2) should only be achievable by XS code.

       If a fork(2) does happen during the critical part of a shared hash
       operation, the two resulting handles are liable to interfere if the
       operation is resumed in both processes.  In this case, it is safe for
       at most one process (which may be either of them) to resume the
       operation.  The other process must neither resume the operation in
       progress nor make any further use of the handle.  It is safe for the
       non-resuming process to chain a new program with execve(2), to
       terminate with _exit(2), or generally to make use of the C library
       before doing either of those.  Attempting to run Perl code would be
       unwise.

       On platforms lacking a native fork(2), the Perl function fork actually
       creates a Perl thread.  In that case the behaviour should be similar to
       that seen with a real fork(2), as described in the next section.

   Threads
       This module can be used in multiple Perl threads simultaneously.  The
       module may be loaded by multiple threads separately, or from Perl 5.8.9
       onwards may be loaded by a thread that spawns new threads.  (Prior to
       Perl 5.8.9, limitations of the threading system mean that module data
       can't be correctly cloned upon thread spawning.  Any but the most
       trivial cases of thread spawning with this module loaded will crash the
       interpreter.  The rest of this section only applies to Perls that fully
       support cloning.)

       If a thread is spawned while the parent thread has an open shared hash
       handle, the handle is duplicated, so that both resulting threads have
       handles referring to the same underlying shared hash.  Provided that
       the duplication did not happen during a shared hash operation, both
       threads' handles will subsequently work normally, and can be used
       independently.

   Tainting
       If taint mode is enabled, taintedness is relevant to some operations on
       shared hashes.  Shared hash handles mostly behave like regular file
       handles for tainting purposes.  Where the following description says
       that a result is "not tainted", that means it does not get the taint
       flag set merely by virtue of the operation performed; it may still be
       marked as tainted if other tainted data is part of the same expression,
       due to Perl's conservative taint tracking.

       The classification functions are happy to operate on tainted arguments.
       Their results are not tainted.

       When opening a shared hash, if the shared hash filename or the mode
       string is tainted then it is not permitted to open for writing or with
       the possibility of creating.  It is permitted to open non-creatingly
       for reading regardless of taint status.  Of course, any kind of opening
       is permitted in an untainted expression.

       A shared hash handle per se is never tainted.

       The results of the mode checking functions are not tainted.

       The content of a shared hash is always treated as tainted.  It is
       permitted to write tainted data to a shared hash.  The data operations
       all accept tainted arguments.  When reading from a shared hash, the
       keys existing in the hash and the values referenced by them are always
       tainted, but an absent item is treated as clean.  So where a data
       operation returns a key or value from the shared hash, the result will
       be tainted if it is a string, but "undef" representing an absent item
       will not be tainted.  The count of keys existing in the hash, size of
       the hash, and the length of an existing value are also tainted, being
       derived from tainted content.  However, the truth values returned by
       some operations are not tainted, even if they are derived entirely from
       tainted data.

CONSTANTS
       shash_referential_handle
           Truth value indicating whether each shared hash handle contains a
           first-class reference to the shared hash to which it refers.  See
           "Filesystem referential integrity" above for discussion of the
           significance of this.

FUNCTIONS
       The SHASH parameter that most of these functions take must be a handle
       referring to a shared hash object.

   Classification
       is_shash(ARG)
           Returns a truth value indicating whether ARG is a handle referring
           to a shared hash object.

       check_shash(ARG)
           Checks whether ARG is a handle referring to a shared hash object.
           Returns normally if it is, or "die"s if it is not.

   Opening
       shash_open(FILENAME, MODE)
           Opens and returns a handle referring to a shared hash object, or
           "die"s if the shared hash can't be opened as specified.  FILENAME
           must refer to the directory that encapsulates the shared hash.

           If the filename string contains non-ASCII characters, then the
           filename actually used consists of the octets of the internal
           encoding of the string, which does not necessarily match the
           ostensible characters of the string.  This gives inconsistent
           behaviour for the same character sequence represented in the two
           different ways that Perl uses internally.  This is consistent with
           the treatment of filenames in Perl's built-in operators such as
           open; see "When Unicode Does Not Happen" in perlunicode.  This may
           change in future versions of Perl (beyond 5.26).

           MODE is a string controlling how the shared hash will be used.  It
           can contain these characters:

           r   The shared hash is to be readable.  If this is not specified
               then read operations through the handle will be denied.  Beware
               that at the system-call level the files are necessarily opened
               readably.  Thus read permission on the files is required even
               if one will only be writing.

           w   The shared hash is to be writable.  If this is not specified
               then write operations through the handle will be denied.  This
               flag also determines in what mode the files are opened at the
               system-call level, so write permission on the files operates as
               expected.

           c   The shared hash will be created if it does not already exist.
               The permission bits on the shared hash will be controlled by
               the creating process's umask.  If this flag is not specified
               then the shared hash must already exist.

           e   The shared hash must not already exist.  If this is not
               specified and the shared hash already exists then it will be
               opened normally.  This flag is meant to be used with c; it
               means that a successful open implies that this process, rather
               than any other, is the one that created the shared hash.

           When a shared hash is created, some of its constituent files will
           be opened in read/write mode even if read-only mode was requested.
           Shared hash creation is not an atomic process, so if a creation
           attempt is interrupted it may leave a half-created shared hash
           behind.  This does not prevent a subsequent creation attempt on the
           same shared hash from succeeding: creation will continue from
           whatever stage it had reached.  Likewise, multiple simultaneous
           creation attempts may each do part of the job.  This can result in
           ownerships and permissions being inconsistent; see "File
           permissions" above.

           Regardless of the combination of efforts leading to the creation of
           a shared hash, completion of the process is atomic.  Non-creating
           open attempts will either report that there is no shared hash or
           open the created shared hash.  Exactly one creation attempt will be
           judged to have created the shared hash, and this is detectable
           through the e flag.

   Mode checking
       shash_is_readable(SHASH)
           Returns a truth value indicating whether the shared hash can be
           read from through this handle.

       shash_is_writable(SHASH)
           Returns a truth value indicating whether the shared hash can be
           written to through this handle.

       shash_mode(SHASH)
           Returns a string in which characters indicate the mode of this
           handle.  It matches the form of the MODE parameter to "shash_open",
           but mode flags that are only relevant during the opening process (c
           and e) are not included.  The returned string can therefore contain
           these characters:

           r   The shared hash can be read from through this handle.

           w   The shared hash can be written to through this handle.

   Single-key data operations
       For all of these functions, the key of interest (KEY parameter) can be
       any octet (Latin-1) string, and values (VALUE parameters and some
       return values) can be any octet string or "undef".  The "undef" value
       represents the absence of a key from the hash; there is no present-but-
       undefined state.  Strings containing non-octets (Unicode characters
       above U+FF) and items other than strings cannot be used as keys or
       values.  If a dualvar (scalar with independent string and numeric
       values) is supplied, only its string value will be used.

       shash_exists(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns a truth value indicating whether the specified key
           currently references a defined value in the shared hash.

       shash_getd(SHASH, KEY)
           Deprecated alias for "shash_exists".

       shash_length(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns the length (in octets) of the value currently referenced by
           the specified key in the shared hash, or "undef" if the key is
           absent.

       shash_get(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns the value currently referenced by the specified key in the
           shared hash.

       shash_set(SHASH, KEY, NEWVALUE)
           Modifies the shared hash so that the specified key henceforth
           references the specified value.

       shash_gset(SHASH, KEY, NEWVALUE)
           Modifies the shared hash so that the specified key henceforth
           references the value NEWVALUE, and returns the value that the key
           previously referenced.  This swap is performed atomically.

       shash_cset(SHASH, KEY, CHKVALUE, NEWVALUE)
           Examines the value currently referenced by the specified key in the
           shared hash.  If it is identical to CHKVALUE, the function modifies
           the shared hash so that the specified key henceforth references the
           value NEWVALUE, and returns true.  If the current value is not
           identical to CHKVALUE, the function leaves it unmodified and
           returns false.  This conditional modification is performed
           atomically.

           This function can be used as a core on which to build arbitrarily
           complex kinds of atomic operation (on a single key).  For example,
           an atomic increment can be implemented as

               do {
                   $ov = shash_get($shash, $key);
                   $nv = $ov + 1;
               } until shash_cset($shash, $key, $ov, $nv);

   Whole-hash data operations
       shash_occupied(SHASH)
           Returns a truth value indicating whether there are currently any
           items in the shared hash.

       shash_count(SHASH)
           Returns the number of items that are currently in the shared hash.

       shash_size(SHASH)
           Returns the approximate size (in octets) of the entire content of
           the shared hash.  The size of a hash is not a well-defined
           quantity, so the return value of this function should be
           interpreted with care.  It aims specifically to indicate how much
           space is required in a shared hash data file to represent this
           content.  It is affected by details of the file format (which may
           differ between shared hashes on one system) and by accidents of how
           the content is laid out in a particular shared hash.  Calling this
           function twice on identical content will not necessarily produce
           identical results.  The details of the size estimation may also
           change in the future.

           Although this function computes size specifically with respect to
           the file format used by this module, this function does not
           directly indicate the amount of space occupied by a shared hash.
           There is some non-content overhead, and, more importantly, the
           process by which content is modified requires space to store
           multiple versions of the content.  It is normal for the amount of
           space actually occupied to fluctuate over the cycle of data file
           rewriting.  If "shash_tidy" is being used appropriately, the space
           occupied can be expected to vary up to a little over five times the
           size of the nominal content, and if "shash_tidy" is not used then
           the normal maximum will be more than ten times the content size.
           Occasional spikes above these levels can be expected in any case,
           and fixed overheads make these multipliers inapplicable if the
           content is very small.

       shash_key_min(SHASH)
           Returns the lexicographically least of the keys that are currently
           in the shared hash, or "undef" if there are none.

       shash_key_max(SHASH)
           Returns the lexicographically greatest of the keys that are
           currently in the shared hash, or "undef" if there are none.

       shash_key_ge(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns the least of the keys currently in the shared hash that are
           lexicographically no less than the specified key, or "undef" if
           there are none.

       shash_key_gt(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns the least of the keys currently in the shared hash that are
           lexicographically greater than the specified key, or "undef" if
           there are none.

       shash_key_le(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns the greatest of the keys currently in the shared hash that
           are lexicographically no greater than the specified key, or "undef"
           if there are none.

       shash_key_lt(SHASH, KEY)
           Returns the greatest of the keys currently in the shared hash that
           are lexicographically less than the specified key, or "undef" if
           there are none.

       shash_keys_array(SHASH)
           Returns a reference to a plain array containing all the keys
           currently in the shared hash in lexicographical order.  The array
           and the key scalars in it are unwritable.

       shash_keys_hash(SHASH)
           Returns a reference to a plain hash in which the keys are all the
           keys currently in the shared hash and all the values are "undef".
           The value scalars are unwritable.  Writability of the hash is not
           guaranteed: currently in practice it is writable, but this may
           change in the future.

       shash_group_get_hash(SHASH)
           Returns a reference to a plain hash representing the entire current
           content of the shared hash.  The value scalars are unwritable.
           Writability of the hash is not guaranteed: currently in practice it
           is writable, but this may change in the future.

   Snapshots
       shash_snapshot(SHASH)
           Returns a shared hash handle that encapsulates the current content
           of the shared hash.  The entire state of the shared hash is
           captured atomically, and the returned handle can be used to perform
           arbitrarily many read operations on that state: it will never
           reflect later modifications to the shared hash.  The snapshot
           handle cannot be used for writing.

       shash_is_snapshot(SHASH)
           Returns a truth value indicating whether this handle refers to a
           snapshot (as opposed to a live shared hash).

   Maintenance
       shash_idle(SHASH)
           Puts the shared hash handle into a state where it occupies less
           resources, at the expense of making the next operation through the
           handle more expensive.  This doesn't change the visible behaviour
           of the handle, and doesn't affect the state of the shared hash
           itself at all.  The invisible operations performed by this function
           may vary between versions of this module.

           This function should be called when the handle is going to be
           unused for a lengthy period.  For example, if a long-running daemon
           uses a shared hash in brief bursts once an hour, it should idle its
           handle at the end of each burst of activity.

           Currently the effect of this operation is to discard the handle's
           memory mapping of the shared hash data file.  The next operation
           has to reestablish the mapping.  The benefit of discarding the
           mapping is that periodically the data file has to be replaced with
           a new one, but the old data file continues to exist as long as some
           process has it mapped.  A process that is actively using the shared
           hash will quickly notice that the data file has been replaced and
           will unmap the old one.  A process with a handle that it's not
           using, however, could keep the old data file in existence,
           occupying storage, long after it has no further use.  A handle that
           has been put into the idle state won't perpetuate the existence of
           an obsolete data file.

       shash_tidy(SHASH)
           Rearranges the storage of the shared hash if it seems useful to do
           so, to avoid tidying work having to be performed by other
           processes.  This doesn't change the visible content of the shared
           hash, but the handle must be open for writing, and this counts as a
           write operation for purposes concerned with the state of the
           underlying files.  The invisible operations performed by this
           function may vary between versions of this module.

           This function should be called in circumstances where it is
           acceptable to incur some delay for this maintenance work to
           complete.  For example, it could be called periodically by a cron
           job.  Essentially, calling this function signals that this is a
           convenient time at which (and process in which) to perform
           maintenance.

           If this maintenance work is not carried out by means of this
           function, then ultimately it will be performed anyway, but less
           predictably and possibly less conveniently.  Eventually it will
           become necessary to perform maintenance in order to continue using
           the shared hash, at which point the next process that attempts to
           write to it will carry out the work and incur the cost.  The shared
           hash will still work properly in that case, but the unlucky writer
           will experience a disproportionately large delay in the completion
           of its write operation.  This could well be a problem if the shared
           hash is large.

   Event counters
       shash_tally_get(SHASH)
           Returns a reference to a hash of counts of events that have
           occurred with this shared hash handle.  These counts may be of
           interest for profiling and debugging purposes, but should not be
           relied upon for semantic purposes.  The event types may vary
           between versions of this module.  Few of the event types make sense
           in terms of the API supplied by this module: most of them are
           internal implementation details.

           Events are counted separately for each handle.  The events counted
           are associated specifically with the handle, rather than with the
           shared hash as a whole.  Generally, an idle handle will accumulate
           no events, even if the shared hash to which it refers is active.
           The event counters start at zero when a handle is opened, and can
           be reset to zero by "shash_tally_zero" or "shash_tally_gzero".

           In the returned hash, each key identifies a type of event, and the
           corresponding value is (unless wrapped) the number of times events
           of that type have occurred on the handle since the counters were
           last zeroed.  Currently the event counters are held in fixed-size
           variables and can wrap, so if event counts might get as high as
           2^64 then they can't be relied upon to be accurate.  Wrapping will
           not occur at less than 2^64; in other respects, wrapping behaviour
           may change in the future.

           The event types that are currently counted are:

           string_read
               Parse an octet string representation in a shared hash data
               file.

           string_write
               Write an octet string representation into a shared hash data
               file.

           bnode_read
               Parse a B-tree node representation in a shared hash data file.

           bnode_write
               Write a B-tree node representation into a shared hash data
               file.

           key_compare
               Compare two strings as shared hash keys.

           root_change_attempt
               Attempt to replace the root pointer in a shared hash data file.
               This may be done to change the content of the shared hash, or
               as part of the process of switching to a new data file.

           root_change_success
               Succeed in replacing the root pointer in a shared hash data
               file.  An attempt will fail if another process changed the root
               pointer during the operation that required this process to
               change the root pointer.

           file_change_attempt
               Attempt to replace the data file in a shared hash.  This is
               necessary from time to time as data files fill up.

           file_change_success
               Succeed in replacing the data file in a shared hash.  An
               attempt will fail if another process replaced the data file
               while this process was initialising its new one.

           data_read_op
               Perform a high-level data operation that purely reads from the
               shared hash: "shash_exists", "shash_length", "shash_get",
               "shash_occupied", "shash_count", "shash_size", "shash_key_min",
               "shash_key_max", "shash_key_ge", "shash_key_gt",
               "shash_key_le", "shash_key_lt", "shash_keys_array",
               "shash_keys_hash", or "shash_group_get_hash".

           data_write_op
               Perform a high-level data operation that writes, or at least
               may write, to the shared hash: "shash_set", "shash_gset", or
               "shash_cset".

           The value scalars in the returned hash are unwritable.  Writability
           of the hash is not guaranteed: currently in practice it is
           writable, but this may change in the future.

       shash_tally_zero(SHASH)
           Zero the event counters that can be read by "shash_tally_get".

       shash_tally_gzero(SHASH)
           Zero the event counters that can be read by "shash_tally_get", and
           return the values the event counters previously had, in the same
           form as "shash_tally_get".  This swap is performed atomically.

BUGS
       As explained for "shash_open", creation of a shared hash is not atomic.
       This is an unavoidable consequence of the need for the shared hash to
       consist of multiple files in a directory.  Multi-party creation can
       result in the files having different permission bits; to avoid this,
       all creators should use the same umask.  Multiple users writing to a
       shared hash can result in the files having different ownerships, so the
       permission bits must be chosen to work appropriately with the chimeric
       ownership.

       When calls to the functions supplied by this module are compiled down
       to custom ops (which is attempted for performance reasons), the ability
       to deparse the resulting code with B::Deparse is limited.  Prior to
       Perl 5.13.7, deparsing will generate very incorrect code.  From Perl
       5.13.7 onwards, deparsing should normally work, but will break if
       another module defines a separate type of custom op that happens to
       have the same short name (though these ops do not clash in other
       respects).

SEE ALSO
       Hash::SharedMem::Handle, Sereal

AUTHOR
       Andrew Main (Zefram) <zefram@fysh.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 PhotoBox Ltd

       Copyright (C) 2014, 2015, 2017 Andrew Main (Zefram) <zefram@fysh.org>

LICENSE
       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-09                Hash::SharedMem(3)
