LockedFile(3)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        LockedFile(3)


NAME
       IO::LockedFile Class - supply object methods for locking files

SYNOPSIS
         use IO::LockedFile;

         # create new locked file object. $file will hold a file handle.
         # if the file is already locked, the method will not return until the
         # file is unlocked
         my $file = new IO::LockedFile(">locked1.txt");

         # when we close the file - it become unlocked.
         $file->close();

         # suppose we did not have the line above, we can also delete the
         # object, and the file is automatically unlocked and closed.
         $file = undef;

DESCRIPTION
       In its simplistic use, the IO::LockedFile class gives us the same
       interface of the IO::File class with the unique difference that the
       files we deal with are locked using the Flock mechanism (using the
       "flock" function).

       If during the running of the process, it crashed - the file will be
       automatically unlocked. Actually - if the IO::LockedFile object goes
       out of scope, the file is automatically closed and unlocked.

       So, if you are just interested in having locked files with "flock", you
       can skip most of the documentation below.

       If, on the other hand, you are interested in locking files with other
       schemes then Flock, or you want to control the behavior of the locking
       (having non blocking lock for example), read on.

       Actually the class IO::LockedFile is kind of abstract class.

       Why abstract? Because methods of this class call the methods "lock" and
       "unlock". But those methods are not really implemented in this class.
       They suppose to be implemented in the derived classes of
       IO::LockedFile.

       Why "kind" of abstract? Because the constructor of this class will
       return an object!

       How abstract class can create objects? This is done by having the
       constructor returning object that is actually an object of one of the
       derived classes of IO::LockedFile.

       So by default the constructor of IO::LockedFile will return an object
       of IO::LockedFile::Flock. For example, the following:

          use IO::LockedFile;
          $lock = new IO::LockedFile(">bla");
          print ref($lock);

       Will give:

          IO::LockedFile::Flock

       So what are the conclusions here?

       First of all - do not be surprised to get object of derived class from
       the constructor of IO::LockedFile.

       Secondly - by changing the default behavior of the constructor of
       IO::LockedFile, we can get object of other class which means that we
       have a locked file that is locked with other scheme.

       The default behavior of the constructor is determined by the global
       options.

       We can access this global options, or the options per object using the
       method "set_option" and "get_option".

       We can set the global options in the use line:

         use IO::LockedFile 'Flock'; # set the default scheme to be Flock

         use IO::LockedFile ( scheme => Flock );

       We can also set the options of a new object by passing the options to
       the constructor, as we will see below. We can change the options of an
       existing object by using the "set_option" method.

       Which options are available?

       scheme
           The scheme let us define which derived class we use for the object
           we create.  See below which derived classes are available. The
           default scheme is 'Flock'.

       block
           The block option can be 1 or 0 (true or false). If it is 1, a call
           to the "open" method or to the constructor will be blocked if the
           file we try to open is already locked. This means that those
           methods will not return till the file is unlocked. If the value of
           the block option is 0, the "open" and the constructor will return
           immediately in any case. If the file is locked, those methods will
           return undef. The default value of the block option is 1.

       lock
           The lock option can be 1 or 0 (true or false). It defines if the
           file we open when we create the object will be opened locked.
           Sometimes, we want to have a file that can be locked, yet we do not
           want to open it locked from the beginning. For example if we want
           to print into a log file, usually we want to lock that file only
           when we print into it. Yet, it might be that when we open the file
           in the beginning we do not print into it immediately.  In that case
           we will prefer to open the file as unlocked, and later we will lock
           it when needed. The default value of the lock option is 1.

       There might be extra options that are used by one of the derived
       classes. So according to the scheme you choose to use, please look in
       the manual page of the class that implement that scheme.

       Finally, some information that is connected to a certain scheme will be
       found in the classes that are derived from this class. For example,
       compatibility issues will be discussed in each derived classes.

       The classes that currently implement the interface that IO::LockedFile
       defines are:

       •   IO::LockedFile::Flock

CONSTRUCTOR
       new ( FILENAME [,MODE [,PERMS]] )
           Creates an object that belong to one of the derived classes of
           "IO::LockedFile". If it receives any parameters, they are passed to
           the method "open". if the "open" fails, the object is destroyed.
           Otherwise, it is returned to the caller. The object will be the
           file handle of that opened file.

       new ( OPTIONS, FILENAME [,MODE [,PERMS]] )
           This version of the constructor is the same as above, with the
           difference that we send as the first parameter a reference to a
           hash - OPTIONS. This hash let us change for this object only, the
           options from the default options. So for example if we want to
           change the lock option from its default we can do it as follow:
             $file = new IO::LockedFile( { lock => 0 },
                                         ">locked_later.txt" );

METHODS
       open ( FILENAME [,MODE [,PERMS]] )
           The method let us open the file FILENAME. By default, the file will
           be opened as a locked file, and if the file that is opened is
           already locked, the method will not return until the file is
           unlocked. Of course this default behavior can be controlled by
           setting other options. The object will be the file handle of that
           opened file. The parameters that should be provided to this method
           are the same as the parameters that the method "open" of IO::File
           accepts. (like ">file.txt" for example).  Note that the open method
           checks if the file is opened for reading or for writing, and only
           then calls the lock method of the derived class that is being used.
           This way, for example, when using the Flock scheme, the lock will
           be a shared lock for a file that is being read, and exclusive lock
           for a file that is opened to be write.

       close ( )
           The file will be closed and unlocked. The method returns the same
           as the close method of IO::File.

       lock ( )
           Practically this method does nothing, and returns 1 (true). This
           method will be overridden by the derived class that implements the
           scheme we use.  When it is overridden, the method suppose to lock
           the file according to the scheme we use. If the file is already
           locked, and the block option is 1 (true), the method will not
           return until the file is unlocked, and locked again by the method.
           If the block option is 0 (false), the method will return 0
           immediately. Besides, the lock method is aware if the file was
           opened for reading or for writing. Thus, for example, when using
           the Flock scheme, the method will create a shared lock for a file
           that is being read, and exclusive lock for a file that is opened to
           be write.

       unlock ( )
           Practically this method does nothing, and returns 1 (true). This
           method will be overridden by the derived class that implements the
           scheme we use.  When it is overridden, the method suppose to unlock
           the file according to the scheme we use, and return 1 (true) on
           success and 0 (false) on failure.

       have_lock ( )
           Will return 1 (true) if the file is already locked by this object.
           Will return 0 (false) otherwise. Note that this will not tell us
           anything about the situation of the file itself - thus we should
           not use this method in order to check if the file is locked by
           someone else.

       print ( )
           This method is exactly like the "print" method of IO::Handle, with
           the difference that when using this method, if the file is
           unlocked, then before printing to it, it will be locked and
           afterward it will be unlocked.

       truncate ( )
           This method is exactly like the "truncate" method of IO::Handle,
           with the difference that when using this method, if the file is
           unlocked, then before truncating it, it will be locked and
           afterward it will be unlocked.

       is_writable ( )
           This method will return 1 (true) if the file was opened to write.
           Will return 0 (false) otherwise.

       should_block ( )
           This method will return 1 (true) if the block option set to 1.
           Will return 0 (false) otherwise.

       should_lock ( )
           This method will return 1 (true) if the lock option set to 1.  Will
           return 0 (false) otherwise.

       get_scheme ( )
           This method will return the name of the scheme that is currently
           used.

AUTHORS
       Rani Pinchuk, rani@cpan.org

       Rob Napier, rnapier@employees.org

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Ockham Technology N.V. & Rani Pinchuk.  All
       rights reserved.  This package is free software; you can redistribute
       it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       IO::File(3), IO::LockedFile::Flock(3)

perl v5.40.2                      2003-02-20                     LockedFile(3)
