IP::Anonymous(3)      User Contributed Perl Documentation     IP::Anonymous(3)


NAME
       IP::Anonymous - Perl port of Crypto-PAn to provide anonymous IP
       addresses

SYNOPSIS
         use IP::Anonymous;
         @key = (0..31);
         my $object = new IP::Anonymous(@key);
         print $object->anonymize("192.0.2.0")."\n";

DESCRIPTION
       This is a Perl port of Crypto-PAn.  Crypto-PAn is a cryptography-based
       sanitization tool for network trace or log data.  The tool has the
       following properties:

       •   One-to-one

           The mapping from original IP addresses to anonymized IP addresses
           is one-to-one.

       •   Prefix-preserving

           The IP address anonymization is prefix-preserving.  That is, if two
           original IP addresses share a k-bit  prefix, their anonymized
           mappings will also share a k-bit prefix.

       •   Consistent across traces

           Multiple traces can be sanitized in a consistent way, over time and
           across locations, even though the traces might be sanitized
           separately at different time and/or at different locations.

       •   Cryptography-based

           To sanitize traces, trace owners provide a secret key.
           Anonymization consistency across multiple traces is achieved by the
           use of the same key.  The construction of IP::Anonymous preserves
           the secrecy of the key and the (pseudo)randomness of the mapping
           from an original IP address to its anonymized counterpart.

       This Perl port of Crypto-PAn uses similar logic to that found in
       Crypto-PAn 1.0, but most importantly maintains consistency in the
       process so that regardless of implementation, using the same key in
       each will give consistent results.

REQUIRES
       Crypt::Rijndael - XS-based implementation of the Advanced Encryption
       Standard (AES) algorithm Rijndael by Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen.

USAGE
       $object = new IP::Anonymous(@key)
           Initializes the electronic codebook object with a 32 8-bit decimal
           array.   This array, consisting of 32 decimals between 0 and 255
           inclusive, is the user defined private key for this anonymization
           session.  This 256 bit key should be kept private.  The key can be
           used across sessions to maintain consistent mappings between the
           original and the anonymized IP addresses.

       $object->anonymize($address)
           Called with a dotted quad IP address string (e.g. 192.0.2.0).
           Returns an anonymized version of that IP address as a dotted quad
           string.

BUGS
       The Crypt::Rijndael module as of version 0.05 contains at least one
       fatal flaw for users of 64-bit systems.  rijndael.h specifies a 32 bit
       integer as an unsigned long.  This works on 32-bit systems, but not
       64-bit systems.   This is easily circumvented by changing the
       definition for UINT32 from a unsigned long to an unsigned int for
       platforms the author has tested on.

       The Crypt::Rijndael module on CPAN tested with IP::Anonymous has as
       it's package version number 0.05, but in the Rijndael.pm module file
       itself, VERSION is set to 0.04.  IP::Anonymous specifies that at least
       0.04 of Crypt::Rijndael is required, but the original 0.04 version has
       not been tested.  It is presumed to work, but you should use the module
       whose package version number is 0.05 or later if possible.

       IP::Anonymous only provides support for IPv4 addresses.

AUTHOR
       Original Crypto-PAn C++ implementation was done by Jinliang Fan.  The
       Perl module port is by John Kristoff.  Thanks to Stephen Gill for
       initial testing and suggesting changes in the beginning stages of the
       module implementation process.

COPYRIGHT
       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       This module is based on the original Crypto-PAn project tool designed
       and implemented in C++ by Jinliang Fan.  The Crypto-PAn project web
       page is located at:

           http://www.cc.gatech.edu/computing/Telecomm/cryptopan/

SECURITY
       Even though this module uses strong cryptography to anonymize IP
       addresses there may still be a number of avenues of attack that can be
       successful in discovering underlying information.  For a good
       description of this problem see the paper The Devil and Packet Trace
       Anonymization by Mark Allman, et al., which can be found at:

           http://www.icir.org/enterprise-tracing/papers.html

AVAILABILITY
       IP::Anonymous is available on the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network
       (CPAN) and also off the author's homepage (as of this writing) at:

           http://aharp.ittns.northwestern.edu/software/

POD ERRORS
       Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
       below:

       Around line 251:
           =back doesn't take any parameters, but you said =back  The module
           author intends to maintain software signatures (PGP and/or message
           digest hash) on his pages to help you verify that what you have
           gotten elsewhere is what he expected you to have.

perl v5.40.2                      2005-11-09                  IP::Anonymous(3)
