Words2Nums(3)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        Words2Nums(3)


NAME
       Lingua::EN::Words2Nums - convert English text to numbers

SYNOPSIS
        use Lingua::EN::Words2Nums;
        $num=words2nums("two thousand and one");
        $num=words2nums("twenty-second");
        $num=words2nums("15 billion, 6 million, and ninteen");

DESCRIPTION
       This module converts English text into numbers. It supports both
       ordinal and cardinal numbers, negative numbers, and very large numbers.

       The main subroutine, which is exported by default, is words2nums().
       This subroutine, when fed a string, will attempt to convert it into a
       number.  If it succeeds, the number will be returned. If it fails, it
       returns undef.

VARIABLES
       There are a number of variables that can be used to tweak the behavior
       of this module. For example, debugging can be be enabled by setting
       $Lingua::EN::Words2Nums::debug=1

       $Lingua::EN::Words2Nums::debug
           Default: 0. If set to a true value, outputs on standard error some
           useful messages if parsing fails for some reason.

       $Lingua::EN::Words2Nums::billion
           Default: 10 ** 9. This is the number that will be returned for "one
           billion".  It defaults to the American version; the English will
           want to set it to 10 ** 12. Setting this number automatically
           changes all the larger numbers (trillion, quadrillion, etc) to
           match.

NOTES
       It does not understand decimals or fractions, yet.

       Scores are supported, eg: "four score and ten". So are dozens. So is a
       baker's dozen. And a gross.

       Various mispellings of numbers are understood.

       While it handles googol correctly, googolplex is too large to fit in
       perl's standard scalar type, and "inf" will be returned.

AUTHOR
       Copyright 2001-2003 Joey Hess <joey@kitenet.net>

       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2008-12-16                     Words2Nums(3)
