Lingua::Translit(3)   User Contributed Perl Documentation  Lingua::Translit(3)


NAME
       Lingua::Translit - transliterates text between writing systems

SYNOPSIS
         use Lingua::Translit;

         my $tr = new Lingua::Translit("ISO 843");

         my $text_tr = $tr->translit("character oriented string");

         if ($tr->can_reverse()) {
           $text_tr = $tr->translit_reverse("character oriented string");
         }

DESCRIPTION
       Lingua::Translit can be used to convert text from one writing system to
       another, based on national or international transliteration tables.
       Where possible a reverse transliteration is supported.

       The term "transliteration" describes the conversion of text from one
       writing system or alphabet to another one.  The conversion is ideally
       unique, mapping one character to exactly one character, so the original
       spelling can be reconstructed.  Practically this is not always the case
       and one single letter of the original alphabet can be transcribed as
       two, three or even more letters.

       Furthermore there is more than one transliteration scheme for one
       writing system.  Therefore it is an important and necessary
       information, which scheme will be or has been used to transliterate a
       text, to work integrative and be able to reconstruct the original data.

       Reconstruction is a problem though for non-unique transliterations, if
       no language specific knowledge is available as the resulting clusters
       of letters may be ambiguous.  For example, the Greek character "PSI"
       maps to "ps", but "ps" could also result from the sequence "PI",
       "SIGMA" since "PI" maps to "p" and "SIGMA" maps to s.  If a
       transliteration table leads to ambiguous conversions, the provided
       table cannot be used reverse.

       Otherwise the table can be used in both directions, if appreciated.  So
       if ISO 9 is originally created to convert Cyrillic letters to the Latin
       alphabet, the reverse transliteration will transform Latin letters to
       Cyrillic.

METHODS
   new("name of table")
       Initializes an object with the specific transliteration table, e.g.
       "ISO 9".

   translit("character oriented string")
       Transliterates the given text according to the object's transliteration
       table.  Returns the transliterated text.

   translit_reverse("character oriented string")
       Transliterates the given text according to the object's transliteration
       table, but uses it the other way round. For example table ISO 9 is a
       transliteration scheme for the conversion of Cyrillic letters to the
       Latin alphabet. So if used reverse, Latin letters will be mapped to
       Cyrillic ones.

       Returns the transliterated text.

   can_reverse()
       Returns true (1), iff reverse transliteration is possible.  False (0)
       otherwise.

   name()
       Returns the name of the chosen transliteration table, e.g. "ISO 9".

   desc()
       Returns a description for the transliteration, e.g. "ISO 9:1995,
       Cyrillic to Latin".

SUPPORTED TRANSLITERATIONS
       Cyrillic
           ALA-LC RUS, not reversible, ALA-LC:1997, Cyrillic to Latin, Russian

           ISO 9, reversible, ISO 9:1995, Cyrillic to Latin

           ISO/R 9, reversible, ISO 9:1954, Cyrillic to Latin

           DIN 1460 RUS, reversible, DIN 1460:1982, Cyrillic to Latin, Russian

           DIN 1460 UKR, reversible, DIN 1460:1982, Cyrillic to Latin,
           Ukrainian

           DIN 1460 BUL, reversible, DIN 1460:1982, Cyrillic to Latin,
           Bulgarian

           Streamlined System BUL, not reversible, The Streamlined System:
           2006, Cyrillic to Latin, Bulgarian

           GOST 7.79 RUS, reversible, GOST 7.79:2000 (table B), Cyrillic to
           Latin, Russian

           GOST 7.79 RUS OLD, not reversible, GOST 7.79:2000 (table B),
           Cyrillic to Latin with support for Old Russian (pre 1918), Russian

           GOST 7.79 UKR, reversible, GOST 7.79:2000 (table B), Cyrillic to
           Latin, Ukrainian

           BGN/PCGN RUS Standard, not reversible, BGN/PCGN:1947 (Standard
           Variant), Cyrillic to Latin, Russian

           BGN/PCGN RUS Strict, not reversible, BGN/PCGN:1947 (Strict
           Variant), Cyrillic to Latin, Russian

       Greek
           ISO 843, not reversible, ISO 843:1997, Greek to Latin

           DIN 31634, not reversible, DIN 31634:1982, Greek to Latin

           Greeklish, not reversible, Greeklish (Phonetic), Greek to Latin

       Latin
           Common CES, not reversible, Czech without diacritics

           Common DEU, not reversible, German without umlauts

           Common POL, not reversible, Unaccented Polish

           Common RON, not reversible, Romanian without diacritics as commonly
           used

           Common SLK, not reversible, Slovak without diacritics

           Common SLV, not reversible, Slovenian without diacritics

           ISO 8859-16 RON, reversible, Romanian with appropriate diacritics

       Arabic
           Common ARA, not reversible, Common Romanization of Arabic

       Sanskrit
           IAST Devanagari, not reversible, IAST Romanization to Devanāgarī

           Devanagari IAST, not reversible, Devanāgarī to IAST Romanization

ADDING NEW TRANSLITERATIONS
       In case you want to add your own transliteration tables to
       Lingua::Translit, have a look at the developer documentation at
       <https://www.netzum-sorglos.de/software/lingua-translit/developer-documentation.html>.

       A template of a transliteration table is provided as well
       (xml/template.xml) so you can easily start developing.

RESTRICTIONS
       Lingua::Translit is suited to handle Unicode and utilizes comparisons
       and regular expressions that rely on code points.  Therefore, any input
       is supposed to be character oriented ("use utf8;", ...) instead of byte
       oriented.

       However, if your data is byte oriented, be sure to pass it UTF-8
       encoded to translit() and/or translit_reverse() - it will be converted
       internally.

BUGS
       None known.

       Please report bugs using CPAN's request tracker at
       <https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Lingua-Translit>.

SEE ALSO
       Lingua::Translit::Tables, Encode, perlunicode

       "translit"'s manpage

       <http://www.netzum-sorglos.de/software/lingua-translit/>

CREDITS
       Thanks to Dr. Daniel Eiwen, Romanisches Seminar, Universitaet Koeln for
       his help on Romanian transliteration.

       Thanks to Dmitry Smal and Rusar Publishing for contributing the "ALA-LC
       RUS" transliteration table.

       Thanks to Ahmed Elsheshtawy for his help implementing the "Common ARA"
       Arabic transliteration.

       Thanks to Dusan Vuckovic for contributing the "ISO/R 9" transliteration
       table.

       Thanks to Ștefan Suciu for contributing the "ISO 8859-16 RON"
       transliteration table.

       Thanks to Philip Kime for contributing the "IAST Devanagari" and
       "Devanagari IAST" transliteration tables.

       Thanks to Nikola Lečić for contributing the "BGN/PCGN RUS Standard" and
       "BGN/PCGN RUS Strict" transliteration tables.

AUTHORS
       Alex Linke <alinke@netzum-sorglos.de>

       Rona Linke <rlinke@netzum-sorglos.de>

LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Alex Linke and Rona Linke

       Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Lingua-Systems Software GmbH

       Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Netzum Sorglos, Lingua-Systems Software GmbH

       Copyright (C) 2017 Netzum Sorglos Software GmbH

       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2017-10-16               Lingua::Translit(3)
