LATEXML(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           LATEXML(1)


NAME
       "latexml" - transforms a TeX/LaTeX file into XML.

SYNOPSIS
       latexml [options] texfile

        Options:
        --destination=file sets destination file (default stdout).
        --output=file      [obsolete synonym for --destination]
        --preload=module   requests loading of an optional module;
                           can be repeated
        --preamble=file    sets a preamble file which will
                           effectively be prepended to the main file.
        --postamble=file   sets a postamble file which will
                           effectively be appended to the main file.
        --includestyles    allows latexml to load raw *.sty file;
                           by default it avoids this.
        --path=dir         adds to the paths searched for files,
                           modules, etc;
        --log=file         specifies log file (default is file named after job name)
        --documentid=id    assign an id to the document root.
        --quiet            suppress messages (can repeat)
        --verbose          more informative output (can repeat)
        --strict           makes latexml less forgiving of errors
        --bibtex           processes as a BibTeX bibliography.
        --xml              requests xml output (default).
        --tex              requests TeX output after expansion.
        --box              requests box output after expansion
                           and digestion.
        --noparse          suppresses parsing math
        --nocomments       omit comments from the output
        --inputencoding=enc specify the input encoding.
        --VERSION          show version number.
        --debug=package    enables debugging output for the named
                           package
        --help             shows this help message.

       If texfile is '-', latexml reads the TeX source from standard input.
       If texfile has an explicit extension of ".bib", it is processed as a
       BibTeX bibliography.

OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS
       "--destination"=file
           Specifies the destination file; by default the XML is written to
           stdout.

       "--preload"=module
           Requests the loading of an optional module or package.  This may be
           useful if the TeX code does not specifically require the module
           (eg. through input or usepackage).  For example, use
           "--preload=LaTeX.pool" to force LaTeX mode.

       "--preamble"=file, "--postamble"=file
           Specifies a file whose contents will effectively be prepended or
           appended to the main document file's content. This can be useful
           when processing TeX fragments, in which case the preamble would
           contain documentclass and begindocument control sequences.  This
           option is not used when processing BibTeX files.

       "--includestyles"
           This optional allows processing of style files (files with
           extensions "sty", "cls", "clo", "cnf").  By default, these files
           are ignored  unless a latexml implementation of them is found (with
           an extension of "ltxml").

           These style files generally fall into two classes:  Those that
           merely affect document style are ignorable in the XML.  Others
           define new markup and document structure, often using deeper LaTeX
           macros to achieve their ends.  Although the omission will lead to
           other errors (missing macro definitions), it is unlikely that
           processing the TeX code in the style file will lead to a correct
           document.

       "--path"=dir
           Add dir to the search paths used when searching for files, modules,
           style files, etc; somewhat like TEXINPUTS.  This option can be
           repeated.

       "--documentid"=id
           Assigns an ID to the root element of the XML document.  This ID is
           generally inherited as the prefix of ID's on all other elements
           within the document.  This is useful when constructing a site of
           multiple documents so that all nodes have unique IDs.

       "--quiet"
           Reduces the verbosity of output during processing, used twice is
           pretty silent.

       "--verbose"
           Increases the verbosity of output during processing, used twice is
           pretty chatty.  Can be useful for getting more details when errors
           occur.

       "--strict"
           Specifies a strict processing mode. By default, undefined control
           sequences and invalid document constructs (that violate the DTD)
           give warning messages, but attempt to continue processing.  Using
           --strict makes them generate fatal errors.

       "--bibtex"
           Forces latexml to treat the file as a BibTeX bibliography.  Note
           that the timing is slightly different than the usual case with
           BibTeX and LaTeX.  In the latter case, BibTeX simply selects and
           formats a subset of the bibliographic entries; the actual TeX
           expansion is carried out when the result is included in a LaTeX
           document.  In contrast, latexml processes and expands the entire
           bibliography; the selection of entries is done during
           postprocessing.  This also means that any packages that define
           macros used in the bibliography must be specified using the
           "--preload" option.

       "--xml"
           Requests XML output; this is the default.

       "--tex"
           Requests TeX output for debugging purposes;  processing is only
           carried out through expansion and digestion.  This may not be quite
           valid TeX, since Unicode may be introduced.

       "--box"
           Requests Box output for debugging purposes;  processing is carried
           out through expansion and digestions, and the result is printed.

       "--nocomments"
           Normally latexml preserves comments from the source file, and adds
           a comment every 25 lines as an aid in tracking the source.  The
           option --nocomments discards such comments.

       "--inputencoding="encoding
           Specify the input encoding, eg. "--inputencoding=iso-8859-1".  The
           encoding must be one known to Perl's Encode package.  Note that
           this only enables the translation of the input bytes to UTF-8 used
           internally by LaTeXML, but does not affect catcodes.  It is usually
           better to use LaTeX's inputenc package.  Note that this does not
           affect the output encoding, which is always UTF-8.

       "--VERSION"
           Shows the version number of the LaTeXML package..

       "--debug"=package
           Enables debugging output for the named package. The package is
           given without the leading LaTeXML::.

       "--help"
           Shows this help message.

SEE ALSO
       latexmlpost, latexmlmath, LaTeXML

perl v5.40.2                      2023-10-02                        LATEXML(1)
