Alarm::Concurrent(3)  User Contributed Perl Documentation Alarm::Concurrent(3)

NAME
     Alarm::Concurrent - Allow multiple, concurrent alarms.

DESCRIPTION
     This module is an attempt to enhance Perl's built-in alarm/$SIG{ALRM}
     functionality.

     This function, and its associated signal handler, allow you to arrange
     for your program to receive a SIGALRM signal, which you can then catch
     and deal with appropriately.

     Unfortunately, due to the nature of the design of these signals (at the
     OS level), you can only have one alarm and handler active at any given
     time.  That's where this module comes in.

     This module allows you to define multiple alarms, each with an associated
     handler.  These alarms are sequenced (in a queue) but concurrent, which
     means that their order is preserved but they always go off as their set
     time expires, regardless of the state of the other alarms.  (If you'd
     like to have the alarms only go off in the order you set them, see
     Alarm::Queued.)

     To set an alarm, call the setalarm() function with the set time of the
     alarm and a reference to the subroutine to be called when the alarm goes
     off.  You can then go on with your program and the alarm will be called
     after the set time has passed.

     It is also possible to set an alarm that does not have a handler
     associated with it using Alarm::Concurrent::alarm().  (This function can
     also be imported into your namespace, in which case it will replace
     Perl's built-in alarm for your package only.)

     If an alarm that does not have a handler associated with it goes off, the
     default handler, pointed to by $Alarm::Concurrent::DEFAULT_HANLDER, is
     called.  You can change the default handler by assigning to this
     variable.

     The default $Alarm::Concurrent::DEFAULT_HANDLER simply dies with the
     message "Alarm clock!\n".

IMPORT/EXPORT
     No methods are exported by default but you can import any of the
     functions in the FUNCTIONS section.

     You can also import the special tag ":ALL" which will import all the
     functions in the FUNCTIONS section (except Alarm::Concurrent::restore()).

OVERRIDE
     If you import the special tag ":OVERRIDE", this module will override
     Perl's built-in alarm function for every namespace and it will take over
     Perl's magic %SIG variable, changing any attempts to read or write
     $SIG{ALRM} into calls to gethandler() and sethandler(), respectively
     (reading and writing to other keys in %SIG is unaffected).

     This can be useful when you are calling code that tries to set its own
     alarm "the old fashioned way."  It can also, however, be dangerous.
     Overriding alarm is documented and should be stable but taking over %SIG
     is more risky (see CAVEATS).

     Note that if you do not override alarm and %SIG, any code you use that
     sets "legacy alarms" will disable all of your concurrent alarms.  You can
     call Alarm::Concurrent::restore() to reinstall the Alarm::Concurrent
     handler.  This function can not be imported.

FUNCTIONS
     The following functions are available for use.

     setalarm SECONDS CODEREF
         Sets a new alarm and associates a handler with it.  The handler is
         called when the specified number of seconds have elapsed.  See
         DESCRIPTION for more information.

     clearalarm INDEX LENGTH
     clearalarm INDEX
     clearalarm
         Clears one or more previously set alarms.  The index is an array
         index, with 0 being the currently active alarm and -1 being the last
         (most recent) alarm that was set.

         INDEX defaults to 0 and LENGTH defaults to 1.

     alarm SECONDS
     alarm
         Creates a new alarm with no handler.  A handler can later be set for
         it via sethandler() or $SIG{ALRM}, if overridden.

         For the most part, this function behaves exactly like Perl's built-in
         alarm function, except that it sets up a concurrent alarm instead.
         Thus, each call to alarm does not disable previous alarms unless
         called with a set time of 0.

         Calling alarm() with a set time of 0 will disable the last alarm set.

         If SECONDS is not specified, the value stored in $_ is used.

     sethandler INDEX CODEREF
     sethandler CODEREF
         Sets a handler for the alarm found at INDEX in the queue.  This is an
         array index, so negative values may be used to indicate position
         relative to the end of the queue.

         If INDEX is not specified, the handler is set for the last alarm in
         the queue that doesn't have one associated with it.  This means that
         if you set multiple alarms using alarm(), you should arrange their
         respective sethandler()'s in the opposite order.

     gethandler INDEX
     gethandler
         Returns the handler for the alarm found at INDEX in the queue.  This
         is an array index, so negative values may be used.

         If INDEX is not specified, returns the handler for the currently
         active alarm.

     restore FLAG
     restore
         This function reinstalls the Alarm::Concurrent alarm handler if it
         has been replaced by a "legacy alarm handler."

         If FLAG is present and true, restore() will save the current handler
         by setting it as a new concurrent alarm (as if you had called
         setalarm() for it).

         This function may not be imported.

         Note:  Do not call this function if you have imported the ":OVERLOAD"
         symbol.  It can have unpredictable results.

CAVEATS
     •   %SIG is Perl magic and should probably not be messed with, though I
         have not witnessed any problems in the (admittedly limited) testing
         I've done.  I would be interested to hear from anyone who performs
         extensive testing, with different versions of Perl, of the
         reliability of doing this.

         Moreover, since there is no way to just take over $SIG{ALRM}, the
         entire magic hash is usurped and any other "%SIG}" accesses are
         simply passed through to the original magic hash.  This means that if
         there are any problems, they will most likely affect all other signal
         handlers you have defined, including $SIG{__WARN__} and $SIG{__DIE__}
         and others.

         In other words, if you're going to use the ":OVERRIDE" option, you do
         so at your own risk (and you'd better be pretty damn sure of
         yourself, too).

     •   The default $DEFAULT_HANDLER simply dies with the message "Alarm
         clock!\n".

     •   All warnings about alarms possibly being off by up to a full second
         still apply.  See the documentation for alarm for more information.

     •   The alarm handling routine does not make any allowances for systems
         that clear the alarm handler before it is called.  This may be
         changed in the future.

     •   According to "Signals" in perlipc, doing just about anything in
         signal handling routines is dangerous because it might be called
         during a non-re-entrant system library routines which could cause a
         memory fault and core dump.

         The Alarm::Concurrent alarm handling routine does quite a bit.

         You have been warned.

AUTHOR
     Written by Cory Johns (c) 2001.

POD ERRORS
     Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
     below:

     Around line 396:
         You forgot a '=back' before '=head1'

perl v5.42.3                      2026-08-04              Alarm::Concurrent(3)
