Mail::ListDetector(3)                      User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Mail::ListDetector - Perl extension for detecting mailing list messages

SYNOPSIS
         use Mail::ListDetector;

DESCRIPTION
       This module analyzes mail objects in any of the classes handled by
       Email::Abstract. It returns a Mail::ListDetector::List object
       representing the mailing list.

       The RFC2369 mailing list detector is also capable of matching some
       Mailman and Ezmlm messages. It is deliberately checked last to allow
       the more specific Mailman and Ezmlm parsing to happen first, and more
       accurately identify the type of mailing list involved.

METHODS
   new
       This method is the core of the module. Pass it a mail object, it will
       either return a Mail::ListDetector::List object that describes the
       mailing list that the message was posted to, or "undef" if it appears
       not to have been a mailing list post.

   register_plugin($plugin_name)
       Registers a new plugin module that might recognise lists. Should be a
       subclass of Mail::ListDetector::Detector::Base, and provide the same
       interface as the other detector modules.

       You can eval arbitrary perl code with this, so don't do that if that's
       not what you want.

EMAILS USED
       This module includes a number of sample emails from various mailing
       lists. In all cases, mails are used with permission of the author, and
       must not be distributed separately from this archive. If you believe I
       may have accidentally used your email or content without permission,
       contact me, and if this turns out to be the case I will immediately
       remove it from the latest version of the archive.

BUGS
       •   A lot of the code applies fairly simple regular expressions to
           email address to extract information. This may fall over for really
           weird email addresses, but I'm hoping no-one will use those for
           names of mailing lists.

       •   The majordomo and smartlist recognisers don't have much to go on,
           and therefore are probably not as reliable as the other detectors.
           This is liable to be hard to fix.

       •   Forwarding messages (for example using procmail) can sometimes
           break the "Sender: " header information needed to recognise some
           list types.

AUTHORS
       •   Michael Stevens - michael@etla.org.

       •   Andy Turner - turner@mikomi.org.

       •   Adam Lazur - adam@lazur.org.

       •   Peter Oliver - p.d.oliver@mavit.freeserve.co.uk

       •   Matthew Walker - matthew@walker.wattle.id.au

       •   Tatsuhiko Miyagawa - miyagawa@bulknews.net

       •   johnnnnnn - john@phaedrusdeinus.org

       •   Mik Firestone - mik@racerx.homedns.org

       •   Simon Cozens - simon@simon-cozens.org

SEE ALSO
       perl(1). The Mail::Audit::List module, which is a convenient way of
       using Mail::Audit and Mail::ListDetector together.

perl v5.40.2                      2011-02-19             Mail::ListDetector(3)
