Module::List(3)       User Contributed Perl Documentation      Module::List(3)


NAME
       Module::List - module `directory' listing

SYNOPSIS
           use Module::List qw(list_modules);

           $id_modules = list_modules("Data::ID::", { list_modules => 1});
           $prefixes = list_modules("",
                           { list_prefixes => 1, recurse => 1 });

DESCRIPTION
       This module deals with the examination of the namespace of Perl
       modules.  The contents of the module namespace is split across several
       physical directory trees, but this module hides that detail, providing
       instead a view of the abstract namespace.

FUNCTIONS
       list_modules(PREFIX, OPTIONS)
           This function generates a listing of the contents of part of the
           module namespace.  The part of the namespace under the module name
           prefix PREFIX is examined, and information about it returned as
           specified by OPTIONS.

           Module names are handled by this function in standard bareword
           syntax.  They are always fully-qualified; isolated name components
           are never used.  A module name prefix is the part of a module name
           that comes before a component of the name, and so either ends with
           "::" or is the empty string.

           OPTIONS is a reference to a hash, the elements of which specify
           what is to be returned.  The options are:

           list_modules
               Truth value, default false.  If true, return names of modules
               in the relevant part of the namespace.

           list_prefixes
               Truth value, default false.  If true, return module name
               prefixes in the relevant part of the namespace.  Note that
               prefixes are returned if the corresponding directory exists,
               even if there is nothing in it.

           list_pod
               Truth value, default false.  If true, return names of POD
               documentation files that are in the module namespace.

           trivial_syntax
               Truth value, default false.  If false, only valid bareword
               names are permitted.  If true, bareword syntax is ignored, and
               any "::"-separated name that can be turned into a correct
               filename by interpreting name components as filename components
               is permitted.  This is of no use in listing actual Perl
               modules, because the illegal names can't be used in Perl, but
               some programs such as perldoc use a "::"-separated name for the
               sake of appearance without really using bareword syntax.  The
               loosened syntax applies both to the names returned and to the
               PREFIX parameter.

               Precisely, the `trivial syntax' is that each "::"-separated
               component cannot be "." or "..", cannot contain "::" or "/",
               and (except for the final component of a leaf name) cannot end
               with ":".  This is precisely what is required to achieve a
               unique interconvertible "::"-separated path syntax on Unix.
               This criterion might change in the future on non-Unix systems,
               where the filename syntax differs.

           recurse
               Truth value, default false.  If false, only names at the next
               level down from PREFIX (having one more component) are
               returned.  If true, names at all lower levels are returned.

           use_pod_dir
               Truth value, default false.  If false, POD documentation files
               are expected to be in the same directory that the corresponding
               module file would be in.  If true, POD files may also be in a
               subdirectory of that named ""pod"".  (Any POD files in such a
               subdirectory will therefore be visible under two module names,
               one treating the ""pod"" subdirectory level as part of the
               module name.)

           return_path
               Truth value, default false.  If false, only the existence of
               requested items is reported.  If true, the pathnames of the
               files in which they exist are reported.

           Note that the default behaviour, if an empty options hash is
           supplied, is to return nothing.  You must specify what kind of
           information you want.

           The function returns a reference to a hash, the keys of which are
           the names of interest.  By default, the value associated with each
           of these keys is undef.  If additional information about each item
           was requested, the value for each item is a reference to a hash,
           containing some subset of these items:

           module_path
               Pathname of the module of this name.  Specifically, this
               identifies the file that would be read in order to load the
               module.  This may be a ".pmc" file if one is available.  Absent
               if there is no module.

           pod_path
               Pathname of the POD document of this name.  Absent if there is
               no discrete POD document.  (POD in a module file doesn't
               constitute a discrete POD document.)

           prefix_paths
               Reference to an array of the pathnames of the directories
               referenced by this prefix.  The directories are listed in the
               order corresponding to @INC.  Absent if this is not a prefix.

SEE ALSO
       Module::Runtime

AUTHOR
       Andrew Main (Zefram) <zefram@fysh.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2004, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2017 Andrew Main (Zefram)
       <zefram@fysh.org>

LICENSE
       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-09                   Module::List(3)
