MKDoc::XML(3)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        MKDoc::XML(3)


NAME
       MKDoc::XML - The MKDoc XML Toolkit

SYNOPSIS
       This is an article, not a module.

SUMMARY
       MKDoc is a web content management system written in Perl which focuses
       on standards compliance, accessiblity and usability issues, and multi-
       lingual websites.

       At MKDoc Ltd we have decided to gradually break up our existing
       commercial software into a collection of completely independent, well-
       documented, well-tested open-source CPAN modules.

       Ultimately we want MKDoc code to be a coherent collection of module
       distributions, yet each distribution should be usable and useful in
       itself.

       MKDoc::XML is part of this effort.

       You could help us and turn some of MKDoc's code into a CPAN module.
       You can take a look at the existing code at http://download.mkdoc.org/.

       If you are interested in some functionality which you would like to see
       as a standalone CPAN module, send an email to
       <mkdoc-modules@lists.webarch.co.uk>.

DISCLAIMER
       MKDoc::XML is a low level XML library.
       MKDoc::XML::* modules do not make sure your XML is well-formed.
       MKDoc::XML::* modules can be used to work with somehow broken XML.
       MKDoc::XML::* modules should not be used as high-level parsers with
       general purpose XML unless you know what you're doing.

WHAT'S IN THE BOX
   XML tokenizer
       MKDoc::XML::Tokenizer splits your XML / XHTML files into a list of
       MKDoc::XML::Token objects using a single regex.

   XML tree builder
       MKDoc::XML::TreeBuilder sits on top of MKDoc::XML::Tokenizer and builds
       parsed trees out of your XML / XHTML data.

   XML stripper
       MKDoc::XML::Stripper objects removes unwanted markup from your XML /
       HTML data. Useful to remove all those nasty presentational tags or
       'style' attributes from your XHTML data for example.

   XML tagger
       MKDoc::XML::Tagger module matches expressions in XML / XHTML documents
       and tag them appropriately. For example, you could automatically
       hyperlink certain glossary words or add <abbr> tags based on a
       dictionary of abbreviations and acronyms.

   XML entity decoder
       MKDoc::XML::Decode is a pluggable, configurable entity expander module
       which currently supports html entities, numerical entities and basic
       xml entities.

   XML entity encoder
       MKDoc::XML::Encode does the exact reverse operation as
       MKDoc::XML::Decode.

   XML Dumper
       MKDoc::XML::Dumper serializes arbitrarily complex perl structures into
       XML strings.  It is also able of doing the reverse operation, i.e.
       deserializing an XML string into a perl structure.

AUTHOR
       Copyright 2003 - MKDoc Holdings Ltd.

       Author: Jean-Michel Hiver

       This module is free software and is distributed under the same license
       as Perl itself. Use it at your own risk.

SEE ALSO
         Petal: http://search.cpan.org/dist/Petal/
         MKDoc: http://www.mkdoc.com/

       Help us open-source MKDoc. Join the mkdoc-modules mailing list:

         mkdoc-modules@lists.webarch.co.uk

perl v5.40.2                      2005-03-10                     MKDoc::XML(3)
