Moose::Policy(3)      User Contributed Perl Documentation     Moose::Policy(3)


NAME
       Moose::Policy - Moose-mounted police

SYNOPSIS
         package Foo;

         use Moose::Policy 'Moose::Policy::FollowPBP';
         use Moose;

         has 'bar' => (is => 'rw', default => 'Foo::bar');
         has 'baz' => (is => 'ro', default => 'Foo::baz');

         # Foo now has (get, set)_bar methods as well as get_baz

DEPRECATION NOTICE
       Moose::Policy is deprecated.

       MooseX::FollowPBP replaces the Moose::Policy::FollowPBP module. The
       other policies included in this distribution do not yet have standalone
       MooseX modules, as of November, 2010.

       This module has not passed its tests since Moose 1.05, and will
       probably not be fixed.

DESCRIPTION
       This module allows you to specify your project-wide or even company-
       wide Moose meta-policy.

       Most all of Moose's features can be customized through the use of
       custom metaclasses, however fiddling with the metaclasses can be hairy.
       Moose::Policy removes most of that hairiness and makes it possible to
       cleanly contain a set of meta-level customizations in one easy to use
       module.

       This is still an release of this module and it should not be considered
       to be complete by any means. It is very basic implemenation at this
       point and will likely get more feature-full over time, as people
       request features.  So if you have a suggestion/need/idea, please speak
       up.

   What is a meta-policy?
       A meta-policy is a set of custom Moose metaclasses which can be used to
       implement a number of customizations and restrictions on a particular
       Moose class.

       For instance, Moose::Policy::SingleInheritence enforces that all
       specified Moose classes can only use single inheritance. It does this
       by trapping the call to "superclasses" on the metaclass and only
       allowing you to assign a single superclass.

       The Moose::Policy::FollowPBP policy changes the default behavior of
       accessors to fit the recomendations found in Perl Best Practices.

CAVEATS
   Always load Moose::Policy first.
       You must put the following line of code:

         use Moose::Policy 'My::Policy';

       before this line:

         use Moose;

       This is because Moose::Policy must be given the opportunity to set the
       custom metaclass before Moose has set it's default metaclass. In fact,
       if you try to set a Moose::Policy and there is a "meta" method
       available, not only will kittens die, but your program will too.

   Policies are class scoped
       You must repeat the policy for each class you want to use it. It is not
       inherited. This may change in the future, probably it will be a
       Moose::Policy itself to allow Moose policies to be inherited.

THE POLICY
       A Policy is set by passing Moose::Policy::import() a package name.
       This package is then queried for what metaclasses it should use. The
       possible metaclass values are:

       metaclass
           This defaults to "Moose::Meta::Class".

       attribute_metaclass
       instance_metaclass
       method_metaclass

       For examples of what a Policy actually looks like see the examples in
       "Moose::Policy::" and the test suite. More docs to come on this later
       (probably a cookbook or something).

METHODS
       meta

FUTURE PLANS
       As I said above, this is the first release and it is by no means
       feature complete.  There are a number of thoughts on the future
       direction of this module. Here are some random thoughts on that, in no
       particular order.

       Make set of policy roles
           Roles are an excellent way to combine sets of behaviors together
           into one, and custom metaclasses are actually better composed by
           roles then by inheritence.  The ideal situation is that this module
           will provide a set of roles which can be used to compose your meta-
           policy with relative ease.

BUGS
       All complex software has bugs lurking in it, and this module is no
       exception. If you find a bug please either email me, or add the bug to
       cpan-RT.

AUTHOR
       Stevan Little <stevan@iinteractive.com>

       Eric Wilhelm

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2006-2007 by Infinity Interactive, Inc.

       <http://www.iinteractive.com>

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2010-11-21                  Moose::Policy(3)
