Math::SymbolicX::NoSimplification(3)       User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Math::SymbolicX::NoSimplification - Turn off Math::Symbolic
       simplification

SYNOPSIS
         use Math::SymbolicX::NoSimplification qw(:all);
         # ... code that uses Math::Symbolic ...
         # Won't use the builtin simplification routines.
         # ...
         do_simplify();
         # ... code that uses Math::Symbolic ...
         # Will use the builtin simplification routines.
         # ...
         dont_simplify();
         # ... you get the idea ...

DESCRIPTION
       This module offers facilities to turn off the builtin Math::Symbolic
       simplification routines and replace them with routines that just clone
       the objects. You may want to do this in cases where the simplification
       routines fail to simplify the Math::Symbolic trees and waste a lot of
       CPU time. (For example, calculating the first order Taylor polynomial
       of a moderately complex test function was sped up by 100% on my
       machine.)

       A word of caution, however: If you turn off the simplification
       routines, some procedures may produce very, very large trees. One such
       procedure would be the consecutive application of many derivatives to a
       product without intermediate simplification. This would yield
       exponential growth of nodes. (And may, in fact, still do if you keep
       the simplification heuristics turned on because most expressions cannot
       be simplified significantly.)

   USAGE
       Just load the module to turn off simplification. To turn it back on,
       you can call "Math::SymbolicX::NoSimplification-"do_simplify()> and to
       turn it off again, you may call
       "Math::SymbolicX::NoSimplification-"do_simplify()>. Since the module's
       name is quite long, you may choose to import do_simplify() and/or
       dont_simplify() into your namespace using standard "Exporter"
       semantics.  See below.

   CLASS METHODS
       do_simplify
         Turn simplification back on.

       dont_simplify
         Turn simplification off.

   EXPORT
       None by default, but you may choose to import either the routines
       do_simplify() and/or dont_simplify() or both by using the ":all"
       exporter group. See also: Exporter

AUTHOR
       Steffen Mueller, <smueller@cpan.org>

       Please send feedback, bug reports, and support requests to the
       Math::Symbolic support mailing list: math-symbolic-support at lists dot
       sourceforge dot net. Please consider letting us know how you use
       Math::Symbolic. Thank you.

       If you're interested in helping with the development or extending the
       module's functionality, please contact the developers' mailing list:
       math-symbolic-develop at lists dot sourceforge dot net.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Steffen Mueller

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       New versions of this module can be found on http://steffen-mueller.net
       or CPAN.

       Math::Symbolic,

perl v5.40.2                      2006-11-05
                                          Math::SymbolicX::NoSimplification(3)
