Math::Symbolic::Custom::Simplification(3)  User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Math::Symbolic::Custom::Simplification - User defined simplification
       routines

SYNOPSIS
         package Math::Symbolic::Custom::MySimplification;

         use base 'Math::Symbolic::Custom::Simplification';

         sub simplify {
           my $tree = shift;
           # ... simplify tree ...
           return $simplified;
         }

         1;

         # Then, in another portion of your code.

         Math::Symbolic::Custom::MySimplification->register();

         # Code that uses MySimplification:
         # $tree->simplify() invokes
         # Math::Symbolic::Custom::MySimplification::simplify($tree).

         Math::Symbolic::Custom::MySimplification->unregister();

         # Code that uses the default simplification routines or whichever
         # simplification routines where registered before.

DESCRIPTION
       This module is an extension to the Math::Symbolic module. A basic
       familiarity with that module is required.

       Math::Symbolic offers some builtin simplification routines. These,
       however, are not capable of complex simplifications. This extension
       offers facilities to override the default simplification routines
       through means of subclassing this module. A subclass of this module is
       required to define a "simplify" object method that implements a
       simplification of Math::Symbolic trees.

       There are two class methods to inherit: register and unregister.
       Calling the "register" method on your subclass registers your class as
       providing the simplify method that is invoked whenever simplify() is
       called on a Math::Symbolic::Operator object.

       Calling "unregister" on your subclass restores whichever simplification
       routines where in place before.

       Several subsequent register() and c<unregister()> calls on different
       subclasses can be used to localize simplification routines.  The old
       routines are saved to a stack.

       If there are several subclasses of this module, say "MySimplification"
       and "MyOtherSimplification", calling "MySimplification-"register()>,
       then "MyOtherSimplification-"register()> will finally provide the
       simplification routines of MyOtherSimplification. Unregistering
       MyOtherSimplification revert to the routine from MySimplification.

       If you unregister out of order (i.e. in the above example if you
       unregistered MySimplification instead of MyOtherSimplification), all
       simplification routines up to and including the one you're
       unregistering are removed and the one that was in effect before
       MySimplification (here: the default simplify()) is restored.

   EXPORT
       This module does not export anything.

   METHODS
       register
         A class method to register the simplify() subroutine of the class as
         the new Math::Symbolic simplification rotuine.

       unregister
         A class method to unregister the aformentioned simplification
         routine.

SEE ALSO
       New versions of this module can be found on http://steffen-mueller.net
       or CPAN.

       Math::Symbolic

       Math::Symbolic::Operator which contains the default simplification
       routines.

       Math::Symbolic::Custom and Math::Symbolic::Custom::Base for details on
       enhancing Math::Symbolic.

AUTHOR
       Steffen Müller, <symbolic-module at steffen-mueller dot net<gt>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2005 by Steffen Müller

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.4 or, at
       your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

POD ERRORS
       Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
       below:

       Around line 172:
           Non-ASCII character seen before =encoding in 'Müller,'. Assuming
           CP1252

perl v5.40.2                      2005-10-04
                                     Math::Symbolic::Custom::Simplification(3)
