Alias(3)              User Contributed Perl Documentation             Alias(3)


NAME
       Mail::Alias - Maniulates mail alias files of various formats. Works on
       files directly or loads files into memory and works on the buffer.

SYNOPSIS
           use Mail::Alias;

DESCRIPTION
       "Mail::Alias" can read various formats of mail alias. Once an object
       has been created it can be used to expand aliases and output in another
       format.

CONSTRUCTOR
       new () Alias objects can be created in two ways; With a format
       specified- Mail::Alias::Sendmail->new([filename]) Without a format
       specified- Mail::Alias->new([filename]}. Format defaults to SENDMAIL In
       either case, the filename is optional and, if supplied, it will be read
       in when the object is created. Available formats are Sendmail, Ucbmail,
       and Binmail.

METHODS
       read () Reads an alias file of the specified format into memory.
       Comments or blank lines are lost upon reading. Due to storage in a
       hash, ordering of the alias lines is also lost.
       write () The current set of aliases contained in the object memory are
       written to a file using the current format. If a filehandle is passed,
       data is written to the already opened file. If a filename is passed, it
       is opened and the memory is written to the file. Note: if passing a
       filename, include the mode (i.e. to write to a file named aliases pass
       >aliases). Before writing, the alias lines are sorted alphabetically.
       format () Set the current alias file format.
       exists () Indicates the presence of the passed alias within the object
       (if using memory access), or the current aliases file (if using direct
       file access). For direct file access, the return value is the address
       string for the alias.
       expand () Expands the passed alias into a list of addresses. Expansion
       properly handles :include: files, recursion, and continuation
       lines.Only works when memory access is being used. If the alias is not
       found in the object, you get back what you sent.
       alias_file () Sets or gets the name of the current alias filename for
       direct access.
       append () *-Sendmail only-* Adds an alias to an existing Sendmail alias
       file. The alias and addresses can be passed as two separate arguments
       (alias, addresses) or as a single line of text (alias: addresses)
       delete () *-Sendmail only-* Deletes the entry for an alias from the
       current alias file.
       update () *-Sendmail only-* Replaces the address string entry for an
       alias in the current alias file.
       usemem () Sets the working mode to use memory (indirect access). Use
       read(), write() and format() methods.
       usefile () Sets the working mode to use files (direct access). Use
       append() and delete() methods.

MAINTAINER
       Jonathan Kamens <jik@kamens.us> (CPAN author ID: JIK)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2022 Jonathan Kamens <jik@kamens.us>. All rights
       reserved. This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
       modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

       Portions of earlier versions of this program were copyrighted by Tom
       Zeltwanger and Graham Barr. The current copyright holder extends full
       authorship rights to both of the previous authors.

perl v5.40.2                      2022-02-28                          Alias(3)
