Net::Radius::Server(3)                     User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Net::Radius::Server - Framework for RADIUS Servers

SYNOPSIS
         use Net::Radius::Server;

DESCRIPTION
       "Net::Radius::Server" provides an extensible framework to create RADIUS
       servers suitable for non-standard scenarios where authentication needs
       to consider multiple factors. The RADIUS responses may be created by
       arbitrarily complex rules that process the request packet as well as
       any external data accessible to Perl.

       RADIUS request processing can as well include custom -- and sometimes
       complex -- processes. For instance, you could want to record a copy of
       every RADIUS request received by the server for audit purposes.

       The following modules or module hierarchies are included in this
       distribution as well:

       "Net::Radius::Server::NS"
           This class uses Net::Server(3) to construct a complete RADIUS
           server.

       "Net::Radius::Server::Base"
           A general base class that contains exported constants and methods
           for the framework.

       "Net::Radius::Server::DBStore"
           Provide access to an underlying Berkeley DB Database for storing
           attributes received in the RADIUS requests or in any tuple provided
           at transaction processing time.

       "Net::Radius::Server::Match"
           The base model for match methods. Match methods are used to decide
           whether a given rule can be applied. Match methods usually operate
           on the RADIUS request as well as the peer data and other
           environmental factors.

       "Net::Radius::Server::Match::Simple"
           This is a simplistic match-method factory that can test for a
           variety of conditions (peer address and port, RADIUS request type,
           presence and contents of specific attribues).

       "Net::Radius::Server::Set"
           The base model for set methods. Set methods are expected to craft a
           response packet and instruct the RADIUS server how/when/if respond
           to the given request.

       "Net::Radius::Server::Set::Simple"
           An example of set-method factory class. It allows for setting
           specific RADIUS attributes, both standard and vendor-specific and
           setting packet codes.

       As you might have guessed by now, implementation of new features is
       done through subclassing and overriding of selected functions. This
       provides for an isolated yet well integrated environment.

   The invocation hashref
       "Net::Radius::Server::Match" "->match()" methods,
       "Net::Radius::Server::Set" "->set()" methods and the secret, dictionary
       and rule subs described in "Net::Radius::Server::NS" are invoked
       passing a single hash reference as argument. This hash reference is
       shared through all the calls, providing an effective means to have
       those objects share some space on a per-request basis.

       The hashref contains the following entries:

       packet
           The RADIUS packet data received with no conversions.

       peer_addr
           The address of the peer that sent the RADIUS packet.

       peer_host
           If available, the reverse of peer_addr.

       peer_port
           The socket port used by our peer to send the RADIUS packet.

       port
           The local socket port through which the RADIUS packet was received.

       server
           Only available under "Net::Radius::Server::NS", this is the
           "Net::Server" object used to service requests.

       secret
           Only available after calling the method returned by the
           "nrs_secret_script" under "Net::Radius::Server::NS". This is the
           RADIUS shared secret used to encode and decode valid requests.

       dict
           Only available after calling the method returned by the
           "nrs_dictionary_script" under "Net::Radius::Server::NS". This is
           the RADIUS dictionary used to encode and decode valid requests.

       request
           After succesful decoding, that requires both a correct secret and a
           dictionary, this entry contains the RADIUS request in a
           "Net::Radius::Packet" object.

       response
           After succesful decoding, that requires both a correct secret and a
           dictionary, this entry contains an empty RADIUS packet as a
           "Net::Radius::Packet" object. "->set()" methods are expected to
           modify this packet to craft a suitable response.

   Using Linux-PAM and LDAP
       The accompanying modules can use LDAP and Linux-PAM to authenticate
       users or otherwise, make more complex choices. An example used by the
       author, uses an LDAP attribute to decide if the username must be
       authenticated through RADIUS proxying or against an LDAP server.

       Other uses are possible, such as adding specific RADIUS attributes to
       the responses based on LDAP attributes.

   EXPORT
       None by default.

HISTORY
         $Log$
         Revision 1.4  2007/01/02 23:27:11  lem
         Added missing prerequisites. Also documented what can be done with
         LDAP and Linux-PAM

         Revision 1.3  2006/12/14 15:52:25  lem
         Fix CVS tags

SEE ALSO
       Perl(1), Net::Radius::Packet(3), Net::Radius::Server::NS(3),
       Net::Server(3).

AUTHOR
       Luis E. Muñoz, <luismunoz@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2006 by Luis E. Muñoz

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl 5.8.6 itself.

POD ERRORS
       Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
       below:

       Around line 182:
           Non-ASCII character seen before =encoding in 'Muñoz,'. Assuming
           UTF-8

perl v5.40.2                      2009-10-15            Net::Radius::Server(3)
