Net::Jabber(3)        User Contributed Perl Documentation       Net::Jabber(3)


NAME
       Net::Jabber - Jabber Perl Library

SYNOPSIS
         Net::Jabber provides a Perl user with access to the Jabber Instant
         Messaging protocol.

         For more information about Jabber visit:

           http://www.jabber.org

DESCRIPTION
         Net::Jabber is a convenient tool to use for any perl script that would
         like to utilize the Jabber Instant Messaging protocol.  While not a
         client in and of itself, it provides all of the necessary back-end
         functions to make a CGI client or command-line perl client feasible and
         easy to use.  Net::Jabber is a wrapper around the rest of the official
         Net::Jabber::xxxxxx packages.

         There is are example scripts in the example directory that provide you
         with examples of very simple Jabber programs.


         NOTE: The parser that XML::Stream::Parser provides, as are most Perl
         parsers, is synchronous.  If you are in the middle of parsing a packet
         and call a user defined callback, the Parser is blocked until your
         callback finishes.  This means you cannot be operating on a packet,
         send out another packet and wait for a response to that packet.  It
         will never get to you.  Threading might solve this, but as of the
         writing of this, threading in Perl is not quite up to par yet.  This
         issue will be revisted in the future.

EXAMPLES
           For a client:
             use Net::Jabber;
             my $client = new Net::Jabber::Client();

           For a component:
             use Net::Jabber;
             my $component = new Net::Jabber::Component();

METHODS
         The Net::Jabber module does not define any methods that you will call
         directly in your code.  Instead you will instantiate objects that call
         functions from this module to do work.  The three main objects that
         you will work with are the Message, Presence, and IQ modules.  Each one
         corresponds to the Jabber equivilant and allows you get and set all
         parts of those packets.

PACKAGES
         For more information on each of these packages, please see the man page
         for each one.

   Net::Jabber::Client
         This package contains the code needed to communicate with a Jabber
         server: login, wait for messages, send messages, and logout.  It uses
         XML::Stream to read the stream from the server and based on what kind
         of tag it encounters it calls a function to handle the tag.

   Net::Jabber::Component
         This package contains the code needed to write a server component.  A
         component is a program tha handles the communication between a jabber
         server and some outside program or communications pacakge (IRC, talk,
         email, etc...)  With this module you can write a full component in just
         a few lines of Perl.  It uses XML::Stream to communicate with its host
         server and based on what kind of tag it encounters it calls a function
         to handle the tag.

   Net::Jabber::Protocol
         A collection of high-level functions that Client and Component use to
         make their lives easier through inheritance.

   Net::Jabber::JID
         The Jabber IDs consist of three parts: user id, server, and resource.
         This module gives you access to those components without having to
         parse the string yourself.

   Net::Jabber::Message
         Everything needed to create and read a <message/> received from the
         server.

   Net::Jabber::Presence
         Everything needed to create and read a <presence/> received from the
         server.

   Net::Jabber::IQ
         IQ is a wrapper around a number of modules that provide support for the
         various Info/Query namespaces that Jabber recognizes.

   Net::Jabber::Stanza
         This module represents a namespaced stanza that is used to extend a
         <message/>, <presence/>, and <iq/>.  Ultimately each namespace is
         documented in a JEP of some kind.  http://jabber.org/jeps/

         The man page for Net::Jabber::Stanza contains a listing of all
         supported namespaces, and the methods that are supported by the objects
         that represent those namespaces.

   Net::Jabber::Namespaces
         Jabber allows for any stanza to be extended by any bit of XML.  This
         module contains all of the internals for defining the Jabber based
         extensions defined by the JEPs.  The documentation for this module
         explains more about how to add your own custom namespace and have it be
         supported.

AUTHOR
       Ryan Eatmon

COPYRIGHT
       This module is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2004-08-17                    Net::Jabber(3)
