DHCPClient(3)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        DHCPClient(3)


NAME
         Net::DHCPClient - A DHCP Client API

SYNOPSIS
         use Net::DHCPClient;

         my $dhcp = new Net::DHCPClient( maccaddr => '0a:0a:0a:0a:0a:0a',
                                         interface => 'eth0' );

         $dhcp->discover( 61 => '0a 0a 0a 0a 0a 0a' );

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides methods for implementing a DHCP client. It allows
       perl scripts to interacts with DHCP servers.

       This module is used by constructing a new DHCPClient object via the
       constructor method, providing it (minimally) with the machine address
       and the network interface that is to be used for the DHCP transaction
       with the DHCP server.

       Information after each DHCP call is stored in the instance variables of
       the object. Refer to RFC2131 for the designations of the named fields.
       Options (sometimes called vendor extensions) are stored in an instance
       variable in the object called options as a references to a hash. The
       options themselves are keys by the decimal designation of the option,
       and the values of the hash are string representations of the hex values
       that should be passed to the DHCP server with the options. Please refer
       to RFC2132 for a complete listing.

       Some common option fields are available through methods in this object
       for convenience. They are listed in this document.

       This document is not a replacement for RFC2131 or RFC2132, and you will
       probably need a copy of them handy if you are coding DHCP clients.

   Class Methods
       The constructor is the only class method that should be invoked. It
       takes as its parameters minimally the machine address and the interface
       for which the DHCP transaction should take place.

   Object Methods
       Object methods must be invoked against objects created via the new
       method.

       There are two kinds of object methods -- those that invoke DHCP
       transactions and those that interpret the results of a DHCP
       transaction. I am grouping them separately for this reason.

       DHCPClient transaction object methods

       All of the DHCPClient transaction methods take named parameters as
       their arguments, where paramters are named for the decimal
       representation of the options that can be set in the DHCP packet, and
       set to a string representation of the hex values that should be set for
       the named parameter in the DHCP packet. Whew. Fear not, examples are
       below.

       decline
           The decline method declines an offer from a DHCP server.

       discover
           The discover method broadcasts a DHCPDISCOVER on the local subnet.

       inform
           The inform method requests information from a DHCP server.

       release
           The release method releases the lease of the IP address.

       request
           The request method requests a DHCP lease.

       DHCPClient result object methods

       These methods are built as conveniences to get the data that is
       contained in the result of a DHCP transaction returned in a usable
       form. All of the data can be had by going through the object instance
       variables by hand, but I would not recommend it. These methods will not
       return anything useful until a DHCP transaction has taken place.

       Note -- unless otherwise noted, an IP address returned by an object
       method listed in this documentation should be considered to be a string
       containing the address is dotted notation.

       broadcast
           Returns the broadcast address.

       client_ip
           Returns the IP address of the client that made the request to the
           DHCP server.

       domain_name
           Returns the domain name that the server has provided.

       domain_name_server
           Returns a list of IP addresses of the domain name servers.

       netbiod_nameserver
           Returns a list of the IP addresses of the netbiod domain name
           servers (i.e. NT Domain servers)

       ntp_server
           Returns a list of IP address of the Network Time Protocol server.

       relay_ip
           Returns the IP address of the agent that relayed your DHCP request
           to the DHCP server (probably a router).

       reply
           Returns a string indicating what the server reply was.

       server_identifier
           Returns a server identifier -- it is usually an IP address of the
           server, but does not necessarily need to be. This method assumes an
           IP address.

       server_ip
           Returns the IP address of the DHCP server that handled your
           request.

       subnet_mask
           Returns the subnet mask.

       time_server
           Returns a list of the IP addresses of the time servers.

       your_ip
           Returns the IP address that the DHCP server has offered to your
           client.

Change log
            Revision 1.0  2001/04/19
            Initial release

AUTHOR
         Joshua Walgenbach
         Indiana Unversity
         jwalgenb@indiana.edu

COPYRIGHT
         Copyright 2000, Joshua Walgenbach
         All rights reserved

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of either:

       •   a) the "Artistic License" which comes with this Kit, or

           b) the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
           Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later
           version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See either the
       GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for more details.

perl v5.40.2                      2001-04-19                     DHCPClient(3)
