Pod::Man(3)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          Pod::Man(3)


NAME
       Pod::Man - Convert POD data to formatted *roff input

SYNOPSIS
           use Pod::Man;
           my $parser = Pod::Man->new (release => $VERSION, section => 8);

           # Read POD from STDIN and write to STDOUT.
           $parser->parse_file (\*STDIN);

           # Read POD from file.pod and write to file.1.
           $parser->parse_from_file ('file.pod', 'file.1');

DESCRIPTION
       Pod::Man is a module to convert documentation in the POD format (the
       preferred language for documenting Perl) into *roff input using the man
       macro set.  The resulting *roff code is suitable for display on a
       terminal using nroff(1), normally via man(1), or printing using
       troff(1).  It is conventionally invoked using the driver script
       pod2man, but it can also be used directly.

       By default (on non-EBCDIC systems), Pod::Man outputs UTF-8.  Its output
       should work with the man program on systems that use groff (most Linux
       distributions) or mandoc (most BSD variants), but may result in mangled
       output on older UNIX systems.  To choose a different, possibly more
       backward-compatible output mangling on such systems, set the "encoding"
       option to "roff" (the default in earlier Pod::Man versions).  See the
       "encoding" option and "ENCODING" for more details.

       See "COMPATIBILTY" for the versions of Pod::Man with significant
       backward-incompatible changes (other than constructor options, whose
       versions are documented below), and the versions of Perl that included
       them.

CLASS METHODS
       new(ARGS)
           Create a new Pod::Man object.  ARGS should be a list of key/value
           pairs, where the keys are chosen from the following.  Each option
           is annotated with the version of Pod::Man in which that option was
           added with its current meaning.

           center
               [1.00] Sets the centered page header for the ".TH" macro.  The
               default, if this option is not specified, is "User Contributed
               Perl Documentation".

           date
               [4.00] Sets the left-hand footer for the ".TH" macro.  If this
               option is not set, the contents of the environment variable
               POD_MAN_DATE, if set, will be used.  Failing that, the value of
               SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH, the modification date of the input file, or
               the current time if stat() can't find that file (which will be
               the case if the input is from "STDIN") will be used.  If taken
               from any source other than POD_MAN_DATE (which is used
               verbatim), the date will be formatted as "YYYY-MM-DD" and will
               be based on UTC (so that the output will be reproducible
               regardless of local time zone).

           encoding
               [5.00] Specifies the encoding of the output.  The value must be
               an encoding recognized by the Encode module (see
               Encode::Supported), or the special values "roff" or "groff".
               The default on non-EBCDIC systems is UTF-8.

               If the output contains characters that cannot be represented in
               this encoding, that is an error that will be reported as
               configured by the "errors" option.  If error handling is other
               than "die", the unrepresentable character will be replaced with
               the Encode substitution character (normally "?").

               If the "encoding" option is set to the special value "groff"
               (the default on EBCDIC systems), or if the Encode module is not
               available and the encoding is set to anything other than
               "roff", Pod::Man will translate all non-ASCII characters to
               "\[uNNNN]" Unicode escapes.  These are not traditionally part
               of the *roff language, but are supported by groff and mandoc
               and thus by the majority of manual page processors in use
               today.

               If the "encoding" option is set to the special value "roff",
               Pod::Man will do its historic transformation of (some) ISO
               8859-1 characters into *roff escapes that may be adequate in
               troff and may be readable (if ugly) in nroff.  This was the
               default behavior of versions of Pod::Man before 5.00.  With
               this encoding, all other non-ASCII characters will be replaced
               with "X".  It may be required for very old troff and nroff
               implementations that do not support UTF-8, but its
               representation of any non-ASCII character is very poor and
               often specific to European languages.

               If the output file handle has a PerlIO encoding layer set,
               setting "encoding" to anything other than "groff" or "roff"
               will be ignored and no encoding will be done by Pod::Man.  It
               will instead rely on the encoding layer to make whatever output
               encoding transformations are desired.

               WARNING: The input encoding of the POD source is independent
               from the output encoding, and setting this option does not
               affect the interpretation of the POD input.  Unless your POD
               source is US-ASCII, its encoding should be declared with the
               "=encoding" command in the source.  If this is not done,
               Pod::Simple will will attempt to guess the encoding and may be
               successful if it's Latin-1 or UTF-8, but it will produce
               warnings.  See perlpod(1) for more information.

           errors
               [2.27] How to report errors.  "die" says to throw an exception
               on any POD formatting error.  "stderr" says to report errors on
               standard error, but not to throw an exception.  "pod" says to
               include a POD ERRORS section in the resulting documentation
               summarizing the errors.  "none" ignores POD errors entirely, as
               much as possible.

               The default is "pod".

           fixed
               [1.00] The fixed-width font to use for verbatim text and code.
               Defaults to "CW".  Some systems prefer "CR" instead.  Only
               matters for troff output.

           fixedbold
               [1.00] Bold version of the fixed-width font.  Defaults to "CB".
               Only matters for troff output.

           fixeditalic
               [1.00] Italic version of the fixed-width font (something of a
               misnomer, since most fixed-width fonts only have an oblique
               version, not an italic version).  Defaults to "CI".  Only
               matters for troff output.

           fixedbolditalic
               [1.00] Bold italic (in theory, probably oblique in practice)
               version of the fixed-width font.  Pod::Man doesn't assume you
               have this, and defaults to "CB".  Some systems (such as
               Solaris) have this font available as "CX".  Only matters for
               troff output.

           guesswork
               [5.00] By default, Pod::Man applies some default formatting
               rules based on guesswork and regular expressions that are
               intended to make writing Perl documentation easier and require
               less explicit markup.  These rules may not always be
               appropriate, particularly for documentation that isn't about
               Perl.  This option allows turning all or some of it off.

               The special value "all" enables all guesswork.  This is also
               the default for backward compatibility reasons.  The special
               value "none" disables all guesswork.  Otherwise, the value of
               this option should be a comma-separated list of one or more of
               the following keywords:

               functions
                   Convert function references like foo() to bold even if they
                   have no markup.  The function name accepts valid Perl
                   characters for function names (including ":"), and the
                   trailing parentheses must be present and empty.

               manref
                   Make the first part (before the parentheses) of manual page
                   references like foo(1) bold even if they have no markup.
                   The section must be a single number optionally followed by
                   lowercase letters.

               quoting
                   If no guesswork is enabled, any text enclosed in C<> is
                   surrounded by double quotes in nroff (terminal) output
                   unless the contents are already quoted.  When this
                   guesswork is enabled, quote marks will also be suppressed
                   for Perl variables, function names, function calls,
                   numbers, and hex constants.

               variables
                   Convert Perl variable names to a fixed-width font even if
                   they have no markup.  This transformation will only be
                   apparent in troff output, or some other output format
                   (unlike nroff terminal output) that supports fixed-width
                   fonts.

               Any unknown guesswork name is silently ignored (for potential
               future compatibility), so be careful about spelling.

           language
               [5.00] Add commands telling groff that the input file is in the
               given language.  The value of this setting must be a language
               abbreviation for which groff provides supplemental
               configuration, such as "ja" (for Japanese) or "zh" (for
               Chinese).

               Specifically, this adds:

                   .mso <language>.tmac
                   .hla <language>

               to the start of the file, which configure correct line breaking
               for the specified language.  Without these commands, groff may
               not know how to add proper line breaks for Chinese and Japanese
               text if the manual page is installed into the normal manual
               page directory, such as /usr/share/man.

               On many systems, this will be done automatically if the manual
               page is installed into a language-specific manual page
               directory, such as /usr/share/man/zh_CN.  In that case, this
               option is not required.

               Unfortunately, the commands added with this option are specific
               to groff and will not work with other troff and nroff
               implementations.

           lquote
           rquote
               [4.08] Sets the quote marks used to surround C<> text.
               "lquote" sets the left quote mark and "rquote" sets the right
               quote mark.  Either may also be set to the special value
               "none", in which case no quote mark is added on that side of
               C<> text (but the font is still changed for troff output).

               Also see the "quotes" option, which can be used to set both
               quotes at once.  If both "quotes" and one of the other options
               is set, "lquote" or "rquote" overrides "quotes".

           name
               [4.08] Set the name of the manual page for the ".TH" macro.
               Without this option, the manual name is set to the uppercased
               base name of the file being converted unless the manual section
               is 3, in which case the path is parsed to see if it is a Perl
               module path.  If it is, a path like ".../lib/Pod/Man.pm" is
               converted into a name like "Pod::Man".  This option, if given,
               overrides any automatic determination of the name.

               If generating a manual page from standard input, the name will
               be set to "STDIN" if this option is not provided.  In this
               case, providing this option is strongly recommended to set a
               meaningful manual page name.

           nourls
               [2.27] Normally, L<> formatting codes with a URL but anchor
               text are formatted to show both the anchor text and the URL.
               In other words:

                   L<foo|http://example.com/>

               is formatted as:

                   foo <http://example.com/>

               This option, if set to a true value, suppresses the URL when
               anchor text is given, so this example would be formatted as
               just "foo".  This can produce less cluttered output in cases
               where the URLs are not particularly important.

           quotes
               [4.00] Sets the quote marks used to surround C<> text.  If the
               value is a single character, it is used as both the left and
               right quote.  Otherwise, it is split in half, and the first
               half of the string is used as the left quote and the second is
               used as the right quote.

               This may also be set to the special value "none", in which case
               no quote marks are added around C<> text (but the font is still
               changed for troff output).

               Also see the "lquote" and "rquote" options, which can be used
               to set the left and right quotes independently.  If both
               "quotes" and one of the other options is set, "lquote" or
               "rquote" overrides "quotes".

           release
               [1.00] Set the centered footer for the ".TH" macro.  By
               default, this is set to the version of Perl you run Pod::Man
               under.  Setting this to the empty string will cause some *roff
               implementations to use the system default value.

               Note that some system "an" macro sets assume that the centered
               footer will be a modification date and will prepend something
               like "Last modified: ".  If this is the case for your target
               system, you may want to set "release" to the last modified date
               and "date" to the version number.

           section
               [1.00] Set the section for the ".TH" macro.  The standard
               section numbering convention is to use 1 for user commands, 2
               for system calls, 3 for functions, 4 for devices, 5 for file
               formats, 6 for games, 7 for miscellaneous information, and 8
               for administrator commands.  There is a lot of variation here,
               however; some systems (like Solaris) use 4 for file formats, 5
               for miscellaneous information, and 7 for devices.  Still others
               use 1m instead of 8, or some mix of both.  About the only
               section numbers that are reliably consistent are 1, 2, and 3.

               By default, section 1 will be used unless the file ends in
               ".pm" in which case section 3 will be selected.

           stderr
               [2.19] If set to a true value, send error messages about
               invalid POD to standard error instead of appending a POD ERRORS
               section to the generated *roff output.  This is equivalent to
               setting "errors" to "stderr" if "errors" is not already set.

               This option is for backward compatibility with Pod::Man
               versions that did not support "errors".  Normally, the "errors"
               option should be used instead.

           utf8
               [2.21] This option used to set the output encoding to UTF-8.
               Since this is now the default, it is ignored and does nothing.

INSTANCE METHODS
       As a derived class from Pod::Simple, Pod::Man supports the same methods
       and interfaces.  See Pod::Simple for all the details.  This section
       summarizes the most-frequently-used methods and the ones added by
       Pod::Man.

       output_fh(FH)
           Direct the output from parse_file(), parse_lines(), or
           parse_string_document() to the file handle FH instead of "STDOUT".

       output_string(REF)
           Direct the output from parse_file(), parse_lines(), or
           parse_string_document() to the scalar variable pointed to by REF,
           rather than "STDOUT".  For example:

               my $man = Pod::Man->new();
               my $output;
               $man->output_string(\$output);
               $man->parse_file('/some/input/file');

           Be aware that the output in that variable will already be encoded
           in UTF-8.

       parse_file(PATH)
           Read the POD source from PATH and format it.  By default, the
           output is sent to "STDOUT", but this can be changed with the
           output_fh() or output_string() methods.

       parse_from_file(INPUT, OUTPUT)
       parse_from_filehandle(FH, OUTPUT)
           Read the POD source from INPUT, format it, and output the results
           to OUTPUT.

           parse_from_filehandle() is provided for backward compatibility with
           older versions of Pod::Man.  parse_from_file() should be used
           instead.

       parse_lines(LINES[, ...[, undef]])
           Parse the provided lines as POD source, writing the output to
           either "STDOUT" or the file handle set with the output_fh() or
           output_string() methods.  This method can be called repeatedly to
           provide more input lines.  An explicit "undef" should be passed to
           indicate the end of input.

           This method expects raw bytes, not decoded characters.

       parse_string_document(INPUT)
           Parse the provided scalar variable as POD source, writing the
           output to either "STDOUT" or the file handle set with the
           output_fh() or output_string() methods.

           This method expects raw bytes, not decoded characters.

ENCODING
       As of Pod::Man 5.00, the default output encoding for Pod::Man is UTF-8.
       This should work correctly on any modern system that uses either groff
       (most Linux distributions) or mandoc (Alpine Linux and most BSD
       variants, including macOS).

       The user will probably have to use a UTF-8 locale to see correct
       output.  This may be done by default; if not, set the LANG or LC_CTYPE
       environment variables to an appropriate local.  The locale "C.UTF-8" is
       available on most systems if one wants correct output without changing
       the other things locales affect, such as collation.

       The backward-compatible output format used in Pod::Man versions before
       5.00 is available by setting the "encoding" option to "roff".  This may
       produce marginally nicer results on older UNIX versions that do not use
       groff or mandoc, but none of the available options will correctly
       render Unicode characters on those systems.

       Below are some additional details about how this choice was made and
       some discussion of alternatives.

   History
       The default output encoding for Pod::Man has been a long-standing
       problem.  troff and nroff predate Unicode by a significant margin, and
       their implementations for many UNIX systems reflect that legacy.  It's
       common for Unicode to not be supported in any form.

       Because of this, versions of Pod::Man prior to 5.00 maintained the
       highly conservative output of the original pod2man, which output pure
       ASCII with complex macros to simulate common western European accented
       characters when processed with troff.  The nroff output was awkward and
       sometimes incorrect, and characters not used in western European
       scripts were replaced with "X".  This choice maximized backwards
       compatibility with man and nroff/troff implementations at the cost of
       incorrect rendering of many POD documents, particularly those
       containing people's names.

       The modern implementations, groff (used in most Linux distributions)
       and mandoc (used by most BSD variants), do now support Unicode.  Other
       UNIX systems often do not, but they're now a tiny minority of the
       systems people use on a daily basis.  It's increasingly common (for
       very good reasons) to use Unicode characters for POD documents rather
       than using ASCII conversions of people's names or avoiding non-English
       text, making the limitations in the old output format more apparent.

       Four options have been proposed to fix this:

       • Optionally support UTF-8 output but don't change the default.  This
         is the approach taken since Pod::Man 2.1.0, which added the "utf8"
         option.  Some Pod::Man users use this option for better output on
         platforms known to support Unicode, but since the defaults have not
         changed, people continued to encounter (and file bug reports about)
         the poor default rendering.

       • Convert characters to troff "\(xx" escapes.  This requires
         maintaining a large translation table and addresses only a tiny part
         of the problem, since many Unicode characters have no standard troff
         name.  groff has the largest list, but if one is willing to assume
         groff is the formatter, the next option is better.

       • Convert characters to groff "\[uNNNN]" escapes.  This is implemented
         as the "groff" encoding for those who want to use it, and is
         supported by both groff and mandoc.  However, it is no better than
         UTF-8 output for portability to other implementations.  See "Testing
         results" for more details.

       • Change the default output format to UTF-8 and ask those who want
         maximum backward compatibility to explicitly select the old encoding.
         This fixes the issue for most users at the cost of backwards
         compatibility.  While the rendering of non-ASCII characters is
         different on older systems that don't support UTF-8, it's not always
         worse than the old output.

       Pod::Man 5.00 and later makes the last choice.  This arguably produces
       worse output when manual pages are formatted with troff into PostScript
       or PDF, but doing this is rare and normally manual, so the encoding can
       be changed in those cases.  The older output encoding is available by
       setting "encoding" to "roff".

   Testing results
       Here is the results of testing "encoding" values of "utf-8" and "groff"
       on various operating systems.  The testing methodology was to create
       man/man1 in the current directory, copy encoding.utf8 or encoding.groff
       from the podlators 5.00 distribution to man/man1/encoding.1, and then
       run:

           LANG=C.UTF-8 MANPATH=$(pwd)/man man 1 encoding

       If the locale is not explicitly set to one that includes UTF-8, the
       Unicode characters were usually converted to ASCII (by, for example,
       dropping an accent) or deleted or replaced with "<?>" if there was no
       conversion.

       Tested on 2022-09-25.  Many thanks to the GCC Compile Farm project for
       access to testing hosts.

           OS                   UTF-8      groff
           ------------------   -------    -------
           AIX 7.1              no [1]     no [2]
           Alpine 3.15.0        yes        yes
           CentOS 7.9           yes        yes
           Debian 7             yes        yes
           FreeBSD 13.0         yes        yes
           NetBSD 9.2           yes        yes
           OpenBSD 7.1          yes        yes
           openSUSE Leap 15.4   yes        yes
           Solaris 10           yes        no [2]
           Solaris 11           no [3]     no [3]

       I did not have access to a macOS system for testing, but since it uses
       mandoc, it's behavior is probably the same as the BSD hosts.

       Notes:

       [1] Unicode characters were converted to one or two random ASCII
           characters unrelated to the original character.

       [2] Unicode characters were shown as the body of the groff escape
           rather than the indicated character (in other words, text like
           "[u00EF]").

       [3] Unicode characters were deleted entirely, as if they weren't there.
           Using "nroff -man" instead of man to format the page showed the
           same results as Solaris 10.  Using "groff -k -man -Tutf8" to format
           the page produced the correct output.

       PostScript and PDF output using groff on a Debian 12 system do not
       support combining accent marks or SMP characters due to a lack of
       support in the default output font.

       Testing on additional platforms is welcome.  Please let the author know
       if you have additional results.

DIAGNOSTICS
       roff font should be 1 or 2 chars, not "%s"
           (F) You specified a *roff font (using "fixed", "fixedbold", etc.)
           that wasn't either one or two characters.  Pod::Man doesn't support
           *roff fonts longer than two characters, although some *roff
           extensions do (the canonical versions of nroff and troff don't
           either).

       Invalid errors setting "%s"
           (F) The "errors" parameter to the constructor was set to an unknown
           value.

       Invalid quote specification "%s"
           (F) The quote specification given (the "quotes" option to the
           constructor) was invalid.  A quote specification must be either one
           character long or an even number (greater than one) characters
           long.

       POD document had syntax errors
           (F) The POD document being formatted had syntax errors and the
           "errors" option was set to "die".

ENVIRONMENT
       PERL_CORE
           If set and Encode is not available, silently fall back to an
           encoding of "groff" without complaining to standard error.  This
           environment variable is set during Perl core builds, which build
           Encode after podlators.  Encode is expected to not (yet) be
           available in that case.

       POD_MAN_DATE
           If set, this will be used as the value of the left-hand footer
           unless the "date" option is explicitly set, overriding the
           timestamp of the input file or the current time.  This is primarily
           useful to ensure reproducible builds of the same output file given
           the same source and Pod::Man version, even when file timestamps may
           not be consistent.

       SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH
           If set, and POD_MAN_DATE and the "date" options are not set, this
           will be used as the modification time of the source file,
           overriding the timestamp of the input file or the current time.  It
           should be set to the desired time in seconds since UNIX epoch.
           This is primarily useful to ensure reproducible builds of the same
           output file given the same source and Pod::Man version, even when
           file timestamps may not be consistent.  See
           <https://reproducible-builds.org/specs/source-date-epoch/> for the
           full specification.

           (Arguably, according to the specification, this variable should be
           used only if the timestamp of the input file is not available and
           Pod::Man uses the current time.  However, for reproducible builds
           in Debian, results were more reliable if this variable overrode the
           timestamp of the input file.)

COMPATIBILITY
       Pod::Man 1.02 (based on Pod::Parser) was the first version included
       with Perl, in Perl 5.6.0.

       The current API based on Pod::Simple was added in Pod::Man 2.00.
       Pod::Man 2.04 was included in Perl 5.9.3, the first version of Perl to
       incorporate those changes.  This is the first version that correctly
       supports all modern POD syntax.  The parse_from_filehandle() method was
       re-added for backward compatibility in Pod::Man 2.09, included in Perl
       5.9.4.

       Support for anchor text in L<> links of type URL was added in Pod::Man
       2.23, included in Perl 5.11.5.

       parse_lines(), parse_string_document(), and parse_file() set a default
       output file handle of "STDOUT" if one was not already set as of
       Pod::Man 2.28, included in Perl 5.19.5.

       Support for SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH and POD_MAN_DATE was added in Pod::Man
       4.00, included in Perl 5.23.7, and generated dates were changed to use
       UTC instead of the local time zone.  This is also the first release
       that aligned the module version and the version of the podlators
       distribution.  All modules included in podlators, and the podlators
       distribution itself, share the same version number from this point
       forward.

       Pod::Man 4.10, included in Perl 5.27.8, changed the formatting for
       manual page references and function names to bold instead of italic,
       following the current Linux manual page standard.

       Pod::Man 5.00 changed the default output encoding to UTF-8, overridable
       with the new "encoding" option.  It also fixed problems with bold or
       italic extending too far when used with C<> escapes, and began
       converting Unicode zero-width spaces (U+200B) to the "\:" *roff escape.
       It also dropped attempts to add subtle formatting corrections in the
       output that would only be visible when typeset with troff, which had
       previously been a significant source of bugs.

BUGS
       There are numerous bugs and language-specific assumptions in the nroff
       fallbacks for accented characters in the "roff" encoding.  Since the
       point of this encoding is backward compatibility with the output from
       earlier versions of Pod::Man, and it is deprecated except when
       necessary to support old systems, those bugs are unlikely to ever be
       fixed.

       Pod::Man doesn't handle font names longer than two characters.  Neither
       do most troff implementations, but groff does as an extension.  It
       would be nice to support as an option for those who want to use it.

CAVEATS
   Sentence spacing
       Pod::Man copies the input spacing verbatim to the output *roff
       document.  This means your output will be affected by how nroff
       generally handles sentence spacing.

       nroff dates from an era in which it was standard to use two spaces
       after sentences, and will always add two spaces after a line-ending
       period (or similar punctuation) when reflowing text.  For example, the
       following input:

           =pod

           One sentence.
           Another sentence.

       will result in two spaces after the period when the text is reflowed.
       If you use two spaces after sentences anyway, this will be consistent,
       although you will have to be careful to not end a line with an
       abbreviation such as "e.g." or "Ms.".  Output will also be consistent
       if you use the *roff style guide (and XKCD 1285
       <https://xkcd.com/1285/>) recommendation of putting a line break after
       each sentence, although that will consistently produce two spaces after
       each sentence, which may not be what you want.

       If you prefer one space after sentences (which is the more modern
       style), you will unfortunately need to ensure that no line in the
       middle of a paragraph ends in a period or similar sentence-ending
       paragraph.  Otherwise, nroff will add a two spaces after that sentence
       when reflowing, and your output document will have inconsistent
       spacing.

   Hyphens
       The handling of hyphens versus dashes is somewhat fragile, and one may
       get a the wrong one under some circumstances.  This will normally only
       matter for line breaking and possibly for troff output.

AUTHOR
       Written by Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>, based on the original pod2man
       by Tom Christiansen <tchrist@mox.perl.com>.

       The modifications to work with Pod::Simple instead of Pod::Parser were
       contributed by Sean Burke <sburke@cpan.org>, but I've since hacked them
       beyond recognition and all bugs are mine.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 1999-2010, 2012-2020, 2022 Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>

       Substantial contributions by Sean Burke <sburke@cpan.org>.

       This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       Encode::Supported, Pod::Simple, perlpod(1), pod2man(1), nroff(1),
       troff(1), man(1), man(7)

       Ossanna, Joseph F., and Brian W. Kernighan.  "Troff User's Manual,"
       Computing Science Technical Report No. 54, AT&T Bell Laboratories.
       This is the best documentation of standard nroff and troff.  At the
       time of this writing, it's available at <http://www.troff.org/54.pdf>.

       The manual page documenting the man macro set may be man(5) instead of
       man(7) on your system.

       See perlpodstyle(1) for documentation on writing manual pages in POD if
       you've not done it before and aren't familiar with the conventions.

       The current version of this module is always available from its web
       site at <https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/podlators/>.  It is also
       part of the Perl core distribution as of 5.6.0.

perl v5.40.2                      2022-12-25                       Pod::Man(3)
