PERLPOINT(1)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         PERLPOINT(1)

NAME
     perlpoint - a very general PerlPoint converter, using the generator
     interface

VERSION
     This manual describes version 0.03.

DESCRIPTION
     This general converter translates PerlPoint in any target language you
     have PerlPoint::Generator subclasses installed for.

     These classes can be installed in the usual Perl library pathes or in a
     template. To get a list of available generators in the Perl path, call
     this script with option "-generators". To see if a template provides an
     additional generator, scan its "lib" subdirectory.

     Usually, if you are working with a template, just start the converter as
     described below. If there are libraries missing it will be notified.

SYNOPSIS
     perlpoint [<options>] <PerlPoint sources>

   Options
     All options can be abbreviated uniqly.

     Please note that there are more options than described below. "perlpoint"
     just defines bootstrap options. For a complete option list please call
     "perlpoint" with "-help" and the appropriate "-target", "-formatter" and
     "-template" options, the help displayed will be adapted to this call.

     -help
         displays a help and terminates. The help adapts itself to further
         options, so for best results it is recommended to enter all options
         that are intended to used, and to add "-help" additionally.

     -target <format>
         The format that should be produced. The argument is automatically
         uppercased.

         To produce a format "FORMAT", "PerlPoint::Generator::FORMAT" needs to
         be installed.

          Examples:

           -format sdf
           -format HTML

     -formatter
         The generator type to be used. This setting chooses a formatter for
         the target format.

          -formatter nice

         Formatter names can be build hierarchically, delimiting hierarchy
         levels by double colons:

          -formatter nice::impression

         The arguments first letter of each hierarchy level is automatically
         uppercased.

          -formatter nice::impression is equivalent to
          -formatter Nice::Impression.

         To produce a format "FORMAT" using a formatter "Nice",
         "PerlPoint::Generator::FORMAT::Nice" needs to be installed.

         This option defaults to "Default". By convention there is a "Default"
         formatter for each supported target format.

     -styledir
         The directory to be searched for styles. Defaults to the start
         directory.

     -style
         The layout to be used. A layout defines the result format.

     -version
         displays the current program version and the versions of generator,
         formatter and template modules that are loaded according to the
         remaining options.

   Option files
     Options may be loaded from files where they are stored exactly as you
     write them in the command line, but may be spread to several lines and
     extended by comment lines which start with a "#" character. To mark an
     option file in the commandline, simply enter its (path and) name prededed
     by a "@" character, for example

       perlpoint @myOptions ppfile

       where the file myOptions could look like

       # suppress infos
       -noinfo

     Option files may be nested. To avoid endless recursion, every option file
     is resolved only the first time it is detected.

       # this is an option file which
       # refers to another option file
       -noinfo @moreOptions

     The script also takes care of default option files which means that usual
     options can be stored in files named ".perlpoint". If such a file is
     placed in the directory where the script itself resides, options in the
     file are read in automatically by all perlpoint calls. These are global
     settings. If you place such a file in your home directory, it is read
     automatically as well but only if perlpoint is called under your account,
     so this is for personal preferences.

     A personal default option file overwrites global settings, and all
     default options are overwritten by options passed to the script call.

ENVIRONMENT
NOTES
FILES
SEE ALSO
     PerlPoint::Generator

AUTHOR
     Copyright (c) Jochen Stenzel (perl@jochen-stenzel.de), 2003-2006. All
     rights reserved.

     This script is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it
     under the terms of the Artistic License distributed with Perl version
     5.003 or (at your option) any later version. Please refer to the Artistic
     License that came with your Perl distribution for more details.

     The Artistic License should have been included in your distribution of
     Perl. It resides in the file named "Artistic" at the top-level of the
     Perl source tree (where Perl was downloaded/unpacked - ask your system
     administrator if you dont know where this is).  Alternatively, the
     current version of the Artistic License distributed with Perl can be
     viewed on-line on the World-Wide Web (WWW) from the following URL:
     http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html.

DISCLAIMER
     This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but is
     provided "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either expressed or
     implied, INCLUDING, without limitation, the implied warranties of
     MERCHANTABILITY and FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

     The ENTIRE RISK as to the quality and performance of the software IS WITH
     YOU (the holder of the software).  Should the software prove defective,
     YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

     IN NO EVENT WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY CREATE,
     MODIFY, OR DISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE OR RESPONSIBLE TO YOU OR TO
     ANY OTHER ENTITY FOR ANY KIND OF DAMAGES (no matter how awful - not even
     if they arise from known or unknown flaws in the software).

     Please refer to the Artistic License that came with your Perl
     distribution for more details.

perl v5.42.3                      2006-04-22                      PERLPOINT(1)
