Perl::Critic::Policy::Tics::ProhibitLongLines(3)
                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       Perl::Critic::Policy::Tics::ProhibitLongLines - 80 x 40 for life!

VERSION
       version 0.010

DESCRIPTION
       Please keep your code to about eighty columns wide, the One True
       Terminal Width.  Going over that occasionally is okay, but only once in
       a while.

       This policy always throws a violation for extremely long lines.  It
       will also throw a violation if there are too many lines that are
       slightly longer than the preferred maximum length.  If a only few lines
       exceed the preferred maximum width, they're let slide and only
       extremely long lines are violations.

PERL VERSION
       This library should run on perls released even a long time ago.  It
       should work on any version of perl released in the last five years.

       Although it may work on older versions of perl, no guarantee is made
       that the minimum required version will not be increased.  The version
       may be increased for any reason, and there is no promise that patches
       will be accepted to lower the minimum required perl.

CONFIGURATION
       There are three configuration options for this policy:

         base_max - the preferred maximum line length (default: 80)
         hard_max - the length beyond which a line is "extremely long"
                    (default: base_max * 1.5)

         pct_allowed - the percentage of total lines which may fall between base_max
                       and hard_max before those violations are reported (default: 1)

AUTHOR
       Ricardo SIGNES <cpan@semiotic.systems>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2007 by Ricardo SIGNES.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2022-12-31
                              Perl::Critic::Policy::Tics::ProhibitLongLines(3)
