Pipeline::Segment(3)  User Contributed Perl Documentation Pipeline::Segment(3)


NAME
       Pipeline::Segment - basic class for a segment

SYNOPSIS
         use Pipeline::Segment;
         my $ps = Pipeline::Segment->new();
         $ps->dispatch();

DESCRIPTION
       "Pipeline::Segment" is designed as a part of the "Pipeline" system.
       The "Pipeline::Segment" class is designed to be subclassed as a part of
       the Pipeline system.  The primary method that needs to be overloaded is
       the "dispatch" method, which the Pipeline class uses to enter each
       individual segment that it contains.

METHODS
       The "Pipeline::Segment" class inherits from "Pipeline::Base" and
       therefore also has any additional methods that its superclass may have.

       init()
           The "init" method is called at construction time.  Any arguments
           passed to the "new" method are passed to it.

       dispatch()
           The "dispatch" method causes the segment to perform its action.

       dispatch_method()
           The "dispatch_method" gets and sets the method that gets called on
           dispatch, by default this is the dispatch() method.

       cleanup_dispatch()
           The "cleanup_dispatch" method does post-processing on the segment
           to ensure no nasty circular references are lying around, as well as
           disconnecting various objects that are only useful during a
           dispatch.

       store()
           The "store" method gets the current store.

       parent()
           The "parent" method returns the pipeline that the segment is
           current operating from.  It is set at dispatch time by the calling
           pipeline.

SEE ALSO
       "Pipeline", "Pipeline::Segment::Async"

AUTHOR
       James A. Duncan <jduncan@fotango.com>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2003 Fotango Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

       This software is released under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2004-08-09              Pipeline::Segment(3)
