PDF::Template(3)      User Contributed Perl Documentation     PDF::Template(3)

NAME
     PDF::Template - PDF::Template

SYNOPSIS
       use PDF::Template

       my $pdf = PDF::Template->new(
          filename => 'some_template.xml',
       );

       $pdf->param(%my_params);

       print "Content/type: application/pdf\n\n", $pdf->get_buffer;

       $pdf->write_file('some_file.pdf');

DESCRIPTION
     PDF::Template is a PDF layout system that uses the same data structures
     as HTML::Template.

OVERVIEW
     PDF::Template is a PDF layout system that uses the same data structures
     as HTML::Template. Unlike HTML::Template, this is a full layout system.
     This means you will have to describe where each item will be on the page.
     (This is in contrast to HTML::Template, which adds on to HTML. The layout
     is determined by the HTML, not HTML::Template.)

     PDF::Template uses an XML document as the template. However, the XML is
     not completely compliant. The only difference (that I'm aware of) is that
     any node can have any parameter. (This prevents the creation of a DTD.)
     The reason for this is to allow scoping by parents for parameters used by
     children. (More on this later.)

     Each node in the document corresponds to an object, with each parameter
     mapping (mostly) 1 to 1 to an object attribute. Parent-child
     relationships are strictly preserved. Each parent provides a scope
     (similar to variable scope) to its children. (This is why any node can
     have any parameter.) If a child needs the value of a parameter and it
     doesn't have that value as an attribute, it will ask its parent for the
     value. If the parent doesn't have it, it will ask its parent, and so on.

USAGE
     There are a few consistency rules that that every PDF::Template has to
     follow:

     1 The root node is called PDFTEMPLATE
     2 There must be at least one PAGEDEF (which does not have to be a direct
     child of the PDFTEMPLATE node)
     3 All rendering elements (include FONT tags) must be within a PAGEDEF
     node
     4 There must be a FONT tag as an ancestor of every TEXTBOX node
     5 Within a PAGEDEF, there can only be on HEADER node and one FOOTER node

     For more information about each node, please see the POD for that class.

WWW CAVEATS
     When taking an HTML page and adding a PDF option, there are a few
     differences totake into account. The primary one is the idea of
     pagebreaks. HTML is displayed as a single page, with scrolling. Paper
     doesn't scroll, so when there should be a new page is something
     PDF::Template works very hard at determining. It will take into account
     any header and footer information you've provided, as well as page sizes.

     The second is that you have to determine how wide you want your text to
     be. One of the most common activities is to take a tabular report and
     covert it to a PDF. In HTML, the browser handles text width for you.
     Right now, there isn't a TABLE tag (though work is being done on it). So,
     you have to layout out your TEXTBOX nodes by hand. (See the EXAMPLES for
     some ideas on this.) That said, it really isn't that hard. TR/TH tags
     convert to ROW tags easily, and TD tags are basically TEXTBOX tags. Add a
     few width="20%" (or whatever) and you're fine.

BUGS
     None, that I'm aware of.

LIMITATIONS
     Currently, the only PDF rendered PDF::Template supports is PDFLib
     (available at www.pdflib.com). An upcoming release of PDF::Template will
     also support PDF::API2. Unless you need Unicode support, PDFLib Lite is
     sufficient (and free). Please see www.pdflib.com for more details.

     I am aware that PDFLib will not compile under AIX or Cygwin. These are
     problems that PDFLib has acknowledged to me.

AUTHOR
     Originally written by Dave Ferrance (dave@ferrance.org) Taken over after
     v0.05 by Rob Kinyon (rob.kinyon@gmail.com)

CONTRIBUTORS
     Patches and ideas provided by:

     •   Michael Kiwala

     •   Nathan Byrd

     Additionally, there is a mailing list at
     http://groups-beta.google.com/group/PDFTemplate

COPYRIGHT
     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
     under the same terms as Perl itself.

     The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
     with this module.

SEE ALSO
     perl(1).

POD ERRORS
     Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
     below:

     Around line 346:
         =back doesn't take any parameters, but you said =back 4

     Around line 395:
         =back doesn't take any parameters, but you said =back 4

perl v5.42.3                      2005-01-11                  PDF::Template(3)
