SCAN-PERL-PREREQS-NQLITE(1)                User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite

SYNOPSIS
         scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite [DIRS|FILES]

DESCRIPTION
       "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" traverses several files and subdirectories
       in the current directory with File::Find to collect all ".pl", ".PL",
       ".pm", ".t", ".psgi" files (as well as all the files in "scripts?" and
       "bin" directories), and prints a single combined list of prerequisites,
       which should be suitable for piping to "cpanm" or similar tools.

       You can also pass files and/or directories to limit files to scan.  In
       this case, however, "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" may fail to exclude
       modules that should belong to the same distribution.

OPTIONS
       version
           Show the version.

       help
           Show this help.

       json
           Print prerequisites as a JSON if JSON::PP is installed.

       cpanfile, save_cpanfile
           Print prerequisites as "cpanfile" if Module::CPANfile is installed.
           If "safe-cpanfile" is set, create or update "cpanfile".

       suggests
           Print suggestions ("use"d modules in "eval") as well.

       develop
           Print requirements/suggestions for developers ("use"d modules in
           "xt" and "author" directories) as well.

       perl_minimum_version
           May modify required perl version if new language features are used
           without declaring the required perl version explicitly.

       exclude_core
           Ignore prerequisites that are bundled with Perl (of 5.008001 by
           default). This requires Module::CoreList version 2.99 or above.

       perl_version
           Ignore prerequisites that are bundled with Perl of a specific
           version. This implies "exclude-core" as well.

       allow_test_pms
           Print requirements/suggestions in .pm files that are placed under
           t/ directory but are not directly used from .t files, too.  If
           Test::Class family is used under t/, this option is implicitly set.

       base_dir
           Set the base directory from where "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" starts
           traversing files and directories.

       ignore
           Set a list of paths "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" should ignore. This
           is useful when your distribution has a set of OS-specific modules,
           for example.

       ignore_re
           You can also specify a regexp instead of a list of paths. If this
           is set, "ignore" options are ignored.

       optional
           Set a list of paths "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" should ignore. This
           is useful when your distribution has a set of OS-specific modules,
           for example.

       optional_re
           You can also specify a regexp instead of a list of paths. If this
           is set, "optional" options are ignored.

       private
           Set a list of modules "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" should consider
           private, that is, that are not uploaded to the CPAN. Contrary to
           the "ignore" option, which makes the scanner skip scanning the
           file, this option lets the scanner scan files, and excludes matched
           prerequisites afterwards.

       private_re
           You can also specify a regexp instead of a list of modules. If this
           is set, "private" options are ignored.

       scan_also
           Set a list of extra paths "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" should also
           scan. This is useful when your application/distribution uses an
           untraditional file layout.

       feature
             scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite \
               --feature name:description:lib/My/Plugin/For/SpecificOS \
               --feature name:description:web/lib,web/bin

           Specify a feature name, a description, and matching paths.

       use_index
           You can specify an index name of CPAN::Common::Index module (such
           as "Mirror" or "MetaDB") not to list all the modules of a required
           distribution.

       blib
           If this is set, "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" will traverse
           subdirectories under "blib" to collect runtime requirements.  It
           may return better results if some of the files are located in some
           uncommon places and/or some of them are listed in "no_index".
           However, files in "blib" may be older than the ones under "lib"
           etc, and you need to update them by running a make or a "Build"
           script before you run "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite".

       parser
           Set a list of parsers (or parser tags) "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite"
           uses. If this option is not set, the scanner uses ":installed"
           parsers by default.

       inc Add a list of additional @INC path "scan-perl-prereqs-nqlite" looks
           for private parsers.

       verbose
           Print verbose messages.

AUTHOR
       Kenichi Ishigaki, <ishigaki@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Kenichi Ishigaki.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2022-04-01       SCAN-PERL-PREREQS-NQLITE(1)
