PDF::API3(3)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         PDF::API3(3)


NAME
       PDF::API3 - Next version after PDF::API2

SYNOPSIS
DESCRIPTION
       "PDF::API3" is the beginning of a rewrite of "PDF::API2".

       The purpose of this slightly modified version is to announce intensions
       for a rewrite, hopefully spawn participation, and to utilize cpan-RT
       for tracking bugs/fixes and wishlists/implementations.

       After much time, effort, and with well received results, Alfred
       Reibenschuh is abandoning "PDF::API2".  see
       <http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/perl-text-pdf-modules/message/3615>.

       However we have seen great progress in moving towards paperless
       methods.

       Furthermore the PDF specification is now an ISO standard.

       Now is the time to really push forward with the development of an even
       better perl pdf solution.

       This is a beginning toward that goal.

       This version starts with "PDF::API2" 0.73, creating a new interfaced
       named "PDF::API3" with a new version numbering starting at 3.001.

       There are a growing number of PDF "quick solutions". It is hoped that
       "PDF::API3" can coalesce many under one library. There is commonality
       that all "quick solutions" will need: find, open, read, write, parse
       files.

       The intent is to provide a universal library for which other
       "solutions" may utilize for lower level functionality. As such, all
       PDF::API2 modules have been re-named as "PDF::API3::Compat::API2".

       The intent is that the interface at the "API2" level will stay the
       same.

       As the library is refactored, a new "API3" interface will be
       formulated.  Low level functionality will be factored into
       "PDF::API3::Lib". The typical programmer interface will be factored
       under "PDF::API3". The typical programmer interface would utilized the
       lower level routines of "PDF::API3::Lib".

       Other PDF libraries may be incorporated as "PDF::API3::Compat::distA",
       "PDF::API3::Compat::distB", "PDF::API3::Compat::distC", etc. As these
       are refactored to utilize or generalize "PDF::API3::Lib", their typical
       programmer interface will move under "PDF::API3" if general, or may be
       spun off as "PDF::API3x" extensions

       The intent is to use git and encourage distributed development.  A git
       and wiki will be put up soon.

       Development philosophy includes development of lots of tests, tidy'ing
       and critic utilities, and utlization of Moose and other libraries that
       will speed development and provide a clean, solid, easily maintained,
       production ready system. And to develop appropriate programmer and
       maintenance documentation. Yes - maintenance of how it works and why
       choices were made so as to ease maintenance of it by others.

       The intent of putting this release out is to inform the community of
       the effort, encourage others to participate, and to utilize the bug
       tracking system of CPAN for tracking bugs and new development.

       Consider this pre-alpha software.

BUGS
       All complex software has bugs lurking in it, and this module is no
       exception. If you find a bug please enter into cpan-RT.

FEATURE REQUESTS
       Please enter into cpan-RT.

AUTHOR
       Otto Hirr

       Hopefully many others will contribute.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2009 Otto Hirr

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Alfred Reibenschuh for developing PDF::API2
       Martin Hosken for developing Text::PDF and Font::TTF used in PDF::API2

perl v5.40.2                      2009-04-25                      PDF::API3(3)
