AUTOPOD(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           AUTOPOD(1)


NAME
       autopod - using the Perl library Pod::Autopod to generate javadoc like
       documentation with pod syntax. It is designed to understand perl code
       in class style, so typically PM files.

SYNOPSIS
       autopod [OPTIONS]

OPTIONS
       The following options may be used:

       --help            Prints this help.

       --readfile | -r   Perl module to be parsed for building a pod.

       --writefile | -w  Output file to write the pod.

                         If this filename has a "pm" extension, it also writes
                         the perl code which was read from the origin.

                         If this filename has a "pod" extension or any other,
                         it only writes the pod content.

                         If there is no --writefile used and no --print, it
                         overwrites the file set via --readfile.

                         My personal warning: as long this is a new software,
                         better backup your pm file before overwriting it
                         directly.

       --print | -p      Instead of writing to a file, you can print to STDOUT
                         the generated pod file.

                                 e.g.: autopod -r Foo/Bar.pm -p

                                 You may combine this line to pipe to further applications.

                                 e.g.: autopod -r Foo/Bar.pm -p | pod2text


                                 Do not use it in combination with readdir.

       --readdir | -d    Scans a directory recursiv for pm files and generates
                         the pod for them.

       --update | -u     In combination with --readdir it updates only files
                         which have been pod'ed with autopod in the past.  An
                         alternative is to write somewhere in the pm file the
                         magic word "AUTOPODME".

       --pod             In combination with --readdir it writes separat pod
                         files instead of updating the original pm files.
                         They will be parallel to the pm file.

       --poddir          It writes the pod files to a separate directory.
                         --pod is automatically enabled when using --poddir.

       --verbose         In combination with --readdir it prints the filenames
                         which are written.

                                 autopod.pl -d mylibs -u -verbose

       --version | -v    Prints the version of Pod::Autopod.

                         licence is LGPL

                         by Andreas Hernitscheck ahernit(AT)cpan.org

perl v5.40.2                      2016-12-09                        AUTOPOD(1)
