XS(3)                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                XS(3)


NAME
       Readonly::XS - Companion module for Readonly.pm, to speed up read-only
       scalar variables.

VERSION
       This document describes version 1.05 of Readonly::XS, February 24,
       2009.

SYNOPSIS
         Install this module, but do not use it.

DESCRIPTION
       The Readonly module (q.v.) is an effective way to create non-modifiable
       variables.  However, it's relatively slow.

       The reason it's slow is that is implements the read-only-ness of
       variables via tied objects.  This mechanism is inherently slow.  Perl
       simply has to do a lot of work under the hood to make tied variables
       work.

       This module corrects the speed problem, at least with respect to scalar
       variables.  When Readonly::XS is installed, Readonly uses it to access
       the internals of scalar variables.  Instead of creating a scalar
       variable object and tying it, Readonly simply flips the SvREADONLY bit
       in the scalar's FLAGS structure.

       Readonly arrays and hashes are not sped up by this, since the
       SvREADONLY flag only works for scalars.  Arrays and hashes always use
       the tie interface.

       Why implement this as a separate module?  Because not everyone can use
       XS.  Not everyone has a C compiler.  Also, installations with a
       statically-linked perl may not want to recompile their perl binary just
       for this module.  Rather than render Readonly.pm useless for
        these people, the XS portion was put into a separate module.

       Programs that you write do not need to know whether Readonly::XS is
       installed or not.  They should just "use Readonly" and let Readonly
       worry about whether or not it can use XS.  If the Readonly::XS is
       present, Readonly will be faster.  If not, it won't.  Either way, it
       will still work, and your code will not have to change.

       Your program can check whether Readonly.pm is using XS or not by
       examining the $Readonly::XSokay variable.  It will be true if the XS
       module was found and is being used.  Please do not change this
       variable.

   EXPORTS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Readonly.pm

AUTHOR / COPYRIGHT
       Eric Roode, roode@cpan.org

       Copyright (c) 2003-2009 by Eric J. Roode. All Rights Reserved.  This
       module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as Perl itself.

       To avoid my spam filter, please include "Perl", "module", or this
       module's name in the message's subject line, and/or GPG-sign your
       message.

perl v5.40.2                      2009-02-24                             XS(3)
