SOAP::Transport::JABBER(3)                 User Contributed Perl Documentation


SOAP::Transport::JABBER
       This class provides a Jabber-based transport backend for SOAP::Lite.

       This class uses the Net::Jabber classes to abstract the Jabber protocol
       away from the direct notice of the application. Besides maintaining any
       needed objects internally, the package also uses a separate class as a
       proxy between communication layers, SOAP::Transport::JABBER::Query. The
       Jabber support provides both client and server classes.

   SOAP::Transport::JABBER::Client
       Inherits from: SOAP::Client, Net::Jabber::Client.  This class provides
       localized implementations for both the new and send_receive methods,
       neither of which are changed in terms of interface.  The only
       difference is that the send_receive method doesn't directly use the
       action hash key on the input it receives. In addition to these two
       basic methods, the server class overrides the endpoint method it would
       otherwise inherit from SOAP::Client:

       endpoint
           In the general sense, this still acts as a basic accessor method,
           with the same get value/set value behavior used consistently
           through the SOAP::Lite module. The difference between this version
           and most others is that when the endpoint is initially set or is
           changed, the client object makes the connection to the Jabber
           endpoint, sending the proper authentication credentials and setting
           up the conversation mechanism using the
           SOAP::Transport::JABBER::Query class as a delegate. It then calls
           the superclass endpoint method to ensure that all other related
           elements are taken care of.

   SOAP::Transport::JABBER::Server
       Inherits from: SOAP::Server.

       The server class provided for Jabber support defines a slightly
       different interface to the constructor. The server manages the Jabber
       communication by means of an internal Net::Jabber::Client instance. In
       a fashion similar to that used by SOAP::Transport::HTTP::Daemon, the
       server class catches methods that are meant for the Jabber client and
       treats them as if the class inherits directly from that class, without
       actually doing so. In doing so, the handle method is implemented as a
       frontend to the Process method of the Jabber client class. The
       difference in the interface to the constructor is:

       new(URI, optional server key/value options)
               $srv = SOAP::Transport::JABBER::Server-> new($uri);

           The constructor for the class expects that the first argument will
           be a Jabber-style URI, followed by the standard set of optional
           key/value pairs of method names and their parameters. All the
           method/parameter pairs are delegated to the superclass constructor;
           only the Jabber URI is handled locally. It's used to set up the
           Net::Jabber::Client instance that manages the actual
           communications.

BUGS
       This module is currently unmaintained, so if you find a bug, it's yours
       - you probably have to fix it yourself. You could also become
       maintainer - just send an email to mkutter@cpan.org

AUTHORS
       Paul Kulchenko (paulclinger@yahoo.com)

       Randy J. Ray (rjray@blackperl.com)

       Byrne Reese (byrne@majordojo.com)

       Martin Kutter (martin.kutter@fen-net.de)

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-10        SOAP::Transport::JABBER(3)
