String::MkPasswd(3)   User Contributed Perl Documentation  String::MkPasswd(3)


NAME
       String::MkPasswd - random password generator

SYNOPSIS
         use String::MkPasswd qw(mkpasswd);

         print mkpasswd();

         # for the masochisticly paranoid...
         print mkpasswd(
             -length     => 27,
             -minnum     => 5,
             -minlower   => 1,   # minlower is increased if necessary
             -minupper   => 5,
             -minspecial => 5,
             -distribute => 1,
         );

ABSTRACT
       This Perl library defines a single function, mkpasswd(), to generate
       random passwords.  The function is meant to be a simple way for
       developers and system administrators to easily generate a relatively
       secure password.

DESCRIPTION
       The exportable mkpasswd() function returns a single scalar: a random
       password.  By default, this password is nine characters long with a
       random distribution of four lower-case characters, two upper-case
       characters, two digits, and one non-alphanumeric character.  These
       parameters can be tuned by the user, as described in the "ARGUMENTS"
       section.

   ARGUMENTS
       The mkpasswd() function takes an optional hash of arguments.

       -length
           The total length of the password.  The default is 9.

       -minnum
           The minimum number of digits that will appear in the final
           password.  The default is 2.

       -minlower
           The minimum number of lower-case characters that will appear in the
           final password.  The default is 2.

       -minupper
           The minimum number of upper-case characters that will appear in the
           final password.  The default is 2.

       -minspecial
           The minimum number of non-alphanumeric characters that will appear
           in the final password.  The default is 1.

       -distribute
           If set to a true value, password characters will be distributed
           between the left- and right-hand sides of the keyboard.  This makes
           it more difficult for an onlooker to see the password as it is
           typed.  The default is false.

       -fatal
           If set to a true value, mkpasswd() will Carp::croak() rather than
           return "undef" on error.  The default is false.

       If -minnum, -minlower, -minupper, and -minspecial do not add up to
       -length, -minlower will be increased to compensate.  However, if
       -minnum, -minlower, -minupper, and -minspecial add up to more than
       -length, then mkpasswd() will return "undef".  See the section entitled
       "EXCEPTION HANDLING" for how to change this behavior.

   EXCEPTION HANDLING
       By default, mkpasswd() will return "undef" if it cannot generate a
       password.  Some people are inclined to exception handling, so
       String::MkPasswd does its best to accommodate them.  If the variable
       $String::MkPasswd::FATAL is set to a true value, mkpasswd() will
       Carp::croak() with an error instead of returning "undef".

   EXPORT
       None by default.  The mkpasswd() method is exportable.

SEE ALSO
       <http://expect.nist.gov/#examples>, mkpasswd(1)

AKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Don Libes of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, who
       wrote the Expect example, mkpasswd(1).

AUTHOR
       Chris Grau <cgrau@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2003-2012 by Chris Grau

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.1 or, at
       your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

perl v5.40.2                      2012-08-18               String::MkPasswd(3)
