Sys::RunAlways(3)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    Sys::RunAlways(3)


NAME
       Sys::RunAlways - make sure there is always one invocation of a script
       active

SYNOPSIS
        use Sys::RunAlways;
        # code of which there must always be on instance running on system

        use Sys::RunAlways silent => 1;  # don't tell the world we're starting
        # code of which there must always be on instance running on system

DESCRIPTION
       Provide a simple way to make sure the script from which this module is
       loaded, is always running on the server.

VERSION
       This documentation describes version 0.07.

METHODS
       There are no methods.

THEORY OF OPERATION
       The functionality of this module depends on the availability of the
       DATA handle in the script from which this module is called (more
       specifically: in the "main" namespace).

       At INIT time, it is checked whethere there is a DATA handle: if not, it
       exits with an error message on STDERR and an exit value of 2.

       If the DATA handle is available, and it cannot be "flock"ed, it exits
       silently with an exit value of 0.

       If there is a DATA handle, and it could be "flock"ed, a message is put
       on STDERR and execution continues without any further interference.
       Optionally, the message on STDERR can be prevented by specifying the
       "silent" parameter in the "use" statement with a true value, like:

         use Sys::RunAlways silent => 1;

REQUIRED MODULES
        Fcntl (any)

CAVEATS
   symlinks
       Execution of scripts that are (sym)linked to another script, will all
       be seen as execution of the same script, even though the error message
       will only show the specified script name.  This could be considered a
       bug or a feature.

   changing a running script
       If you change the script while it is running, the script will
       effectively lose its lock on the file.  Causing any subsequent run of
       the same script to be successful, causing two instances of the same
       script to run at the same time (which is what you wanted to prevent by
       using Sys::RunAlone in the first place).  Therefore, make sure that no
       instances of the script are running (and won't be started by cronjobs
       while making changes) if you really want to be 100% sure that only one
       instance of the script is running at the same time.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Inspired by Randal Schwartz's mention of using the DATA handle as a
       semaphore on the London PM mailing list.

SEE ALSO
       Sys::RunAlone.

AUTHOR
        Elizabeth Mattijsen

       maintained by LNATION, <thisusedtobeanemail@gmail.com>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2005, 2006, 2012 Elizabeth Mattijsen <liz@dijkmat.nl>.
       All rights reserved.  This program is free software; you can
       redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-02-16                 Sys::RunAlways(3)
