Human(3)              User Contributed Perl Documentation             Human(3)


NAME
       Time::Human - Convert localtime() format to "speaking clock" time

SYNOPSIS
         use Time::Human;
         print "The time is now ", humanize(localtime());

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides a "vague" rendering of the time into natural
       language; it's originally intended for text-to-speech applications and
       other speech-based interfaces.

       It's fully internationalised: if you look at the code, you'll see a
       global variable called %Time::Human::templates, which you can fill in
       for other languages. If you do multinationalise it, please send me
       templates for other languages to be added to future releases. You can
       set the default language via the global variable $Time::Human::Language

       $Time::Human::Evening and $Time::Human::Night decide the hours at which
       afternoon turns to evening and evening turns to night in your culture.
       For instance, Greeks may want evening to start at 11pm; for hackers,
       evening may start at 3am.

USAGE
   Import Parameters
       This module accepts no arguments to it's "import" method (actually, it
       doesn't
               even have an import "method").

   Exports
       This module exports a single symbols, the "humanize" function.

CREDITS
       Simon Cozens (SIMON) for originally creating this module.

       Ricardo SIGNES (RJBS) for being inhumanly patient in waiting for me to
       apply a one line whitespace trimming patch.

       Everyone at the DateTime "Asylum".

SUPPORT
       Support for this module is provided via the datetime@perl.org email
       list. See http://lists.perl.org/ for more details

AUTHOR
       Simon Cozens, "simon@cpan.org"

CURRENT MAINTAINER
       Joshua Hoblitt, "jhoblitt@cpan.org"

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2006-2007  Joshua Hoblitt.  All rights reserved.
       Copyright (C) 2001-2002(???)  Simon Cozens.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

       The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
       with this module, or in perlartistic and perlgpl Pods as supplied with
       Perl 5.8.1 and later.

SEE ALSO
       DateTime, DateTime::Format::Human

perl v5.40.2                      2007-01-11                          Human(3)
