Test::Bits(3)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        Test::Bits(3)


NAME
       Test::Bits - Provides a bits_is() subroutine for testing binary data

VERSION
       version 0.02

SYNOPSIS
         use Test::Bits;

         bits_is(
             $binary_data,
             [ 0b0010101, 0b01111100 ],
             'binary data contains expected values'
         );

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides a single subroutine, bits_is(), for testing binary
       data.

       This module is quite similar to Test::BinaryData and Test::HexString in
       concept. The difference is that this module shows failure diagnostics
       in a different way, and has a slightly different calling style.
       Depending on the nature of the data you're working with, this module
       may be easier to work with.

       In particular, when you're doing a lot of bit twiddling, this module's
       diagnostic output may make it easier to diagnose failures. A typical
       failure diagnostic will look like this:

          The two pieces of binary data are not the same length (got 2, expected 3).
          Binary data begins differing at byte 1.
            Got:    01111000
            Expect: 01111001

       Note that the bytes are numbered starting from 0 in the diagnostic
       output.

USAGE
       The bits_is() subroutine takes two required arguments and an optional
       test name.

       The first argument should be a plain scalar containing binary data. If
       it contains any UTF-8 characters an error will be thrown.

       The second argument should be an array reference of numbers from 0-255
       representing the expected value of each byte in the first argument.

       This allows you write the numbers out in binary format (0bXXXXXXXX) for
       test cases if you wish to.

BUGS
       Please report any bugs or feature requests to
       "bug-test-bits@rt.cpan.org", or through the web interface at
       <http://rt.cpan.org>. I will be notified, and then you'll automatically
       be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

AUTHOR
       Dave Rolsky <autarch@urth.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is Copyright (c) 2013 by MaxMind, Inc..

       This is free software, licensed under:

         The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

perl v5.40.2                      2013-06-13                     Test::Bits(3)
