FRIBIDI(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           FRIBIDI(1)


NAME
       fribidi.pl - Convert logical text to visual, via the unicode bidi
       algorithm

VERSION
       version 2.18

SYNOPSIS
           # display bidi text given in logical order in foo.txt
           fribidi.pl foo.txt
           # same, but force Right-To-Left paragraph direction
           fribidi.pl --rtl foo.txt
           # same, but break lines on spaces
           fribidi.pl --rtl --break -- foo.txt

DESCRIPTION
       This script is similar to the fribidi(1) program provided with
       libfribidi, and performs a subset of its functions. The main point is
       to test Text::Bidi and provide a usage example.

OPTIONS
       --(no)ltr
           Force all paragraph directions to be Left-To-Right. The default is
           to deduce the paragraph direction via the bidi algorithm.

       --(no)rtl
           Force all paragraph directions to be Right-To-Left. The default is
           to deduce the paragraph direction via the bidi algorithm.

       --width=n
           Set the width of the output lines to n. The default is to use the
           terminal width, or 80 if that cannot be deduced.

       --break[=s]
           Break the line at the string s. If this is given, the width
           functions as an upper bound for the line length, and the line might
           be shorter. The default value for s is ' ', but note that anything
           following the option will be interpreted as the argument, unless it
           is of the form "--...".

       --levels
           Also output the embedding levels of the characters. Mostly for
           debugging.

       --help,-?
           Give a short usage message and exit with status 1

       --version
           Print a line with the program name and exit with status 0

ARGUMENTS
       Any argument is interpreted as a file name, and the content of all the
       files, as well as the standard input are concatenated together.

SEE ALSO
       Text::Bidi, Text::Bidi::Paragraph, fribidi(1)

AUTHOR
       Moshe Kamensky <kamensky@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Moshe Kamensky.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2022-07-04                        FRIBIDI(1)
