Metaphone(3)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         Metaphone(3)


NAME
       Text::Metaphone - A modern soundex.  Phonetic encoding of words.

SYNOPSIS
         use Text::Metaphone;

         # XWRN
         my $phoned_word = Metaphone('Schwern');

DESCRIPTION
       Metaphone() is a function whereby a string/word is broken down into a
       rough approximation of its english phonetic pronunciation.  Very
       similar in concept and purpose to soundex, but much more comprehensive
       in its approach.

FUNCTIONS
       Metaphone

           $phoned_word = Metaphone($word, $max_phone_len);

       Takes a word and encodes it according to the Metaphone algorithm.  The
       algorithm only deals with alphabetical characters, all else is ignored.

       If $max_phone_len is provided, Metaphone will only encode up to that
       many characters for each word.

       'sh' is encoded as 'X', 'th' is encoded as '0'.  This can be changed in
       the metaphone.h header file.

CAVEATS
       Metaphone algorithm changes

       I have made a few minor changes to the traditional metaphone algorithm
       found in the books.  The most significant one is that it will
       differenciate between SCH and SCHW making the former K (As in School)
       and the latter sh (as in Schwartz and Schwern).

       My changes can be turned off by defining the USE_TRADITIONAL_METAPHONE
       flag in metaphone.h.

       Due to these changes, any users of Metaphone v1.00 or earlier which
       have stored metaphonetic encodings, they should recalculate those with
       the new version.

AUTHOR
       Michael G Schwern <schwern@pobox.com>

SEE ALSO
   Man pages
       Text::Soundex - A simpler word hashing algorithm Text::DoubleMetaphone
       - Improved metaphone Text::Phonetic - A collection of phonetic
       algorithms

   Books, Journals and Magazines
       Binstock, Andrew & Rex, John. "Metaphone:  A Modern Soundex." Practical
       Algorithms For Programmers.  Reading, Mass:  Addion-Wesley, 1995
       pp160-169

       Contains an explanation of the basic metaphone concept & algorithm and
       C code from which I learned of Metaphone and ported this module.

       Parker, Gary. "A Better Phonetic Search." C Gazette, Vol. 5, No. 4
       (June/July), 1990.

       This is the public-domain C version of metaphone from which Binstock &
       Rex based their own..  I haven't actually read it.

       Philips, Lawrence. Computer Language, Vol. 7, No. 12 (December), 1990.

       And here's the original Metaphone algorithm as presented in Pick BASIC.

COPYRIGHT and LICENSE
       Copyright (c) 1997, 1999, 2007-2008 Michael G Schwern.  All Rights
       Reserved.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2016-08-06                      Metaphone(3)
