Time::Elapsed(3)      User Contributed Perl Documentation     Time::Elapsed(3)


NAME
       Time::Elapsed

VERSION
       version 0.34

SYNOPSIS
          use Time::Elapsed qw( elapsed );
          $t = 1868401;
          print elapsed( $t );

       prints:

          21 days, 15 hours and 1 second

       If you set the language to turkish:

          print elapsed( $t, 'TR' );

       prints:

          21 gün, 15 saat ve 1 saniye

DESCRIPTION
       This module transforms the elapsed seconds into a human readable
       string.  It can be used for (for example) rendering "uptime" values
       into a human readable form. The resulting string will be an
       approximation.  See the "CAVEATS" section for more information.

NAME
       Time::Elapsed - Displays the elapsed time as a human readable string.

DEPRECATION NOTICE
       This module is DEPRECATED. Please use Time::Duration.

IMPORT PARAMETERS
       This module does not export anything by default. You have to specify
       import parameters. ":all" key does not include "import commands".

   FUNCTIONS
          elapsed

   KEYS
          :all

   COMMANDS
          Parameter   Description
          ---------   -----------
          -compile    All available language data will immediately be compiled
                      and placed into an internal cache.

FUNCTIONS
   elapsed SECONDS [, OPTIONS ]
       •   "SECONDS" must be a number representing the elapsed seconds.  If it
           is false, 0 (zero) will be used. If it is not defined, "undef" will
           be returned.

       •   The optional argument "OPTIONS" is a either a string containing the
           language id or a hashref containing several options. These two
           codes are equal:

              elapsed $secs, 'DE';
              elapsed $secs, { lang => 'DE' };

           The hashref is used to pass extra options.

       OPTIONS

       lang

       The optional argument language id, represents the language to use when
       converting the data to a string. The language section is really a
       standalone module in the "Time::Elapsed::Lang::" namespace, so it is
       possible to extend the language support on your own. Currently
       supported languages are:

          Parameter  Description
          ---------  -----------------
             EN      English (default)
             TR      Turkish
             DE      German

       Language ids are case-insensitive. These are all same: "en", "EN",
       "eN".

       weeks

       If this option is present and set to a treu value, then you'll get
       "weeks" instead of "days" in the output if the output has a days value
       between 7 days and 28 days.

CAVEATS
       •   The calculation of the elapsed time is only an approximation, since
           these values are used internally:

              1 Day   =  24 Hour
              1 Month =  30 Day
              1 Year  = 365 Day

           See "How Datetime Math is Done" in DateTime for more information on
           this subject. Also see in_units() method in DateTime::Duration.

       •   This module' s source file is UTF-8 encoded (without a BOM) and it
           returns UTF-8 values whenever possible.

       •   Currently, the module won't work with any perls older than 5.6
           because of the UTF-8 encoding and the usage of utf8 pragma.
           However, the pragma limitation can be by-passed with a %INC trick
           under 5.005_04 (tested) and can be used with english language
           (default behavior), but any other language will probably need
           unicode support.

SEE ALSO
       PTools::Time::Elapsed, DateTime, DateTime::Format::Duration,
       Time::Duration.

AUTHOR
       Burak Gursoy

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2007 by Burak Gursoy.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2025-04-27                  Time::Elapsed(3)
