Striphigh(3)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         Striphigh(3)


NAME
       Text::Striphigh - Perl extension to strip the high bit off of
       ISO-8859-1 text.

SYNOPSIS
         use Text::Striphigh 'striphigh'

         $SevenBitsText = striphigh($TextContainingEightBitCharacters);

DESCRIPTION
       The Text::Striphigh module exports a single function: "striphigh". This
       function takes one argument, a string possibly containing high ASCII
       characters in the ISO-8859-1 character set, and transforms this into a
       string containing only 7 bits ASCII characters, by substituting every
       high bit character with a similar looking standard ASCII character, or
       with a sequence of standard ASCII characters.

       Because of precisely the deficiency this package tries to offer a
       workaround for is present in some of the things that process pod, there
       are no examples in this manpage. Look at the source or the test script
       if you want examples.

MAINTENANCE
       If you ever want to change the striphigh function yourself, then don't
       change the one containing the mile long "tr{}{}" statement that you see
       at first, change the one behind the "__DATA__" that's a lot more
       readable.

       After you've done that, simply run the "Striphigh.pm" file through perl
       to generate a new version of the first routine, and in fact of the
       entire file, something like this:

        perl -w Striphigh.pm > Striphigh.pm.new
        mv Striphigh.pm.new Striphigh.pm

BUGS
       Assumes the input text is ISO-8859-1, without even looking at the
       LOCALE settings.

       Some translations are probably less than optimal.

       People will be offended if you run their names through this function,
       and print the result on an envelope using an outdated printing device.
       However, it's probably better than having that printer print a name
       with a high ASCII character in it which happens to be the command to
       set the printer on fire.

AUTHOR
       Jan-Pieter Cornet <johnpc@xs4all.nl>

perl v5.40.2                      1997-03-28                      Striphigh(3)
