REFLOW(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            REFLOW(1)


NAME
       reflow - Perl script for reflowing text files using Knuth's
       paragraphing algorithm.

SYNOPSIS
       reflow < input > output

       reflow file1 file2 ... > output

DESCRIPTION
       Uses Knuth's paragraphing algorithm (as used in TeX) to "reflow" text
       files by picking "good" places to break the line.

       It takes an ascii text file (with paragraphs separated by blank lines)
       and reflows the paragraphs. If two or more lines in a row are
       "indented" then they are assumed to be a quoted poem and are passed
       through unchanged.  (The -skipindented causes ALL indented lines to be
       passed unchanged)

       The algorithm tries to keep the lines the same length but also tries to
       break at punctuation, and avoid breaking within a proper name or after
       certain "connectives" ("a", "the", etc.).

   OPTIONS
       -skipindented
            Cause ALL indented lines to be passed unchanged. Normally a single
            indented line is included in the paragraph, while two or more
            indented lines are considered to be a quotation or poem and are
            passed through unchanged.

       -fast
            Sets the optimum line width to 65 characters. This is the default.

       -slow
            Tries line widths of 60, 65 and 70 characters and picks the best
            one.

       -veryslow
            Tries all line widths between 60 and 70 characters inclusive, and
            picks the best one. With the -slow and -veryslow options the line
            widths within a paragraph will vary less, but the line widths may
            vary from one paragraph to the next.

       -skipto pattern
            Skip to the first line starting with the given pattern before
            starting to reflow.  This is useful for skipping Project Gutenberg
            headers or contents tables.

            See Text::Reflow(3) for more options: all the keyword options
            defined in Text::Reflow are also available via the reflow script.

AUTHOR
       Original "reflow" perl script written by Michael Larsen,
       larsen@edu.upenn.math.

       Modified, enhanced and converted to a perl module with XSUB by Martin
       Ward, martin@gkc.org.uk

SEE ALSO
       Text::Reflow(3).

       perl(1).

       See "TeX the Program" by Donald Knuth for a description of the
       algorithm used.

perl v5.40.2                      2016-11-28                         REFLOW(1)
