URI::Title(3)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        URI::Title(3)


NAME
       URI::Title - get the titles of things on the web in a sensible way

VERSION
       version 1.904

SYNOPSIS
         use URI::Title qw( title );
         my $title = title('http://microsoft.com');
         print "Title is $title\n";

DESCRIPTION
       I keep having to find the title of things on the web. This seems like a
       really simple request, just get() the object, parse for a title tag,
       you're done. Ha, I wish. There are several problems with this approach:

       What if the resource is on a very slow server? Do we wait for ever or
       what?
       What if the resource is a 900 gig file? You don't want to download
       that.
       What if the page title isn't in a title tag, but is buried in the HTML
       somewhere?
       What if the resource is an MP3 file, or a word document or something?
       ...

       So, let's solve these issues once.

METHODS
       only one, the title(url) method. Call it with an url, get the title if
       possible, undef if it wasn't. Very simple.

SEE ALSO
       WWW::GetPageTitle - similar this module, but just handles web pages.
       The author of that module suggests you should use "URI::Title".

NOTES
       Embedded title metadata of png files can be extracted if you have
       installed either Image::ExifTool or Image::PNG::Libpng.

TODO
       Many, many, many things. Still unimplemented:

       Get titles of MP3 files, Word Docs, PDFs, etc.
       Configurable.. well, anything, in fact. Timeout would be a good start.
       Better error reporting.

AUTHORS
       Tom Insam <tom@jerakeen.org>, original author, 2004-2012.

       Philippe Bruhat (BooK) <book@cpan.org>, maintainer, 2014.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2004 Tom Insam.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

CREDITS
       Invented because of a conversation with rjp, who contributed some
       eyeball-melting and as-yet-unused code to get titles from MP3s and
       PDFs, and hex, who has also solved the problem, and got bits done in a
       nicer way than I did.

perl v5.40.2                      2023-02-08                     URI::Title(3)
