DRAWSTATE(1)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         DRAWSTATE(1)

NAME
     drawstate.pl - a script to turn text files into simple UML state diagrams

SYNOPSIS
         drawstate.pl diagram_text_file > diagram.svg
         java -jar batik-rasterizer.jar diagram.svg

DESCRIPTION
     The diagram_text_file is processed in paragraph mode, each paragraph is
     separated from the next by a blank line.  The order of the paragraphs is
     important (that is a minor bug).  The order is:

         node layout
         starting states
         accepting states
         edges...

     You may include as many edge paragraphs as you like, but each one should
     have a different label.

     At least two example input files are included in the distribution.  Look
     in the samples subdirectory for files ending in .input.  The README file
     in that directory explains what these input files represent.  The
     corresponding .svg and .png files hold the resulting images.  The .png
     images were produced with the freely available Batik rasterizer, which is
     part of the Batik project from Apache.  See http://xml.apache.org/batik/
     for information on Apache Batik.

     In case you have trouble finding those files, one is included here:

         (0) ()  (5)
         ()  ()  (10)
         (25)(15)
         ()  (20)(30)

         Starting
         0,0,N N

         Accepting
         0,2
         2,3

         5
         0,0,E 2,0,W
         2,0,S 2,1,N
         2,1,W 1,2,E
         1,2,S 1,3,N
         1,3,W 0,2,S

         10
         0,0,S 2,1,W
         1,2,W 0,2,E
         2,1,S 1,3,E
         1,3,E 2,3,W

         25
         0,0,S 0,2,N Counter
         2,0,E 2,3,E Clock

     This represents the states in a coin operated vending machine which
     accepts coins with values of 5, 10, and 25.  The purchase price for the
     machine is 25, so 25 and 30 are accepting states.  Zero is the start
     state.  Each deposited coin increases the total, which is used to label
     the nodes.  Edges represent deposits and are labeled with the value of
     the deposited coin.  (The diagram is not complete.  It is meant to show
     features of diagrams.  If you have a coin-op machine you need to build,
     feel free to extend it as needed.)

     Each paragraph except the one for node layout has a label.  The labels
     are only used for edge paragraphs.  All coordinates are in terms of the
     node layout which is numbered from 0.  Columns are listed first, then
     rows (think x and y from algebra).  Sides of the nodes (where edges begin
     and end) are labeled with compass points N(orth), S(outh), E(ast), and
     W(est).

     This input format is idiosyncratic.  If you don't like it, you should
     design your own and interface directly with UML::State.  If you don't
     like listing columns first, or numbering from zero, you will need to
     account for that in your new script or change UML::State.

BUGS
     The order of the paragraphs matters.  All paragraphs except the node
     layout must be labeled.

     All edges using the same label must be in the same paragraph.  If an edge
     paragraph repeats a label used by an earlier edge paragraph, it
     overwrites that paragraph.  (Think of the labels as hash keys, I do.)

     The bugs in UML::State apply here as well, since this script uses it to
     make the pictures.  See perldoc UML::State for those bugs.

perl v5.42.3                      2026-08-16                      DRAWSTATE(1)
