UBIC-ADMIN(1)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        UBIC-ADMIN(1)


NAME
       ubic_admin - ubic administration script

VERSION
       version 1.60

SYNOPSIS
           ubic-admin setup [--batch-mode] [--quiet] [other options]

DESCRIPTION
       This script can be used to perform ubic administration operations.

       There is only one command supported by now, setup.

       The logic behind the separation of setup process to this script instead
       of implementing it as "ubic setup" command is following: "ubic" script
       always operates on services, each of its commands ("ubic status", "ubic
       start", etc.)  can accept service names. "ubic-admin", on the other
       hand, performs installation-wide tasks.

SETUP OPTIONS
       --local
           Force local installation.

       --batch-mode
           Enable batch mode: don't ask any questions, assume defaults.

       --quiet
           Don't print verbose description before each question.

       --reconfigure
           Force reconfiguration even if ubic is already configured.

       --service-dir=DIR
           Override service dir (directory with descriptions of your
           services).

       --data-dir=DIR
           Override data dir (directory into which ubic stores all of its
           data).

       --log-dir=DIR
           Override log dir (directory into which "ubic.watchdog" will write
           its logs).

       --default-user=USER
           Override default user for services which don't specify the user
           themselves.

           This option is useful for system-wide installations only.

       --sticky-777
           Enable 1777 grants for data dir.

           This option is useful for system-wide installations only.

           It is enabled by default, you can turn it off with --no-sticky-777.

       --install-services
           Install standard services: "ubic.watchdog", "ubic.ping" and
           "ubic.update".

           "ubic.watchdog" will be started automatically.

           This option is enabled by default, you can turn it off with
           --no-install-services.

       --crontab
           Install watchdog's watchdog to user's crontab.

           This option is enabled by default, you can turn it off with
           --no-crontab.

AUTHOR
       Vyacheslav Matyukhin <mmcleric@yandex-team.ru>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2016 by Yandex LLC.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
       the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.2                      2016-08-24                     UBIC-ADMIN(1)
