XML::Atom::Syndication(3)                  User Contributed Perl Documentation


NAME
       XML::Atom::Syndication - a portable client for consuming RFC 4287 Atom
       Syndication Feeds.

DESCRIPTION
       This project is the result of scratching ones own itch. I was writing
       some web software needed a full-featured library for working with Atom
       feeds that was easy to distribute and install on wide range of
       environments. Many of my software's target audience are relative
       novices working with low-cost shared hosting environments. (A
       significant number don't even have shell access!) Creating a library
       that was easy to install even by FTP was a paramount requirement that
       many other options failed to meet.

       Originally the module began as a very spartan XPath driven interface.
       At the time the format had just been introduced and was still vague and
       very extremely volatile. It was a pretty wretched piece of software,
       but it got me through while the Atom Working Group worked out the
       details of the Atom Syndication Format.

       Since that time the Atom Syndication Format (ASF) has made its way
       through numerous drafts and is now an approved standard of the IETF as
       RFC 4287.

       Beginning with version 0.9, XML::Atom::Syndication has been completely
       rewritten to provide better functionality and structure in working with
       a stable Atom format specification.

       The interface and a fair bit of the code was based on that of
       XML::Atom. It owes a great deal to its authors, Ben Trott and Tatsuhiko
       Miyagawa, and all its contributors.

       As of version 0.16, XML::Atom defaults to version 0.3 which is now
       deprecated.  Baseline 1.0 support has been built-in however many of the
       changes that were introduced (category elements, dropping the mode
       attribute in the content construct) have yet to be implemented. I'm
       sure this will change eventually, but it currently is a differentiator
       between the two implementations. XML::Atom::Syndication supports 0.3,
       but defaults 1.0.

       More importantly this implementation is not tied to specific XML
       parsers -- XML::LibXML or XML::XPath (expat) as is the case with
       XML::Atom. Both of these parsers libraries require compilation  which
       can be a major hurdle if you are not in charge of your hosting
       environment. By using SAX at the core, this Atom implementation will
       work with whatever parser it can find including the default pure perl
       option that XML::SAX is distributed with.

       Unlike XML::Atom, this distribution focuses on the Atom syndication
       format and not the publishing protocol. The publishing protocol is
       still being worked out and is not an official standard at this time.

   ENCODING
       Perl has a spotty history of supporting international character sets
       prior to version 5.8.1. All caveats and cautions apply when using this
       package with character sets other then ASCII with versions of Perl
       before that time.

       When used with Perl 5.8.1 and higher XML::Atom::Syndication will look
       for the encoding in the XML declaration and convert it to UTF-8 right
       before parsing. This simplifies further processing a great deal. Perl
       5.8+ uses UTF-8 internally and numerous other modules (such as
       XML::Writer) will only work with UTF-8 encoded content.

       I found this also has the added benefit of making this package more
       portable. Perl's built-in encoding converters are more extensive then
       what typically ships with the standard parser. By converting to UTF-8
       using Perl's system before parsing the potential for an encoding module
       dependency is eliminated. All XML parsers must support UTF-8.

       All output using XML::Atom::Syndication::Writer will be in UTF-8
       regardless of the original encoding before parsing.

DEPENDENCIES
       XML::Elemental 2.01
       XML::Writer 0.600
       Class::ErrorHandler
       MIME::Base64

SEE ALSO
       XML::Atom, XML::RAI

       http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php

LICENSE
       The software is released under the Artistic License. The terms of the
       Artistic License are described at
       <http://www.perl.com/language/misc/Artistic.html>.

AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT
       Except where otherwise noted, XML::Atom::Syndication is Copyright
       2004-2007, Timothy Appnel, tima@cpan.org.  All rights reserved.

POD ERRORS
       Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained
       below:

       Around line 31:
           =begin without a target?

       Around line 152:
           '=end' without a target?

perl v5.40.2                      2008-01-01         XML::Atom::Syndication(3)
