SCHEMA2EXAMPLE(1)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    SCHEMA2EXAMPLE(1)


NAME
       schema2example - convert XML schema knowledge into Perl or XML examples

SYNOPSIS
        schema2example xml-file schema-file(s)  >outfile

        schema2example -x xml-file -s schema-file(s) -o outfile

DESCRIPTION
       XML schemas are quite hard to read, certainly when multiple name-spaces
       are involved.  The template() function in XML::Compile::Schema function
       can help displaying the expected structure of a message; this module is
       a wrapper around that function.

   Options
       You can either specify an XML message filename and one or more schema
       filenames as arguments, or use the options.

       --xml|-x filename
           The file which contains the xml message.  A single dash means
           "stdin".

       --schema|-s filename(s)
           This option can be repeated, or the filenames separated by comma's,
           if you have more than one schema file to parse.  All imported and
           included schema components have to be provided explicitly.

       --type|-t TYPE
           The type of the root element, required if the XML is not namespaceo
           qualified, although the schema is.  If not specified, the root
           element is automatically inspected.

           The TYPE notation is "{namespace}localname".  Be warned to use
           quoting on the UNIX command-line, because curly braces have a
           special meaning for the shell.

       --output|-o filename
           By default, the output is to stdout.

       --show STRING
           A comma separated list of comment components which should be
           included, by default "ALL".  An empty string or "NONE" will exclude
           all comments.  The STRING can also be a comma separated combination
           of "struct", "type", "occur", and "facets".

SEE ALSO
       This module is part of Perl's XML-Compile distribution.  Website:
       http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/

LICENSE
       Copyrights 2008 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.  See
       http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

perl v5.40.2                      2024-10-16                 SCHEMA2EXAMPLE(1)
