DOM-ecmascript(3)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    DOM-ecmascript(3)


XML::Grove and DOM Level One
       XML::Grove is similar in concept to the ECMA Script Language Binding to
       DOM Level 1 Core (Appendix E of the DOM Recommendation).

       <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/ecma-script-language-binding.html>

       The ECMA Script Language Binding presents DOM properties as ECMA Script
       object properties.  The same is true for XML::Grove, XML::Grove
       presents DOM properties as Perl blessed hashes.

       The biggest difference between the ECMA Script Language Binding and
       XML::Grove is that XML::Grove uses a Perl hash for nodes, Perl arrays
       for NodeLists, Perl hashes for NamedNodeLists so those object classes
       don't exist in XML::Grove.  Because those classes don't exist, you use
       ordinary Perl syntax for manipulating the DOM properties (lists and
       named node lists) instead of methods like `nextSibling()' or
       `replaceChild()'.  Element attributes in XML::Grove are stored in Perl
       hashes; attribute types are available through the document object.

       Another difference is that XML::Grove attempts to marry the PerlSAX and
       DOM naming so that less (no?) name-changing occurs between using
       PerlSAX interfaces and filters and DOM modules.  Where conflicts occur,
       the PerlSAX naming is used.

       XML::Grove uses a blessed hash for nodes, so the node type is available
       using Perl's `ref()' instead of using a `nodeType()' method and all
       class names are prefixed with `"XML::Grove::"'.

       The following object descriptions are the most basic and common
       provided by many PerlSAX parsers.  PerlSAX parsers often provide
       additional properties or objects, refer to your PerlSAX parser
       documentation for details.

Document Object Model Level 1 Core
   Object XML::Grove::Document
       Contents    The children of this object.  This property is an array.

       Entities    The entities declared in this document.  This property is a
                   hash of XML::Grove::Entity objects keyed by entity name.

       Notations   The notations declared in this document.  This property is
                   a hash of XML::Grove::Notation objects keyed by notation
                   name.

   Object XML::Grove::Element
       Name        The tag type name for this element.  This property is a
                   string.

       Attributes  The attributes for this element.  This property is a hash
                   and it's hash values are strings (or arrays with some grove
                   builders).

       Contents    The children of this object.  This property is an array of
                   XML::Grove objects.

   Object XML::Grove::Characters
       Data        The text of the character data.  This property is a string.

   Object XML::Grove::Comment
       Data        The text of the character data.  This property is a string.

   Object XML::Grove::CData
       The "CData" object is called a "CDATASection" in DOM.

       Data        The text of the character data.  This property is a string.

   Object XML::Grove::Notation
       Name        The name of this notation.  This property is a string.

       SystemId    The system identifier of this notation.  This property is a
                   string.

       PublicId    The public identifier of this notation.  This property is a
                   string.

   Object XML::Grove::Entity
       Name        The name of this entity.  This property is a string.

       SystemId    The system identifier of this notation.  This property is a
                   string.

       PublicId    The public identifier of this notation.  This property is a
                   string.

       Notation    The notation declared for this entity.  This property is
                   either the name of the notation as a string or an
                   "XML::Grove::Notation" object.

   Object XML::Grove::PI
       The "PI" object is called a "ProcessingInstruction" in DOM.

       Target      The target of the processing instruction.  This property is
                   a string.

       Data        The text of the processing instruction.  This property is a
                   string.

perl v5.40.2                      1999-05-26                 DOM-ecmascript(3)
