parkverbot(8)              Parkverbot User Reference             parkverbot(8)

Name
       parkverbot — daemon to inhibit hard disk head parking

Synopsis
       parkverbot [-r kbytes] [-t secs] device...

Introduction
       Rotational hard disks have a controversial (mis)feature which
       automatically unloads the read/write heads during perceived inactivity,
       usually within 10 seconds. Western Digital calls it "Intellipark", but
       the problem is present in other manufacturers' disks as well, and goes
       back to at least the mid-2000s.

       Frequent parking leads to noticable latency on wakeup, and the hard
       retraction is seen as an impediment to disk life.  Even with various
       utility programs, this parking feature is not reliably deactivatable.
       (See "Comparison" section below.)

Description
       The "parkverbot" daemon will issue small read requests periodically to
       a random location on disk in an effort to reset the inactivity timer in
       the hardware and so prevent the dreaded head unloading. As such, its
       operation is non-destructive and interoperable across different brands
       of hard drives and transports.

       The current block reading algorithm works reasonably well in practice:
       the worst observed head parking rate was about 3 unloads/day
       (0.125/hour); best figures hover around 0.5 unloads/day (0.021/hour).

Options
       -b size
              The size of a read request, in kilobytes (defaults to 64 KB).

       -r size
              The guard window size (defaults to 16 MB). When requesting a
              block off the disk, the hardware might choose to cache more
              parts, since it has to hover anyways and wait over a particular
              track for the desired sector. If the next random block we choose
              happens to be already cached because of that, the head unload
              timer will not be reset. To avoid this, if the new random
              location falls within size kilobytes, we shuffle out a new
              location and retry.

       -t secs
              The interval in which to request blocks. The default is 4
              seconds, and is sort of the lowest denominator across all the
              disks personally encountered not to go into sleep.

       The defaults for -b and -t have little effect on energy use, the
       prospect here is just +1% energy use for a 2.5' disk. (For details,
       feel free to see the source file of this manpage.)

Configuration
       You can choose between running one parkverbot instance per disk, or one
       instance for all disks (reading them is serialized however).

       Two systemd service files are shipped with the package. One is the
       service template file "parkverbot@.service", which allows to start one
       parkverbot daemon instance per disk by way of:
         systemctl enable/start/stop/status/disable parkverbot@dev-sda.service

       The other is the normal service file "parkverbot.service" for a single
       daemon for one or more disks, the list of which is to be set in
       /etc/sysconfig/parkverbot in the PARKVERBOT_DISKS variable.

       If you do not have systemd, you can still start the daemon in any other
       fashion, such as from sysvinit's /etc/init.d/boot.local.

Naming
       The name is the German word for a "no parking" zone.

S.M.A.R.T. info
       Unloading of the heads is measurable by S.M.A.R.T. attribute(s). Some
       disk models used number 193, others 225. Both are labeled
       "Load_Cycle_Count".

Comparison with other utilities
       The "wdidle3" proprietary utility uses a vendor-specific command (VSC)
       to change the - infamous - "idle3" timer which controls the parking
       time. How well this works with non-WD drives is unknown; if the VSC
       modifies firmware, it is probably a very bad idea. The program also
       requires MS-DOS, which is increasingly hard to run on contemporary
       x86-PC systems, and totally inacceptable on non-x86/non-PC systems. Its
       effectiveness from within a virtual machine or emulator using
       disk/block device passthrough is not known either.

       The `hdparm -B` Linux command may be used to set the APM (Advanced
       Power Management) level. However, disks often report to not support
       this setting, or if they do, have no effect on unloading, but only
       acoustic settings. hdparm also does not work with SCSI disks, SAS
       disks, disks in enclosures attached through USB translation layer, or
       SATA disks on a SAS plane.  (There are dumps for developers in the
       source distribution.)

       "idle3-tools" is something that I only found recently (2014), though it
       seems to exist for slightly longer than parkverbot. Like wdidle3, it
       uses the VSC.  (http://idle3-tools.sf.net/)

       "wdantiparkd" WD anti-intellipark daemon says it uses a write operation
       on a file. That is somewhat unfortunate, as layers of caching in both
       the operating system and disk may lead to an inactivity beyond the
       parking threshold on the actual head.
       (http://sagaforce.com/sound/wdantiparkd/)

       parkverbot - this daemon - does normal read requests on the raw block
       device.  This means there will be no destructive operations, no
       additional degradation of the medium, and allows it to be usable with
       all kinds of rotating hard disks no matter the manufacturer or
       interface type. Chunks are read from random new locations far enough
       from the old one in an attempt to evade caches. This will manifest in a
       short flash of the disk LED (if you have one) every now and then.  By
       default, one chunk is requested every four seconds, so that two are
       within 8 seconds (the common WD idle3 time).

Parkverbot project                2012-05-14                     parkverbot(8)
