parpd(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               parpd(8)

NAME
     parpd – Proxy-ARP daemon

SYNOPSIS
     parpd configfile

DESCRIPTION
     The parpd utility provide the missing ARP packets in non-broadcast
     multiple-access networks with overly strict first-hop security filters.

   Problem
     Large layer 2 networks are hard to maintain.  Therefore, several security
     measurements should be implemented at the satellite locations with few
     clients.  Especially DSLAMs are prone to broken first-hop security
     implementation, which effectively requires to disable those filters or to
     drop support of non-standard clients.

     Often first hop security filters do sniff the communication for DHCP and
     adjust the filters accordingly.  Clients with static IPs do not need to
     use DHCP (and often have and static configuration instead), which causes
     the filters to fail to learn the used IP address.  Other clients do
     negotiate more than one IP address, or have full ranges of statically
     assigned IP addresses.  In all such cases, the DLSAM filters are too
     simple to cover with the required setup.

     A common first hop security filter simply drops all broadcast traffic not
     intended to the learned IP address.  The rationale behind this type of
     filter is, that clients, which already know the MAC of the destination
     are allowed to reach this device.  The canonical way to learn about the
     destination MAC is to broadcast an ARP packet for desired IP address.  So
     if the filter blocks the distribution of those ARP broadcasts to
     different clients, only valid communication can be established.

     Large networks come with large numbers of visible MAC addresses.  Several
     devices (i.e. DSLAMs) behave strangely in such situations, therefore
     network operators try hard to prevent leakage of frames into other areas.
     Blocking traffic from a satellite location to a different satellite
     location is typically called split-horizon.  Clients in different parts
     of the network are unable to communicate with each other.

     Combining DHCP sniffing, broadcast filters, and split-horizon creates a
     typical xDSL network, where each client can only communicate with the
     central router(s).  Advanced clients cannot communicate at all.

   Simple Solution
     If only a single router is attached to such a network, enabling local-
     proxy-arp on this device solves large parts of problem:  For every ARP
     request from a client, the router responds with its own MAC address.  So
     client-client communication is hair pinned at the router interface.

     Because a router learns the client MAC from the ARP request for the
     default gateway, it may not need to ask for the client itself. Several
     routers refresh expiring ARP entries by sending unicast requests, hence
     the broadcast filter may not cause notifiable trouble.

     If there are more than one router or server in the network, the situation
     becomes complicated.  Local-proxy-arp can't be used anymore, because each
     of the routers will quickly learn each other's MAC address for the client
     IPs, causing loops.

     On the other hand some services, like DHCP, try to verify, that free IP
     addresses are unused, by arping for that IP.  Any generic local-proxy-arp
     response would cause trouble to such applications.

     All these issues exist for ARP using broadcast as well as for IPv6 ND
     using multicast. Beside the wording, both cases are quite similar.


   parpd Approach
     In order to keep the network running, parpd provides the necessary ARP/ND
     replies.  Depending on configuration rules, the utility respond to ARP/ND
     requests with the real MAC address of the device or the MAC address of a
     router (redirect).

     It does learn the real MAC-IP pairs by listening to broadcast ARP
     queries, gratuitous ARP requests, and ICMPv6 ND solicit messages.  Of
     course, it does not learn from ARP/ND probes or replies not originated by
     the device owning the IP.  parpd does refresh it's cache using unicast
     requests.  In order to obtain MAC addresses for a redirect response, the
     request may be broadcasted or multicasted.

     It's possible to respond with a static MAC if there is no host responding
     to ARP for a given IP.  Heavy Traffic (especially dDoS) can stop a host
     from working.  But the incoming traffic may not stop, so the router is
     unable to forward the traffic due to missing ARP information.  This can
     cause a high CPU load on the router itself.  I.e. Cisco report such cases
     as "L3 Glean" events.  In order to protect the router, the parpd can hand
     out a fixed MAC after it unsucessfully tried to obtain the MAC for the IP
     itself using broadcast ARP.  It's strongly recommended to ensure that all
     traffic to this MAC is dropped as soon as possible, otherwise all the
     traffic is broadcasted to every host in the layer 2 domain in order to
     reach the unknown destination.

     Responses can be delayed, which effectively ignores the first set of
     requests over a (short) period.  This way, special services can probe for
     the non-existence of an IP, while obtaining necessary answers for real
     communication.

     Part of the bootstrap process of IPv6 is sending router advertisements to
     the all nodes using a link-local multicast. If this is filtered, parpd
     can resend such router advertisements to the unicast MACs collected by
     ARP sniffing.

     The customizable set of rules allows adapting the behaviour to complex
     scenarios.


CONFIGURATION FILE
     parpd reads its configuration from the file given as the first argument.
     Comments starts with a '#' and reach up to the end of the line.  There is
     no quoting, so the directory or file names cannot contain spaces.

     The configuration contains outmost options as well as a cache and an
     interface section. On the outer level, the following options are defined:

     workdir directory
           Change the working directory.  All pathnames are relative to this
           directory, even the configuration file from the command line.  If
           the option is not specified, the working directory is not changed
           at all.  The workdir can't be changed during configuration reload.

     logfile filename
           Any output after the start-up is appended to this file.  If the
           option is missing, all output goes to stdout.  The file is closed
           and reopened quickly, so logfile rotation does not need to signal
           anything.  On the other hand, the logfile is updated in near real
           time to ease debugging.  This option can be changed by reloading
           the config.

     pidfile filename
           Without this option, the program stays in foreground and does not
           close the standard file descriptors.  However, if the option is
           specified, the software prevents duplicate startup by checking the
           pid in the file, daemonizes itself, and create/updates the pid in
           the file.  The pidfile can't be changed during configuration
           reload.  The file is removed during a clear shutdown: see SIGNALS.

     The cache section starts with the cache or the cache6 keyword and
     terminates with the end keyword.  In this section, the following options
     are allowed:

     tablesize number
           Sets the size of the hash table.  The value should be a prime
           number between 10% and 50% of the expected number of cache entries.
           Defaults to 251.  If this option is changed by a config reload, the
           hash table is recalculated.

     timeout number
           Defines the number of seconds, an learned entry is considered
           valid.  Default value is 300 (5 minutes).  If this option is
           changed by a config reload, the timeouts for all cached entries are
           recalculated.

     refresh m*t
           Defines the refresh policy for expired cache entries.  An unicast
           request is send to the cached MAC for the cached IP address at most
           m-times, while waiting t seconds for each response.  Defaults to
           3*10, three requests with ten seconds timeout per request.  Cache
           entries in this refresh phase are still used.  This option can be
           changed by reloading the config.

     delay m*t
           Defines the delay policy.  A delayed request from a specific MAC
           for a specific IP is ignored until it occurs at least m times
           during a t seconds interval.  Defaults to 2*10, responding to the
           second query within ten seconds.  A typical Linux system asks three
           queries with a single second timeout before considering an IP
           unreachable.  FreeBSD defaults to five queries and three seconds
           timeout per query to come to the same result.  This option can be
           changed by reloading the config.

     holddown number
           Defines the number of seconds a freshly updates cache entry is
           protected from changes.  Erroneous devices may send their own MAC
           in response to any request (i.e. local-proxy-arp).  Some of them
           may broadcast this erroneous response, too.  In order to overcome
           such quick, erroneous changes, the fresh entries are not updated
           too quickly.  Default value is 10.

     The interface section starts with the interface keyword followed by the
     interface name and terminates with the end keyword.  In this section, the
     following options are allowed:

     timeout float
           Sets the number of seconds (as a floating-point number) to wait for
           ARP packets and signals before processing them.  Defaults to 1.0
           seconds.  If a large amount of ARP packets is received, processing
           may start earlier depending on the kernel buffers.  Can be changed
           by configuration reload.

     rule src dst op
           Customising the behaviour of the progam.  If the source IP of ARP
           request matches the CIDR value for src and the queried IP in this
           ARP request matches the CIDR value for dst, then the actions
           defined by op are performed.  Rules are processed first match.  If
           no match was found, the packet is ignored.

     rule6 src dst op
           Customising the behaviour of the progam.  If the source IP of ND
           request matches the CIDR value for src and the queried IP in this
           ND request matches the CIDR value for dst, then the actions defined
           by op are performed.  Rules are processed first match.  If no match
           was found, the packet is ignored.

           If the op ends with the keyword eui, a ND response will be
           syntesized from the querie EUI-64 IPv6 address.  If the queried
           IPv6 address is not in the correct form, no response will be sent.

     rad src dst op
           Customising the behaviour of the progam.  If the source IP of
           router advertisement matches the CIDR value for src, then for all
           IPs in the ARP cache matching the CIDR value for dst the action
           defined by op is performed.  Rules are processed first match for
           each ARP cache entry.  If no match was found, the ARP cache entry
           is ignored.

           If any rule contains the keyword verbose, a summary of packet
           processing is logged, even if the rule itself does not match
           anything.

     If the op contains the keyword verbose, details of processing the packet
     is logged.  If the op contains the keyword delay, the request is only
     processed, if the delay parameters from the cache section are matched.
     If the op ends with the keyword ignore, no response will be sent.  If the
     op ends with an IP address, a reply containing the cached MAC of this
     specified IP will be send. If the op ends with an MAC address, a reply
     with this MAC will be send.  If the op ends with the keyword tell, a
     reply containing the cached MAC for the queries IP will be sent.  The op
     tell may be followed by or and a MAC address, which is used in the case
     that IP is not online.

     In order to keep the cache small, only packets matching the CIDR dst of a
     tell rule will be learned.

     In complex situation the CIDR format can be replaced by a.b.c.d/e.f.g.h,
     where a.b.c.d is an network address and e.f.g.h is an arbitary netmask.
     Such non-continuous netmask may ease the ruleset considerably.  This is
     not available for IPv6.


EXIT CODE
     The parpd utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.  If the
     mandatory argument is missing, -1 is returned.  If the config file can't
     be parsed, the exit code becomes 1.  An exit code of 2 is set, if the
     specified interface can't be used.  The returned value of 3 means, that
     program failed to daemonize itself.


SIGNALS
     The utility catch and respond to the following signals:

     TERM  Terminate the process.  Final clean-up includes a last statistics
           output as well as removal of the pidfile.

     HUP   Reload the configuration.  If the new configuration cannot be
           parsed, an error message is written (to the logfile) and the change
           is ignored.

     INFO  Print usage statistics.  The counters are purged atomically after
           each report.  In order to enable statistics the time between two
           reports is also mentioned.

     USR1  Print delayed queries.  The report contains the querying MAC, the
           queried IP address, as well as the number of received queries, and
           the age of the entry.  See BUGS.

     USR2  Print the current cache content.  The table contains the hash slot,
           the IP and the MAC address, the remaining lifetime, and the number
           of unanswered retries to refresh the entry.  If too many entries
           per hash slot exists, please increase the size of hash table.


EXAMPLES
      # configration file

      logfile /var/log/parpd.log
      pidfile /var/run/parpd.pid
      workdir /var/tmp

      cache
       timeout       302     # seconds
       tablesize     3499     # expecting about 10000 entries
       refresh       3*5     # 3 retries a 5 seconds each
       delay         4*3     # respond at 4th retry in 3 seconds
      end

      interface em0
       timeout       1.011
       # do not respond for queries to our own infrastructure
       rule          0.0.0.0/0        198.51.100.0/29    ignore
       # delay queries from the DHCP server
       rule          198.51.100.4/32  198.51.100.0/24    delay tell
       # help the routers/servers to reach the clients
       # or hand out a special MAC for unreachable IPs
       rule          198.51.100.0/29  198.51.100.0/24    tell or
     02:04:06:08:0a:0c
       # interclient communication through hairpinning at the default gateway
       rule          198.51.100.0/24  198.51.100.0/24    198.51.100.1
       # help erroneous clients arping for everything
       rule          198.51.100.0/24  0.0.0.0/0          verbose 198.51.100.1
       # multihomed server with weak host model
       rule          192.0.2.0/24     198.51.100.0/24    tell
       # show missing entries
       rule          0.0.0.0/0        0.0.0.0/0          verbose ignore
       # fake responses for EUI-64 link-local addresses for the router
       rule6         fe80::1234/128   fe80::/64          eui
       # respond to link-local queries
       rule6         fe80::/64        fe80::/64          tell
       # show missing entries
       rule6         ::/0             ::/0   verbose ignore
       # resend router advertisements from the router as unicasts
       rad           fe80::1234/128   198.51.100.0/24    tell
       # silently ignore other router advertisements
       rad           ::/0             0.0.0.0/0          ignore
       # enable summary logging for router advertisements
       rad           ::/0             0.0.0.0/0          ignore verbose
     verbose ignore end

      end


STANDARDS
     David C. Plummer, An Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol, IETF,
     Standards Track, RFC 826, November 1982.

     Smoot Carl-Mitchell and John S. Quarterman, Using ARP to Implement
     Transparent Subnet Gateways, IETF, RFC 1027, October 1987.

     V. Fuller and T. Li, Classless Inter-domain Routing (CIDR), IETF, Best
     Current Practice, RFC 4632, August 2006.

     S. Cheshire, IPv4 Address Conflict Detection, IETF, Standards Track, RFC
     5227, July 2008.

     T. Narten, et al, Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6), IETF,
     Standards Track, RFC 4861, September 2007.


AUTHORS
     Lutz Donnerhacke <lutz@donnerhacke.de>


BUGS
     Only a few hosts and a short time frame are assumed for delaying
     responses.  If too many entries need to be examined, the program eats
     CPUs for breakfast.

     Resending router advertisements does not have a rate limiter.


SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
     Please keep in mind, that erroneous ARP/ND replies can cause serious
     problems to a network.  Define your timeouts carefully, to react in time
     to changes.  Develop your rules defensively, respond only if there is a
     real reason to do so.  Use logging to track down and fix erroneous
     configuration instead of covering the errors with fake ARP/ND replies.

     Resending multicasts as explicit unicasts can generate a lot of traffic.

SEE ALSO
     arp(8), rarpd(8)

FreeBSD                         January 7, 2020                        FreeBSD
