PC-SYSINSTALL(8)        FreeBSD System Manager's Manual       PC-SYSINSTALL(8)

NAME
     pc-sysinstall – System installer backend

SYNOPSIS
     pc-sysinstall [-c file] [command]

DESCRIPTION
     The pc-sysinstall utility is a hybrid backend for installing FreeBSD.
     When run in install mode it takes a configuration file and performs an
     installation according to the parameters specified in the configuration
     file.  When called with one of the system query commands it provides
     information about the system to aid a front end in building an
     appropriate configuration file.

     The following options are available:

     -c file
             Perform an installation as directed by file.

COMMANDS
     The command can be any one of the following:

     help    Display a list of all commands.

     help command
             Display the help data for the specified command.

     disk-list
             Provide a listing of the storage devices detected on this system.

     disk-part disk
             Queries the specified storage device and returns information
             about its partitions.

     disk-info disk
             Returns information about a storage device's size, cylinders,
             heads, and sectors.

     detect-laptop
             Tests to see if this system is a laptop or desktop.

     detect-emulation
             Tests to see if this system is running in an emulator

     detect-nics
             Returns a listing of the detected network cards on this system.

     list-components
             Returns a listing of the available components which can be
             installed.

     list-rsync-backups user host port
             Returns a listing of available rsync-backups on the target server
             in the life-preserver/ directory.

     list-tzones
             Returns a listing of available timezones.

     query-langs
             Returns a list of languages that the installer supports.

     sys-mem
             Returns the size of installed system RAM in MegaBytes.

     test-netup
             test if an internet connection is available.

     update-part-list
             Returns a list of PC-BSD and FreeBSD installs on this system for
             updates.

     xkeyboard-layouts
             Returns a list of keyboard layouts that xorg supports.

     xkeyboard-models
             Returns a list of keyboard models that xorg supports.

     xkeyboard-variants
             Returns a list of keyboard variants that xorg supports.

     create-part disk size
             Create a new MBR primary slice on the target disk using size MB.

     delete-part partition
             Delete the disk partition specified.  If this is the last
             partition, the disk partition layout will also be scrubbed,
             leaving a clean disk ready for MBR or GPT file system layouts.

     start-autoinstall file
             Start an automated installation with the specified file.
             Normally only used by automated install scripts.

     setup-ssh-keys user host port
             Setup SSH without a password for the target host, user, and port.
             Used to prompt the user to log into a server before doing a rsync
             + ssh restore.

HISTORY
     This version of pc-sysinstall first appeared in FreeBSD 9.0.

AUTHORS
     Kris Moore <kmoore@FreeBSD.org>

BUGS
     This utility was written to install PC-BSD and has seen limited use as an
     installer for FreeBSD.  It's likely that usage to install FreeBSD will
     expose edge cases that PC-BSD doesn't, as well as generate feature
     requests based on unforeseen needs.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          June 24, 2010         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
