PDFPC(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               PDFPC(1)



NAME
       pdfpc - PDF presenter console with multi-monitor support


SYNOPSIS
       pdfpc [options] PDF-file


DESCRIPTION
       pdfpc is a GTK-based presentation viewer which uses Keynote-like multi-
       monitor output to provide meta information to the speaker during the
       presentation. It is able to show a normal presentation window on one
       screen while showing a more sophisticated overview on the other one,
       providing information like a picture of the next slide, as well as the
       time left in the presentation. pdfpc processes PDF documents, which can
       be created using nearly all modern presentation software.

       By default the presenter view appears in the primary monitor and the
       presentation view in the second monitor (provided you have two
       monitors).


OPTIONS
       -B, --list-bindings
              List action bindings defined

       -c, --cfg-statement=STRING
              Interpret the string as a pdfpcrc(5) statement. Multiple
              statements can be given.

       -C, --time-of-day
              Display the time of the day

       -d, --duration=N
              Duration in minutes of the presentation used for timer display.
              If not given or if a value of 0 is specified, the clock just
              measures the time in the presentation.

       -e, --end-time=T
              End time of the presentation. (Format: HH:MM (24h))

       -f, --note-format=FORMAT
              Enforce format of notes (plain or markdown. Default: markdown)

       -g, --disable-auto-grouping
              Disable auto detection of overlay groups. (Default: enabled)

       -h, --help
              Show this help

       -l, --last-minutes=N
              In the old timer mode (see Timer below), defines time in minutes
              before the end of the talk when the timer changes its color.
              (Default: 5 minutes)

       -L, --list-actions
              List actions supported

       -M, --list-monitors
              List monitors known to the operating system

       -n, --notes=P
              Position of second-screen beamer notes on the PDF page (left,
              right, top, bottom, or none. Default: none). Note that this
              disables slide auto-grouping.

       -N, --no-install
              Allow for testing pdfpc without proper installation. Icons,
              configuration files, etc. will be loaded from the source path
              locations. Mostly intended for developers.

       -p, --rest-port
              Port the REST server binds to. (Default: 8088)

       -P, --page
              Go to a specific page directly after startup. In case of
              overlays, the first slide will be displayed.

       -r, --page-transition=TRANSITION
              Set default page transition. The TRANSITION specification is of
              the form type[:duration[:angle[:alignment[:direction]]]]. See
              the Page transitions section for the list of supported types.
              duration is in seconds and set to 1 by default. The accepted
              values for angle are 0/90/180/270; alignment can be h[orizontal]
              of v[ertical] and direction i[nward] or o[utward]. The last
              three optional settings are meaningless for some of the
              transition types and can be left empty. Examples: "push",
              "dissolve:1.5", "wipe:1:90", "split:1::vertical:outward".

       -R, --pdfpc-location=LOCATION
              Use custom pdfpc file.

       -s, --switch-screens
              Switch the presentation and the presenter screen.

       -S, --single-screen
              Force to use only one screen

       -t, --start-time=T
              Start time of the presentation to be used as a countdown.
              (Format: HH:MM (24h))

       -T, --enable-auto-srt-load
              Try loading video subtitle files automatically. For each video
              media, pdfpc will append ".srt" to the media URI and attempt to
              load a subtitle file (in the SRT format) from that location.

       -V, --enable-rest-server
              Enable REST server for remote control of pdfpc.

       -W, --wayland-workaround
              Enable Wayland-specific workaround. This might fix HiDPI scaling
              problems.

       -w, --windowed=MODE
              Run in the given windowed mode
              (presenter|presentation|both|none). The default mode is
              "presenter" (only the presentation window is fullscreen).

       -X, --external-script=FILENAME
              Specify a script to be executed with the 'X' (Shift+x) key
              during the presentation. The script must be executable but can
              otherwise be written in any language. The script is called with
              the following command line arguments:

              • Name of pdf file
              • Total slide count
              • Current slide number
              • Current user slide number

              If the script exits with a non-zero return value, whatever the
              script wrote to stdout is printed in the console. Otherwise
              nothing is printed.

       -Z, --size
              Size of the presentation window in width:height format (forces
              windowed mode)

       -1, --presenter-screen=MONITOR
              Monitor to be used for the presenter screen (see the -M option).

       -2, --presentation-screen=MONITOR
              Monitor to be used for the presentation screen (see the -M
              option).


KEYBINDINGS
       These are the default keybindings for pdfpc:

       Right cursor key / Down cursor key / Page down / Return / Space / 1st
       mouse button / Mouse wheel down
              Go forward one slide

       Left cursor key / Up cursor key / Page up / Backspace / 3rd mouse
       button / Mouse wheel up
              Go back one slide

       Shift + Page down
              Go forward one user slide (see Overlays below)

       Shift + Page up
              Go back one user slide (see Overlays below)

       Shift + Right cursor key / 1st mouse button / Mouse wheel down
              Go forward 10 slides

       Shift + Left cursor key / 3rd mouse button / Mouse wheel up
              Go back 10 slides

       Shift + n
              Go forward 1 slide irrespectively of its "hidden" attribute

       Shift + p
              Go backward 1 slide irrespectively of its "hidden" attribute

       Home   Go to the first slide

       End    Go to the last slide

       Shift + Backspace / Shift + Space
              Go back /forward in history.

       Shift + Home / Shift + End
              Go to the previous / next slide, skipping over overlays that
              have already been viewed, but at most one user slide.

       Tab / 2nd mouse button
              Overview mode

       g      Input a slide number to jump to

       m      Bookmark the current slide and store it in the .pdfpc file for
              later usage

       Shift + m
              Load the bookmarked slide which was saved with m before

       t      Toggle the toolbox

       1 / KP_1
              Switch to the normal mode (pen/eraser and pointer are off)

       2 / KP_2
              Switch the pointer mode on

       3 / KP_3
              Switch the pen drawing mode on

       4 / KP_4
              Switch the eraser drawing mode on

       5 / KP_5
              Switch the spotlight mode on

       Plus / KP_Add / Equal
              Depending on the current mode, increase font size of notes or
              pointer size or the size of pen or eraser or spotlight

       Minus / KP_Subtract
              Depending on the current mode, decrease font size of notes or
              pointer size or the size of pen or eraser

       c      Clear the drawing on the current page

       d      Toggle visibility of the drawings; if in the drawing mode
              (pen/eraser), exit it

       f      Freeze the current presentation display (the presenter display
              is still fully active)

       w      Toggle between the fullscreen and windowed mode of the presenter
              screen

       Shift + a
              Maximize/unmaximize the current slide view (e.g., to increase
              accuracy while drawing)

       b      Turn off the presentation view (i.e.  fill it with a black
              color)

       h      Hide the presentation window (i.e. make other windows on the
              other screen visible)

       Escape Exit any "special" state (pause, freeze, blank)

       Ctrl + n
              Edit notes for the current slide (press Escape to exit this
              mode)

       Ctrl + z
              In drawing and eraser mode, undo the last added stroke or erase
              curve.

       Ctrl + y
              In drawing and eraser mode, redo the last undone stroke or erase
              curve.

       s      Start timer

       p      Pause/continue timer

       Shift + t
              Cycle between the timer view modes (count up/count down/current
              time), when applicable

       Ctrl + t
              Reset timer

       Ctrl + o
              Toggle the overlay flag for one particular slide (see Overlays
              below)

       Ctrl + h
              Toggle the hidden attribute for the current slide (see Hidden
              slides below)

       Ctrl + e
              Define end slide

       Ctrl + r
              Reload the presentation (e.g., if the PDF file has been updated)

       Ctrl + q
              Exit pdfpc

       ?      Show a cheat sheet with the keyboard and mouse bindings; press
              Escape or Return to exit it

       Within the overview mode, the following key bindings are used:

       Return / 1st mouse button
              Go to currently selected page (last page of overlay)

       Shift + Return / Shift + 1st mouse button
              Go to currently selected page (first page of overlay)

       Cursor left / Page up
              Select previous slide

       Cursor right / Page down
              Select next slide


       See pdfpcrc(5) if you want to customize the key or mouse bindings.
       Please note though, that only in the normal mode the mouse bindings are
       configurable.


FEATURES
   Caching / Pre-rendering
       To allow fast changes between the presentation slides, a few
       consecutive PDF pages (the number is configurable) are pre-rendered and
       kept in memory.  To avoid excessive memory consumption, cached are only
       slides that took a significant time to render; this threshold is
       configurable. In order to further reduce memory consumption, the pre-
       rendered and cached slides are selectively compressed. The compression
       factor is typically 10-30, however, it takes some CPU time to compress
       and uncompress, so there is a trade-off. Small images below a certain
       (configurable) threshold will not be compressed.


       Please refer to the pdfpcrc(5) man page for options to fine-tune the
       caching algorithm.


   Timer
       If a duration is given (-d option), the timer will show a countdown
       with the given parameters.  If no duration is specified (or if a value
       of 0 is given to the -d option), the timer will show how much time has
       been spent.  The duration is stored automatically, so you do not need
       to repeat it for every invocation.

       The timer is started if you are navigating away from the first page for
       the first time.  This feature is quite useful as you may want to show
       the title page of your presentation while people are still entering the
       room and the presentation has not really begun yet.  If you want to
       start over you can use the 'Ctrl + t' key which will make the presenter
       reset the timer.

       If a duration is given, the timer also provides hints aiding the
       presenter to judge whether the talk would end on time.  There are two
       modes in which pdfpc can operate.  In the old (and the only one
       available up to, and including pdfpc-4.0.8) mode, at the moment the
       timer reaches the defined last-minutes value it will change color to
       indicate your talk is nearing its end, thus mimicking a chairman
       frantically pantomiming in front of you with five (four, three, ...)
       fingers up.  A drawback of this approach is it is often too late at
       that moment to alter the presentation pace without ruining to some
       extent the rest of the talk.  On the other hand, the warning indication
       provides an unnecessary distraction if you have been perfectly
       conveying the talk and the remaining time is adequate.

       Contrary to that, in the new (default) mode, pdfpc tracks your progress
       continuously, calculating the expected time as
       (talk_duration)*(current_user_slide_number -
       0.5)/(total_number_of_user_slides) and comparing it to the actual wall
       time since beginning of the talk.  If these two numbers differ by more
       than 60 seconds, the timer changes its color to either orange
       (indicating you need to speed up) or a blueish one (need to slow down).
       Once the optimal progress is recovered, the timer becomes white again.
       In this mode, the last-minutes option (-l) has no effect.  The previous
       behavior can be restored by setting the 'timer-pace-color' option to
       'false' in the configuration file, see pdfpcrc(5).

       In any case as soon as the timer reaches the zero mark (00:00:00), it
       will turn red and count further down showing a negative time, to
       provide information on how many minutes you are overtime.


   Notes
       Textual notes can be displayed for each slide.  pdfpc understands the
       Markdown syntax, which allows for rendering anything from plain text to
       a very rich formatting, if so desired.  A few types of PDF annotations
       are understood by pdfpc and will be automatically imported and
       displayed. The PDF annotations can be made using many PDF editors and
       even viewers;  when using LaTeX, the pdfpc package (see below) provides
       a convenient macro.  These "native" PDF notes cannot be edited in
       pdfpc.

       In addition, while in the presentation mode, pressing 'Ctrl + n' will
       allow you to take or edit notes for the current slide.  These notes are
       stored in the .pdfpc file. The native PDF annotations take precedence
       over these notes, i.e., if a note exists for a given slide in the
       .pdfpc file, any PDF annotation on that page will silently override it.
       While editing a note, the normal keybindings are disabled, e.g., you
       are not able to change slides. To exit the note editing mode, press the
       Escape key.

       Although mixing the two types of notes is possible, for a given
       presentation one will likely want to have either only the "native"
       notes (produced by the same PDF authoring software used for making the
       slides), or only the "pdfpc" ones.  Note that if the PDF presentation
       changes, the notes stored in the respective .pdfpc file may get out of
       sync.

       pdfpc also supports old-style beamer notes (see the -n option), which
       are typeset on a half of the "virtual" slide twice as large as the real
       one. Note that due to a bug in beamer, the auto-grouping feature does
       not work with such presentations.


   Overview mode
       Pressing the Tab key enters the overview mode, where thumbnails of the
       slides are shown in a grid.  You can select a slide to jump to with the
       mouse or with the arrow keys.  You can also define overlays and the end
       slide (see next sections) in this mode.  Press Escape to exit the mode
       without making an change.


   Overlays
       Many slide preparation systems allow for overlays, i.e.  sets of slides
       that are logically grouped together as a single, changing slide.
       Examples include enumerations where bullet items are displayed one
       after another, or rough "animations", where parts of a picture change
       from slide to slide. Pdfpc includes facilities for dealing with such
       overlays.


       In this description, we will differentiate between slides (i.e.  pages
       in the PDF document) and "user slides", that are the logical slides.
       The standard forward movement command (page down, enter, etc.) moves
       through one slide at a time, as expected.  This means that every step
       in the overlay is traversed.  The backward movement command works
       differently depending on whether the current and previous slides are
       part of an overlay:


       • If the current slide is part of an overlay we just jump to the
         previous slide.  That means that we are in the middle of an overlay
         and can jump forward and backward through the single steps of it

       • If the current slide is not part of an overlay (or if it is the first
         one), but the previous slides are, we jump to the previous user
         slide.  This means that when going back in the presentation you do
         not have to go through every step of the overlay, pdfpc just shows
         the first slide of each overlay.  As one typically goes back in a
         presentation only when looking for a concrete slide, this is more
         convenient.


       The Shift + Page up/down key combinations work on the "user slide"
       basis.  You can use them to skip the rest of an overlay or to jump to
       the previous user slide, ignoring the state of the current slide.


       When going through an overlay, two additional previews may be activated
       in the presenter view, just below the main view, showing the next and
       the previous slide in an overlay.


       Pdfpc tries to find these overlays automatically by looking into the
       page labels in the PDF file.  For LaTeX this works correctly at least
       with the beamer class and also modifying the page numbers manually
       (compiling with pdflatex).  If your preferred slide-producing method
       does not work correctly with this detection, you can supply this
       information using the 'Ctrl + o' key for each slide that is part of an
       overlay (except the first one!).  The page numbering is also adapted.
       This information is automatically stored.


   Hidden slides
       When preparing presentation from an existing set of slides, it is
       sometimes helpful to mark certain slides to be skipped during the talk.
       The 'Ctrl + h' combination toggles the "hidden" attribute of the
       current slide, making it essentially invisible. It is still possible to
       navigate to a hidden slide either in the Overview mode, using the Goto
       action ('g'), or by hitting 'Shift + n' or 'Shift + p' to switch to the
       next/previous slide, respectively, ignoring the "hidden" attribute.


   End slide
       Some people like to have some additional, backup slides after the last
       slide in the actual presentation.  Things like bibliographic references
       or slides referring to specialized questions are typical examples.
       Pdfpc lets you define which is the last slide in the actual
       presentation via the 'Ctrl + e' key.  This just changes the progress
       display in the presenter screen, as to have a better overview of how
       many slides are left.


   Page transitions
       Pdfpc supports almost all standard animated PDF page transitions:
       blinds, box, cover, dissolve, fade, glitter (except the diagonal one),
       push, split, uncover, and wipe, including various alignments, angles,
       and directions (where applicable). The transitions are enabled only for
       sequential (either forward or backward) movement; in the later case,
       the transition is "inverted".

       Advancing slides automatically is also supported.


   Movies
       Pdfpc can play back movies included in the PDF file.  Movies may be
       started and stopped by clicking within their area.  For the presenter,
       a progress bar is drawn along the bottom of the movie.  This expands
       when the mouse hovers over it, allowing one to seek by clicking or
       dragging within the progress bar.  Switching slides automatically stops
       playback, and movies will be reset after leaving and returning to a
       slide.


       Movies may be included in PDF files as "screen annotations". In LaTeX,
       such movies may be added to a presentation with the "multimedia"
       package. Note that the autoplay option is not yet supported.


       pdfpc will also play back movies linked from a hyperlink of type
       "launch".


       See our website ⟨URL: http://pdfpc.github.io/demo/pdfpc-video-
       example.zip ⟩ for a detailed explanation with examples.


   Pointer mode
       If needed, it is possible to turn on a pointer which draws a red (by
       default) dot in the place pointed by mouse cursor on both presenter and
       presentation screens. It is also possible to increase and decrease the
       pointer size.  Additionally, when the pointer is enabled, it is
       possible to highlight some area of the current slide using the drag
       mouse motion. The area outside the selected region will be dimmed. You
       can zoom in the selected area by pressing 'z'; press 'Escape' to exit
       the zoom mode. You can highlight another region while zoomed in, but
       there will be no further action on pressing 'z'. Drawing is also
       disabled in this mode.


   Spotlight mode
       Spotlight mode is similar to the pointer mode: a circular area that
       moves with the mouse and can be adjusted in size, but instead of
       highlighting the spot by a different color, it shades the background.


   Drawing mode
       It is possible to turn on a mode which allows drawing over slides with
       the mouse cursor or a connected tablet.  When drawing mode is enabled,
       drawings can be made on the presenter screen. A separate drawing will
       be kept in memory for each slide (based on user slide numbers, so
       consolidating overlay slides). Drawings are presently not saved between
       sessions.

       In the drawing mode, there are two drawing tools, a pen and an eraser.
       An indicator in the bottom-left corner of the presenter screen will
       indicate which is active. When in the pen mode, the color and size of
       the pen will be indicated by the cursor. The pen size can be increased
       or decreased using hot keys specified in the key bindings. When the
       eraser tool is active, the size of the cursor indicates the amount to
       erase.

       The color of the pen can be changed through key bindings or using the
       toolbox.

       If you are using a tablet, the pen or eraser tool will be selected
       based on whether the tablet reports a pen or eraser input device is
       being used, overriding the normal selection of the drawing tool. Also
       for pressure-sensitive input devices, the pressure will affect the line
       width and the eraser size.  Both these features can be disabled in the
       configuration file, if desired.


   Monitor Plug and Play
       Pdfpc can handle monitor plug and play. E.g. if pdfpc was started
       before the presentation screen was attached to the computer, pdfpc can
       create and show the presentation screen after the second screen was
       attached. This allows the user to rehearse the slides and switch to a
       normal presentation without having the full setup at the computer in
       advance.


   pdfpc files
       Notes, user-defined overlays, and some additional information are
       stored in a file with extension "pdfpc".  When pdfpc is invoked with a
       PDF file, it automatically checks for and loads the associated .pdfpc
       file, if it exists.  This means that you normally do not have to deal
       with this kind of files explicitly.

       Beside internal configuration, the following command-line options are
       saved in the pdfpc file for later usage:


       • duration

       • end_time

       • last_minutes

       • notes (position)

       • page_transition

       • start_time


   Appearance
       With GTK3 it is possible to modify the appearance of pdfpc. There are
       two locations where pdfpc is looking for files. The default location is
       /usr/local/share/pixmaps/pdfpc/pdfpc.css. It can be copied to
       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pdfpc/pdfpc.css and modified to the user's liking.

       The geometry of various views (the current/next etc slide) in the
       presenter window can be adjusted at run time in the "Customization"
       mode, which is activated by pressing Shift+c. In this mode, mouse-
       draggable handles will appear. Exit the customization with Escape.


   Desktop integration
       Pdfpc provides a DBus interface that appears on the session bus as
       io.github.pdfpc. Other applications can, in particular, execute any
       action listed by --list-actions. It is also possible to control pdfpc
       from the command line (and write shell scripts) using the dbus-send(1)
       utility. For example, to advance to the next slide, run

       dbus-send --type=method_call --session --dest=io.github.pdfpc
        /io/github/pdfpc io.github.pdfpc.TriggerAction string:next

       For actions that require an argument, use TriggerActionArg, e.g.,

       dbus-send --type=method_call --session --dest=io.github.pdfpc
        /io/github/pdfpc io.github.pdfpc.TriggerActionArg string:switchMode
        string:pointer

       In addition to TriggerAction*, the pdfpc DBus interface exposes the
       GetNotes method, three properties (NumberOfOverlays, NumberOfSlides,
       Url) and two signals (OverlayChange and SlideChange).


   Remote control
       Pdfpc has a built-in REST server. When enabled (off by default), it
       allows for controlling presentations over network, e.g., using a mobile
       device as a smart controller. (This section will be extended with more
       details when the REST interface sufficiently stabilizes.)



   LaTeX package
       A tiny LaTeX package is available for pdfpc at CTAN. It provides a
       convenient way to specify notes and to define certain meta properties
       of the presentation.  For a full documentation, please consult the
       pdfpc package documentation. You can open it with:

              $ texdoc pdfpc


BUGS
       Bugs can be reported at our issue tracker ⟨URL:
       https://github.com/pdfpc/pdfpc/issues ⟩.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       pdfpc was previously developed by David Vilar ⟨URL:
       https://github.com/davvil/pdfpc ⟩, which in turn was a fork of Jakob
       Westhoff's PDF Presenter Console
        ⟨URL: https://github.com/jakobwesthoff/Pdf-Presenter-Console ⟩.


SEE ALSO
       pdfpcrc(5)

       There are several other programs with similar functionality.

       impressive(1) has nice transition effects.

       hpdfp(1) is the Haskell PDF Presenter ⟨URL:
       http://michaeldadams.org/projects/haskell-pdf-presenter/ ⟩ program,
       which packs an amazing level of functionality into not many lines of
       Haskell.

       pympress(1) is a little PDF reader written in Python ⟨URL:
       https://github.com/Cimbali/pympress ⟩ which handles dual screens and
       beamer notes.

       dspdfviewer(1) is a specialized Dual-Screen PDF Viewer for latex-beamer
       ⟨URL: https://github.com/dannyedel/dspdfviewer ⟩ for beamer-produced
       wide PDF with notes on the right.

       Many PDF viewers have full-screen presentation modes, but without dual-
       monitor preview or notes or a timer. These include zathura(1),
       evince(1), and okular(1).

                                                                      PDFPC(1)
