PDL(3)                User Contributed Perl Documentation               PDL(3)



NAME
       PDL - the Perl Data Language

DESCRIPTION
       (For the exported PDL constructor, pdl(), see PDL::Core)

       PDL is the Perl Data Language, a perl extension that is designed for
       scientific and bulk numeric data processing and display.  It extends
       perl's syntax and includes fully vectorized, multidimensional array
       handling, plus several paths for device-independent graphics output.

       PDL is fast, comparable and often outperforming IDL and MATLAB in real
       world applications. PDL allows large N-dimensional data sets such as
       large images, spectra, etc to be stored efficiently and manipulated
       quickly.

VECTORIZATION
       For a description of the vectorization (also called "threading"), see
       PDL::Core.

INTERACTIVE SHELL
       The PDL package includes an interactive shell. You can learn about it,
       run "perldoc perldl", or run the shell "perldl" or "pdl2" and type
       "help".

LOOKING FOR A FUNCTION?
       If you want to search for a function name, you should use the PDL shell
       along with the "help" or "apropos" command (to do a fuzzy search).  For
       example:

        pdl> apropos xval
        xlinvals        X axis values between endpoints (see xvals).
        xlogvals        X axis values logarithmicly spaced...
        xvals           Fills a piddle with X index values...
        yvals           Fills a piddle with Y index values. See the CAVEAT for xvals.
        zvals           Fills a piddle with Z index values. See the CAVEAT for xvals.

       To learn more about the PDL shell, see perldl or pdl2.

LANGUAGE DOCUMENTATION
       Most PDL documentation describes the language features. The number of
       PDL pages is too great to list here. The following pages offer some
       guidance to help you find the documentation you need.

       PDL::FAQ
            Frequently asked questions about PDL. This page covers a lot of
            questions that do not fall neatly into any of the documentation
            categories.

       PDL::Tutorials
            A guide to PDL's tutorial-style documentation. With topics from
            beginner to advanced, these pages teach you various aspects of PDL
            step by step.

       PDL::Modules
            A guide to PDL's module reference. Modules are organized by level
            (foundation to advanced) and by category (graphics, numerical
            methods, etc) to help you find the module you need as quickly as
            possible.

       PDL::Course
            This page compiles PDL's tutorial and reference pages into a
            comprehensive course that takes you from a complete beginner level
            to expert.

       PDL::Index
            List of all available documentation, sorted alphabetically. If you
            cannot find what you are looking for, try here.

MODULES
       PDL includes about a dozen perl modules that form the core of the
       language, plus additional modules that add further functionality.  The
       perl module "PDL" loads all of the core modules automatically, making
       their functions available in the current perl namespace.  Some notes:

       Modules loaded by default
            See the SYNOPSIS section at the end of this document for a list of
            modules loaded by default.

       PDL::Lite and PDL::LiteF
            These are lighter-weight alternatives to the standard PDL module.
            Consider using these modules if startup time becomes an issue.

       Exports
            "use PDL;" exports a large number of routines into the calling
            namespace.  If you want to avoid namespace pollution, you must
            instead "use PDL::Lite", and include any additional modules
            explicitly.

       PDL::NiceSlice
            Note that the PDL::NiceSlice syntax is NOT automatically loaded by
            "use PDL;".  If you want to use the extended slicing syntax in a
            standalone script, you must also say "use PDL::NiceSlice;".

       PDL::Math
            The PDL::Math module has been added to the list of modules for
            versions later than 2.3.1. Note that PDL::Math is still not
            included in the PDL::Lite and PDL::LiteF start-up modules.

SYNOPSIS
        use PDL; # Is equivalent to the following:

          use PDL::Core;
          use PDL::Ops;
          use PDL::Primitive;
          use PDL::Ufunc;
          use PDL::Basic;
          use PDL::Slices;
          use PDL::Bad;
          use PDL::MatrixOps;
          use PDL::Math;
          use PDL::Version;
          use PDL::IO::Misc;
          use PDL::IO::FITS;
          use PDL::IO::Pic;
          use PDL::IO::Storable;
          use PDL::Lvalue;



perl v5.32.1                      2018-05-05                            PDL(3)
