PDNMESH(1)                      PdnMesh Manual                      PDNMESH(1)

NAME
       pdnmesh - A 2D finite element mesh generator and solver

SYNOPSIS
       pdnmesh [options] [-i input file]

DESCRIPTION
       pdnmesh is a 2D finite element problem solver. It generates the
       Delaunay triangulation of an input point set and afterwards, it will
       solve the problem. Apart from the points, the set of edges and the
       boundaries should be specified in the input file.

       This is a beta release. Most of the options can now be changed using
       the GUI. So do not expect the command line options to work properly.
       Please report bugs to  pdnmesh-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net.

OUTPUT
       The program can generate Encapsulated Postscript files of the mesh,
       contours of potential and gradient and ASCII files of the mesh.

       In text only mode, by default it will generate the mesh and contour
       files. If a display is available, the program can also display its
       results on the screen. It can display the equipotential contours as
       well as the gradient.

OPTIONS
       pdnmesh accepts the following options:

       -h, -?  Print help.

       -V      Print the currently installed version of pdnmesh on the
               standard output.

       -s      Uses the sparse matrix solver instead of the full matrix solver
               (for Poisson Equation only).

       -a VALUE
               Sets the minimum area of a triangle to be split to VALUE The
               area is taken with respect to local coordinates, NOT the input
               coordinates. The local coordinate system is enclosed in a 2 by
               2 square centered at origin.

       -A VALUE
               Sets the maximum area of a triangle to be split to VALUE The
               area is taken with respect to local coordinates, NOT the input
               coordinates. The local coordinate system is enclosed in a 2 by
               2 square centered at origin.

       -c VALUE
               Sets the number of contour lines drawn to VALUE an integer.

       -i FILE Reads the input file given by FILE which should be in the
               correct format given by pdnmesh_input(5).

       -d (contour|grad|fill)
               By default displays either the contour plot, gradient plot or
               colour fill.

       -e (poisson|helmholtz|helmin|helmk|helmbeta)
               Selects the solver to use.

       poisson : Poisson Equation.

       helmholtz : Homogeneous Helmholtz Equation.

       helmin : Inhomogeneous Helmholtz Equation (using edge elements).

       helmk : Find cutoff frequency given propagation constant.

       helmbeta : Find propagation constant given cutoff frequency.

       -v      Print verbose output.

       -nx     Do not open graphical display. This is used when the program is
               run in text mode.

SEE ALSO
       pdnmesh_input(5)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright ©  2001-2005 Sarod Yatawatta

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
       provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
       both copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
       documentation.

Version 0.2.2                     2005 April                        PDNMESH(1)
