PERL2HTML(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           PERL2HTML(1)

NAME
       perl2html - generates highlighted html-files from Perl source

SYNOPSIS
       perl2html [options] [filename...]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents how to use perl2html.  If no arguments are
       given on the command line of perl2html, it reads from stdin and writes
       to stdout.

       If invoked with filenames as arguments perl2html will write it's output
       into new files. Names of output files  are  generated by appending
       ".html" to the corresponding input filename.


   Installing as a CGI program
       perl2html can be installed as a CGI program and convert source files on
       the fly. In order to set this up for apache the webmaster has to add
       the two lines

               AddType text/x-perl .pl .pm
               Action text/x-perl /cgi-bin/perl2html

       to the webserver configuration file.  perl2html depends on the
       webserver properly setting environment variable PATH_TRANSLATED to the
       pathname of the source file.  If perl2html has been compiled with
       option -DCOMPRESSION=1 then it will invoke gzip to compress the
       generated HTML before sending it to the requesting browser. Of course
       perl2html takes care to check if the browser accepts gzip encoding.

   OPTIONS
       --     Interpret all following arguments on the command line as
              filenames.  This is useful, if you want to convert files
              beginning with a '-'.

       -b filename
              Insert the file 'filename' after converted data and before HTML
              footer. See also the -s option.

       -c     Turns off CGI-script detection and HTTP header generation.  This
              is needed to use perl2html as a subcommand in another CGI
              script.

       -h filename
              Insert the file 'filename' after the HTML headers and before the
              converted data. See also the -s option.

       -n     Number lines and label them with 'line' followed by the line
              number. Empty lines get no label, but the linecounter will count
              them nevertheless. With this feature you can refer to special
              lines of code from other parts of the generated file or from
              external files with a line like this:

              <A HREF="foo.pl.html#line301">Go to line 301</A>

       -s     With this option you can suppress the generation of HTML
              headers.  This is especially useful together with options -b
              file and -h file.

       -t title
              Set the title to 'title'. The default is the filename you
              converted or "stdin" if reading from stdin. This option is only
              used if -s is not set.

       -u     Print usage information.

       -w width
              sets the WIDTH attribute for HTML tag <PRE>. If this option is
              not used a default of 80 is assumed.  (Currently most browsers
              are ignoring this attribute).

       -V     reports the version number of perl2html.

EXIT STATUS
       perl2html returns 0 on success, 1 if input files are not
       existing/readable, 2 if output files are not creatable/writable, 3 if
       invoked with illegal options and 4 if gzip cannot be invoked.

AUTHORS
       Florian Schintke <schintke@cs.tu-berlin.de>
       Martin Kammerhofer <mkamm@gmx.net> wrote the CGI feature.

SEE ALSO
       c2html(1), java2html(1), pas2html(1).


                                                                  PERL2HTML(1)
