PIC2FIG(LOCAL)                                                  PIC2FIG(LOCAL)

NAME
       pic2fig - Fig preprocessor for drawing simple pictures

SYNOPSIS
       pic2fig file

DESCRIPTION
       Pic2fig is a Fig(l) preprocessor for drawing simple figures in Fig
       code.  The basic objects are box, line, arrow, circle, ellipse, arc and
       text.

       When pic2fig is executed, it produces an output file in the current
       directory.  The name is constructed from the input file's name.  If the
       input filename ends with .pic, then that extension will be replaced by
       .fig.  Otherwise, .fig is appended to the input filename.  If file does
       not exist, then pic2fig tries appending .pic to the name.

       The input language for pic2fig is identical to that for pic, which is
       used with dtroff(l), except for extensions listed below.  Things
       enclosed within .PS and .PE will be translated by pic2fig to Fig
       intermediate code which can be further translated into a number of
       graphics description languages.  Text not within .PS and .PE will be
       passed unaltered to the output file.  The default line thickness of
       drawings is 8 milli-inches.  You may adjust this using the command:

            .ps n

       for n milli-inches.  This command must be given in the first column.
       Changing the drawing thickness applies to solid, dashed, and dotted
       lines, as well as circles, arcs, and ellipses.

       Setting the font for text may be done using a
            .ft n

       command, where n corresponds to the following PostScript fonts:
       -1   Default font
        0   Times Roman
        1   Times Italic
        2   Times Bold
        3   Times Bold Italic
        4   AvantGarde Book
        5   AvantGarde Book Oblique
        6   AvantGarde Demi
        7   AvantGarde Demi Oblique
        8   Bookman Light
        9   Bookman Light Italic
       10   Bookman Demi
       11   Bookman Demi Italic
       12   Courier
       13   Courier Oblique
       14   Courier Bold
       15   Courier Bold Oblique
       16   Helvetica
       17   Helvetica Oblique
       18   Helvetica Bold
       19   Helvetica Bold Oblique
       20   Helvetica Narrow
       21   Helvetica Narrow Oblique
       22   Helvetica Narrow Bold
       23   Helvetica Narrow Bold Oblique
       24   New Century Schoolbook Roman
       25   New Century Schoolbook Italic
       26   New Century Schoolbook Bold
       27   New Century Schoolbook Bold Italic
       28   Palatino Roman
       29   Palatino Italic
       30   Palatino Bold
       31   Palatino Bold Italic
       32   Symbol
       33   Zapf Chancery Medium Italic
       34   Zapf Dingbats


       Normally, the distance between text is 12 points.  If you're using
       larger text to label objects, this should be set to an appropriate
       larger value.  This can be done using the

            .baseline n

       command, where n is any real value, whose units are in typesetter
       points.

       The shading texture may be controlled with the command:

            .tx N w1 w2 ... wN

       where the wN are 32-bit integers expressed in hexadecimal.  This
       command must be given in the first column.

       Other input lines which begin with a period character are passed
       through to the output unaltered except for stripping the initial period
       character.  It is recommended that you not use this feature unless you
       really know what you're doing.

       Extensions and differences: Text in pic2fig can be any arbitrary TeX
       text.  It is set in restricted horizontal mode.

       Boxes, circles, and ellipses may have two attributes not available in
       pic: they may be ``shaded'' or ``white''.  Because of restrictions in
       the current Imagen postprocessor, objects may not be given other
       attributes (eg, ``dashed'' or ``invis'') if they are ``shaded'' or
       ``white'' for that output device.  Shaded figures are grayed in their
       interior.  White objects force their interior to be whitened if it was
       shaded by another object.  Objects are ``stacked'' on each other in the
       order in which they are defined in the pic2fig input file.  The shading
       attributes are subject to restrictions of the capabilities of the
       output device used.

SEE ALSO
       B. W. Kernighan, PIC — A Graphics Language for Typesetting

                                                                PIC2FIG(LOCAL)
