pidgin(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              pidgin(1)

Ri.

NAME
       pidgin - Instant Messaging client

SYNOPSIS
       pidgin [options]


DESCRIPTION
       pidgin is a graphical modular messaging client based on libpurple which
       is capable of connecting to XMPP, IRC, SILC, Novell GroupWise, Lotus
       Sametime, Zephyr, Gadu-Gadu, and QQ all at once. It has many common
       features found in other clients, as well as many unique features.

       Pidgin can be extended by plugins written in multiple programming
       languages and controlled through DBus or purple-remote.


OPTIONS
       The following options are provided by Pidgin using the standard GNU
       command line syntax:

       -c, --config=DIR
              Use DIR as the directory for config files instead of ~/.purple.

       -d, --debug
              Print debugging messages to stdout.  These are the same
              debugging messages that are displayed in the Debug Window.

       -f, --force-online
              Try to be online even if the network is reported (by Windows, or
              NetworkManager on Linux) to be unavailable.

       -h, --help
              Print a summary of command line options and exit.

       -m, --multiple
              Allow multiple instances of Pidgin to run.

       -n, --nologin
              Don't automatically login when Pidgin starts.  Sets the global
              status to Offline.

       -l, --login[=NAME,NAME,...]
              Enable the comma-separated list of accounts provided, disabling
              all other accounts.  If the user does not specify such a comma-
              separated list, the first account in accounts.xml will be
              enabled.

       -v, --version
              Print the current version and exit.


TERMS
       Pidgin uses a few terms differently from other applications.  For
       convenience they are defined here:

       Buddy List
              The list of other users who the user wants to see status
              information for and have quick access to for messaging.

       Buddy  A user who has been added to the Buddy List.

       Contact
              A grouping of more than one buddy who are all the same person.
              A contact may contain buddies from any protocol and may contain
              as many buddies as the user desires.  Contact arrangements are
              stored locally only.

       Alias  A private "nickname" that may be set for Buddies or the user
              himself.  On some protocols, aliases are saved on the server but
              not visible to other users.  On other protocols, aliases are
              saved only locally.

       Protocol
              A messaging service.  XMPP, Zephyr, etc. are protocols.  Others
              may call these "service types," "account types," "services," and
              so on.


BUDDY LIST
       The Buddy List window is Pidgin's main interface window.  Using this
       window a user can see which of his/her buddies is online, away, idle,
       etc.  The user can also add buddies to and remove buddies from the
       buddy list.

       The Buddy List window contains a list of the user's buddies who are
       online and have allowed the user to be notified of their presence.  The
       icon to the left of each buddy indicates the buddy's current status.
       Double clicking a buddy will open a new Conversation window.  Right
       clicking will pop up a menu:

       Get Info
              Retrieves and displays information about the buddy.  This
              information is also known as a Profile.

       IM     Opens a new Conversation window to the selected buddy.

       Send File
              Sends a file to the selected buddy (only available on protocols
              that support file transfer).

       Add Buddy Pounce
              A Buddy Pounce is a configurable automated action to be
              performed when the buddy's state changes.  This will open the
              Buddy Pounce dialog, which will be discussed later.

       View Log
              Pidgin is capable of automatically logging messages.  These logs
              are either plain text files (with a .txt extension) or html
              files (with a .html extension) located under the ~/.purple/logs
              directory.  This menu command will display Pidgin's log viewer
              with logs loaded for that buddy or chat.

       Alias  Create an alias for this buddy.  This will show an editable text
              field where the buddy's name was displayed.  In this field one
              can give this buddy an alternate, more friendly name to appear
              on the buddy list and in conversations.

              For example, if a buddy's name was jsmith1281xx and his real
              name was 'John Q. Smith,' one could create an alias as to
              identify the buddy by his common name.

       The remainder of the menu will consist of protocol specific commands.
       These commands vary depending on the protocol.

       Status Selector
              At the bottom of the Buddy List is a status selector which
              allows one to change his/her status.  This will be discussed
              further in the STATUS MESSAGES section below.


ACCOUNT EDITOR
       The account editor consists of a list of accounts and information about
       them.  It can be accessed by selecting Manage from the Accounts menu.
       Clicking Delete will delete the currently selected account.  Clicking
       Add or Modify will invoke a Modify Account window.  Here, the user  can
       add or alter account information.  When creating a new account, the
       user will submit a username and password.  The user will also choose
       the protocol for the account.

       If Remember Password is chosen, the password will be saved in Pidgin's
       ~/.purple/accounts.xml configuration file.

       If Enabled is checked in the accounts dialog, this account will follow
       the status currently selected in the status selector.  If it is not
       checked, the account will always be offline.

       Each protocol has its own specific options that can be found in the
       modify screen.


PREFERENCES
       All options take effect immediately.


Interface
       Show system tray icon
              Specifies when to show a Pidgin icon in the notification area of
              the user's panel (commonly referred to as the System Tray).


       Hide new IM conversations
              Specifies when to hide new IM messages.  Messages will queue
              under the specified condition until shown.  Clicking the Pidgin
              icon in the notification area or system tray will display the
              queued messages.  An icon also appears in the buddy list's menu
              bar; this icon may also be used to display queued messages.


       Show IMs and chats in tabbed windows
              When checked, this option will cause IM and chat sessions to
              appear in windows with multiple tabs.  One tab will represent
              one conversation or chat.  Where tabs are placed will be
              dictated by the preferences below.


       Show close buttons on tabs
              When checked, this option will cause a clickable "U+2715
              MULTIPLICATION X" unicode character to appear at the right edge
              of each tab.  Clicking this will cause the tab to be closed.


       Placement
              Specifies where to place tabs in the window.  Some tab
              orientations may allow some users to fit more tabs into a single
              window comfortably.


       New conversations
              Specifies under which conditions tabs are placed into existing
              windows or into new windows.  For a single window, select Last
              created window here.


Conversations
       Enable buddy icon animation
              If a buddy's icon happens to be animated, this option will
              enable the animation, otherwise only the first frame will be
              displayed.


       Notify buddies that you are typing to them
              Some protocols allow clients to tell their buddies when they are
              typing.  This option enables this feature for protocols that
              supports it.


       Default Formatting
              Allows specifying the default formatting to apply to all
              outgoing messages (only applicable to protocols that support
              formatting in messages).


Smiley Themes
       Allows the user to choose between different smiley themes. The "none"
       theme will disable graphical emoticons - they will be displayed as text
       instead.  The Add and Remove buttons may be used to install or
       uninstall smiley themes.  Themes may also be installed by dragging and
       dropping them onto the list of themes.


Sounds
       Method Lets the user choose between different playback methods. The
              user can also manually enter a command to be executed when a
              sound is to be played(%s expands to the full path to the file
              name).


       Sounds when conversation has focus
              When checked, sounds will play for events in the active
              conversation if the window is focused.  When unchecked, sounds
              will not play for the active conversation when the window is
              focused.


       Enable Sounds
              Determines when to play sounds.


       Sound Events
              Lets the user choose when and what sounds are to be played.


Network
       STUN server
              This allows specifying a server which uses the STUN protocol to
              determine a host's public IP address.  This can be particularly
              useful for some protocols.


       Autodetect IP address
              When checked, causes Pidign to attempt to determine the public
              IP address of the host on which Pidgin is running and disables
              the Public IP text field listed below.


       Public IP
              If Autodetect IP address is disabled, this field allows manually
              specifying the public IP address for the host on which Pidgin is
              running.  This is mainly useful for users with multiple network
              interfaces or behind NATs.


       Manually specify range of ports to listen on
              Specify a range ports to listen on, overriding any defaults.
              This is sometimes useful for file transfers and Direct IM.


       Proxy Server
              The configuration section to enable Pidgin to operate through a
              proxy server.  Pidgin currently supports SOCKS 4/5 and HTTP
              proxies.


Browser
       Browser
              Allows the user to select Pidgin's default web browser.
              Firefox, Galeon, Konqueror, Mozilla, Netscape and Opera are
              supported natively.  The user can also manually enter a command
              to be executed when a link is clicked (%s expands to the URL).
              For example, xterm -e lynx "%s" will open the link with lynx.


       Open link in
              Allows the user to specify whether to use an existing window, a
              new tab, a new window, or to let the browser to decide what to
              do when calling the browser to open a link.  Which options are
              available will depend on which browser is selected.


Logging
       Log format
              Specifies how to log.  Pidgin supports HTML and plain text, but
              plugins can provide other logging methods.


       Log all instant messages
              When enabled, all IM conversations are logged.  This can be
              overridden on a per-conversation basis in the conversation
              window.


       Log all chats
              When enabled, all chat conversations are logged.  This can be
              overridden on a per-conversation basis in the conversation
              window.


       Log all status changes to system log
              When enabled, status changes are logged.


Status / Idle
       Report idle time
              Determines under which conditions to report idle time.  Based on
              keyboard and mouse use uses keyboard and mouse activity to
              determine idle time.  From last sent message uses the time at
              which the user last sent a message in Pidgin to determine idle.
              Never disables idle reporting.


       Change status when idle
              When enabled, this uses the Minutes before becoming idle and
              Change status to preferences described below to set status on
              idle.


       Minutes before becoming idle
              Specifies how many minutes of inactivity are required before
              considering the user to be idle.


       Change status to
              Specifies which "primitive" or "saved" status to use when
              setting status on idle.


       Use status from last exit at startup
              If this is checked, Pidgin will remember what status was active
              when the user closed Pidgin and restore it at the next run.
              When disabled, Pidgin will always set the status selected in
              Status to apply at startup at startup.


       Status to apply at startup
              When Use status from last exit at startup is disabled, this
              specifies which "primitive" or "saved" status to use at startup.


CONVERSATIONS
       When starting a new conversation, the user is presented with the
       Conversation window.  The conversation appears in the upper text box
       and the user types his/her message in the lower text box.  Between the
       two is a row of options, represented by icons.  Some or all buttons may
       not be active if the protocol does not support the specific formatting.
       From left to right:

       Font   This menu provides font control options for the current
              conversation.  Size, style, and face may be configured here.

       Insert This menu provides the ability to insert images, horizontal
              rules, and links where the protocol supports each of these
              features.

       Smile! Allows the insertion of graphical smileys via the mouse.  This
              button shows the user a dialog with the available smileys for
              the current conversation.


CHATS
       For protocols that allow it, Chats can be entered through the Buddies
       menu.

       Additional features available in chat, depending on the protocol are:

       Whisper
              The text will appear in the chat conversation, but it will only
              be visible to the sender and the receiver.

       Invite Invite other people to join the chat room.

       Ignore Ignore anything said by the chosen person

       Set Topic
              Set the topic of the chat room.  This is usually a brief
              sentence describing the nature of the chat--an explanation of
              the chat room's name.

       Private Message (IM)
              Send a message to a specific person in the chat.  Messages sent
              this way will not appear in the chat window, but instead open a
              new IM conversation.


STATUS MESSAGES
       Most protocols allow for status messages.  By using status messages, a
       user can leave an informative message for others to see.  Status and
       status messages are configured via the status selector at the bottom of
       the Buddy List window.  By default the menu shown here is divided into
       sections for "primitive" status types, such as Available, Away, etc.; a
       few "popular" statuses (including "transient" statuses)  which have
       been recently used, and a section which shows New Status... and Saved
       Statuses... options for more advanced status manipulation.


       Primitive Statuses
              A primitive status is a basic status supported by the protocol.
              Examples of primitive statuses would be Available, Away,
              Invisible, etc.  A primitive status can be used to create a
              Transient Status or a Saved Status, both explained below.
              Essentially, primitive statuses are building blocks of more
              complicated statuses.


       Transient Statuses
              When one of the statuses from the topmost section of the status
              selector's menu is selected, this creates a transient, or
              temporary, status.  The status will show in the "popular
              statuses" section in the menu until it has not been used for a
              sufficiently long time.  A transient status may also be created
              by selecting New Status... from the status selector's menu, then
              clicking Use once the user has entered the message.


       Saved Statuses
              Saved statuses are permanent--once created, they will exist
              until deleted.  Saved statuses are useful for statuses and
              status messages that will be used on a regular basis.  They are
              also useful for creating complex statuses in which some accounts
              should always have a different status from others.  For example,
              one might wish to create a status called "Sleeping" that has all
              accounts set to "Away", then create another status called
              "Working" that has three accounts set to "Away" and another
              account set to "Available."


       New Status Window
              When the user selects New Status... from the status selector
              menu, Pidgin presents the user with a dialog asking for status-
              related information.  That information is discussed below:

              Title - The name of the status that will appear in the status
              selctor's menu.  If the user clicks the Save or Save & Use
              button, this name will also be shown in the Saved Status Window.
              The title should be a short description of the status.

              Status - The type of status being created, such as Available,
              Away, etc.

              Message - The content of the status message.  This is what is
              visible to other users.  Some protocols will allow formatting in
              some status messages; where formatting is not supported it will
              be stripped to the bare text entered.

              Use a different status for some accounts - This allows the
              creation of complex statuses in which some accounts' status
              differs from that of other accounts.  To use this, the user will
              click the expander to the left of the text, then select
              individual accounts which will have a different status and/or
              status message.  When the user selects an account, Pidgin will
              present another status dialog asking for a status and a message
              just for the selected account.


       Saved Status Window
              When the user selects Saved Statuses... from the status
              selector's menu, Pidgin presents a dialog that lists all saved
              statuses.  "Transient" statuses, discussed above, are NOT shown
              here.  This window provides the ability to manage saved statuses
              by allowing the creation, modification, and deletion of saved
              statuses.  The Use, Modify, and Delete buttons here allow
              operation on the status selected from the list; the dd button
              allows creation of a new saved status, and the Close button
              closes the window.


BUDDY POUNCE
       A Buddy Pounce is an automated trigger that occurs when a buddy returns
       to a normal state from an away state.  The Buddy Pounce dialog box can
       be activated by selecting the Buddy Pounce option from the Tools menu.
       From this dialog, new pounces can be created with the Add button and
       existing pounces can be removed with the Delete button.  A pounce can
       be set to occur on any combination of the events listed, and any
       combination of actions can result.  If Pounce only when my status is
       not Available is checked, the pounce will occur only if the user is set
       to a non-available status, such as invisible, do not disturb, away,
       etc.  If Recurring is checked, the pounce will remain until removed by
       the Delete button.


CUSTOM SMILIES
       Pidgin 2.5.0 introduced support for custom smilies on those protocols
       for which interested contributors have developed support.  The custom
       smiley manager can be accessed by selecting Smiley from the Tools menu.
       From here, custom smilies may be added, edited, or deleted by clicking
       the Add, Edit, or Delete buttons, respectively.

       During a conversation with another user, that user's custom smileys may
       be added to the user's own custom smiley list directly from the
       conversation window by right-clicking the new custom smiley and
       selecting Add Custom Smiley...


PLUGINS
       Pidgin allows for dynamic loading of plugins to add extra functionality
       to Pidgin.  See plugins/HOWTO or http://developer.pidgin.im/wiki/CHowTo
       for information on writing plugins.

       The plugins dialog can be accessed by selecting Plugins from the Tools
       menu. Each plugin available appears in this dialog with its name,
       version, and a short summary of its functionality. Plugins can be
       enabled with the checkbox beside the name and short description.  More
       information on the currently selected plugin is available by clicking
       the expander beside the text Plugin Details.  If the selected plugin
       has preferences or configuration options, the Configure Plugin button
       will present the plugin's preferences dialog.


PERL
       Pidgin allows for plugins to be written in the perl scripting language.
       See Perl Scripting HOWTO in the Pidgin documentation for more
       information about perl scripting.


TCL
       Pidgin allows for plugins to be written in the Tcl scripting language.
       See plugins/tcl/TCL-HOWTO for more information about Tcl scripting.


D-Bus
       Pidgin allows for interaction via D-Bus.  Currently very little
       documentation about this interaction exists.


FILES
         /usr/local/bin/pidgin: Pidgin's location.
         ~/.purple/blist.xml: the buddy list.
         ~/.purple/accounts.xml: information about the user's accounts.
         ~/.purple/pounces.xml: stores the user's buddy pounces.
         ~/.purple/prefs.xml: Pidgin's configuration file.
         ~/.purple/status.xml: stores the user's away messages.
         ~/.purple/logs/PROTOCOL/ACCOUNT/BUDDYNAME/DATE.{html,txt}:
       conversation logs.


DIRECTORIES
         /usr/local/lib/pidgin/: Pidgin's plugins directory.
         /usr/local/lib/purple-2/: libpurple's plugins directory.
         ~/.purple: users' local settings
         ~/.purple/plugins/: users' local plugins


BUGS
       The bug tracker can be reached by visiting
       http://developer.pidgin.im/query

       Before sending a bug report, please verify that you have the latest
       version of Pidgin.  Many bugs (major and minor) are fixed at each
       release, and if yours is out of date, the problem may already have been
       solved.


PATCHES
       If you fix a bug in Pidgin (or otherwise enhance it), please submit a
       patch (using mtn diff > my.diff against the latest version from the
       Monotone repository) at http://developer.pidgin.im/simpleticket

       You are also encouraged to drop by at #pidgin on irc.libera.chat to
       discuss development.



SEE ALSO
       http://pidgin.im/
       http://developer.pidgin.im/
       purple-remote(1)
       finch(1)


LICENSE
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02111-1301  USA


AUTHORS
       Pidgin's active developers are:
         Daniel 'datallah' Atallah (developer)
         Paul 'darkrain42' Aurich (developer)
         John 'rekkanoryo' Bailey (developer and bugmaster)
         Ethan 'Paco-Paco' Blanton (developer)
         Thomas Butter (developer)
         Ka-Hing Cheung (developer)
         Sadrul Habib Chowdhury (developer)
         Mark 'KingAnt' Doliner (developer) <thekingant@users.sourceforge.net>
         Sean Egan (developer) <seanegan@gmail.com>
         Casey Harkins (developer)
         Ivan Komarov
         Gary 'grim' Kramlich (developer)
         Richard 'rlaager' Laager (developer) <rlaager@pidgin.im>
         Sulabh 'sulabh_m' Mahajan (developer)
         Richard 'wabz' Nelson (developer)
         Christopher 'siege' O'Brien (developer)
         Bartosz Oler (developer)
         Etan 'deryni' Reisner (developer)
         Tim 'marv' Ringenbach (developer) <marv_sf@users.sf.net>
         Michael 'Maiku' Ruprecht (developer, voice and video)
         Elliott 'QuLogic' Sales de Andrade (developer)
         Luke 'LSchiere' Schierer (support)
         Megan 'Cae' Schneider (support/QA)
         Evan Schoenberg (developer)
         Kevin 'SimGuy' Stange (developer and webmaster)
         Will 'resiak' Thompson (developer)
         Stu 'nosnilmot' Tomlinson (developer)
         Nathan 'faceprint' Walp (developer)


       Our crazy patch writers include:
         Marcus 'malu' Lundblad
         Dennis 'EvilDennisR' Ristuccia
         Peter 'fmoo' Ruibal
         Gabriel 'Nix' Schulhof
         Jorge 'Masca' Villaseñor


       Our artists are:
         Hylke Bons <h.bons@student.rug.nl>


       Our retired developers are:
         Herman Bloggs (win32 port) <herman@bluedigits.com>
         Jim Duchek <jim@linuxpimps.com> (maintainer)
         Rob Flynn <gaim@robflynn.com> (maintainer)
         Adam Fritzler (libfaim maintainer)
         Christian 'ChipX86' Hammond (developer & webmaster)
       <chipx86@chipx86.com>
         Syd Logan (hacker and designated driver [lazy bum])
         Jim Seymour (XMPP developer)
         Mark Spencer (original author) <markster@marko.net>
         Eric Warmenhoven (former lead developer) <eric@warmenhoven.org>


       Our retired crazy patch writers include:
         Felipe 'shx' Contreras
         Decklin Foster
         Peter 'Bleeter' Lawler
         Robert 'Robot101' McQueen
         Benjamin Miller


       This manpage was originally written by Dennis Ristuccia
       <dennis@dennisr.net>.  It has been updated and largely rewritten by
       Sean Egan <seanegan@gmail.com>, Ben Tegarden
       <tegarden@uclink.berkeley.edu>, and John Bailey <rekkanoryo@pidgin.im>.

Pidgin v2.14.14                                                      pidgin(1)
