PIMD(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual (smm)             PIMD(8)

NAME
     pimd – PIM-SM/SSM multicast routing daemon

SYNOPSIS
     pimd [-hnrsv] [-f FILE] [-d SYS[,SYS,...]] [-i NAME] [-p FILE]
          [--disable-vifs] [-l LEVEL] [-t ID] [-u FILE] [-w SEC]

DESCRIPTION
     pimd is a stand-alone PIM-SM/SSM multicast routing daemon available under
     the free 3-clause BSD license.  This is the restored original from
     University of Southern California, by Ahmed Helmy, Rusty Eddy and Pavlin
     Ivanov Radoslavov.

     Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM):
     •  maintains the traditional IP multicast service model of receiver-
        initiated membership
     •  uses explicit joins that propagate hop-by-hop from members' directly
        connected routers toward the distribution tree
     •  builds a shared multicast distribution tree centered at a Rendezvous
        Point (RP), and then builds source-specific trees for those sources
        whose data traffic warrants it
     •  is not dependent on a specific unicast routing protocol, and
     •  uses soft-state mechanisms to adapt to underlying network conditions
        and group dynamics

     The robustness, flexibility, and scaling properties of this architecture
     make it well suited to large heterogeneous internetworks.

     pimd originally only implemented RFC2362, but since v2.3.0 is supporting
     more and more of RFC4601.

     pimd ships with a pimctl(8) tool, which is compatible with all PIM
     daemon's from the same family: pimd(8), pimd-dense(8), and pim6sd.

OPTIONS
     This program follows the usual UNIX command line syntax, with long
     options starting with two dashes (`-').  The options are as follows:

     -h, --help
             Print a help message and exit.

     -f, --config FILE
             Specify an alternative configuration file, the default
             /etc/pimd.conf, is derived from --ident NAME, which is strongly
             recommended to use over this option.

     -d, --debug SYS[,SYS...]
             This option controls extended subsystem debugging, use all to
             enable all subsystems.

             Available subsystems are:

                   all         All subsystems
                   asserts     PIM assert messages
                   bsr         PIM bootstrap router messages
                   crp         PIM Candidate Rendez-Vous Point messages
                   detail      Detailed PIM debug messages
                   igmp        IGMP messages
                   interfaces  Interface (VIF) debug messages
                   jp          PIM join-prune messages
                   kernel      Kernel messages
                   mfc         Multicast forwarding cache messages
                   mrt         Routing messages
                   neighbors   PIM hello messages to/from neighbors
                   packets     All inbound/outbout packets
                   pim         All PIM messages
                   registers   PIM register tunnel messages
                   rpf         PIM reverse-path forwarding messages
                   rsrr        RSRR messages (if enabled)
                   timers      PIM timer events
                   traceroute  Multicast traceroute information

     -n, --foreground
             Run in the foreground, do not detach from calling terminal and do
             not fork to background.  Useful not only when debugging (above)
             but also when running under a process monitor like daemontools,
             runit, finit, or systemd.  Remember to also use -s, to send all
             logs to the syslog daemon, unless you want to debug pimd and run
             in the foreground.

     -i, --ident NAME
             Specify program identity (name) to be used for configuration
             file, PID file and syslog messages.  Useful with multiple
             instances of pimd, or to adapt to site specific practices, e.g.
             "PIM", without renaming the binary.

             Note, this option only changes the base name of the files, not
             the location, which is system specific.  On most systems this is
             /var/run/pimd.pid, or /run/pimd.pid, and /etc/pimd.conf.

     --disable-vifs
             This prevents pimd from running on all interfaces by default.
             When this command line option is given, use phyint IFNAME enable
             to selectively activate PIM services on an interface.  This
             command line option is also available as a setting in the
             configuration file.

     -p, --pidfile FILE
             Set PID file name and location, defaults to /var/run/pimd.pid,
             derived from --ident NAME, which is strongly recommended to
             change over this option.

     -l, --loglevel LEVEL
             Set log level to one of the following, default notice:

                   none     Disable all logging
                   error    Error conditions
                   warning  Warning conditions
                   notice   Normal but significant condition (default)
                   info     Informational
                   debug    Debug-level messages

     -r      With this option, and --disable-vifs, pimd will retry (forever)
             querying the kernel for all required phyint interfaces listed in
             /etc/pimd.conf.  Useful at startup when not all interfaces may be
             up or have an IP address assigned yet.

     -s, --syslog
             Use syslog, default unless running in foreground, -n.

     -t, --table-id ID
             Set multicast routing table ID.  Remember to also create routing
             rules directing packets to the table.  This example uses routing
             table ID 123:

             ip mrule add iif eth0 lookup 123
             ip mrule add oif eth0 lookup 123

             Note: Only available on Linux.

     -u, --ipc FILE
             Override UNIX domain socket filename, the default is based on the
             identity, -i NAME.  On most systems this is /var/run/pimd.sock.

     -v, --version
             Show program version and support information.

     -w, --startup-delay SEC
             Initial startup delay of SEC seconds before probing for
             interfaces.  Useful if pimd starts before interfaces are created
             and have an IP address.

TROUBLESHOOTING
     1.   Check the TTL of incoming multicast.  Remember, the TTL of the
          multicast stream must be >1 to be routed.  Or rather, greater than
          the configured ttl-threshold of the inbound phyint, see pimd.conf(5)
          for more information.

     2.   If you see `Permission denied` in your logs, you are most likely
          having firewall, or SELinux, problems

     3.   For PIM-SM, make sure you have a Rendezvous-Point (RP) in your
          network.  Check the rp-candidate (CRP) and bsr-candidate (CBSR)
          settings in your pimd.conf(5), or rp-address if you prefer the
          static RP approach

     4.   Check the Linux rp_filter sysctl setting.  Many Linux systems have
          the "strict" setting enabled, "loose" can work but may cause
          problems in some setups.  We recommend disabling the setting
          entirely

     5.   PIM is protocol independent, meaning you must have unicast routing
          in place already for the multicast routing decisions made by pimd to
          work.  Use ping(1) to verify connectivity between multicast sender
          and receiver

SIGNALS
     pimd responds to the following signals.  However, consider using pimctl
     instead since this gives more and better output, and is also less prone
     to race conditions.

     HUP   Restart pimd and reload configuration file
     TERM  Terminate execution gracefully, i.e. by sending good-bye messages
           to neighboring routers
     INT   The same as TERM

     For convenience in sending signals, pimd writes its process ID to
     /var/run/pimd.pid upon startup.  If started with a different identy, -i
     NAME, then NAME is used as basename of the PID file.

FILES
     The basename of the following files change if pimd is started with a
     different identity, -i NAME:

     /etc/pimd.conf      Main configuration file
     /var/run/pimd.pid   Pidfile (re)created by pimd daemon when it has
                         started up and is ready to receive commands
     /var/run/pimd.sock  UNIX-domain socket used for communication with
                         pimctl(8)

SEE ALSO
     pimd.conf(5) pimctl(8), pimd-dense(8), pim6sd(8), mrouted(8),
     smcroute(8),

     PIM-SM is described in, the now obsolete RFC2362, and the current
     RFC4601, with additions in RFC5059 and RFC5796.

     The pages at USC, http://netweb.usc.edu/pim/, are unfortunately no longer
     available.  The wiki pages at http://github.com/troglobit/pimd/, the new
     GitHub project, are an attempt to gather as much info as possible.

AUTHORS
     pimd was originally written by Ahmed Helmy, George Edmond "Rusty" Eddy,
     and Pavlin Ivanov Radoslavov.  PIM-SSM, including full IGMPv3 support,
     was added by Markus Veranen.  With contributions by many others.

     This manual page was initially written by Antonín Král for the Debian
     GNU/Linux system.  Updated by Joachim Wiberg for the GitHub pimd project.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           December 23, 2020          FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
