PIZAUTH(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             PIZAUTH(1)

NAME
     pizauth – OAuth2 authentication daemon

SYNOPSIS
     pizauth command

DESCRIPTION
     pizauth requests, shows, and refreshes OAuth2 tokens.  It is formed of
     two components: a persistent "server" which interacts with the user to
     obtain tokens, and refreshes them as necessary; and a command-line
     interface which can be used by other programs to show the OAuth2 token
     for a current account.

     The top-level commands are:

     dump    Writes the current pizauth state to stdout: this can later be fed
             back into pizauth with restore.  The dump format is stable within
             a pizauth major release (but not across major releases) and
             stable across platforms, though it includes timestamps that may
             be affected by clock drift on either the machine performing dump
             or restore.  Clock drift does not not affect security, though it
             may cause dumped access tokens to be refreshed unduly early or
             late upon a restore.  Refreshed access tokens will then be
             refreshed at the expected intervals.

             Note that while the dump output may look like it is encrypted, it
             is trivial for an attacker to recover access and refresh tokens
             from it: it is strongly recommended that you use external
             encryption on the output so that your data cannot be compromised.

     info [-j]
             Writes output about pizauth to stdout including: the cache
             directory path; the config file path; and pizauth version.
             Defaults to human-readable output in an unspecified format that
             may change freely between pizauth versions.

             -j specifies JSON output.  The "info_format_version" field is an
             integer value specifying the version of the JSON output: if
             incompatible changes are made, this integer will be monotonically
             increased.

     refresh [-u] account
             Request a refresh of the access token for account.  Exits with 0
             upon success.  If there is not currently a valid access or
             refresh token, reports an error to stderr, initiates a new token
             request, and exits with 1.  Unless -u is specified, the error
             will include an authorization URL.  Note that this command does
             not block and will not start a new refresh if one is ongoing.

     reload  Reload the server's configuration.  Exits with 0 upon success or
             1 if there is a problem in the configuration.

     restore
             Reads previously dumped pizauth state from stdin and updates
             those parts of the current state it determines to be less useful
             than the dumped state.  This does not change the running
             instance's configuration: any changes in security relevant
             configuration between the dumping and restoring pizauth instances
             causes those parts of the dump to be silently ignored.  See dump
             for information about the dump format, timestamp warnings, and
             encryption suggestions.

     revoke account
             Removes any token, and cancels any ongoing authentication, for
             account.  Note that OAuth2 provides no standard way of remotely
             revoking a token: revoke thus only affects the local pizauth
             instance.  Exits with 0 upon success.

     server [-c config-file] [-dv]
             Start the server.  If not specified with -c, pizauth checks for
             the configuration file (in order) at:
             $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pizauth.conf, $HOME/.config/pizauth.conf.  The
             server will daemonise itself unless -d is specified.  Exits with
             0 if the server started successfully or 1 otherwise.  -v enables
             more verbose logging.  -v can be used up to 4 times, with each
             repetition increasing the quantity of logging.

     show [-u] account
             If there is an access token for account, print that access token
             to stdout and exit with 0.  If there is not currently a valid
             access token, prints an error to stderr and exits with 1.  If
             refreshing might obtain a valid access token, refreshing is
             initiated in the background.  Otherwise (unless -u is specified),
             the error will include an authorization URL.  Note that this
             command does not block: commands must expect that they might
             encounter an error when showing an access token.

     shutdown
             Shut the server down.  Note that shutdown occurs asynchronously:
             the server may still be alive for a period of time after this
             command returns.

     status  Writes output about the current accounts and whether they have
             access tokens to stdout. The format is human-readable and in an
             unspecified format that may change freely between pizauth
             versions.

SEE ALSO
     pizauth.conf(5)

     https://tratt.net/laurie/src/pizauth/

AUTHORS
     pizauth was written by Laurence Tratt https://tratt.net/laurie/

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE          September 13, 2022          FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
