PMCCONTROL(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          PMCCONTROL(8)

NAME
     pmccontrol – control hardware performance monitoring counters

SYNOPSIS
     pmccontrol [-c cpu | -d pmc | -e pmc] ...
     pmccontrol -l
     pmccontrol -L
     pmccontrol -s

DESCRIPTION
     The pmccontrol utility controls the operation of the system's hardware
     performance monitoring counters.

OPTIONS
     The pmccontrol utility processes options in command line order, so later
     options modify the effect of earlier ones.  The following options are
     available:

     -c cpu  Subsequent enable and disable options affect the CPU denoted by
             argument cpu.  The argument cpu is a number denoting a CPU in the
             system, or “*”, denoting all unhalted CPUs in the system.

     -d pmc  Disable PMC number pmc on the CPU specified by -c, preventing it
             from being used till subsequently re-enabled.  The argument pmc
             is a number denoting a specific PMC, or “*” denoting all the PMCs
             on the specified CPU.

             Only idle PMCs may be disabled.

     -e pmc  Enable PMC number pmc, on the CPU specified by -c, allowing it to
             be used in the future.  The argument pmc is a number denoting a
             specific PMC, or “*” denoting all the PMCs on the specified CPU.
             If PMC pmc is already enabled, this option has no effect.

     -l      List available hardware performance counters and their current
             disposition.

     -L      List available hardware performance counter classes and their
             supported event names.

     -s      Print driver statistics maintained by hwpmc(4).

EXAMPLES
     To disable all PMCs on all CPUs, use the command:
           pmccontrol -d*

     To enable all PMCs on all CPUs, use:
           pmccontrol -e*

     To disable PMCs 0 and 1 on CPU 2, use:
           pmccontrol -c2 -d0 -d1

     To disable PMC 0 of CPU 0 only, and enable all other PMCS on all other
     CPUs, use:
           pmccontrol -c* -e* -c0 -d0

DIAGNOSTICS
     The pmccontrol utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     pmc(3), pmclog(3), hwpmc(4), pmcstat(8), sysctl(8)

HISTORY
     The pmccontrol utility first appeared in FreeBSD 6.0.

AUTHORS
     Joseph Koshy <jkoshy@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        November 9, 2008        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
