PNFS(4)                FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                PNFS(4)

NAME
     pNFS – NFS Version 4.1 and 4.2 Parallel NFS Protocol

DESCRIPTION
     The NFSv4.1 and NFSv4.2 client and server provides support for the pNFS
     specification; see Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Minor Version 1
     Protocol RFC 5661, Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Minor Version 2
     Protocol RFC 7862 and Parallel NFS (pNFS) Flexible File Layout RFC 8435.
     A pNFS service separates Read/Write operations from all other NFSv4.1 and
     NFSv4.2 operations, which are referred to as Metadata operations.  The
     Read/Write operations are performed directly on the Data Server (DS)
     where the file's data resides, bypassing the NFS server.  All other file
     operations are performed on the NFS server, which is referred to as a
     Metadata Server (MDS).  NFS clients that do not support pNFS perform
     Read/Write operations on the MDS, which acts as a proxy for the
     appropriate DS(s).

     The NFSv4.1 and NFSv4.2 protocols provide two pieces of information to
     pNFS aware clients that allow them to perform Read/Write operations
     directly on the DS.

     The first is DeviceInfo, which is static information defining the DS
     server.  The critical piece of information in DeviceInfo for the layout
     types supported by FreeBSD is the IP address that is used to perform RPCs
     on the DS.  It also indicates which version of NFS the DS supports, I/O
     size and other layout specific information.  In the DeviceInfo, there is
     a DeviceID which, for the FreeBSD server is unique to the DS
     configuration and changes whenever the nfsd daemon is restarted or the
     server is rebooted.

     The second is the layout, which is per file and references the DeviceInfo
     to use via the DeviceID.  It is for a byte range of a file and is either
     Read or Read/Write.  For the FreeBSD server, a layout covers all bytes of
     a file.  A layout may be recalled by the MDS using a LayoutRecall
     callback.  When a client returns a layout via the LayoutReturn operation
     it can indicate that error(s) were encountered while doing I/O on the DS,
     at least for certain layout types such as the Flexible File Layout.

     The FreeBSD client and server supports two layout types.

     The File Layout is described in RFC5661 and uses the NFSv4.1 or NFSv4.2
     protocol to perform I/O on the DS.  It does not support client aware DS
     mirroring and, as such, the FreeBSD server only provides File Layout
     support for non-mirrored configurations.

     The Flexible File Layout allows the use of the NFSv3, NFSv4.0, NFSv4.1 or
     NFSv4.2 protocol to perform I/O on the DS and does support client aware
     mirroring.  As such, the FreeBSD server uses Flexible File Layout layouts
     for the mirrored DS configurations.  The FreeBSD server supports the
     “tightly coupled” variant and all DSs allow use of the NFSv4.2 or NFSv4.1
     protocol for I/O operations.  Clients that support the Flexible File
     Layout will do writes and commits to all DS mirrors in the mirror set.

     A FreeBSD pNFS service consists of a single MDS server plus one or more
     DS servers, all of which are FreeBSD systems.  For a non-mirrored
     configuration, the FreeBSD server will issue File Layout layouts by
     default.  However that default can be set to the Flexible File Layout by
     setting the sysctl(1) sysctl “vfs.nfsd.default_flexfile” to one.
     Mirrored server configurations will only issue Flexible File Layouts.
     pNFS clients mount the MDS as they would a single NFS server.

     A FreeBSD pNFS client must be running the nfscbd(8) daemon and use the
     mount options “nfsv4,minorversion=2,pnfs or” “nfsv4,minorversion=1,pnfs”.

     When files are created, the MDS creates a file tree identical to what a
     single NFS server creates, except that all the regular (VREG) files will
     be empty.  As such, if you look at the exported tree on the MDS directly
     on the MDS server (not via an NFS mount), the files will all be of size
     zero.  Each of these files will also have two extended attributes in the
     system attribute name space:

           pnfsd.dsfile - This extended attrbute stores the information that the
               MDS needs to find the data file on a DS(s) for this file.
           pnfsd.dsattr - This extended attribute stores the Size, AccessTime,
               ModifyTime, Change and SpaceUsed attributes for the file.

     For each regular (VREG) file, the MDS creates a data file on one (or on N
     of them for the mirrored case, where N is the mirror_level) of the DS(s)
     where the file's data will be stored.  The name of this file is the file
     handle of the file on the MDS in hexadecimal at time of file creation.
     The data file will have the same file ownership, mode and NFSv4 ACL (if
     ACLs are enabled for the file system) as the file on the MDS, so that
     permission checking can be done on the DS.  This is referred to as
     “tightly coupled” for the Flexible File Layout.

     For pNFS aware clients, the service generates File Layout or Flexible
     File Layout layouts and associated DeviceInfo.  For non-pNFS aware NFS
     clients, the pNFS service appears just like a normal NFS service.  For
     the non-pNFS aware client, the MDS will perform I/O operations on the
     appropriate DS(s), acting as a proxy for the non-pNFS aware client.  This
     is also true for NFSv3 and NFSv4.0 mounts, since these are always non-
     pNFS aware.

     It is possible to assign a DS to an MDS exported file system so that it
     will store data for files on the MDS exported file system.  If a DS is
     not assigned to an MDS exported file system, it will store data for files
     on all exported file systems on the MDS.

     If mirroring is enabled, the pNFS service will continue to function when
     DS(s) have failed, so long is there is at least one DS still operational
     that stores data for files on all of the MDS exported file systems.
     After a disabled mirrored DS is repaired, it is possible to recover the
     DS as a mirror while the pNFS service continues to function.

     See pnfsserver(4) for information on how to set up a FreeBSD pNFS
     service.

SEE ALSO
     nfsv4(4), pnfsserver(4), exports(5), fstab(5), rc.conf(5), nfscbd(8),
     nfsd(8), nfsuserd(8), pnfsdscopymr(8), pnfsdsfile(8), pnfsdskill(8)

BUGS
     Linux kernel versions prior to 4.12 only supports NFSv3 DSs in its client
     and will do all I/O through the MDS.  For Linux 4.12 kernels, support for
     NFSv4.1 DSs was added, but I have seen Linux client crashes when testing
     this client.  For Linux 4.17-rc2 kernels, I have not seen client crashes
     during testing, but it only supports the “loosely coupled” variant.  To
     make it work correctly when mounting the FreeBSD server, you must set the
     sysctl “vfs.nfsd.flexlinuxhack” to one so that it works around the Linux
     client driver's limitations.  Wihout this sysctl being set, there will be
     access errors, since the Linux client will use the authenticator in the
     layout (uid=999, gid=999) and not the authenticator specified in the RPC
     header.

     Linux 5.n kernels appear to be patched so that it uses the authenticator
     in the RPC header and, as such, the above sysctl should not need to be
     set.

     Since the MDS cannot be mirrored, it is a single point of failure just as
     a non pNFS server is.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        December 20, 2019       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
