pngquant(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            pngquant(1)

NAME
     pngquant – PNG converter and lossy image compressor

SYNOPSIS
     pngquant ⟨options⟩ [ncolors] file [file ...]
     pngquant ⟨options⟩ [ncolors] - <file >file

DESCRIPTION
     pngquant converts 32-bit RGBA PNGs to 8-bit (or smaller) RGBA-palette
     PNGs, optionally using Floyd-Steinberg dithering.  The output filename is
     the same as the input name except that it ends in ‘-fs8.png’ or
     ‘-or8.png’ (unless the input is stdin, in which case the quantized image
     will go to stdout).  The default behavior if the output file exists is to
     skip the conversion; use --force to overwrite.

OPTIONS
     -o out.png, --output out.png
              Writes converted file to the given path. When this option is
              used only single input file is allowed.

     --ext new.png
              File extension (suffix) to use for output files instead of the
              default ‘-fs8.png’ or ‘-or8.png’.

     -f, --force
              Overwrite existing output files.  “--ext .png --force” can be
              used to convert files in place (which is unsafe).

     --nofs, --ordered
              Disable Floyd-Steinberg dithering.

     --floyd [=N]
              Set dithering level using fractional number between 0 (none) and
              1 (full, the default).

     -s N, --speed N
              1 (brute-force) to 11 (fastest). The default is 3.  Speed 10 has
              5% lower quality, but is about 8 times faster than the default.
              Speed 11 disables dithering and lowers compression level.

     -Q min-max, --quality min-max
              min and max are numbers in range 0 (worst) to 100 (perfect),
              similar to JPEG.  pngquant will use the least amount of colors
              required to meet or exceed the max quality. If conversion
              results in quality below the min quality the image won't be
              saved (or if outputting to stdin, 24-bit original will be
              output) and pngquant will exit with status code 99.

     --skip-if-larger
              If conversion results in a file larger than the original, the
              image won't be saved and pngquant will exit with status code 98.
              Additionally, file size gain must be greater than the amount of
              quality lost. If quality drops by 50%, it will expect 50% file
              size reduction to consider it worthwhile.

     --posterize bits
              Truncate number of least significant bits of color (per
              channel). Use this when image will be output on low-depth
              displays (e.g. 16-bit RGB).  pngquant will make almost-opaque
              pixels fully opaque and will reduce amount of semi-transparent
              colors. When this option is enabled the default filename suffix
              is ‘-ie-fs8.png’ / ‘-ie-or8.png’.

     --strip  Remove optional chunks (metadata) from PNG files.

     --transbug
              Workaround for readers that expect fully transparent color to be
              the last entry in the palette.

     -v, --verbose
              Enable verbose messages showing progress and information about
              input/output. Opposite is --quiet.  Errors are output to stderr
              regardless of this option.

     -V, --version
              Display version on stdout and exit.

     -h, --help
              Display help and exit.

EXAMPLE
     Creating a new image with the number of colors reduced to 64:

           pngquant 64 image.png

     The resulting image will have 64 colors and will be saved as
     image-fs8.png.

     Overwriting image in-place if it can be reduced without too much quality
     loss:

           pngquant -f --ext .png --quality 70-95 image.png

AUTHOR
     pngquant is developed by Kornel Lesinski <kornel@pngquant.org> based on
     code by Greg Roelofs <newt@pobox.com>.

     pngquant homepage: https://pngquant.org.

                                  2013-02-25
