POPCHECK(1)                                                        POPCHECK(1)

NAME
       popcheck - see (and possibly delete) messages waiting on a POP server

SYNOPSIS
       popcheck [-s pop3_server] [-u pop3_user] [-p pop3_password] [-o
       filename] [-i filename]

DESCRIPTION
       The command popcheck is a simple program which will let you see a list
       of all messages waiting on a POP server and possibly delete some or all
       of them.

       popcheck can work in interactive mode (default) or in batch mode (-o
       and -i  options).

OPTIONS
       The following options are available from the command line:

       -s  Selects the POP mail server.

       -u  Selects the mail account on the mail server.

       -p  Provides the password for accessing the mail account.  If the
           password is not provided on the command line (recommended, since
           providing the password on the command line lets other system users
           see it, eg. by means of the 'ps' command) the user will be prompted
           for one.

       -i  Run in batch mode.  Read a list of messages from specified file and
           tell the POP server to delete these messages.
           USE THIS OPTION WITH EXTRA CARE, OR RISK MAIL LOSS.

       -o  Run in batch mode.  Store the collected information in the
           specified file.

INTERACTIVE OPERATION
       You are presented with a list of messages and can mark some of them for
       deletion.

       Keys available during interactive operation:
       UP, p       - Up one line
       DOWN, n     - Down one line
       PGUP, -     - Up one page
       PGDN, space - Down one page
       d           - Mark/Unmark message
       s           - Exit and save changes
       q           - Exit without saving anything


BATCH MODE OPERATION
       Run popcheck with the -o switch first to make a textfile with all
       messages, including numbers and sizes.

       Edit this file and remove all lines describing mail you want to keep.

       Make sure the only lines in the file are those describing the mails you
       want to REMOVE. Please double-check because there is no turning-back
       after you execute popcheck with the -i switch.

       Run popcheck with the -i switch. All messages matching the message
       numbers and sizes (in the file) will be removed from the POP server.


CAVEATS
       Please note that you run this program on your own risk. It's very easy
       to remove messages that you want to remove, but also to remove messages
       that you didn't want to remove. BE CAREFUL.


AUTHOR
       Staffan Hamala <staham@algonet.se>

SEE ALSO
       in.pop3d(8)

                                                                   POPCHECK(1)
