PORTSNAP.CONF(5)          FreeBSD File Formats Manual         PORTSNAP.CONF(5)

NAME
     portsnap.conf – configuration file for portsnap(8)

DESCRIPTION
     The portsnap.conf file controls where portsnap(8) fetches ports tree
     snapshots from, which RSA key should be trusted to sign the updates, and
     what directories should hold the compressed and live ports trees.

     A line of the form
           SERVERNAME=portsnap.example.com
     specifies the source from which snapshots should be fetched.  This is
     equivalent to the -s server option to portsnap(8), and will be ignored if
     the command-line option is used.

     A line of the form
           KEYPRINT=0123456789abc ... 456789abcdef
     (64 characters in total) specifies the SHA-256 hash of the OpenSSL public
     key file belonging to an RSA keypair which is trusted to sign updates.
     This is equivalent to the -k KEY option to portsnap(8), and will be
     ignored if the command-line option is used.

     A line of the form
           WORKDIR=/path/to/workdir
     specifies the directory in which portsnap should maintain its compressed
     snapshot of the ports tree.  This is equivalent to the -d workdir option
     to portsnap(8), and will be ignored if the command-line option is used.

     A line of the form
           PORTSDIR=/path/to/portstree
     specifies the directory in which portsnap will create the live ports tree
     from its compressed snapshot via the extract and update commands.  This
     is equivalent to the -p portsdir option to portsnap(8), and will be
     ignored if the command-line option is used.

     If more than one line of any of the above forms is included in
     portsnap.conf then only the last one will take effect.

     A line of the form
           INDEX INDEXFILE DESCRIBEFILE
     will instruct portsnap(8) that the specified INDEX file is generated from
     the specified describe file distributed by the portsnap server.

     Finally, a line of the form
           REFUSE foo bar
     will instruct portsnap(8) to ignore parts of the ports tree with paths
     starting with foo or bar, which are interpreted as extended regular
     expressions by egrep(1).  This will result in those parts of the tree not
     being updated in the compressed snapshot when the fetch and cron commands
     are used and not being extracted when the extract command is used (unless
     a specific path is passed to portsnap(8)), and if those parts of the
     ports tree are present they will not be updated when the update command
     is used.  Unlike the other options, the parameters in REFUSE lines
     accumulate and all such lines are considered.  Note that operating with
     an incomplete ports tree is not supported and may cause unexpected
     results.

     Any lines not of the above forms will be ignored.

FILES
     %%PREFIX%/etc/portsnap.conf   Default location of the portsnap
                                   configuration file.

SEE ALSO
     egrep(1), fetch(1), sha256(1), portsnap(8)

AUTHORS
     Colin Percival <cperciva@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD                        January 30, 2005                        FreeBSD
