PORTAL(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              PORTAL(1)

NAME
     portal – Front-end to pkg(8)

SYNOPSIS
     portal [-a]

DESCRIPTION
     Front-end to pkg(8).

     portal provides the following features: packages listing and searching,
     installation and deinstallation of packages, and filtering based on the
     package state.

OPTIONS
     The following option is supported by portal:

     -v         Display the current version of portal.

INTERFACE
     The user interface is made of two panels: the upper one displays a list
     of packages sorted by category, and the bottom one displays the
     description of the currently highlighted package. Between those two
     panels lies an indicator of the currently selected mode.

     In the upper panel which displays the packages list, the following data
     appear from left to right:

     Status     The following markers are displayed depending on the package
                status:

                +          The package is installed locally

                +[-]       The package is installed locally and marked to be
                           deleted

                +[^]       The package is installed locally and is upgradable,
                           meaning a newer version is available from remote
                           repositories

                +[+]       The package is installed locally and marked to be
                           upgraded

                -          The package is not installed locally

                -[+]       The package is not installed locally and marked to
                           be installed

     Name       The package name

     Local version
                The current version of the package if it is installed

     Remote version
                The latest version of the package available from remote
                repositories

     The lower panel displays the currently selected package's comment line as
     found in the port's Makefile, together with its longer comment as found
     in the port's pkg-descr file.

     The mode indicator found at the center of the screen between the two main
     panels highlights the current mode. Its name will also shortly appear
     above the indicator when switching mode.

MODES
     By pressing the TAB key, the user can switch between the following three
     available modes:

     Browse     This is the default mode, which displays the list of all
                packages without any filtering.

     Search     In this mode, one can search the list of packages for a given
                string.

     Filter     Four available filters can be applied to the list of packages
                when this mode is selected. The four filters can be toggled on
                or off by pressing the first letter of the filter name:

                (A)vailable
                           To show or hide the available packages (those
                           present in the remote repository but not yet
                           installed).

                (I)nstalled
                           To show or hide installed packages.

                (P)ending  To show or hide packages that have a pending action
                           on them, meaning they are either marked as to be
                           installed or removed.

                (U)pgradable
                           To show or hide packages that are installed locally
                           but for which a newer version can be found in the
                           remote repository.

KEYBINDINGS
     TAB        Cycle between modes.

     Ctrl-C     Quit

     Ctrl-X     Apply pending actions (proceed with the installation /
                deinstallation of packages).

     Ctrl-SPC   Mark currently highlighted package for installation.

     Ctrl-D     Mark currently highlighted package for deletion.

     Ctrl-N     Move down within the listing panel.

     Ctrl-P     Move up within the listing panel.

     PageUp     Scroll up the description panel.

     PageDown   Scroll down the description panel.

SEE ALSO
     pkg(8)

AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS
     Frederic Culot ⟨culot@FreeBSD.org⟩

BUGS
     See the issue tracker at https://github.com/culot/portal/issues

     Please direct questions and issues to Frederic Culot ⟨culot@FreeBSD.org⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           November 9, 2016           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
