PORTOPTSCLI(1)          FreeBSD General Commands Manual         PORTOPTSCLI(1)

NAME
     portoptscli – port options CLI

SYNOPSIS
     portoptscli [-h | -v]

DESCRIPTION
     The portoptscli utility provides a command line interface to customize
     interactively the options to build a port.  The configuration consists of
     a set of lists, checklist to enable or disable an option, radiolist to
     select at the most one option.  Some list is mandatory, at least one
     option has to be active.

     The following arguments are available:

     -h      Display options, a short description and exit.

     -v      Show version and exit.

     The following keys are available at runtime:

     a, ESC  Quit without saving.

     c       Print short commands list.

     d, PAGEDOWN
             Fast next element, that is next list.

     e, END  Go to end.

     h       Specific port help, if pkg-help exists.

     i       Print port info: name, list number, total options number, if a
             help file exists.

     m       Print all list titles.

     n, DOWN
             Next element.

     p, UP   Previous element.

     q       Save and quit.

     r       Reprint the current element.

     s, SPACE
             Enable or disable a checklist option.  Select a radiolist option
             possibly deselecting the previous active option.

     t, HOME
             Go to the top of the configuration and port info is reprinted.

     u, PAGEUP
             Fast previous element.  That is previous list or restart the
             current list if the current element is an option.

     v       Toggle verbose mode.  Printed in verbose mode: option index, some
             command at top and end configuration.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variable takes effect only on startup, other
     options can override its setting.

     PORTOPTSCLI_VERBOSE
             Enable verbose mode if its value is “Y” or “YES”.

EXIT STATUS
     The portoptscli utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     ports(7)

AUTHORS
     The portoptscli utility was written by Alfonso Sabato Siciliano
     <asiciliano@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 18, 2023           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
