PORTSREINSTALL-CHROOT-MOUNT(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual

NAME
       portsreinstall-chroot-mount - Support utility for portsreinstall(8) to
       mount and unmount a builder environment at the grand host environment

SYNOPSIS
       portsreinstall-chroot-mount [ OPTIONS ] [ -- ] [ command ]

DESCRIPTION
       This utility is for assisting portsreinstall-chroot(8) to mount and
       unmount a builder environment at the grand host environment in case
       that the target environment is a chroot(8) or jail(8) virtual
       environment which does not have sufficient privilege to operate the
       file systems.  Execution of this utility will be suggested by
       portsreinstall-chroot(8) executed at the target environment.  The
       executable file of this utility is installed outside the scope of the
       search paths, and expected to be launched by specifying the full path.

ROBUSTNESS AGAINST TERMINATION AND RESTART
       Execution of this utility can be terminated at any points and restarted
       from there.

ARGUMENTS
       One of the following commands can be given for optional operations or
       confirmation.

       mount  (Default) Mount file systems for the builder chroot(8)
              environment inside the target chroot(8) or jail(8) environment.

       unmount
              Unmount file systems for the builder chroot(8) environment
              inside the target chroot(8) or jail(8) environment.

OPTIONS
       If duplicated or conflicting ones are set, the last ones are effective.
       The end of options can be explicitly specified by --.  Short options
       can be given in compact forms, for example, -V -a to be -Va.

   Group 1: Just show messages and exit without operation
       -H
       --long-help
              Show a long help whose content is the same as the manual page.

       -h
       --help
       --short-help
              Show a short help.

       -V
       --show-version
              Show the current version.

   Group 2: Effective anytime
       -a
       --batch-mode
              Suppress messages so as to be friendly for batch operations.
              Comments are suppressed as much as possible.

       -f
       --forcible-operation
              Forcibly carry out operations be ignoring the lock in case that
              file systems are set to be mounted/unmounted from inside the
              virtual (chroot or jail) environment.

       -S
       --no-opening-message
              Suppress the credit, opening and terminating messages.  Option
              -a takes higher priority over this option.

DETAILS
   Overview
       portsreinstall-chroot(8) provides functionality to carry out package
       build at a builder chroot(8) environment which is mounted onto the
       target environment.  It is designed to be also executable even when the
       target is chroot(8) or jail(8) environment although such environment
       may not have sufficient privilege to operate the file systems.  In such
       case, portsreinstall-chroot(8) once terminates its execution and
       suggests the user to execute this utility at the grand host
       environment.  There is no need to install portsreinstall(8) and its
       family in the grand host environment, and the user will be suggested to
       specify the full path to this utility installed in the target chroot(8)
       or jail(8) environment.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       See the corresponding section of portsreinstall(8).  The variables are
       conveyed to the forked environment from the target host.

HISTORY
       This utility first appeared as a part of portsreinstall(8) version
       4.0.0 released on June 29, 2018.

SEE ALSO
       portsreinstall(8), portsreinstall-chroot(8), portsreinstall-upgrade(8).

COPYRIGHT
       This software is distributed under the 2-Clause BSD License.

       (C) 2018 Mamoru Sakaue, MwGhennndo, All Rights Reserved.

       Email: sakaue.mamoru@samurai.mwghennn.net

       Homepage: http://www.mwghennndo.com/software/portsreinstall/

FreeBSD                          20 April 2022  PORTSREINSTALL-CHROOT-MOUNT(8)
