curs_pad(3X)                                                      curs_pad(3X)



NAME
       newpad, subpad, prefresh, pnoutrefresh, pechochar, pecho_wchar - create
       and display curses pads

SYNOPSIS
       #include <curses.h>

       WINDOW *newpad(int nlines, int ncols);
       WINDOW *subpad(WINDOW *orig, int nlines, int ncols,
             int begin_y, int begin_x);
       int prefresh(WINDOW *pad, int pminrow, int pmincol,
             int sminrow, int smincol, int smaxrow, int smaxcol);
       int pnoutrefresh(WINDOW *pad, int pminrow, int pmincol,
             int sminrow, int smincol, int smaxrow, int smaxcol);
       int pechochar(WINDOW *pad, chtype ch);
       int pecho_wchar(WINDOW *pad, const cchar_t *wch);

DESCRIPTION
   newpad
       The newpad routine creates and returns a pointer to a new pad data
       structure with the given number of lines, nlines, and columns, ncols.
       A pad is like a window, except that it is not restricted by the screen
       size, and is not necessarily associated with a particular part of the
       screen.  Pads can be used when a large window is needed, and only a
       part of the window will be on the screen at one time.  Automatic
       refreshes of pads (e.g., from scrolling or echoing of input) do not
       occur.

       It is not legal to call wrefresh with a pad as an argument; the
       routines prefresh or pnoutrefresh should be called instead.  Note that
       these routines require additional parameters to specify the part of the
       pad to be displayed and the location on the screen to be used for the
       display.

   subpad
       The subpad routine creates and returns a pointer to a subwindow within
       a pad with the given number of lines, nlines, and columns, ncols.
       Unlike subwin, which uses screen coordinates, the window is at position
       (begin_x, begin_y) on the pad.  The window is made in the middle of the
       window orig, so that changes made to one window affect both windows.
       During the use of this routine, it will often be necessary to call
       touchwin or touchline on orig before calling prefresh.

   prefresh, pnoutrefresh
       The prefresh and pnoutrefresh routines are analogous to wrefresh and
       wnoutrefresh except that they relate to pads instead of windows.  The
       additional parameters are needed to indicate what part of the pad and
       screen are involved.

       •   The pminrow and pmincol parameters specify the upper left-hand
           corner of the rectangle to be displayed in the pad.

       •   The sminrow, smincol, smaxrow, and smaxcol parameters specify the
           edges of the rectangle to be displayed on the screen.

       The lower right-hand corner of the rectangle to be displayed in the pad
       is calculated from the screen coordinates, since the rectangles must be
       the same size.  Both rectangles must be entirely contained within their
       respective structures.  Negative values of pminrow, pmincol, sminrow,
       or smincol are treated as if they were zero.

   pechochar
       The pechochar routine is functionally equivalent to a call to addch
       followed by a call to refresh(3X), a call to waddch followed by a call
       to wrefresh, or a call to waddch followed by a call to prefresh.  The
       knowledge that only a single character is being output is taken into
       consideration and, for non-control characters, a considerable
       performance gain might be seen by using these routines instead of their
       equivalents.  In the case of pechochar, the last location of the pad on
       the screen is reused for the arguments to prefresh.

   pecho_wchar
       The pecho_wchar function is the analogous wide-character form of
       pechochar.  It outputs one character to a pad and immediately refreshes
       the pad.  It does this by a call to wadd_wch followed by a call to
       prefresh.

RETURN VALUE
       Routines that return an integer return ERR upon failure and OK (SVr4
       only specifies "an integer value other than ERR") upon successful
       completion.

       Routines that return pointers return NULL on error, and set errno to
       ENOMEM.

       X/Open does not define any error conditions.  In this implementation

          prefresh and pnoutrefresh
               return an error if the window pointer is null, or if the window
               is not really a pad or if the area to refresh extends off-
               screen or if the minimum coordinates are greater than the
               maximum.

          pechochar
               returns an error if the window is not really a pad, and the
               associated call to wechochar returns an error.

          pecho_wchar
               returns an error if the window is not really a pad, and the
               associated call to wecho_wchar returns an error.

NOTES
       Note that pechochar may be a macro.

PORTABILITY
       BSD curses has no pad feature.

       SVr2 curses (1986) provided the newpad and related functions,
       documenting them in a single line each.  SVr3 (1987) provided more
       extensive documentation.

       The documentation does not explain the term pad.  However, the Apollo
       Aegis workstation operating system supported a graphical pad feature:

       •   These graphical pads could be much larger than the computer's
           display.

       •   The read-only output from a command could be scrolled back to
           inspect, and select text from the pad.

       The two uses may be related.

       The XSI Curses standard, Issue 4 describes these functions, without
       significant change from the SVr3 documentation.  It describes no error
       conditions.  The behavior of subpad if the parent window is not a pad
       is undocumented, and is not checked by the vendor Unix implementations:

       •   SVr4 curses sets a flag in the WINDOW structure in newpad which
           tells if the window is a pad.

           However, it uses this information only in waddch (to decide if it
           should call wrefresh) and wscrl (to avoid scrolling a pad), and
           does not check in wrefresh to ensure that the pad is refreshed
           properly.

       •   Solaris X/Open Curses checks if a window is a pad in wnoutrefresh,
           returning ERR in that case.

           However, it only sets the flag for subwindows if the parent window
           is a pad.  Its newpad function does not set this information.
           Consequently, the check will never fail.

           It makes no comparable check in pnoutrefresh, though interestingly
           enough, a comment in the source code states that the lack of a
           check was an MKS extension.

       •   NetBSD 7 curses sets a flag in the WINDOW structure for newpad and
           subpad, using this to help with the distinction between
           wnoutrefresh and pnoutrefresh.

           It does not check for the case where a subwindow is created in a
           pad using subwin or derwin.

           The dupwin function returns a regular window when duplicating a
           pad.  Likewise, getwin always returns a window, even if the saved
           data was from a pad.

       This implementation

       •   sets a flag in the WINDOW structure for newpad and subpad,

       •   allows a subwin or derwin call to succeed having a pad parent by
           forcing the subwindow to be a pad,

       •   checks in both wnoutrefresh and pnoutrefresh to ensure that pads
           and windows are handled distinctly, and

       •   ensures that dupwin and getwin treat pads versus windows
           consistently.

SEE ALSO
       curses(3X), curs_refresh(3X), curs_touch(3X), curs_addch(3X).



                                                                  curs_pad(3X)
