PROCCONTROL(1)          FreeBSD General Commands Manual         PROCCONTROL(1)

NAME
     proccontrol – Control some process execution aspects

SYNOPSIS
     proccontrol -m mode [-s control] [-q] -p pid | command

DESCRIPTION
     The proccontrol command modifies the execution parameter of existing
     process specified by the pid argument, or starts execution of the new
     program command with the execution parameter set for it.

     Which execution parameter is changed, selected by the mandatory parameter
     mode.  Possible values for mode are:

     aslr     Control the Address Space Layout Randomization.  Only applicable
              to the new process spawned.

     trace    Control the permission for debuggers to attach.  Note that
              process is only allowed to enable tracing for itself, not for
              any other process.

     trapcap  Controls the signalling of capability mode access violations.

     kpti     Controls the KPTI enable, AMD64 only.

     The control specifies if the selected mode should be enabled or disabled.
     Possible values are enable and disable, with the default value being
     enable if not specified.  See procctl(2) for detailed description of each
     mode effects and interaction with other process control facilities.

     The -q switch makes the utility query and print the current setting for
     the selected mode.  The -q requires the query target process
     specification with -p.

EXIT STATUS
     The proccontrol utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     •   To disable debuggers attachment to the process 1020, execute
               proccontrol -m trace -s disable -p 1020

     •   To execute the uniq(1) program in a mode where capability access
         violations cause SIGTRAP delivery, do
               proccontrol -m trapcap uniq

     •   To query the current ASLR enablement mode for the running process
         1020, do
               proccontrol -m aslr -q -p 1020

SEE ALSO
     kill(2), procctl(2), ptrace(2)

HISTORY
     The proccontrol command appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.

AUTHORS
     The proccontrol command and this manual page were written by Konstantin
     Belousov <kib@freebsd.org> under sponsorship from The FreeBSD Foundation.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          June 28, 2019         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
