PSEARCH(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             PSEARCH(1)

NAME
       psearch - search the FreeBSD ports

SYNOPSIS
       psearch [options] PATTERN [PATTERN ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Lists ports whose description matches PATTERN. PATTERN is a case-
       insensitive regular expression.

       If more than one pattern is given, a port description has to match all
       of them for the port to be listed. If -o is given, a single pattern
       match suffices instead.

       By default, the name and the short description are searched. If -s is
       given, the long description is searched as well, which slows things
       down a lot. This can be compensated for by limiting searches to a port
       category with -c, thus reducing the number of pkg-plist files that need
       to be searched.

       psearch uses IEEE Std 1003.2 (``POSIX.2'') regular expressions as
       explained by re_format(7).

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Show program's version number and exit.

       -h, --help
              Show a brief help message explaining the options and exit.

       -c CATEGORY, --category=CATEGORY
              Only search for ports in CATEGORY. Speeds up searching,
              especially when --search_long is also specified.

       -f FILE, --file=FILE
              Path to INDEX file. Defaults to the standard location of the
              INDEX file on the FreeBSD system that psearch runs on. Non-
              standard locations given in /etc/make.conf are ignored.

       -l, --long
              Display the long description (pkg-descr file) for any match
              found. They are not searched however, unless --search_long is
              also given.

       -m, --maintainer
              Display the maintainer's email address instead of the short
              description for any match found, and switch on searching the
              maintainer's email address.  Specifying this parameter and
              searching for ports@freebsd.org displays all unmaintained ports.

       -n, --name
              Print canonical name of a port, including its version.

       -o, --or
              List ports whose description match any PATTERN, instead of
              requiring it to match all of them.

       -s, --search_long
              Search long descriptions (pkg-descr file), which slows down
              searching. The long descriptions are not displayed however,
              unless --long is also given.

       -v INVERSE_PATTERN, --inverse=INVERSE_PATTERN
              Searches for ports that do not match INVERSE_PATTERN. May be
              specified several times.

SEE ALSO
       re_format(7)

BUGS
       Any relevant values stored in environment variables or /etc/make.conf
       are ignored.  This means that if your INDEX file does not reside in
       /usr/ports, you'll need to use the -f option when running psearch.

AUTHOR
       Benjamin Lutz

psearch 2.0.2                      June 2012                        PSEARCH(1)
