PSTACK(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              PSTACK(1)

NAME
     pstack – print the backtrace of the running program

SYNOPSIS
     pstack [-loOtv] [-a arg count] [-f frame count] pid

DESCRIPTION
     The pstack utility prints the stack backtraces for the running program.
     The pstack attaches to the traced process using the ptrace(2) debugging
     interface.  If possible, the symbolic name and offset for the function
     executing in each frame is displayed.  The pstack can be directed to
     print the shared object name, which contains the function.

     The first line of the output displays the pid of the traced process,
     binary name as reported by the kernel, and the currently active osrel
     version of the ABI for the process.  After that, for each thread in the
     process, the thread id is displayed, followed by the backtrace.

     The following options are available:

     -a count
             Try to guess the arguments of each function appearing in the
             backtrace.  Not more than count arguments are printed for each
             function.  Ability to correctly read the argument values depends
             on the architecture and compiler optimization, but it is
             generally impossible to do.

     -f count
             For each thread, print not more than count frames in the
             backtrace.

     -l      Instead of walking the stacks of the running threads, print the
             names of the shared objects loaded into the process address
             space.  The output of the utility resembles the output of ldd(1)
             command run on the binary.

     -o      Show the names of the objects which contain the location of the
             frame current instruction pointer.

     -O      Same as -o, but displays the full path to the objects instead of
             only names.

     -t      Measure and print the time which the target process was suspended
             to walk the stack frames.

     -v      Be verbose.

SEE ALSO
     gdb(1), ldd(1), ptrace(2), libunwind(3), procfs(5)

AUTHORS
     The pstack command is reimplemented by Konstantin Belousov to mimic the
     user interface of other similar pstack utilities, in particular, the
     pstack written by
     Peter Edwards.  This version relies on the libunwind library as the stack
     unwinding backend.

CAVEATS
     On i386, the argument printing code assumes that the frame layout is
     standard, which is currently often not the case due to the padding added
     between return address and previous frame pointer, as done by compilers
     to align the stack.

     On amd64, the argument printing currently does not work.  The amd64 ABI
     specifies that integer arguments are passed in the registers which are
     not required to be preserved across function calls.  As the result, there
     is typically no way to re-create the arguments values on any frame except
     the current one.

     The symbol names cannot be inferred if the corresponding binary or shared
     object are already deleted, since libunwind needs to read the symbols
     from the on-disk ELF image.  This could typically occur if the binary or
     library is reinstalled, but the process uses older version of the binary
     with the same name.

     The pstack only works on the processes executing ELF binaries.

     You cannot get a backtrace for the process, to which another debugger is
     currently attached.  The ptrace(2) debugging mechanism used to obtain the
     neccessary live process information causes some syscalls to return EINTR
     errors on pstack detach.

     The pstack utility cannot yet extract a backtrace from the core dump.

     The architecture of the program and pstack shall match (this is libunwind
     restriction).

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             June 17, 2014            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
