PSTAT(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               PSTAT(8)

NAME
     pstat, swapinfo – display system data structures

SYNOPSIS
     pstat [-Tfghkmnst] [-M core [-N system]]
     swapinfo [-ghkm] [-M core [-N system]]

DESCRIPTION
     The pstat utility displays open file entry, swap space utilization,
     terminal state, and vnode data structures.

     If invoked as swapinfo the -s option is implied, and only the -k, -m, -g,
     and -h options are legal.

     If the -M option is not specified, information is obtained from the
     currently running kernel via the sysctl(3) interface.  Otherwise,
     information is read from the specified core file, using the name list
     from the specified kernel image (or from the default image).

     The following options are available:

     -n      Print devices out by major/minor instead of name.

     -h      “Human-readable” output.  Use unit suffixes when printing swap
             partition sizes: Byte, Kilobyte, Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and
             Petabyte.

     -k      Print sizes in kilobytes, regardless of the setting of the
             BLOCKSIZE environment variable.

     -m      Print sizes in megabytes, regardless of the setting of the
             BLOCKSIZE environment variable.

     -g      Print sizes in gigabytes, regardless of the setting of the
             BLOCKSIZE environment variable.

     -T      Print the number of used and free slots in several system tables.
             This is useful for checking to see how large system tables have
             become if the system is under heavy load.

     -f      Print the open file table with these headings:

             LOC     The core location of this table entry.

             TYPE    The type of object the file table entry points to.

             FLG     Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:

                     R       open for reading
                     W       open for writing
                     A       open for appending
                     I       signal pgrp when data ready

             CNT     Number of processes that know this open file.

             MSG     Number of messages outstanding for this file.

             DATA    The location of the vnode table entry or socket structure
                     for this file.

             OFFSET  The file offset (see lseek(2)).

     -s      Print information about swap space usage on all the swap areas
             compiled into the kernel.  The first column is the device name of
             the partition.  The next column is the total space available in
             the partition.  The Used column indicates the total blocks used
             so far; the Available column indicates how much space is
             remaining on each partition.  The Capacity reports the percentage
             of space used.

             If more than one partition is configured into the system, totals
             for all of the statistics will be reported in the final line of
             the report.

     -t      Print table for terminals with these headings:

             LINE    Device name.

             INQ     Number of characters that can be stored in the input
                     queue.

             CAN     Number of characters in the input queue which can be
                     read.

             LIN     Number of characters in the input queue which cannot be
                     read yet.

             LOW     Low water mark for input.

             OUTQ    Number of characters that can be stored in the output
                     queue.

             USE     Number of bytes in the output queue.

             LOW     Low water mark for output.

             COL     Calculated column position of terminal.

             SESS    Process ID of the session leader.

             PGID    Process group for which this is the controlling terminal.

             STATE   Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:

                     I       init/lock-state device nodes present
                     C       callout device nodes present
                     O       opened
                     c       console in use
                     G       gone
                     B       busy in open(2)
                     Y       send SIGIO for input events
                     L       next character is literal
                     H       high watermark reached
                     X       open for exclusive use
                     S       output stopped (ixon flow control)
                     l       block mode input routine in use
                     Z       connection lost
                     s       i/o being snooped
                     b       busy in read(2) or write(2)

                     The ‘i’ and ‘o’ characters refer to the previous
                     character, to differentiate between input and output.

     -M      Extract values associated with the name list from the specified
             core.

     -N      If -M is also specified, extract the name list from the specified
             system instead of the default, which is the kernel image the
             system has booted from.

SEE ALSO
     ps(1), systat(1), stat(2), fs(5), iostat(8), vmstat(8)

     K. Thompson, UNIX Implementation.

HISTORY
     The pstat utility appeared in 4.0BSD.

BUGS
     Does not understand NFS swap servers.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        October 11, 2014        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
