Ptyxis(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              Ptyxis(1)

NAME
       ptyxis - a container-oriented terminal


SYNOPSIS
       ptyxis [OPTION]...  [-- PROGRAM ARGUMENTS]


DESCRIPTION
       ptyxis is a container-oriented, designed for the GNOME desktop.  It
       provides tight integration with podman, toolbox, distrobox, and jhbuild
       to simplfy container-based development and system management.


       --version
              Show the version of the program.


       --preferences
              Show the preferences window.


       --new-window
              Open a new window in an existing instance of Ptyxis. If Ptyxis
              is not running, a new instance is started.

              May be combined with --working-directory and --execute and
              --title options.


       --tab  Open a new tab in the most-recently-used window of an existing
              Ptyxis instance. If Ptyxis is not running, a new instance is
              started.

              May be combined with --working-directory and --execute and
              --title options.


       -x, --execute
              Execute a custom command.

              This is similar to using -- to provide the custom command except
              that the entire command line should be provided as a single
              argument.

              In general, you should use -- instead of this option. This is
              primarily available to be similar to bash -c 'command'

              May be combined with --working-directory and --title options.


       -d, --working-directory
              Set the current working directory for a new tab, window, or
              custom command.


       --title=TITLE
              Sets the title for a new terminal page created with either --tab
              or --new-window.


       --tab-with-profile=PROFILE
              Creates a new tab in an existing instance using the specified
              profile. The profile should be a UUID string which can be found
              in the profile editor of the preferences dialog.


       -s, --standalone
              Run a new instance of Ptyxis, ignoring any instances already
              running.


       -h, --help
              Show a summary of options.


       Other standard GNOME options not listed here are also supported.


SEE ALSO
       For further information, visit the website https://devsuite.app/ptyxis/


BUGS
       Bug reports can be found and filed at
       https://gitlab.gnome.org/chergert/ptyxis/issues

                                 09 July 2024                        Ptyxis(1)
