PWCVIEW(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             PWCVIEW(1)

NAME
     pwcview – view video, create jpeg snapshots and alter settings of a
     webcam controlled by the pwc(4) driver.

SYNOPSIS
     pwcview [options]

DESCRIPTION
     The pwcview utility is used to view the video, create jpeg snapshots, and
     alter the settings of a webcam controlled by the pwc(4) driver.

COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
     General options:

     -?              Display help message

     -h              Run pwcview in headless mode (without the gui)

     -p              Enable webcam snapshot button (only works with the
                     FreeBSD pwc driver and not with all cameras)

     -k              Add time date string to picture.

     Device options:

     -d device       Selects the video device to open. The default is
                     /dev/video0

     -s size         Sets the webcam's video size. The default is sif. Can be
                     one of 'sqcif', 'qsif', 'qcif', 'sif', 'cif' or 'vga',
                     for an image size of resp. 128x96, 160x120,
                     176x144,320x240, 352x288 and 640x480 (of course, only for
                     those cameras that support these resolutions).

     -f fps          Sets the webcam's frame rate. The  default is 5. Should
                     be in the range of 5-30.

     JPEG output options:

     -c count        Number of automatic jpeg snapshots to take. Set this to
                     -1 for unlimited automatic jpeg snapshots. The default is
                     0

     -i interval     Automatic jpeg snapshot interval in milliseconds. The
                     default is 3000

     -q quality      Quality of jpeg output images, range 0-100. The default
                     is 75

     -o outfile      Filename of the jpeg output images. This is a string that
                     is passed to the strftime(3) function and thus can
                     contain the format specifiers as documented in the
                     strftime(3) man page. The default is
                     /tmp/%Y%m%d%H%M%S.jpg

     -e command      Command to execute after each jpeg snapshot. This command
                     will be executed with the filename of the jpeg image as
                     it's only command line argument. If you want to execute a
                     command that requires multiple arguments, you can create
                     a wrapper shell script. The default is not to execute any
                     command.

     Motion detection options:

     -r              Enable motion detection recording. When this option is
                     specified pwcview will write all raw YUV420P frames that
                     have a number of blocks with motion in them that is
                     higher than threshold to stdout. For this option to work
                     you must redirect stdout to a file or pipe it to another
                     command (e.g.  mencoder )

     -m              Show detected motion. When this option is specified the
                     regions in the picture in which motion is detected are
                     displayed in negative.

     -j command      Command to execute when motion is detected. The default
                     is not to execute any command.

     -g interval     Minimum time in seconds between motion commands. The
                     default is 60 seconds.

     -u sensitivity  Motion detection sensitivity. The lower you set this the
                     more sensitive.  The default is 1000.

     -t threshold    Motion detection threshold. The number of blocks (a block
                     is 8x8 pixels) that must have motion in them before any
                     of the actions motion record, motion fullscreen or motion
                     beep is taken. The default is 1.

     -l frames       Recording margin. The number of extra frames that are
                     written to stdout after the last frame that had motion in
                     it. The default is 15.

     Video display options:

     -x              Create window without frame

     -y              Use IYUV overlay instead of YV12 overlay

     -z              Create the video surface in system memory (SDL_SWSURFACE)

     -a              Always use video surface (SDL_ANYFORMAT)

     -b bpp          Bits per pixel to setup video surface with. The default
                     is 0, which means to use the current display bits per
                     pixel.

MOTION DETECTION
     pwcview can also detect motion in the webcam's image and write the frames
     with motion in them to stdout so you can for example encode them with
     mencoder to MPEG4.

     Sometimes it can be useful to exclude some areas in the picture from
     motion detection. With pwcview you can use the m key to enter motion mask
     editing mode. In motion mask editing mode you can add areas to exclude
     from motion detection with the mouse.  In motion mask editing mode masked
     areas are displayed in negative.

     To add an area to the motion mask: move the mouse pointer to the top left
     position of the area that you want to exclude and left click then move
     your mouse pointer to the bottom right position of the area that you want
     to exclude and left click again. You can repeat this as many times as you
     want.

     To remove areas from the motion mask do the same but this time use the
     right mouse button. To clear the entire mask press the middle mouse
     button.

     You can save the motion mask with the w key. Each time pwcview starts it
     will look for the mask file in the current directory and automatically
     load it.

     To leave motion mask editing mode press the m key again.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
     Besides the keys used for the menu system the following keys can be used:

     f               Toggle fullscreen mode.

     p               Take a manual jpeg snapshot.

     q               Quit the application.

     m               Enter/leave motion mask editing mode.

     w               Saves motion mask to pwcview.msk in current directory.

     space           Freeze/unfreeze picture.

MENU SYSTEM
     With pwcview you can alter various settings of your webcam. It provides a
     menu like structure where you specify what setting you want to alter with
     the up arrow and down arrow. The current menu item and thus the setting
     to alter will then be displayed in the title bar.

     The following settings of the webcam can be altered:

     framerate       Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     frame rate.

     brightness      Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     brightness.

     contrast        Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     contrast.

     saturation      Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     saturation.

     gamma           Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     gamma.

     gain control    Use the enter key to switch between auto and manual gain
                     control.  Use the left arrow and right arrow in manual
                     mode to change the webcam's gain control.

     shutter speed   Use the enter key to switch between auto and manual
                     shutter speed.  Use the left arrow and right arrow in
                     manual mode to change the webcam's shutter speed.

     white balance   Use the enter key to switch between auto, manual, indoor,
                     outdoor and fluorescent white balance.  Use the left
                     arrow and right arrow in manual mode to change the
                     webcam's red gain and blue gain.

     contour         Use the enter key to switch between auto and manual
                     contour.  Use the left arrow and right arrow in manual
                     mode to change the webcam's contour.

     dnr mode        Use the enter key to switch between the webcam's various
                     modes of dynamic noise reduction.

     backlight compensation
                     Use the enter key to switch the webcam's backlight
                     compensation on/off.

     anti flicker mode
                     Use the enter key to switch the webcam's anti flicker
                     mode on/off.

     color mode      Use the enter key to switch the webcam to color or black
                     and white mode (FreeBSD only)

     compression     Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     compression level.

     save user settings
                     Use the enter key to save the current webcam settings to
                     the webcam's EEPROM.

     restore user settings
                     Use the enter key to load the current webcam settings
                     from the webcam's EEPROM.

     restore factory settings
                     Use the enter key to load the current webcam settings
                     from the factory defaults.

     led on          Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     led on time.

     led off         Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the webcam's
                     led off time.

     The following settings of pwcview can be altered:

     time date string
                     Use the enter key to toggle the addition of a time date
                     string to the picture.  (command line equivalent -k)

     scaling         Use the enter key to switch between none, double and full
                     scaling.

     motion record   Use the enter key to enable/disable motion recording
                     (command line equivalent -r)

     motion fullscreen
                     Use the enter key to enable/disable going to full screen
                     mode when motion is detected.

     motion beep     Use the enter key to enable/disable the speaker beep when
                     motion is detected.

     motion show     Use the enter key to toggle the display of motion in
                     negative (command line equivalent -m)

     motion command interval
                     Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the motion
                     command interval (command line equivelant -g)

     motion sensitivity
                     Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the motion
                     detection sensitivity (command line equivalent -u)

     motion threshold
                     Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the motion
                     detection threshold (command line equivalent -t)

     recording margin
                     Use the left arrow and right arrow to change the
                     recording margin (command line equivalent -l)

VIDEODISPLAY
     pwcview uses the SDL library to display the video of your webcam. The
     default video mode used by pwcview is in general the most efficient, but
     this is very much dependent on the capabilities of your video card. If it
     doesn't quite work the way you want it to, you can tune the video
     settings with any of the command line options listed in the "Video
     display options" section at the beginning of this man page. See the
     SDL_SetVideoMode(3) man page for exact details.

EXAMPLES
     Set the webcam to vga mode at 15 fps and execute the firefox command
     whenever a jpeg snapshot is taken:

     pwcview -s vga -f 15 -e firefox

     Take one automatic jpeg snapshot image using the default sif resolution,
     save it as foo.jpg and then exit:

     pwcview -h -c 1 -o foo.jpg

     Run pwcview in headless mode with the webcam set to 320x240@15fps, add a
     time date string to the picture, write the frames in which motion is
     detected to stdout and encode them with mencoder to motion.avi:

     pwcview -hkr -s sif -f 15 | mencoder -demuxer rawvideo -rawvideo
     fps=15:w=320:h=240:i420 - -ovc lavc -lavcopts vcodec=mpeg4 -o motion.avi

SEE ALSO
     The Linux PWC Documentation Project:

           http://www.lavrsen.dk/twiki/bin/view/PWC/WebHome

     pwc(4), SDL_SetVideoMode(3), strftime(3)

COPYRIGHT
     This is free software licensed under the GPLv2; There is NO warranty; not
     even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

     Copyright (C) 2006-2007  Raaf

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           Februari 17, 2006          FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
