PWNED-CHECK(1)          FreeBSD General Commands Manual         PWNED-CHECK(1)

NAME
     pwned-check – Check word against list of known stolen passwords.

SYNOPSIS
     pwned-check [-u]

DESCRIPTION
     The pwned-check utility checks the passwords piped in via standard input
     (one per line) against a huge database of passwords that are known to
     have been stolen in data breaches.

     SHA1 hashes of these passwords have been published at
     https://haveibeenpwned.com/

     If any of the checked passwords is found in the database, it is printed
     on standard output and the exit status of pwned-check is set to 1.  No
     output is generated for passwords not found in the database.

     The database can be downloaded to a local directory or it can be queried
     by a method that does not make the hash queried known to the remote
     server.  The remote query is performed if the pawned password database
     has not been fetched and stored on the local system.  While the remote
     accesses are not as fast as a local lookup, they will query an always up-
     to-date database and allow to avoid the download and storage of this huge
     database.

     Instead of plain passwords, SHA1 hashes of passwords may be supplied.
     Matches will be reported, but there is no provision to report the plain
     text password corresponding to a given SHA1 hash.

     If the option -u is used, the password hash database is downloaded and
     initialized.  This process will temporarily require some 18 GB of free
     space in the database directory, which is /var/db/pwned-check by default.
     This location can be changed in the configuration file, prior to starting
     the download.

FILES
     /usr/local/etc/pwned-check.conf  Optional configuration file.

     /var/db/pwned-check              Default location of pwned password hash
                                      database.  Needs 18 GB of free space
                                      during download, 13 GB when finished.

EXIT STATUS
     pwned-check returns 0 if none of the passwords to check have been found
     in the pwned password database, else 1.

     If the -u option is used to download the pwned password hashes, an exit
     code of 0 indicates success, 1 failure to fetch and initialize the
     database.

EXAMPLES
     Download the pwned password hash files:

           pwned-check -u

     Check passwords passed on standard input against pwned password database:

           echo badpasswd | pwned-check

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 23, 2017           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
