STREAMLINK(1)                     Streamlink                     STREAMLINK(1)

NAME
       streamlink - extracts streams from various services and pipes them into
       a video player of choice

SYNOPSIS

          streamlink [OPTIONS] <URL> [STREAM]

EXAMPLES

          streamlink --loglevel debug youtu.be/VIDEO-ID best
          streamlink --player mpv --player-args '--no-border --no-keepaspect-window' twitch.tv/CHANNEL 1080p60
          streamlink --player-external-http --player-external-http-port 8888 URL STREAM
          streamlink --output /path/to/file --http-timeout 60 URL STREAM
          streamlink --stdout URL STREAM | ffmpeg -i pipe:0 ...
          streamlink --http-header 'Authorization=OAuth TOKEN' --http-header 'Referer=URL' URL STREAM
          streamlink --hls-live-edge 5 --stream-segment-threads 5 'hls://https://host/playlist.m3u8' best
          streamlink --twitch-low-latency -p mpv -a '--cache=yes --demuxer-max-back-bytes=2G' twitch.tv/CHANNEL best

OPTIONS
   Positional arguments

       URL    A URL to attempt to extract streams from.

              Usually, the protocol of http(s) URLs can be omitted (https://),
              depending on the implementation of the plugin being used.

              Alternatively, the URL can also be specified by using the --url
              option.

       STREAM Stream to play.

              Use best or worst for selecting the highest or lowest available
              quality.

              Fallback streams can be specified by using a comma-separated
              list:

                 "720p,480p,best"

              If no stream is specified and --default-stream is not used, then
              a list of available streams will be printed.

   General options

       -h

       --help Show this help message and exit.

       -V

       --version
              Show version number and exit.

       --plugins
              Print a list of all currently installed plugins.

       --plugin-dirs DIRECTORY
              Attempts to load plugins from these directories.

              Multiple directories can be used by separating them with a
              comma.

       --can-handle-url URL
              Check if Streamlink has a plugin that can handle the specified
              URL.

              Returns status code 1 for false and 0 for true.

              Useful for external scripting.

       --can-handle-url-no-redirect URL
              Same as --can-handle-url but without following redirects when
              looking up the URL.

       --config FILENAME
              Load options from this config file.

              Can be repeated to load multiple files, in which case the
              options are merged on top of each other where the last config
              has highest priority.

       --no-config
              Disable loading any default or custom config files.

       -l LEVEL

       --loglevel LEVEL
              Set the log message threshold.

              Valid levels are, in order of increasing verbosity:

              none, critical, error, warning, info, debug, trace, all

              Default is: "info".

       --logfile FILE
              Append log output to FILE instead of writing to stdout/stderr.

              User prompts and download progress won't be written to FILE.

              A value of - (dash) will set the file name to an ISO8601-like
              string and will choose the following default log directories.

              Windows:

                 %TEMP%\streamlink\logs

              macOS:

                 ${HOME}/Library/Logs/streamlink

              Linux/BSD:

                 ${XDG_STATE_HOME:-${HOME}/.local/state}/streamlink/logs

       -Q

       --quiet
              Hide all log output.

              Alias for --loglevel none.

       -j

       --json Output JSON representations instead of the normal text output.

              Useful for external scripting.

       --auto-version-check {yes,true,1,on,no,false,0,off}
              Enable or disable the automatic check for a new version of
              Streamlink.

              Default is: "no".

       --version-check
              Runs a version check and exits.

       --locale LOCALE
              The preferred locale setting, for selecting the preferred
              subtitle and audio language.

              The locale is formatted as [language_code]_[country_code], eg.
              en_US or es_ES.

              Default is: system locale.

       --interface INTERFACE
              Set the network interface.

       -4

       --ipv4 Resolve address names to IPv4 only. This option overrides
              --ipv6.

       -6

       --ipv6 Resolve address names to IPv6 only. This option overrides
              --ipv4.

   Player options

       -p PATH

       --player PATH
              The player executable that will be launched (unless a different
              output method was chosen).

              Either set an absolute or relative path to the player
              executable, or just set the executable's name if it can be
              resolved from the paths of the system's PATH environment
              variable.

              In addition to setting the player executable path, custom player
              arguments can be set via --player-args.

              NOTE:
                 In the past, --player allowed defining additional player
                 arguments, which as a consequence required wrapping player
                 paths that contained spaces in quotation marks. This is
                 unsupported since release 6.0.0.

              Default is: VLC player, if available.

       -a ARGUMENTS

       --player-args ARGUMENTS
              This option allows the arguments which are used to launch the
              player process to be customized.

              The value can contain formatting variables surrounded by curly
              braces, { and }.  Curly brace characters can be escaped by
              doubling, e.g. {{ and }}.

              Available formatting variables:

              {playerinput}
                     This is the input argument that the player will receive.
                     For standard input (stdin), it is - (dash), but it can
                     also be a file path or URL, depending on the options
                     used.  If unset, then the player input argument will be
                     appended to the parsed player arguments list.

              {playertitleargs}
                     The automatically generated player title arguments, if a
                     supported player was found. See --title for more.  If
                     unset, automatically generated player title arguments
                     will be prepended to the parsed player arguments list.

              Example:

                 streamlink -p vlc -a "--play-and-exit --no-one-instance" <url> [stream]

              Default is: "".

       --player-env KEY=VALUE
              Add an additional environment variable to the spawned player
              process, in addition to the ones inherited from the
              Streamlink/Python parent process. This allows setting player
              environment variables in config files.

              Can be repeated to add multiple environment variables.

       -v

       --verbose-player
              Allow the player to display its console output.

       -n

       --player-fifo

       --fifo Make the player read the stream through a named pipe instead of
              the stdin pipe.

       --player-http
              Make the player read the stream through HTTP instead of the
              stdin pipe.

       --player-continuous-http
              Make the player read the stream through HTTP, but unlike
              --player-http it will continuously try to open the stream if the
              player requests it.

              This makes it possible to handle stream disconnects if your
              player is capable of reconnecting to a HTTP stream. This is
              usually done by setting your player to a "repeat mode".

       --player-external-http
              Serve stream data through HTTP without running any player. This
              is useful to allow external devices like smartphones or
              streaming boxes to watch streams they wouldn't be able to
              otherwise.

              The default behavior is similar to the --player-continuous-http
              option, but no player program will be started, and the server
              will listen on all available connections instead of just in the
              local (loopback) interface.

              See --player-external-http-interface for choosing a specific
              network interface, and see --player-external-http-port for
              choosing a non-randomized port.

              Optionally, the --player-external-http-continuous option allows
              for disabling the continuous run-mode, so that Streamlink will
              stop when the stream ends.

              The URLs that can be used to access the stream will be printed
              to the console, and the server can be interrupted using CTRL-C.

       --player-external-http-continuous {yes,true,1,on,no,false,0,off}
              Set the run-mode of --player-external-http to continuous or
              non-continuous.

              In the continuous run-mode, Streamlink will keep running after
              the stream has ended and will wait for the next HTTP request
              being made unless it gets shut down via CTRL-C.

              If set to non-continuous, Streamlink will stop once the stream
              has ended.

              Default is: true.

       --player-external-http-interface INTERFACE
              The network interface on which the HTTP server will be listening
              on.  If unset or set to 0.0.0.0, all available interfaces will
              be bound.

       --player-external-http-port PORT
              A fixed port to use for the external HTTP server if that mode is
              enabled. Omit or set to 0 to use a random high ( >1024) port.

       --player-passthrough TYPES
              A comma-delimited list of stream types to pass to the player as
              a URL to let it handle the transport of the stream instead.

              Stream types that can be converted into a playable URL are:

              • hls

              • http

              Make sure your player can handle the stream type when using
              this.

       --player-no-close
              By default Streamlink will close the player when the stream
              ends. This is to avoid "dead" GUI players lingering after a
              stream ends.

              It does however have the side-effect of sometimes closing a
              player before it has played back all of its cached data.

              This option will instead let the player decide when to exit.

       -t TITLE

       --title TITLE
              Change the title of the video player's window.

              Please see the "Metadata variables" section of Streamlink's CLI
              documentation for all available metadata variables, as well as
              the "Plugins" section for the list of metadata variables defined
              in each plugin.

              This option is only supported for the following players: mpv,
              potplayer, vlc

              VLC specific information:
                     VLC does support special formatting variables on its own:
                     https://wiki.videolan.org/Documentation:Format_String/

                     These variables are accessible in the --title option by
                     adding a backslash in front of the dollar sign which VLC
                     uses as its formatting character.

                     For example, to put the current date in your VLC window
                     title, the string \$A could be inserted inside the
                     --title string.

              Example:

                 streamlink -p mpv --title "{author} - {category} - {title}" <URL> [STREAM]

   File output options

       -o FILENAME

       --output FILENAME
              Write stream data to FILENAME instead of playing it. If FILENAME
              is set to - (dash), then the stream data will be written to
              stdout, similar to the --stdout argument.

              Non-existent directories and subdirectories will be created if
              they do not exist, if filesystem permissions allow.

              You will be prompted if the file already exists.

              Please see the "Metadata variables" section of Streamlink's CLI
              documentation for all available metadata variables, as well as
              the "Plugins" section for the list of metadata variables defined
              in each plugin.

              Unsupported characters in substituted variables will be replaced
              with an underscore.

              Example:

                 streamlink --output "~/recordings/{author}/{category}/{id}-{time:%Y%m%d%H%M%S}.ts" <URL> [STREAM]

       -O

       --stdout
              Write stream data to stdout instead of playing it.

       -r FILENAME

       --record FILENAME
              Open the stream in the player, while at the same time writing it
              to FILENAME. If FILENAME is set to - (dash), then the stream
              data will be written to stdout, similar to the --stdout
              argument, while still opening the player.

              Non-existent directories and subdirectories will be created if
              they do not exist, if filesystem permissions allow.

              You will be prompted if the file already exists.

              Please see the "Metadata variables" section of Streamlink's CLI
              documentation for all available metadata variables, as well as
              the "Plugins" section for the list of metadata variables defined
              in each plugin.

              Unsupported characters in substituted variables will be replaced
              with an underscore.

              Example:

                 streamlink --record "~/recordings/{author}/{category}/{id}-{time:%Y%m%d%H%M%S}.ts" <URL> [STREAM]

       -R FILENAME

       --record-and-pipe FILENAME
              Write stream data to stdout, while at the same time writing it
              to FILENAME.

              Non-existent directories and subdirectories will be created if
              they do not exist, if filesystem permissions allow.

              You will be prompted if the file already exists.

              Please see the "Metadata variables" section of Streamlink's CLI
              documentation for all available metadata variables, as well as
              the "Plugins" section for the list of metadata variables defined
              in each plugin.

              Unsupported characters in substituted variables will be replaced
              with an underscore.

              Example:

                 streamlink --record-and-pipe "~/recordings/{author}/{category}/{id}-{time:%Y%m%d%H%M%S}.ts" <URL> [STREAM]

       --fs-safe-rules
              The rules used to make formatting variables filesystem-safe are
              chosen automatically according to the type of system in use.
              This overrides the automatic detection.

              Intended for use when Streamlink is running on a UNIX-like OS
              but writing to Windows filesystems such as NTFS; USB devices
              using VFAT or exFAT; CIFS shares that are enforcing Windows
              filename limitations, etc.

              These characters are replaced with an underscore for the rules
              in use:

              • POSIX: \x00-\x1F /

              • Windows: \x00-\x1F \x7F " * / : < > ? \ |

       -f

       --force
              When using --output or --record, always write to file even if it
              already exists (overwrite).

       --progress {yes,force,no}
              When using --output or --record, show or hide the download
              progress bar, or force it if there's no terminal.

              Default is: yes.

       --force-progress
              Deprecated in favor of --progress=force.

   Stream options

       --url URL
              A URL to attempt to extract streams from.

              Usually, the protocol of http(s) URLs can be omitted (https://),
              depending on the implementation of the plugin being used.

              This is an alternative to setting the URL using a positional
              argument and can be useful if set in a config file.

       --default-stream STREAM
              Stream to play.

              Use best or worst for selecting the highest or lowest available
              quality.

              Fallback streams can be specified by using a comma-separated
              list:

                 "720p,480p,best"

              This is an alternative to setting the stream using a positional
              argument and can be useful if set in a config file.

       --stream-url
              If possible, translate the resolved stream to a URL and print
              it.

       --retry-streams DELAY
              Retry fetching the list of available streams until streams are
              found while waiting DELAY second(s) between each attempt. If
              unset, only one attempt will be made to fetch the list of
              streams available.

              The number of fetch retry attempts can be capped with
              --retry-max.

       --retry-max COUNT
              When using --retry-streams, stop retrying the fetch after COUNT
              retry attempt(s). Fetch will retry infinitely if COUNT is zero
              or unset.

              If --retry-max is set without setting --retry-streams, the delay
              between retries will default to 1 second.

       --retry-open ATTEMPTS
              After a successful fetch, try ATTEMPTS time(s) to open the
              stream until giving up.

              Default is: 1.

       --stream-types TYPES

       --stream-priority TYPES
              A comma-delimited list of stream types to allow.

              The order will be used to separate streams when there are
              multiple streams with the same name but different stream types.
              Any stream type not listed will be omitted from the available
              streams list.  An * (asterisk) can be used as a wildcard to
              match any other type of stream, eg. muxed-stream.

              Default is: "hls,http,*".

       --stream-sorting-excludes STREAMS
              Fine tune the best and worst stream name synonyms by excluding
              unwanted streams.

              If all of the available streams get excluded, best and worst
              will become inaccessible and new special stream synonyms
              best-unfiltered and worst-unfiltered can be used as a fallback
              selection method.

              Uses a filter expression in the format:

                 [operator]<value>

              Valid operators are >, >=, < and <=. If no operator is specified
              then equality is tested.

              For example this will exclude streams ranked higher than "480p":

                 --stream-sorting-excludes ">480p"

              Multiple filters can be used by separating each expression with
              a comma.

              For example this will exclude streams from two quality types:

                 --stream-sorting-excludes ">480p,>medium"

   Stream transport options

       --ringbuffer-size SIZE
              The maximum size of the ringbuffer. Mega- or kilobytes can be
              specified via the M or K suffix respectively.

              The ringbuffer is used as a temporary storage between the stream
              and the player.  This allows Streamlink to download the stream
              faster than the player which reads the data from the ringbuffer.

              The smaller the size of the ringbuffer, the higher the chance of
              the player buffering if the download speed decreases, and the
              higher the size, the more data can be use as a storage to
              recover from volatile download speeds.

              Most players have their own additional cache and will read the
              ringbuffer's content as soon as data is available.  If the
              player stops reading data while playback is paused, Streamlink
              will continue to download the stream in the background as long
              as the ringbuffer doesn't get full.

              Default is: "16M".

              NOTE:
                 A smaller size is recommended on lower end systems (such as
                 Raspberry Pi) when playing stream types that require some
                 extra processing to avoid unnecessary background processing.

       --stream-segment-attempts ATTEMPTS
              How many attempts should be done to download each segment before
              giving up.

              This applies to all different kinds of segmented stream types,
              such as DASH, HLS, etc.

              Default is: 3.

       --stream-segment-threads THREADS
              The size of the thread pool used to download segments. Minimum
              value is 1 and maximum is 10.

              This applies to all different kinds of segmented stream types,
              such as DASH, HLS, etc.

              Default is: 1.

       --stream-segment-timeout TIMEOUT
              Segment connect and read timeout.

              This applies to all different kinds of segmented stream types,
              such as DASH, HLS, etc.

              Default is: 10.0.

       --stream-timeout TIMEOUT
              Timeout for reading data from streams.

              This applies to all different kinds of stream types, such as
              DASH, HLS, HTTP, etc.

              Default is: 60.0.

       --mux-subtitles
              Automatically mux available subtitles into the output stream.

              Needs to be supported by the used plugin.

   HLS options

       --hls-live-edge SEGMENTS
              Number of segments from the live stream's current live position
              to begin streaming.  The size or length of each segment is
              determined by the streaming provider.

              Lower values will decrease the latency, but will also increase
              the chance of buffering, as there is less time for Streamlink to
              download segments and write their data to the output buffer. The
              number of parallel segment downloads can be set with
              --stream-segment-threads and the HLS playlist reload time to
              fetch and queue new segments can be overridden with
              --hls-playlist-reload-time.

              Default is: 3.

              NOTE:
                 During live playback, the caching/buffering settings of the
                 used player will add additional latency. To adjust this,
                 please refer to the player's own documentation for the
                 required configuration. Player parameters can be set via
                 --player-args.

       --hls-segment-stream-data
              Immediately write segment data into output buffer while
              downloading.

       --hls-playlist-reload-attempts ATTEMPTS
              Max number of attempts when reloading the HLS playlist before
              giving up.

              Default is: 3.

       --hls-playlist-reload-time TIME
              Set a custom HLS playlist reload time value, either in seconds
              or by using one of the following keywords:

              • segment: The duration of the last segment in the current
                playlist

              • live-edge: The sum of segment durations of the live edge value
                minus one

              • default: The playlist's target duration metadata

              Default is: default.

       --hls-segment-queue-threshold FACTOR
              The multiplication factor of the HLS playlist's target duration
              after which the stream will be stopped early if no new segments
              were queued after refreshing the playlist (multiple times). The
              target duration defines the maximum duration a single segment
              can have, meaning new segments must be available during this
              time frame, otherwise playback issues can occur.

              The intention of this queue threshold is to be able to stop
              early when the end of a stream doesn't get announced by the
              server, so Streamlink doesn't have to wait until a read-timeout
              occurs. See --stream-timeout.

              Set to 0 to disable.

              Default is: 3.

       --hls-segment-ignore-names NAMES
              A comma-delimited list of segment names that will get filtered
              out.

              Example: --hls-segment-ignore-names 000,001,002

              This will ignore every segment that ends with 000.ts, 001.ts and
              002.ts

              Default is: None.

       --hls-segment-key-uri URI
              Override the segment encryption key URIs for encrypted streams.

              The value can be templated using the following variables, which
              will be replaced with their respective part from the source
              segment URI:

                 {url} {scheme} {netloc} {path} {query}

              Examples:

                 --hls-segment-key-uri "https://example.com/hls/encryption_key"
                 --hls-segment-key-uri "{scheme}://1.2.3.4{path}{query}"
                 --hls-segment-key-uri "{scheme}://{netloc}/custom/path/to/key"

              Default is: None.

       --hls-audio-select CODE
              Selects a specific audio source or sources, by language code or
              name, when multiple audio sources are available. Can be *
              (asterisk) to download all audio sources.

              Examples:

                 --hls-audio-select "English,German"
                 --hls-audio-select "en,de"
                 --hls-audio-select "*"

              NOTE:
                 This is only useful in special circumstances where the
                 regular locale option fails, such as when multiple sources of
                 the same language exists.

       --hls-start-offset [[XX:]XX:]XX[.XX] | [XXh][XXm][XX[.XX]s]
              Amount of time to skip from the beginning of the stream. For
              live streams, this is a negative offset from the end of the
              stream (rewind).

              Default is: 0.

       --hls-duration [[XX:]XX:]XX[.XX] | [XXh][XXm][XX[.XX]s]
              Limit the playback duration, useful for watching segments of a
              stream.  The actual duration may be slightly longer, as it is
              rounded to the nearest HLS segment.

              Default is: unlimited.

       --hls-live-restart
              Skip to the beginning of a live stream, or as far back as
              possible.

   DASH options

       --dash-manifest-reload-attempts ATTEMPTS
              Max number of attempts when reloading the DASH manifest before
              giving up.

              Default is: 3.

   FFmpeg options

       --ffmpeg-ffmpeg FILENAME
              FFMPEG is used to access or mux separate video and audio
              streams. You can specify the location of the ffmpeg executable
              if it is not in your PATH.

              Example: --ffmpeg-ffmpeg "/usr/local/bin/ffmpeg"

       --ffmpeg-no-validation
              Disable FFmpeg validation and version logging.

       --ffmpeg-verbose
              Write the console output from ffmpeg to the console.

       --ffmpeg-verbose-path PATH
              Path to write the output from the ffmpeg console.

       --ffmpeg-fout OUTFORMAT
              When muxing streams, set the output format to OUTFORMAT.

              Default is: "matroska".

              Example: --ffmpeg-fout "mpegts"

       --ffmpeg-video-transcode CODEC
              When muxing streams, transcode the video to CODEC.

              Default is: "copy".

              Example: --ffmpeg-video-transcode "h264"

       --ffmpeg-audio-transcode CODEC
              When muxing streams, transcode the audio to CODEC.

              Default is: "copy".

              Example: --ffmpeg-audio-transcode "aac"

       --ffmpeg-copyts
              Forces the -copyts ffmpeg option and does not remove the initial
              start time offset value.

       --ffmpeg-start-at-zero
              Enable the -start_at_zero ffmpeg option when using
              --ffmpeg-copyts.

   HTTP options

       --http-proxy HTTP_PROXY
              A HTTP proxy to use for all HTTP and HTTPS requests, including
              WebSocket connections.

              Example: --http-proxy "http://hostname:port/"

       --http-cookie KEY=VALUE
              A cookie to add to each HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple cookies.

       --http-header KEY=VALUE
              A header to add to each HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple headers.

       --http-query-param KEY=VALUE
              A query parameter to add to each HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple query parameters.

       --http-ignore-env
              Ignore HTTP settings set in the environment such as environment
              variables (HTTP_PROXY, etc) or ~/.netrc authentication.

       --http-no-ssl-verify
              Don't attempt to verify SSL certificates.

              Usually a bad idea, only use this if you know what you're doing.

       --http-disable-dh
              Disable Diffie Hellman key exchange

              Usually a bad idea, only use this if you know what you're doing.

       --http-ssl-cert FILENAME
              SSL certificate to use.

              Expects a .pem file.

       --http-ssl-cert-crt-key CRT_FILENAME KEY_FILENAME
              SSL certificate to use.

              Expects a .crt and a .key file.

       --http-timeout TIMEOUT
              General timeout used by all HTTP requests except the ones
              covered by other options.

              Default is: 20.0.

   Web browser options

       --webbrowser {yes,true,1,on,no,false,0,off}
              Enable or disable support for Streamlink's webbrowser API.

              Streamlink's webbrowser API allows plugins which implement it to
              launch a web browser and extract data from websites which they
              otherwise couldn't do via the regular HTTP session in Python due
              to specific JavaScript restrictions.

              The web browser is run isolated and in a clean environment
              without access to regular user data.

              Streamlink currently only supports Chromium-based web browsers
              using the Chrome Devtools Protocol (CDP).  This includes
              Chromium itself, Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Brave, Vivaldi,
              and others, but full support for third party Chromium forks is
              not guaranteed. If you encounter any issues, please try Chromium
              or Google Chrome instead.

              Default is: true.

       --webbrowser-executable PATH
              Path to the web browser's executable.

              By default, it is looked up automatically according to the rules
              of the used webbrowser API implementation.  This usually
              involves a list of known executable names and fallback paths on
              all supported operating systems.

       --webbrowser-timeout TIME
              The maximum amount of time which the web browser can take to
              launch and execute.

       --webbrowser-cdp-host HOST
              Host for the web browser's inter-process communication interface
              (CDP specific).

              Default is: 127.0.0.1.

       --webbrowser-cdp-port PORT
              Port for the web browser's inter-process communication interface
              (CDP specific).

              Tries to find a free port by default.

       --webbrowser-cdp-timeout TIME
              The maximum amount of time for waiting on a single CDP command
              response.

       --webbrowser-headless {yes,true,1,on,no,false,0,off}
              Whether to launch the web browser in headless mode or not.  When
              enabled, it stays completely hidden and doesn't require a
              desktop environment to run.

              Default is: true.

   Plugin options
   Afreeca

       --afreeca-username USERNAME
              The username used to register with afreecatv.com.

       --afreeca-password PASSWORD
              A afreecatv.com account password to use with --afreeca-username.

       --afreeca-purge-credentials
              Purge cached AfreecaTV credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

   Bbciplayer

       --bbciplayer-username USERNAME
              The username used to register with bbc.co.uk.

       --bbciplayer-password PASSWORD
              A bbc.co.uk account password to use with --bbciplayer-username.

       --bbciplayer-hd
              Prefer HD streams over local SD streams, some live programmes
              may not be broadcast in HD.

   Clubbingtv

       --clubbingtv-username
              The username used to register with Clubbing TV.

       --clubbingtv-password
              A Clubbing TV account password to use with
              --clubbingtv-username.

   Crunchyroll

       --crunchyroll-username USERNAME
              A Crunchyroll username to allow access to restricted streams.

       --crunchyroll-password [PASSWORD]
              A Crunchyroll password for use with --crunchyroll-username.

              If left blank you will be prompted.

       --crunchyroll-purge-credentials
              Purge cached Crunchyroll credentials to initiate a new session
              and reauthenticate.

       --crunchyroll-session-id SESSION_ID
              Set a specific session ID for crunchyroll, can be used to bypass
              region restrictions. If using an authenticated session ID, it is
              recommended that the authentication parameters be omitted as the
              session ID is account specific.

              NOTE:
                 The session ID will be overwritten if authentication is used
                 and the session ID does not match the account.

   Nicolive

       --niconico-email EMAIL
              The email or phone number associated with your Niconico account

       --niconico-password PASSWORD
              The password of your Niconico account

       --niconico-user-session VALUE
              Value of the user-session token.

              Can be used as an alternative to providing a password.

       --niconico-purge-credentials
              Purge cached Niconico credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

       --niconico-timeshift-offset [[XX:]XX:]XX | [XXh][XXm][XXs]
              Amount of time to skip from the beginning of a stream.

              Default is: 0.

   Openrectv

       --openrectv-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your openrectv account, required to
              access any openrectv stream.

       --openrectv-password PASSWORD
              An openrectv account password to use with --openrectv-email.

   Pixiv

       --pixiv-sessionid SESSIONID
              The pixiv.net sessionid that's used in pixiv's PHPSESSID cookie.

       --pixiv-devicetoken DEVICETOKEN
              The pixiv.net device token that's used in pixiv's device_token
              cookie.

       --pixiv-purge-credentials
              Purge cached Pixiv credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

       --pixiv-performer USER
              Select a co-host stream instead of the owner stream.

   Raiplay

       --raiplay-email EMAIL
              The email used to register with raiplay.it.

       --raiplay-password PASSWORD
              A raiplay.it account password to use with --raiplay-email.

       --raiplay-purge-credentials
              Purge cached RaiPlay credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

   Sbscokr
   Steam

       --steam-email EMAIL
              A Steam account email address to access friends/private streams

       --steam-password PASSWORD
              A Steam account password to use with --steam-email.

   Streann

       --streann-url URL
              Source URL where the iframe is located, only required for direct
              URLs of ott.streann.com

   Twitcasting

       --twitcasting-password PASSWORD
              Password for private Twitcasting streams.

   Twitch

       --twitch-disable-ads
              Skip embedded advertisement segments at the beginning or during
              a stream.  Will cause these segments to be missing from the
              output.

       --twitch-low-latency
              Enables low latency streaming by prefetching HLS segments.  Sets
              --hls-segment-stream-data to true and --hls-live-edge to 2, if
              it is higher.  Reducing --hls-live-edge to 1 will result in the
              lowest latency possible, but will most likely cause buffering.

              In order to achieve true low latency streaming during playback,
              the player's caching/buffering settings will need to be adjusted
              and reduced to a value as low as possible, but still high enough
              to not cause any buffering.  This depends on the stream's
              bitrate and the quality of the connection to Twitch's servers.
              Please refer to the player's own documentation for the required
              configuration. Player parameters can be set via --player-args.

              NOTE:
                 Low latency streams have to be enabled by the broadcasters on
                 Twitch themselves.  Regular streams can cause buffering
                 issues with this option enabled due to the reduced
                 --hls-live-edge value.

       --twitch-api-header KEY=VALUE
              A header to add to each Twitch API HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple headers.

              Useful for adding authentication data that can prevent ads. See
              the plugin-specific documentation for more information.

       --twitch-access-token-param KEY=VALUE
              A parameter to add to the API request for acquiring the
              streaming access token.

              Can be repeated to add multiple parameters.

       --twitch-purge-client-integrity
              Purge cached Twitch client-integrity token and acquire a new
              one.

   Ustreamtv

       --ustream-password PASSWORD
              A password to access password protected UStream.tv channels.

   Ustvnow

       --ustvnow-username USERNAME
              Your USTV Now account username

       --ustvnow-password PASSWORD
              Your USTV Now account password

   Wwenetwork

       --wwenetwork-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your WWE Network account, required to
              access any WWE Network stream.

       --wwenetwork-password PASSWORD
              A WWE Network account password to use with --wwenetwork-email.

   Yupptv

       --yupptv-boxid BOXID
              The yupptv.com boxid that's used in the BoxId cookie.

       --yupptv-yuppflixtoken YUPPFLIXTOKEN
              The yupptv.com yuppflixtoken that's used in the YuppflixToken
              cookie.

       --yupptv-purge-credentials
              Purge cached YuppTV credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

   Zattoo

       --zattoo-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your zattoo account, required to
              access any zattoo stream.

       --zattoo-password PASSWORD
              A zattoo account password to use with --zattoo-email.

       --zattoo-purge-credentials
              Purge cached zattoo credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

       --zattoo-stream-types TYPES
              A comma-delimited list of stream types which should be used.

              The following types are allowed: dash,hls7

              Default is: "dash".

BUGS
       Please open a new issue on Streamlink's issue tracker on GitHub and use
       the appropriate issue forms:

       https://github.com/streamlink/streamlink/issues

SEE ALSO
       For more detailed information about config files, plugin sideloading,
       streaming protocols, proxy support, metadata, or plugin specific stuff,
       please see Streamlink's online CLI documentation here:

       https://streamlink.github.io/cli.html

       The list of available plugins and their descriptions can be found here:

       https://streamlink.github.io/plugins.html

AUTHOR
       Streamlink Contributors

COPYRIGHT
       2024, Streamlink

6.5.1                          January 16, 2024                  STREAMLINK(1)
