PYI-MAKESPEC(1)                   PyInstaller                  PYI-MAKESPEC(1)

NAME
       pyi-makespec - Create a spec file for your PyInstaller project

SYNOPSIS
       pyi-makespec <options> SCRIPT [SCRIPT ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The spec file is the description of what you want PyInstaller to do
       with your program. pyi-makespec is a simple wizard to create spec files
       that cover basic usages:

          pyi-makespec [--onefile] yourprogram.py

       By default, pyi-makespec generates a spec file that tells PyInstaller
       to create a distribution directory contains the main executable and the
       dynamic libraries. The option --onefile specifies that you want
       PyInstaller to build a single file with everything inside.

       In most cases the specfile generated by pyi-makespec is all you need.
       If not, see When things go wrong in the manual and be sure to read the
       introduction to Spec Files.

OPTIONS
   Positional Arguments
       scriptname

   Options

       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit

       --log-level_LEVEL
              Amount of detail in build-time console messages. LEVEL may be
              one of TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARN, DEPRECATION, ERROR, FATAL
              (default: INFO). Also settable via and overrides the
              PYI_LOG_LEVEL environment variable.

   What To Generate

       -D, --onedir
              Create a one-folder bundle containing an executable (default)

       -F, --onefile
              Create a one-file bundled executable.

       --specpath_DIR
              Folder to store the generated spec file (default: current
              directory)

       -n_NAME, --name_NAME
              Name to assign to the bundled app and spec file (default: first
              script's basename)

       --contents-directory_CONTENTS_DIRECTORY
              For onedir builds only, specify the name of the directory in
              which all supporting files (i.e. everything except the
              executable itself) will be placed in. Use "." to re-enable old
              onedir layout without contents directory.

   What To Bundle, Where To Search
       --add-data SOURCE:DEST
          Additional data files or directories containing data files to be
          added to the application. The argument value should be in form of
          "source:dest_dir", where source is the path to file (or directory)
          to be collected, dest_dir is the destination directory relative to
          the top-level application directory, and both paths are separated by
          a colon (:). To put a file in the top-level application directory,
          use . as a dest_dir. This option can be used multiple times.

       --add-binary SOURCE:DEST
          Additional binary files to be added to the executable. See the
          --add-data option for the format. This option can be used multiple
          times.

       -p_DIR, --paths_DIR
              A path to search for imports (like using PYTHONPATH).  Multiple
              paths are allowed, separated by ':', or use this option multiple
              times. Equivalent to supplying the pathex argument in the spec
              file.

       --hidden-import_MODULENAME, --hiddenimport_MODULENAME
              Name an import not visible in the code of the script(s). This
              option can be used multiple times.

       --collect-submodules_MODULENAME
              Collect all submodules from the specified package or module.
              This option can be used multiple times.

       --collect-data_MODULENAME, --collect-datas_MODULENAME
              Collect all data from the specified package or module. This
              option can be used multiple times.

       --collect-binaries_MODULENAME
              Collect all binaries from the specified package or module. This
              option can be used multiple times.

       --collect-all_MODULENAME
              Collect all submodules, data files, and binaries from the
              specified package or module. This option can be used multiple
              times.

       --copy-metadata_PACKAGENAME
              Copy metadata for the specified package. This option can be used
              multiple times.

       --recursive-copy-metadata_PACKAGENAME
              Copy metadata for the specified package and all its
              dependencies. This option can be used multiple times.

       --additional-hooks-dir_HOOKSPATH
              An additional path to search for hooks. This option can be used
              multiple times.

       --runtime-hook_RUNTIME_HOOKS
              Path to a custom runtime hook file. A runtime hook is code that
              is bundled with the executable and is executed before any other
              code or module to set up special features of the runtime
              environment. This option can be used multiple times.

       --exclude-module_EXCLUDES
              Optional module or package (the Python name, not the path name)
              that will be ignored (as though it was not found). This option
              can be used multiple times.

       --splash_IMAGE_FILE
              (EXPERIMENTAL) Add an splash screen with the image IMAGE_FILE to
              the application. The splash screen can display progress updates
              while unpacking.

   How To Generate
       -d {all,imports,bootloader,noarchive}, --debug
       {all,imports,bootloader,noarchive}
          R|Provide assistance with debugging a frozen application. This
          argument may be provided multiple times to select several of the
          following options. - all: All three of the following options. -
          imports: specify the -v option to the underlying Python interpreter,
          causing it to print a message each time a module is initialized,
          showing the place (filename or built-in module) from which it is
          loaded. See https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#id4. -
          bootloader: tell the bootloader to issue progress messages while
          initializing and starting the bundled app. Used to diagnose problems
          with missing imports. - noarchive: instead of storing all frozen
          Python source files as an archive inside the resulting executable,
          store them as files in the resulting output directory.

       --python-option_PYTHON_OPTION
              Specify a command-line option to pass to the Python interpreter
              at runtime.  Currently supports "v" (equivalent to "--debug
              imports"), "u", "W <warning control>", "X <xoption>", and
              "hash_seed=<value>". For details, see the section "Specifying
              Python Interpreter Options" in PyInstaller manual.

       -s, --strip
              Apply a symbol-table strip to the executable and shared libs
              (not recommended for Windows)

       --noupx
              Do not use UPX even if it is available (works differently
              between Windows and *nix)

       --upx-exclude_FILE
              Prevent a binary from being compressed when using upx.  This is
              typically used if upx corrupts certain binaries during
              compression. FILE is the filename of the binary without path.
              This option can be used multiple times.

   Windows And Mac Os X Specific Options

       -c, --console, --nowindowed
              Open a console window for standard i/o (default). On Windows
              this option has no effect if the first script is a '.pyw' file.

       -w, --windowed, --noconsole
              Windows and Mac OS X: do not provide a console window for
              standard i/o. On Mac OS this also triggers building a Mac OS
              .app bundle. On Windows this option is automatically set if the
              first script is a '.pyw' file. This option is ignored on *NIX
              systems.

       --hide-console {minimize-late,hide-late,hide-early,minimize-early}
          Windows only: in console-enabled executable, have bootloader
          automatically hide or minimize the console window if the program
          owns the console window (i.e., was not launched from an existing
          console window).

       -i_<FILE.icoorFILE.exe,IDorFILE.icnsorImageor"NONE">, --icon_<FILE.icoorFILE.exe,IDorFILE.icnsorImageor"NONE">
              FILE.ico: apply the icon to a Windows executable. FILE.exe,ID:
              extract the icon with ID from an exe. FILE.icns: apply the icon
              to the .app bundle on Mac OS. If an image file is entered that
              isn't in the platform format (ico on Windows, icns on Mac),
              PyInstaller tries to use Pillow to translate the icon into the
              correct format (if Pillow is installed). Use "NONE" to not apply
              any icon, thereby making the OS show some default (default:
              apply PyInstaller's icon). This option can be used multiple
              times.

       --disable-windowed-traceback
              Disable traceback dump of unhandled exception in windowed
              (noconsole) mode (Windows and macOS only), and instead display a
              message that this feature is disabled.

   Windows Specific Options

       --version-file_FILE
              Add a version resource from FILE to the exe.

       -m_<FILEorXML>, --manifest_<FILEorXML>
              Add manifest FILE or XML to the exe.

       -r_RESOURCE, --resource_RESOURCE
              Add or update a resource to a Windows executable. The RESOURCE
              is one to four items, FILE[,TYPE[,NAME[,LANGUAGE]]]. FILE can be
              a data file or an exe/dll. For data files, at least TYPE and
              NAME must be specified. LANGUAGE defaults to 0 or may be
              specified as wildcard * to update all resources of the given
              TYPE and NAME. For exe/dll files, all resources from FILE will
              be added/updated to the final executable if TYPE, NAME and
              LANGUAGE are omitted or specified as wildcard *. This option can
              be used multiple times.

       --uac-admin
              Using this option creates a Manifest that will request elevation
              upon application start.

       --uac-uiaccess
              Using this option allows an elevated application to work with
              Remote Desktop.

   Mac Os Specific Options

       --argv-emulation
              Enable argv emulation for macOS app bundles. If enabled, the
              initial open document/URL event is processed by the bootloader
              and the passed file paths or URLs are appended to sys.argv.

       --osx-bundle-identifier_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER
              Mac OS .app bundle identifier is used as the default unique
              program name for code signing purposes. The usual form is a
              hierarchical name in reverse DNS notation. For example:
              com.mycompany.department.appname (default: first script's
              basename)

       --target-architecture_ARCH, --target-arch_ARCH
              Target architecture (macOS only; valid values: x86_64, arm64,
              universal2).  Enables switching between universal2 and
              single-arch version of frozen application (provided python
              installation supports the target architecture). If not target
              architecture is not specified, the current running architecture
              is targeted.

       --codesign-identity_IDENTITY
              Code signing identity (macOS only). Use the provided identity to
              sign collected binaries and generated executable. If signing
              identity is not provided, ad- hoc signing is performed instead.

       --osx-entitlements-file_FILENAME
              Entitlements file to use when code-signing the collected
              binaries (macOS only).

   Rarely Used Special Options

       --runtime-tmpdir_PATH
              Where to extract libraries and support files in onefile-mode. If
              this option is given, the bootloader will ignore any temp-folder
              location defined by the run-time OS. The _MEIxxxxxx-folder will
              be created here.  Please use this option only if you know what
              you are doing.

       --bootloader-ignore-signals
              Tell the bootloader to ignore signals rather than forwarding
              them to the child process. Useful in situations where for
              example a supervisor process signals both the bootloader and the
              child (e.g., via a process group) to avoid signalling the child
              twice.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

       PYINSTALLER_CONFIG_DIR
              This changes the directory where PyInstaller caches some files.
              The default location for this is operating system dependent, but
              is typically a subdirectory of the home directory.

SEE ALSO
       pyinstaller(1), The PyInstaller Manual
       https://pyinstaller.readthedocs.io/, Project Homepage
       http://www.pyinstaller.org

AUTHOR
       Hartmut Goebel

COPYRIGHT
       This document has been placed in the public domain.

6.5.0                             2025-08-09                   PYI-MAKESPEC(1)
