IOZTAT(8)               FreeBSD System Manager's Manual              IOZTAT(8)

NAME
     ioztat – display logical I/O statistics for ZFS datasets

SYNOPSIS
     ioztat -V | --version
     ioztat -h | --help
     ioztat [-DeHINnoSxyz] [-c count] [-i interval] [-T u|d]
            [-s name|operations|reads|writes|throughput|nread|nwritten]
            [dataset ...] [interval [count]]

DESCRIPTION
     The ioztat utility displays logical I/O statistics for individual ZFS
     datasets.  The first report is averaged over the system uptime unless
     suppressed with -y.  If an interval is specified, this is followed by
     reports averaged over the reporting interval.  If -y or a count is
     specified, interval defaults to one second.

     Underlying device I/O depends on pool and dataset configuration.  See
     zpool-iostat(8) and iostat(8) for reporting on these values.

     To filter output you may pass in a list of datasets.  If no datasets are
     specified, statistics for every mounted dataset in the system are shown.
     If the -n option is given, child datasets are not included for any
     specified dataset unless they are also directly specified.

     The options are as follows:

     -D    Display formatted byte sizes using decimal powers of 1000 instead
           of powers of 1024.

     -c    Display count reports and exit.  This can also be specified after
           an interval at the end of the argument list.  If interval is
           specified but not count then it defaults to infinity, otherwise it
           defaults to one.

     -e    Display exact values, without truncating dataset names (unless -p
           is given) or formatting numeric output.

     -H    Scripted mode, skip headers and tab-separate fields instead of
           using arbitrary whitespace.

     -h, --help
           Display help text and exit.

     -I    Display total statistics since the last report instead of averages
           per-second.

     -i    Pause interval seconds between reports.  This can also be specified
           at the end of the argument list, prior to an optional count.  If no
           interval is specified the default is 1 second.

           The ioztat command will accept non-integer intervals, but it should
           be noted the reporting interval is not exact.

     -N    Display headers only once, instead of periodically repeating them.

     -n    Omit children of any specified datasets that haven't themselves
           been explicitly specified.

     -o    Overwrite mode.  Before each report, clear the screen and print
           only as many lines as will fit.

     -P    Display dataset names on a single line.

     -p    Display dataset names as an indented tree spread across multiple
           lines.  These options override defaults that may be applied by
           different sorting and display modes.

     -S    Sum child dataset statistics into their parents.  This can be
           useful when combined with -n to omit display of child datasets
           while still seeing associated I/O.

     -s    Sort each report by the specified order.  Defaults to name.

     -T u|d
           Before each report, display a timestamp.  Specify u for a numeric
           Unix timestamp in seconds since the epoch, or d for a formatted
           date-time.

     -V, --version
           Display the current version of ioztat and exit.

     -x    Specified once, display an opsize group containing throughput
           divided by operations, giving the average byte size of each I/O.
           Specified twice, also display an unlinks section giving a count of
           the number of files and directories queued for deletion, and the
           number which have been deleted.

     -y    Omit statistics since boot.  This suppresses output for the first
           interval seconds.

     -z    Omit datasets which have no activity.

EXAMPLES
           ioztat rpool/USERDATA 1

     Display per-second statistics for any mounted datasets within
     rpool/USERDATA.

           ioztat -zoTd -s operations 5

     Display statistics for all mounted datasets with activity across five
     second intervals, ordered by total read and write operations, limited by
     available display and overwriting prior reports in a manner similar to
     top(1).

           ioztat -SIn rpool

     Display sum total of I/O for all datasets within rpool since boot.

           ioztat -Hey

     Display a single one-second report for all mounted datasets, using a
     machine-readable format omitting headers, using tab-delimited fields, and
     providing exact values.

SEE ALSO
     iostat(8), zfs(8), zpool-iostat(8)

BUGS
     Please report any issues at https://github.com/jimsalterjrs/ioztat/issues

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           January 29, 2022           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
