CPPMAN(1)                        User Manuals                        CPPMAN(1)

NAME
     cppman - C++ manual page viewer / fetcher

SYNOPSIS
     cppman [ OPTIONS...  ] PAGE...

DESCRIPTION
     cppman generates C++ manual pages from cplusplus.com and cppreference.com
     and provides a man-like interface to view man pages.

     By default, cppman fetches man pages on-the-fly, by running the command
     'cppman -c', all available manpages are cached, making offline browsing
     possible. This is also required if you want to use the system 'man'
     command.

     When searching for a page (e.g., 'cppman map'), cppman automatically
     tries the std:: prefix first (std::map) for better results. If a page
     name is specified without the -f option, cppman displays the first match
     directly. Use -f to show an interactive selection menu with pagination
     support (20 items per page).

   Browsing man pages
     cppman uses Vi Improved as a pager.
     Press 'q' to leave pager.  Press 'K' on an entry like 'vector::insert(3)'
     links you to the manual page of vector::insert, like a hyperlink.

   man compatibility
     cppman automatically adds '$XDG_CACHE_HOME/cppman/man' to '~/.manpath',
     so the cached man pages can also be viewed with 'man' command. Note that
     to view uncached man pages, you still need to run 'cppman'.

OPTIONS
     -s SOURCE, --source=SOURCE
            Select source, either 'cppreference.com' or 'cplusplus.com'.
            Default is 'cppreference.com'.

     -c, --cache-all
            cache all available man pages from cplusplus.com to enable offline
            browsing

     -C, --clear-cache
            clear all cached files

     -f KEYWORD, --find-page=KEYWORD
            find man page and show interactive selection menu if multiple
            matches are found. The menu displays up to 20 results per page.
            Use 'n' or 'next' to go to the next page, 'p' or 'prev' to go to
            the previous page, or enter a number to select a specific page.

     -o, --force-update
            force cppman to update existing cache when '--cache-all' or
            browsing man pages that were already cached

     -m MANDB, --use-mandb=MANDB
            Accepts 'true' or 'false'. If true, cppman adds manpage path to
            mandb so that you can view C++ manpages with `man' command. The
            default value is 'false'.

     -p PAGER, --pager=PAGER
            Select pager to use, accepts 'vim', 'nvim' or 'less'. The default
            value is 'vim'.  If 'nvim' is selected, but not available, 'vim'
            is used as a fallback and vice versa. If either is selected, but
            neither is available, 'less' is used as a fallback.

     -r, --rebuild-index
            rebuild index database from cplusplus.com and cppreference.com

     -n NUM, --max-results=NUM
            maximum number of search results to show in the selection menu

     -v, --version
            show version information

     -h, --help
            show this help message and exit

NOTE
     All contents should be cached by the user, cppman does not contain any
     pre‐cached contents.

     Do not distribute the cached man pages without the permission of
     cplusplus.com.

BUGS
     Although I spend a lot of time checking the format, there are still pages
     that won't display correctly.
     Feel free to report bugs at:

     https://github.com/aitjcize/cppman/issues or
     mailto:aitjcize@gmail.com.

     Please include the page name in the bug report.

AUTHOR
     Wei‐Ning Huang (AZ) <aitjcize@gmail.com>

Linux                              MAY 2010                          CPPMAN(1)
