STREAMLINK(1)                     Streamlink                     STREAMLINK(1)



NAME
       streamlink - extracts streams from various services and pipes them into
       a video player of choice

SYNOPSIS

          streamlink [OPTIONS] <URL> [STREAM]

          streamlink --loglevel debug youtu.be/VIDEO-ID best
          streamlink --player mpv --player-args '--no-border --no-keepaspect-window' twitch.tv/CHANNEL 1080p60
          streamlink --player-external-http --player-external-http-port 8888 URL STREAM
          streamlink --output /path/to/file --http-timeout 60 URL STREAM
          streamlink --stdout URL STREAM | ffmpeg -i pipe:0 ...
          streamlink --http-header 'Authorization=OAuth TOKEN' --http-header 'Referer=URL' URL STREAM
          streamlink --hls-live-edge 5 --hls-segment-threads 5 'hls://https://host/playlist.m3u8' best
          streamlink --twitch-low-latency -p mpv -a '--cache=yes --demuxer-max-bytes=750k' twitch.tv/CHANNEL best

POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS

       URL    A URL to attempt to extract streams from.

              Usually, the protocol of http(s) URLs can be omitted
              ("https://"), depending on the implementation of the plugin
              being used.

              Alternatively, the URL can also be specified by using the --url
              option.

       STREAM Stream to play.

              Use best or worst for selecting the highest or lowest available
              quality.

              Fallback streams can be specified by using a comma-separated
              list:

                 "720p,480p,best"

              If no stream is specified and --default-stream is not used, then
              a list of available streams will be printed.

GENERAL OPTIONS

       -h

       --help Show this help message and exit.

       -V

       --version
              Show version number and exit.

       --plugins
              Print a list of all currently installed plugins.

       --plugin-dirs DIRECTORY
              Attempts to load plugins from these directories.

              Multiple directories can be used by separating them with a
              comma.

       --can-handle-url URL
              Check if Streamlink has a plugin that can handle the specified
              URL.

              Returns status code 1 for false and 0 for true.

              Useful for external scripting.

       --can-handle-url-no-redirect URL
              Same as --can-handle-url but without following redirects when
              looking up the URL.

       --config FILENAME
              Load options from this config file.

              Can be repeated to load multiple files, in which case the
              options are merged on top of each other where the last config
              has highest priority.

       -l LEVEL

       --loglevel LEVEL
              Set the log message threshold.

              Valid levels are: none, error, warning, info, debug, trace

       -Q

       --quiet
              Hide all log output.

              Alias for "--loglevel none".

       -j

       --json Output JSON representations instead of the normal text output.

              Useful for external scripting.

       --auto-version-check {yes,true,1,on,no,false,0,off}
              Enable or disable the automatic check for a new version of
              Streamlink.

              Default is: "no".

       --version-check
              Runs a version check and exits.

       --locale LOCALE
              The preferred locale setting, for selecting the preferred
              subtitle and audio language.

              The locale is formatted as [language_code]_[country_code], eg.
              en_US or es_ES.

              Default is: system locale.

       --interface INTERFACE
              Set the network interface.

       -4

       --ipv4 Resolve address names to IPv4 only. This option overrides -6.

       -6

       --ipv6 Resolve address names to IPv6 only. This option overrides -4.

PLAYER OPTIONS

       -p COMMAND

       --player COMMAND
              Player to feed stream data to. By default, VLC will be used if
              it can be found in its default location.

              This is a shell-like syntax to support using a specific player:

                 streamlink --player=vlc <url> [stream]

              Absolute or relative paths can also be passed via this option in
              the event the player's executable can not be resolved:

                 streamlink --player=/path/to/vlc <url> [stream]
                 streamlink --player=./vlc-player/vlc <url> [stream]

              To use a player that is located in a path with spaces you must
              quote the parameter or its value:

                 streamlink "--player=/path/with spaces/vlc" <url> [stream]
                 streamlink --player "C:\path\with spaces\mpc-hc64.exe" <url> [stream]

              Options may also be passed to the player. For example:

                 streamlink --player "vlc --file-caching=5000" <url> [stream]

              As an alternative to this, see the --player-args parameter,
              which does not log any custom player arguments.

       -a ARGUMENTS

       --player-args ARGUMENTS
              This option allows you to customize the default arguments which
              are put together with the value of --player to create a command
              to execute.

              It's usually enough to only use --player instead of this unless
              you need to add arguments after the player's input argument or
              if you don't want any of the player arguments to be logged.

              The value can contain formatting variables surrounded by curly
              braces, { and }. If you need to include a brace character, it
              can be escaped by doubling, e.g. {{ and }}.

              Formatting variables available:

              {playerinput}
                     This is the input that the player will use. For standard
                     input (stdin), it is -, but it can also be a URL,
                     depending on the options used.

              {filename}
                     The old fallback variable name with the same
                     functionality.

              Example:

                 streamlink -p vlc -a "--play-and-exit {playerinput}" <url> [stream]

              NOTE:
                 When neither of the variables are found, {playerinput} will
                 be appended to the whole parameter value, to ensure that the
                 player always receives an input argument.

       -v

       --verbose-player
              Allow the player to display its console output.

       -n

       --player-fifo

       --fifo Make the player read the stream through a named pipe instead of
              the stdin pipe.

       --player-http
              Make the player read the stream through HTTP instead of the
              stdin pipe.

       --player-continuous-http
              Make the player read the stream through HTTP, but unlike
              --player-http it will continuously try to open the stream if the
              player requests it.

              This makes it possible to handle stream disconnects if your
              player is capable of reconnecting to a HTTP stream. This is
              usually done by setting your player to a "repeat mode".

       --player-external-http
              Serve stream data through HTTP without running any player. This
              is useful to allow external devices like smartphones or
              streaming boxes to watch streams they wouldn't be able to
              otherwise.

              Behavior will be similar to the continuous HTTP option, but no
              player program will be started, and the server will listen on
              all available connections instead of just in the local
              (loopback) interface.

              The URLs that can be used to access the stream will be printed
              to the console, and the server can be interrupted using CTRL-C.

       --player-external-http-port PORT
              A fixed port to use for the external HTTP server if that mode is
              enabled. Omit or set to 0 to use a random high ( >1024) port.

       --player-passthrough TYPES
              A comma-delimited list of stream types to pass to the player as
              a URL to let it handle the transport of the stream instead.

              Stream types that can be converted into a playable URL are:

              • hls

              • http

              • rtmp

              Make sure your player can handle the stream type when using
              this.

       --player-no-close
              By default Streamlink will close the player when the stream
              ends. This is to avoid "dead" GUI players lingering after a
              stream ends.

              It does however have the side-effect of sometimes closing a
              player before it has played back all of its cached data.

              This option will instead let the player decide when to exit.

       -t TITLE

       --title TITLE
              This option allows you to supply a title to be displayed in the
              title bar of the window that the video player is launched in.

              This value can contain formatting variables surrounded by curly
              braces, { and }. If you need to include a brace character, it
              can be escaped by doubling, e.g. {{ and }}.

              This option is only supported for the following players: mpv,
              potplayer, vlc.

              VLC specific information:
                     VLC has certain codes you can use inside your title.
                     These are accessible inside --title by using a backslash
                     before the dollar sign VLC uses to denote a format
                     character.

                     e.g. to put the current date in your VLC window title,
                     the string "$A" could be inserted inside your --title
                     string.

                     A full list of the format codes VLC uses is available
                     here:
                     https://wiki.videolan.org/Documentation:Format_String/

              mpv specific information:
                     mpv has certain codes you can use inside your title.
                     These are accessible inside --title by using a backslash
                     before the dollar sign mpv uses to denote a format
                     character.

                     e.g. to put the current version of mpv running inside
                     your mpv window title, the string "${{mpv-version}}"
                     could be inserted inside your --title string.

                     A full list of the format codes mpv uses is available
                     here: https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#property-list

              Formatting variables available to use in --title:

              {title}
                     If available, this is the title of the stream.
                     Otherwise, it is the string "Unknown Title"

              {author}
                     If available, this is the author of the stream.
                     Otherwise, it is the string "Unknown Author"

              {category}
                     If available, this is the category the stream has been
                     placed into.

                     • For Twitch, this is the game being played

                     • For YouTube, it's the category e.g. Gaming, Sports,
                       Music...

                     Otherwise, it is the string "No Category"

              {game} This is just a synonym for {category} which may make more
                     sense for gaming oriented platforms. "Game being played"
                     is a way to categorize the stream, so it doesn't need its
                     own separate handling.

              {url}  URL of the stream.

              Examples:

                 streamlink -p vlc --title "{title} -!- {author} -!- {category} \$A" <url> [stream]
                 streamlink -p mpv --title "{title} -- {author} -- {category} -- (\${{mpv-version}})" <url> [stream]

FILE OUTPUT OPTIONS

       -o FILENAME

       --output FILENAME
              Write stream data to FILENAME instead of playing it.

              You will be prompted if the file already exists.

       -f

       --force
              When using -o or -r, always write to file even if it already
              exists.

       --force-progress
              When using -o or -r, show the download progress bar even if
              there is no terminal.

       -O

       --stdout
              Write stream data to stdout instead of playing it.

       -r FILENAME

       --record FILENAME
              Open the stream in the player, while at the same time writing it
              to FILENAME.

              You will be prompted if the file already exists.

       -R FILENAME

       --record-and-pipe FILENAME
              Write stream data to stdout, while at the same time writing it
              to FILENAME.

              You will be prompted if the file already exists.

STREAM OPTIONS

       --url URL
              A URL to attempt to extract streams from.

              Usually, the protocol of http(s) URLs can be omitted (https://),
              depending on the implementation of the plugin being used.

              This is an alternative to setting the URL using a positional
              argument and can be useful if set in a config file.

       --default-stream STREAM
              Stream to play.

              Use best or worst for selecting the highest or lowest available
              quality.

              Fallback streams can be specified by using a comma-separated
              list:

                 "720p,480p,best"

              This is an alternative to setting the stream using a positional
              argument and can be useful if set in a config file.

       --stream-url
              If possible, translate the resolved stream to a URL and print
              it.

       --retry-streams DELAY
              Retry fetching the list of available streams until streams are
              found while waiting DELAY second(s) between each attempt. If
              unset, only one attempt will be made to fetch the list of
              streams available.

              The number of fetch retry attempts can be capped with
              --retry-max.

       --retry-max COUNT
              When using --retry-streams, stop retrying the fetch after COUNT
              retry attempt(s). Fetch will retry infinitely if COUNT is zero
              or unset.

              If --retry-max is set without setting --retry-streams, the delay
              between retries will default to 1 second.

       --retry-open ATTEMPTS
              After a successful fetch, try ATTEMPTS time(s) to open the
              stream until giving up.

              Default is: 1.

       --stream-types TYPES

       --stream-priority TYPES
              A comma-delimited list of stream types to allow.

              The order will be used to separate streams when there are
              multiple streams with the same name but different stream types.
              Any stream type not listed will be omitted from the available
              streams list.  A * can be used as a wildcard to match any other
              type of stream, eg. muxed-stream.

              Default is: "rtmp,hls,hds,http,akamaihd,*".

       --stream-sorting-excludes STREAMS
              Fine tune the best and worst stream name synonyms by excluding
              unwanted streams.

              If all of the available streams get excluded, best and worst
              will become inaccessible and new special stream synonyms
              best-unfiltered and worst-unfiltered can be used as a fallback
              selection method.

              Uses a filter expression in the format:

                 [operator]<value>

              Valid operators are >, >=, < and <=. If no operator is specified
              then equality is tested.

              For example this will exclude streams ranked higher than "480p":

                 ">480p"

              Multiple filters can be used by separating each expression with
              a comma.

              For example this will exclude streams from two quality types:

                 ">480p,>medium"

STREAM TRANSPORT OPTIONS

       --hds-live-edge SECONDS
              The time live HDS streams will start from the edge of stream.

              Default is: 10.0.

       --hds-segment-attempts ATTEMPTS
              How many attempts should be done to download each HDS segment
              before giving up.

              Default is: 3.

       --hds-segment-threads THREADS
              The size of the thread pool used to download HDS segments.
              Minimum value is 1 and maximum is 10.

              Default is: 1.

       --hds-segment-timeout TIMEOUT
              HDS segment connect and read timeout.

              Default is: 10.0.

       --hds-timeout TIMEOUT
              Timeout for reading data from HDS streams.

              Default is: 60.0.

       --hls-live-edge SEGMENTS
              How many segments from the end to start live HLS streams on.

              The lower the value the lower latency from the source you will
              be, but also increases the chance of buffering.

              Default is: 3.

       --hls-segment-stream-data
              Immediately write segment data into output buffer while
              downloading.

       --hls-segment-attempts ATTEMPTS
              How many attempts should be done to download each HLS segment
              before giving up.

              Default is: 3.

       --hls-playlist-reload-attempts ATTEMPTS
              How many attempts should be done to reload the HLS playlist
              before giving up.

              Default is: 3.

       --hls-playlist-reload-time TIME
              Set a custom HLS playlist reload time value, either in seconds
              or by using one of the following keywords:

                 segment: The duration of the last segment in the current playlist
                 live-edge: The sum of segment durations of the live edge value minus one
                 default: The playlist's target duration metadata

              Default is: default.

       --hls-segment-threads THREADS
              The size of the thread pool used to download HLS segments.
              Minimum value is 1 and maximum is 10.

              Default is: 1.

       --hls-segment-timeout TIMEOUT
              HLS segment connect and read timeout.

              Default is: 10.0.

       --hls-segment-ignore-names NAMES
              A comma-delimited list of segment names that will get filtered
              out.

              Example: --hls-segment-ignore-names 000,001,002

              This will ignore every segment that ends with 000.ts, 001.ts and
              002.ts

              Default is: None.

       --hls-segment-key-uri URI
              URI to segment encryption key. If no URI is specified, the URI
              contained in the segments will be used.

              URI can be templated using the following variables, which will
              be replaced with its respective part from the source segment
              URI:

                 {url} {scheme} {netloc} {path} {query}

              Examples:

                 --hls-segment-key-uri "https://example.com/hls/encryption_key"
                 --hls-segment-key-uri "{scheme}://1.2.3.4{path}{query}"
                 --hls-segment-key-uri "{scheme}://{netloc}/custom/path/to/key"

              Default is: None.

       --hls-audio-select CODE
              Selects a specific audio source or sources, by language code or
              name, when multiple audio sources are available. Can be * to
              download all audio sources.

              Examples:

                 --hls-audio-select "English,German"
                 --hls-audio-select "en,de"
                 --hls-audio-select "*"

              NOTE:
                 This is only useful in special circumstances where the
                 regular locale option fails, such as when multiple sources of
                 the same language exists.

       --hls-timeout TIMEOUT
              Timeout for reading data from HLS streams.

              Default is: 60.0.

       --hls-start-offset [HH:]MM:SS
              Amount of time to skip from the beginning of the stream. For
              live streams, this is a negative offset from the end of the
              stream (rewind).

              Default is: 00:00:00.

       --hls-duration [HH:]MM:SS
              Limit the playback duration, useful for watching segments of a
              stream.  The actual duration may be slightly longer, as it is
              rounded to the nearest HLS segment.

              Default is: unlimited.

       --hls-live-restart
              Skip to the beginning of a live stream, or as far back as
              possible.

       --http-stream-timeout TIMEOUT
              Timeout for reading data from HTTP streams.

              Default is: 60.0.

       --ringbuffer-size SIZE
              The maximum size of ringbuffer. Add a M or K suffix to specify
              mega or kilo bytes instead of bytes.

              The ringbuffer is used as a temporary storage between the stream
              and the player. This is to allows us to download the stream
              faster than the player wants to read it.

              The smaller the size, the higher chance of the player buffering
              if there are download speed dips and the higher size the more
              data we can use as a storage to catch up from speed dips.

              It also allows you to temporary pause as long as the ringbuffer
              doesn't get full since we continue to download the stream in the
              background.

              Default is: "16M".

              NOTE:
                 A smaller size is recommended on lower end systems (such as
                 Raspberry Pi) when playing stream types that require some
                 extra processing (such as HDS) to avoid unnecessary
                 background processing.

       --rtmp-proxy PROXY
              A SOCKS proxy that RTMP streams will use.

              Example: 127.0.0.1:9050

       --rtmp-rtmpdump FILENAME
              RTMPDump is used to access RTMP streams. You can specify the
              location of the rtmpdump executable if it is not in your PATH.

              Example: "/usr/local/bin/rtmpdump"

       --rtmp-timeout TIMEOUT
              Timeout for reading data from RTMP streams.

              Default is: 60.0.

       --stream-segment-attempts ATTEMPTS
              How many attempts should be done to download each segment before
              giving up.

              This is generic option used by streams not covered by other
              options, such as stream protocols specific to plugins, e.g.
              UStream.

              Default is: 3.

       --stream-segment-threads THREADS
              The size of the thread pool used to download segments. Minimum
              value is 1 and maximum is 10.

              This is generic option used by streams not covered by other
              options, such as stream protocols specific to plugins, e.g.
              UStream.

              Default is: 1.

       --stream-segment-timeout TIMEOUT
              Segment connect and read timeout.

              This is generic option used by streams not covered by other
              options, such as stream protocols specific to plugins, e.g.
              UStream.

              Default is: 10.0.

       --stream-timeout TIMEOUT
              Timeout for reading data from streams.

              This is generic option used by streams not covered by other
              options, such as stream protocols specific to plugins, e.g.
              UStream.

              Default is: 60.0.

       --subprocess-cmdline
              Print the command-line used internally to play the stream.

              This is only available on RTMP streams.

       --subprocess-errorlog
              Log possible errors from internal subprocesses to a temporary
              file. The file will be saved in your systems temporary
              directory.

              Useful when debugging rtmpdump related issues.

       --subprocess-errorlog-path PATH
              Log the subprocess errorlog to a specific file rather than a
              temporary file. Takes precedence over subprocess-errorlog.

              Useful when debugging rtmpdump related issues.

       --ffmpeg-ffmpeg FILENAME
              FFMPEG is used to access or mux separate video and audio
              streams. You can specify the location of the ffmpeg executable
              if it is not in your PATH.

              Example: "/usr/local/bin/ffmpeg"

       --ffmpeg-verbose
              Write the console output from ffmpeg to the console.

       --ffmpeg-verbose-path PATH
              Path to write the output from the ffmpeg console.

       --ffmpeg-fout OUTFORMAT
              When muxing streams, set the output format to OUTFORMAT.

              Default is: "matroska".

              Example: "mpegts"

       --ffmpeg-video-transcode CODEC
              When muxing streams, transcode the video to CODEC.

              Default is: "copy".

              Example: "h264"

       --ffmpeg-audio-transcode CODEC
              When muxing streams, transcode the audio to CODEC.

              Default is: "copy".

              Example: "aac"

       --ffmpeg-copyts
              Forces the -copyts ffmpeg option and does not remove the initial
              start time offset value.

       --ffmpeg-start-at-zero
              Enable the -start_at_zero ffmpeg option when using copyts.

       --mux-subtitles
              Automatically mux available subtitles into the output stream.

              Needs to be supported by the used plugin.

              Supported plugins: funimationnow, pluzz, rtve, svtplay, vimeo

HTTP OPTIONS

       --http-proxy HTTP_PROXY
              A HTTP proxy to use for all HTTP requests, including WebSocket
              connections.  By default this proxy will be used for all HTTPS
              requests too.

              Example: "http://hostname:port/"

       --https-proxy HTTPS_PROXY
              A HTTPS capable proxy to use for all HTTPS requests.

              Example: "https://hostname:port/"

       --http-cookie KEY=VALUE
              A cookie to add to each HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple cookies.

       --http-header KEY=VALUE
              A header to add to each HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple headers.

       --http-query-param KEY=VALUE
              A query parameter to add to each HTTP request.

              Can be repeated to add multiple query parameters.

       --http-ignore-env
              Ignore HTTP settings set in the environment such as environment
              variables (HTTP_PROXY, etc) or ~/.netrc authentication.

       --http-no-ssl-verify
              Don't attempt to verify SSL certificates.

              Usually a bad idea, only use this if you know what you're doing.

       --http-disable-dh
              Disable Diffie Hellman key exchange

              Usually a bad idea, only use this if you know what you're doing.

       --http-ssl-cert FILENAME
              SSL certificate to use.

              Expects a .pem file.

       --http-ssl-cert-crt-key CRT_FILENAME KEY_FILENAME
              SSL certificate to use.

              Expects a .crt and a .key file.

       --http-timeout TIMEOUT
              General timeout used by all HTTP requests except the ones
              covered by other options.

              Default is: 20.0.

PLUGIN OPTIONS
   Abweb

       --abweb-username USERNAME
              The username associated with your ABweb account, required to
              access any ABweb stream.

       --abweb-password PASSWORD
              A ABweb account password to use with --abweb-username.

       --abweb-purge-credentials
              Purge cached ABweb credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

   Afreeca

       --afreeca-username USERNAME
              The username used to register with afreecatv.com.

       --afreeca-password PASSWORD
              A afreecatv.com account password to use with --afreeca-username.

       --afreeca-purge-credentials
              Purge cached AfreecaTV credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

   Animelab

       --animelab-email EMAIL
              The email address used to register with animelab.com.

       --animelab-password PASSWORD
              A animelab.com account password to use with --animelab-email.

   Bbciplayer

       --bbciplayer-username USERNAME
              The username used to register with bbc.co.uk.

       --bbciplayer-password PASSWORD
              A bbc.co.uk account password to use with --bbciplayer-username.

       --bbciplayer-hd
              Prefer HD streams over local SD streams, some live programmes
              may not be broadcast in HD.

   Clubbingtv

       --clubbingtv-username
              The username used to register with Clubbing TV.

       --clubbingtv-password
              A Clubbing TV account password to use with
              --clubbingtv-username.

   Crunchyroll

       --crunchyroll-username USERNAME
              A Crunchyroll username to allow access to restricted streams.

       --crunchyroll-password [PASSWORD]
              A Crunchyroll password for use with --crunchyroll-username.

              If left blank you will be prompted.

       --crunchyroll-purge-credentials
              Purge cached Crunchyroll credentials to initiate a new session
              and reauthenticate.

       --crunchyroll-session-id SESSION_ID
              Set a specific session ID for crunchyroll, can be used to bypass
              region restrictions. If using an authenticated session ID, it is
              recommended that the authentication parameters be omitted as the
              session ID is account specific.

              NOTE:
                 The session ID will be overwritten if authentication is used
                 and the session ID does not match the account.

   Funimationnow

       --funimation-email
              Email address for your Funimation account.

       --funimation-password
              Password for your Funimation account.

       --funimation-language
              The audio language to use for the stream; japanese or english.

              Default is: "english".

   Liveedu

       --liveedu-email EMAIL
              The email address used to register with liveedu.tv.

       --liveedu-password PASSWORD
              A LiveEdu account password to use with --liveedu-email.

   Nicolive

       --niconico-email EMAIL
              The email or phone number associated with your Niconico account

       --niconico-password PASSWORD
              The password of your Niconico account

       --niconico-user-session VALUE
              Value of the user-session token (can be used in case you do not
              want to put your password here)

       --niconico-purge-credentials
              Purge cached Niconico credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

       --niconico-timeshift-offset [HH:]MM:SS
              Amount of time to skip from the beginning of a stream. Default
              is 00:00:00.

   Openrectv

       --openrectv-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your openrectv account, required to
              access any openrectv stream.

       --openrectv-password PASSWORD
              An openrectv account password to use with --openrectv-email.

   Pixiv

       --pixiv-sessionid SESSIONID
              The pixiv.net sessionid that's used in pixivs PHPSESSID cookie.
              can be used instead of the username/password login process.

       --pixiv-devicetoken DEVICETOKEN
              The pixiv.net device token that's used in pixivs device_token
              cookie.  can be used instead of the username/password login
              process.

       --pixiv-purge-credentials
              Purge cached Pixiv credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

       --pixiv-performer USER
              Select a co-host stream instead of the owner stream.

   Sbscokr

       --sbscokr-id CHANNELID
              Channel ID to play.

              Example:

                 streamlink http://play.sbs.co.kr/onair/pc/index.html best --sbscokr-id S01

   Schoolism

       --schoolism-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your Schoolism account, required to
              access any Schoolism stream.

       --schoolism-password PASSWORD
              A Schoolism account password to use with --schoolism-email.

       --schoolism-part PART
              Play part number PART of the lesson, or assignment feedback
              video.

              Defaults is 1.

   Steam

       --steam-email EMAIL
              A Steam account email address to access friends/private streams

       --steam-password PASSWORD
              A Steam account password to use with --steam-email.

   Streann

       --streann-url URL
              Source URL where the iframe is located, only required for direct
              URLs of ott.streann.com

   Twitcasting

       --twitcasting-password PASSWORD
              Password for private Twitcasting streams.

   Twitch

       --twitch-disable-hosting
              Do not open the stream if the target channel is hosting another
              channel.

       --twitch-disable-ads
              Skip embedded advertisement segments at the beginning or during
              a stream.  Will cause these segments to be missing from the
              stream.

       --twitch-disable-reruns
              Do not open the stream if the target channel is currently
              broadcasting a rerun.

       --twitch-low-latency
              Enables low latency streaming by prefetching HLS segments.  Sets
              --hls-segment-stream-data to true and --hls-live-edge to 2, if
              it is higher.  Reducing --hls-live-edge to 1 will result in the
              lowest latency possible.

              Low latency streams have to be enabled by the broadcasters on
              Twitch themselves.  Regular streams can cause buffering issues
              with this option enabled.

              NOTE:
                 The caching/buffering settings of the chosen player may need
                 to be adjusted as well.  Please refer to the player's own
                 documentation for the required parameters and its
                 configuration.  Player parameters can be set via Streamlink's
                 --player or --player-args parameters.

   Ustreamtv

       --ustream-password PASSWORD
              A password to access password protected UStream.tv channels.

   Ustvnow

       --ustvnow-username USERNAME
              Your USTV Now account username

       --ustvnow-password PASSWORD
              Your USTV Now account password

   Wwenetwork

       --wwenetwork-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your WWE Network account, required to
              access any WWE Network stream.

       --wwenetwork-password PASSWORD
              A WWE Network account password to use with --wwenetwork-email.

   Yupptv

       --yupptv-boxid BOXID
              The yupptv.com boxid that's used in the BoxId cookie.  Can be
              used instead of the username/password login process.

       --yupptv-yuppflixtoken YUPPFLIXTOKEN
              The yupptv.com yuppflixtoken that's used in the YuppflixToken
              cookie.  Can be used instead of the username/password login
              process.

       --yupptv-purge-credentials
              Purge cached YuppTV credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

   Zattoo

       --zattoo-email EMAIL
              The email associated with your zattoo account, required to
              access any zattoo stream.

       --zattoo-password PASSWORD
              A zattoo account password to use with --zattoo-email.

       --zattoo-purge-credentials
              Purge cached zattoo credentials to initiate a new session and
              reauthenticate.

       --zattoo-stream-types TYPES
              A comma-delimited list of stream types which should be used, the
              following types are allowed:

              • dash

              • hls5

              Default is: "dash".

AUTHOR
       Streamlink Contributors

COPYRIGHT
       2021, Streamlink



2.1.2                            May 20, 2021                    STREAMLINK(1)
