KHARD(1)                             khard                            KHARD(1)



NAME
       khard - Console carddav client

SYNOPSIS
       khard [-c CONFIG] [--debug] [--skip-unparsable] SUBCOMMAND ...

       khard -h | --help

       khard -v | --version

DESCRIPTION
       khard is an address book for the Unix command line.  It can read,
       create, modify and delete carddav address book entries.  khard only
       works with a local store of VCARD files.  It is intended to be used in
       conjunction with other programs like an email client, text editor, vdir
       synchronizer or VOIP client.

OPTIONS

       -c CONFIG, --config CONFIG
              configuration file (default: ~/.config/khard/khard.conf)

       --debug
              output debugging information

       -h, --help
              show a help message and exit

       --skip-unparsable
              skip unparsable vcards when reading the address books

       -v, --version
              show program's version number and exit

SUBCOMMANDS
       The functionality of khard is divided into several subcommands.  All of
       these have their own help text which can be seen with khard SUBCOMMAND
       --help.

       Many subcommands accept search terms to limit the number of contacts
       they should work on, display or present for selection.  The syntax is
       described in Search query syntax.

   Listing subcommands
       These subcommands list information of several contacts who match a
       search query.

       list   list all (selected) contacts

       birthdays
              list birthdays (sorted by month and day)

       email  list email addresses

       phone  list phone numbers

       postaddress
              list postal addresses

       filename
              list filenames of all matching contacts

   Detailed display
       These subcommands display detailed information about one subcommand.

       show   display detailed information about one contact, supported output
              formats are "pretty", "yaml" and "vcard"

       export DEPRECATED, use show --format=yaml instead

   Modifying subcommands
       These subcommands are used to modify contacts.

       edit   edit the data of a contact, supported formats for editing are
              "yaml" and "vcard"

       new    create a new contact

       add-email
              Extract email address from the "From:" field of an email header
              and add to an existing contact or create a new one

       merge  merge two contacts

       copy   copy a contact to a different addressbook

       move   move a contact to a different addressbook

       remove remove a contact

       source DEPRECATED, use edit --format=vcard instead

   Other subcommands

       addressbooks
              list all address books

       template
              print an empty yaml template

SEARCH QUERY SYNTAX
       Search queries consist of one or more command line arguments.  Each can
       be a simple search term or a search term for a specific field.  The
       field name is separated from the search term by a colon (:) without any
       spaces.

       Spaces in the field name have to be replaced with underscores.

       The available fields are the same fields as in the YAML template with
       the exception of the five name components (first, last, prefix, suffix,
       additional).  But there is the special pseudo field specifier name:
       which will search in any name related field (including nichnames and
       formatted names).

       If a field name is not known the search term is interpreted as a plain
       search term and the string (including the colon) is looked up in any
       field of the contact.

CONFIGURATION
       See khard.conf(5).

COPYRIGHT
       2020, Eric Scheibler



0.17                           November 4, 2022                       KHARD(1)
