qjail(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               qjail(8)

NAME
     qjail – Utility for deployment of jail environments

SYNOPSIS
     qjail install [-z zone] [-h ftp host] [-f file location] [-l]
     qjail create  [-z zone] [-n interface] [-a archive] [-f flavor]
                   [-A archive zone] [-c] [-i size] [-d duplicate#]
                   [-4 IPv4...] [-6 IPv6...] jailname
     qjail list    [-z zone] [jailname...]
     qjail start   [-z zone] [jailname...]
     qjail stop    [-z zone] [jailname...]
     qjail restart [-z zone] [jailname...]
     qjail console [-z zone] [-u userid] [-c cmd] jailname
     qjail archive [-z zone] [-A] [-s] [jailname...]
     qjail delete  [-z zone] [-A] [jailname...]
     qjail restore [-z zone] [-s] [jailname...]
     qjail config  [-z zone] [-c newnic] [-n newname] [-b rule#] [-A -d -h]
                   [-B -F -k -K -l -L -m -M -q -Q -r -R -S -t -T]
                   [-V -x -X -y -Y]
                   [-f value] [-s value] [-v value]
                   [-4 newIPv4...] [-6 newIPv6...] jailname
     qjail update  [-z zone] [-b] [-p] [-P] [-S] [-l on|off]
     qjail logmsg  [text....]
     qjail help    [subcommand]

DESCRIPTION
     The qjail utility uses the jail(8) jail.conf method which provides the
     ability to enable the following options on a per-jail basis,
     allow.raw_sockets, devfs_ruleset, allow.sysvipc, allow.quotas,
     allow.mount.nullfs, allow.mount.zfs, securelevel, exec.fib,
     vnet.interface, and vnet. This qjail version is only functional for
     12.0-RELEASE and newer. This qjail utility has only been tested on i386
     and amd64 hardware.

     The qjail utility is used to manage the qjail environment and all the
     jails inside of qjail's scope. Qjail's administration ease does not
     evaporate as jails deployed grow beyond 5 jails. For the deployment of a
     large number of jails, qjail provides two facilities designed to make
     their management easy. The First facility is the group prefix selection
     ability, which is advantageous in managing both small and large jail
     deployments. The group prefix equal sign "=" wildcard when used on the
     jailname allows for management of jails based on common jailname group
     prefixes. The second facility is qjail's ability to create multiple
     unique jail environments, thus providing another method to group common
     jails together for easier management. A large deployment of hundreds of
     jails is possible if your host system resources are adequate and a jail
     naming convention is used to segregate jails into manageable groups.

     This utility deploys two different jail types. The first type is based on
     a Directory tree. This type has unlimited disk space growth potential, it
     shares the host's disk space. The jail will never run out of space until
     the host does. The second type is based on a sparse image file. A sparse
     file is one that occupies only the sum size of its contents, not its
     allocation size. IE; a sparse file allocated size of 5M, but only having
     7 files, each 1k in size, only occupies 7k of physical disk space. As
     content is added, additional physical disk space is occupied up to the 5M
     allocation ceiling. The sparse file is mounted as a memory disk using the
     mdconfig command and populated with the directory tree content of a jail.
     This configuration is called a sparse image jail. Its major benefits is
     it provides a way to put a hard limit on the maximum amount of disk space
     a jail can consume. This provides an addition level of protection to the
     host from intentional or unintentional run-a-way processes inside of a
     jail consuming disk space until the host system dies.

     Adding qjail_enable="YES" to the "host's" /etc/rc.conf file, will cause
     all jails to be started when the system is booted.

     Following the command "qjail" is the function subcommand. Each function
     subcommand has its own list of unique options. Qjail is executed from
     /usr/local/bin/ and is a command interpreter Bourne type (shell) script
     that has to be run from user root or "su" to superuser authority.

qjail install
     Allocates the directory structure used by qjail and must be populated
     with the same Operating System version as the host is running. For
     security purposes its necessary that the qjail directory structure be
     populated with a pristine version of the operating system. By pristine we
     mean "clean, uncompromised, never been exposed to the public internet",
     as in installed from an iso image file, or from the original distribution
     file. By default, qjail downloads the original distribution file that
     matches the OS version running on the host to populate it's directory
     structure with a pristine version.

     In most cases the production versions of the operating system is used.
     These are identified by versions labeled as "X.X-RELEASE" and have both
     iso image files and original distribution files available for download
     from the FreeBSD FTP servers.

     The pre-release versions "X.X-BETAx and X.X-RCx" iso image files and
     original distribution files are only made available by Release
     Engineering during the process of creating the next production version
     and are removed after the new production version is published. If your
     host is running one of these pre-release versions, qjail will use it's
     distribution file. It's the user's responsibity to update the host to the
     newly published production version.

     The Development "X.X-STABLE, and X.X-CURRENT" branchs have snapshot
     versions of the iso image files and original distribution files that are
     recreated weekly. These Development branchs are the bleeding edge and may
     cause problems for qjail. If your host is running one of these and you
     want to run qjail. Manually fetch distribution base.txz file from the FTP
     snapshot directory that matches what the host is running. Use option -f
     to create a clean qjail system. If you compiled your OS from source, most
     likly it's revision number is out of sync with the snapshot revision
     number. To update the qjail system to same revision number as what's
     running on the host. Issue 'qjail update -b' command to clone the host's
     running libs to the sharedfs directory tree.

     During the "qjail install" process the following directory structure is
     allocated with the default path of /usr/jails. This default may be
     modified by following comments in the qjail script around line 43.

     sharedfs contains all of the operating system's executable libraries as
     read-only files and is mounted as an "nullfs" that is shared between all
     the individual jails. It's populated with a pristine version of the
     operating systems binaries. This design effectively secures all the
     executable files from being updated or deleted and also secures the
     directories containing the executable files from having new files
     inserted by any process running inside of the jail. The "/usr/src" and
     "/usr/ports" directories are also included. The hosts "/usr/ports"
     filesystem can temporarily be made available to the jails by using the
     "mv" command like this:
     mv /usr/ports /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr and returned doing
     mv /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr/ports /usr

     Or use "update" subcommand to populate src and/or ports permanently.

     template contains the operating system configuration files. It is copied
     to form the base filesystem of each jail.

     archive is where the archive files are stored that are created by the
     "qjail archive" command.

     flavors contains the "default" and "ssh-default" system flavors and any
     user created custom flavors.

     Six internal administration directories are created and get populated
     with information unique to each jail.
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.config
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.local
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.global
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.packages
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.vnetctl

     This command can be run any time to rebuild the sharedfs and the template
     from scratch while not disturbing the existing jails, or your customized
     flavors. The "default and ssh-default" flavors are renamed with
     "users.saved." prefix before being replaced with fresh versions.

     If rebuilding using a newer major RELEASE, IE: 10.3 to 11.0, then
     remember, all existing jails that have ports or packages in them will
     need them updated to versions compatible with the new major RELEASE
     version. If going from a subversion to a newer subversion within the same
     major RELEASE, IE: 10.0 to 10.1, then there is no need to update your
     installed ports/packages.

     The options are as follows:

     -z      Code this option to create multiple unique qjail environments.
             The coded zone value is appended to /usr/jail as /usr/jail.zone
             and to /usr/local/etc/fstab.qjail.zone and
             /usr/local/etc/qjail.local.zone which uniquely segregates the
             qjail environments. All ". - /" in the zone name are converted to
             "_" underscores to standardize zone names. All the other qjail
             subcommands "MUST" code the same zone value to process against
             the zone created here. If absent /usr/jails and
             /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab and /usr/local/etc/qjail.local/ are
             used.

     -h      Code the URL of the remote host to fetch the original
             distribution files from. If this option is absent the default
             host ftp.freebsd.org is used. You may change the default using
             the -h ftp7.freebsd.org option. Read this for complete list of
             FTP servers to choose from.
             www.freebsd.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/books/handbook/mirrors-
             ftp.html

     -f      Code the complete path to the location where any of three RELEASE
             sources are to target as the source to populate qjail's directory
             structure from. That could be the mounted disc1 cdrom, or the
             downloaded disc1.iso image file, or the downloaded original
             distribution files. Example qjail install -f /usr/base.txz

     -l      This enables logging of all qjail commands and error messages to
             /var/log/qjail.log file. Each log entry is prefixed with a
             date/time stamp and the user account name of the user entering
             the commands. An entry is also made in /etc/newsyslog.conf to
             auto rotate the qjail.log file.

qjail install examples
     1.  qjail install (without any options)
               The RELEASE distribution files used to populate the qjail
               directory structure will be fetched from an FreeBSD FTP
               server and be the same RELEASE version as the host. Some
               times at the publication of a new RELEASE version, the FTP
               server may become so busy that the download gets timed out
               or connection is refused because of too many current users.
               RE-issuing the command will start the FTP download from
               the beginning again.

     2.  qjail install -h ftp6.freebsd.org -l
               Same behavior as above, except the FreeBSD ftp server specified
               in the -h option is used, and the qjail system wide logging
               is enabled.

     3.  mount_cd9660 /dev/cd0 /mnt
         qjail install -z env1 -f /mnt/usr/freebsd-dist
               Use this option to target a mounted disc1 RELEASE cdrom
               as the source of the original distribution files used to
               populate the qjail directory structure. Plus a uniquely named
               qjail zone is created named "env1".

               After the install completes, execute the following commands
               to release the disc1 RELEASE cdrom.
                    cd /usr
                    umount  /mnt

     4.  cd /usr
         ftp http://ftp.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/releases/amd64/12.0-RELEASE/
         base.txz
         qjail install -f /usr/base.txz

qjail create
     Creates a new jail inside qjail's scope. It has great flexibility in
     creating Directory Tree type jails and sparse file image type jails from
     the template or from a previously made archive file. This coupled with
     the ability to auto duplicate jails makes a easy and simple task to
     deploy a large number of jails quickly. Jailname and IP address are
     mandatory parameters.

     During the creation process four administration files are created for
     each jail. They are /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab/jailname file,
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.local/jailname file,
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.global/jailname file, and the
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.config/jailname file.

     The options are as follows:

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -n      This is the "network interface name" servicing the jails IP
             addresses. When qjail starts a non-vnet jail it will
             automatically create an alias for the jails IP address on that
             "network interface name". When qjail stops the jail, it will
             automatically remove the alias. If "-n value" is absent, the
             "route command" is used to identify the default network interface
             device name which is the device connected to the public internet
             and automatically populate the "-n value".

             For multiple static public routable IP addresses, the correct
             "network interface name" to code is the name of the NIC facing
             the public internet where these IP addresses enter your host.
             For jails on the hosts private LAN, the correct "network
             interface name" to code is the name of the NIC facing the hosts
             private LAN where those IP addresses exit and enter your host.
             For jails assigned IP addresses reserved for private LAN use to
             be able to access the public internet, you must configure your
             firewall to perform NAT on them. See -4 option for more details.

             Very important CAUTIONARY note: Be aware of the LAN IP address
             range your DHCP server is dynamically assigning. Do not assign
             those IP addresses to jails or your LAN users will instantly lose
             their network access when the jail is started and its alias gets
             created.

     -a      You can use an archive file as the template to create your new
             jail from. If just the archived jailname is coded, then the most
             current archive file matching that jailname will be used as the
             source. The full archive file name can also be coded. Its
             prefixed with the jailname and has the date & time the archive
             was created appended as a suffix. Coding the full archive file
             name is how you select an archive file other than the most
             current one. This option is normally used to clone multiple jails
             with the same status as the archived jail has. If the -a flag is
             absent, the template is used. Note: The -a and -f options cannot
             be used together. By design jails created from a archive file
             cannot be flavored. Use "ls /usr/jails/archive/" to list all
             archive file names.

             An archive of a image jail can be used to create a new directory
             tree jail or a new image jail with a larger sized sparse file
             image jail. An archive of a directory tree jail can be used to
             create a new directory tree jail or a new image jail. The -n
             interface nic name from the archive file is dropped.

     -A      Using the -A archive zone option you can select an archive file
             from a different zone as the template to create your new jail
             from. The -A option is only valid when used together with the -a
             option. Using a combination of the -z, -a and -A options allows
             the selection of archive files from other zones.

             The default jail environment IE; no -z option coded on the qjail
             install command is a special case. Manipulation of the values in
             -z, -a, and -A covers everything but selecting a jail archive
             from the default jail environment. A special reserved value named
             nozone may be coded in the -A value to point to the default jail
             environment archives. Normally the -z value is the zone the
             create command applies to, the -A value is the zone where the
             selected archive file is located, and the -a value is the archive
             jailname or full archive file name in the zone pointed by the -A
             value.

     -f      Using the flavor option you can apply an qjail flavor to your new
             jailname. If the -f flavor option is coded, the selected flavor
             directory tree is merged into the new jail's directory tree. If
             no flavor option is coded, the "default" flavor is merged into
             the new jail's directory tree. Qjail has no function to delete
             unwanted flavor directories. It's the users responsibility to
             delete unwanted flavor's using the host's rm -rf
             /user/jails/flavor/name command. Note: The -f and -a options
             cannot be used together. By design jails created from a archive
             file cannot be flavored.

             As part of the "install" subcommand, a flavor base directory was
             created as /usr/jails/flavors and populated with two flavors, one
             named default and the other named ssh-default. Both of these
             flavors contains 3 files customized for running in a jail
             (make.conf, periodic.conf, rc.conf). In addition these customized
             host files /etc/resolv.conf and /etc/localtime are copied to
             default and ssh-default to facilitate jail usage. On inspection
             you will see that these files are in their normal directory tree
             locations. When customizing your own flavors you have to manually
             create your own flavor directory tree populating it with your
             customized files in their correct paths for merging into the new
             jail.

             The ssh-default flavor contains everything the default flavor
             has, but in addition it has been customized to enable ssh
             support, and has a predefined standard user account named qjail
             with a password of "qjail". Every jail you use this ssh-default
             flavor on will have this predefined standard user account qjail.
             On first login the user will be prompted to enter a new password
             to address basic security concerns. The qjail user belongs to the
             "wheel" group so it has "su" access to "root".

             When creating your own flavor always copy the "default" flavor or
             the "ssh-default" flavor as your starting base.

     -c      This option will enable ssh and create a user account having the
             login ID and password of the jailname. To address basic security
             concerns, on first login the user will be prompted to enter a new
             password. The jailname user account belongs to the "wheel" group
             so it has "su" access to "root".

             When the jails created with the -c option are started for the
             first time, the changes to configure ssh and create the user
             account for that jail are applied. Doing a qjail restart jailname
             or a qjail stop jailname followed by qjail start jailname is
             required to enable the changes which will be in effect from that
             point on.

     -i      When coded means create a sparse file image type jail. When
             absent an directory tree type jail is created. When the -i option
             is coded, it must be followed by a size value which is the
             allocation ceiling size of the sparse file. Only suffixes m|M for
             megabytes or g|G for gigabytes are valid entries. The sparse
             image file has a .img suffix and resides in the jailname
             directory as a single file. When the image jail is stopped the
             jailname.img file will be visible. Issuing ls -lh jailname.img
             will show you the allocated size, issuing du -h jailname.img will
             show you the amount of space used. If a image jail should consume
             all of its disk space allocation, you can increase it by
             following this procedure, archive it, delete it, and create it
             using the -a option, using the image archive as input with a
             larger -i value. A -i value of 10m is the bare minimum size for a
             image jail.

     -d      Enter a numeric number representing the number of times you want
             this jailname duplicated. A suffix number starting at one and
             incremented by one for each duplication is appended to each newly
             created jailname. Any number greater than 100 is invalid. A
             single IPv4 address is required. For each repetition of the
             duplication cycle the last octal of the IPv4 address increments
             by 1.

     -4      This is the network address used to communicate with the jail.
             Both non-vnet jails and vnet jails use it for the same purpose.
             This is either a public IPv4 address or a private IPv4 address.
             More than a single IPv4 address can be assigned to a jail.
             Multiple IPv4 addresses have to be a list of IP addresses
             separated by a comma "," without spaces before or after.
             Example 10.0.0.2,10.0.0.3,10.0.0.4

             For vnet jails this network address is assigned to the epairXb
             interface of the vnet jail. It is considered to be in the
             class "C" address range for the vnet jail. A address ending with
             x.x.x.2 is used as the vnet jails host default address.
             For example you assign 10.0.20.3 to a jail and later use the
             "config -v" option to make this jail a vnet jail, the whole
             class "C" 10.0.20.X belongs to the vnet jail and 10.0.20.2
             becomes the default host address.

             According to RFC 1918, you can use the following IP address
             ranges for private IPv4 networks which will never be connected to
             the Internet. This is normally intended for Local Area Networks.
                           #
                           #       10.0.0.0        -   10.255.255.255
                           #       172.16.0.0      -   172.31.255.255
                           #       192.168.0.0     -   192.168.255.255
                           #

             Static IP address (permanent, never changes) public Internet
             routable IP addresses are assigned to you by your ISP. If you
             purchased a continuous block of static public internet routable
             IP addresses, then each jail could be assigned one of those
             individual IP addresses from that block.

             Normally cable providers and DSL providers assign dynamic IP
             addresses. The assigned IP address may change when the lease time
             expires or you reboot your system.

     -6      This is a IPv6 address that is to be assigned to the jail. More
             than a single IPv6 address can be assigned to a jail. Multiple
             IPv6 addresses have to be a list of IP addresses separated by a
             comma "," without spaces before or after. Both IPv4 and IPv6
             addresses may be assigned to a jail by coding both the -4 and -6
             options. An single IPv4 address is required if the -d option is
             coded to enable jail duplication.

     jailname
             Only a single jailname is valid. The jailname can only contain
             alphanumeric, dash, and underscore characters, all numeric
             jailnames are invalid. To better manage large jail deployments a
             jail naming convention that groups jails by common function or
             user groups is advised. The maximum jailname size is 50
             characters. Jailnames have to be unique across all the zones.
             Just remember that you will be typing in this jailname or some
             prefix of it on all the subcommands you use, so try to keep the
             jailname short but meaningful.

             Jails are started, stopped, and restarted in ascending
             alphabetical order, "a to z" based on the spelling of the
             jailname. If you want selected jails to start before other jails
             prefix those jailnames with numbers.

qjail create examples
     1.  qjail create -n rl0 -6 21:470:1f15:1ee7::102 webserver
               This creates a single new directory tree type jail as
               /usr/jails/webserver from the template with a IPv6 address.
               The auto alias function is enabled.

     2.  qjail create -n rl0 -c -f myflavor -4 10.0.10.20 bld21a-floorA-cell01
               This creates a single new directory tree type jail as
               /usr/jails/bld21a-floorA-cell01 from the template
               and copies the myflavor directory tree onto the
               bld21a-floorA-cell01 directory tree.
               The auto alias function is enabled and ssh access is enabled.

     3.  qjail create -a cell-a -4 10.0.10.20,10.0.10.30 prison-B
               This creates a single new directory tree type jail as
               /usr/jails/prison-B using the archive file named cell-a as
               the template directory tree for the new jailname.
               The auto alias default function is enabled.

     4.  qjail create -a cell-a -d 15 -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This creates a new directory tree type jail using the archive
               file named cell-a as the template for the new jailname, and
               then duplicates it 15 times.
               Creating jailnames room-1 through room-15.
               At the same time the last octet of the IP address
               10.0.10.20 is incremented by one.
               room-1 10.0.10.20  room-2 10.0.10.21  room-15 10.0.10.34
               The auto alias default function is enabled

     5.  qjail create -n rl0 -d 15 -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This creates a new directory tree type jail using the
               template directory tree for the new jailname, and then
               duplicates it 15 times creating jailnames
               room-1 through room-15. The auto alias function is enabled
               At the same time the last octet of the IP address
               10.0.10.20 is incremented by one.
               room-1 10.0.10.20  room-2 10.0.10.21  room-15 10.0.10.34

     6.  qjail create -n rl0 -d 15 -c -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This does the same as the previous one except these jails
               also has ssh access enabled.

     7.  qjail create -i 100m -4 10.0.10.20 class
               This creates a single new sparse image type jail using the
               template directory tree to populate the image with a
               maximum allocation size of 100 megabytes.
               The auto alias default function is enabled

     8.  qjail create -d 15 -c -i 100m -4 10.0.10.20 class
               This does the same as the previous one except this jail
               also has ssh access enabled, and duplicates it self
               15 times creating jailnames class-1 through class-15.
               At the same time the last octet of the IP address
               10.0.10.20 is incremented by one giving.
               class-1 10.0.10.21  class-2 10.0.10.22  class-15 10.0.10.34

     9.  qjail create -c -a cell-a -i 1g -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This creates a new single sparse image type jail with a
               maximum allocation size of 1 gigabyte, using the archive
               file named cell-a as the template directory tree for
               populating the image jail.
               The auto alias default function is enabled and ssh access
               is enabled.

     10. qjail create -z env1 -a cell-a -i 1G -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This does the same as the previous one except this jail is
               being created in the "env1" zone.

     11. qjail create -z env1 -a cell-a -A env2 -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This creates a new jail named "room" in zone "env1" using a
               archive file named "cell-a" which is located in zone "env2".

     12. qjail create -z env1 -a cell-0 -A nozone -4 10.0.10.20 room
               This creates a new jail named "room" in zone "env1" using a
               archive file named "cell-0" which is located in the qjail
               default environment. The "nozone" keyword is used.

qjail list
     Lists information about jails inside qjail's scope. They are shown in
     ascending alphanumerically order, based on the spelling of the jailname.

     The list displays 5 columns of information. Starting from the left,
     Column (1)
     Contains status flags consisting of 6 positions.
     Position one can be the letter (D) for Directory tree based jail, or the
     letter (I) for a image file based jail.
     Position two can be the letter (R) meaning the jail is currently running,
     or the letter (S) meaning the jail is stopped.
     Position three through six can contain optional letters depending on if
     the option is emabled. The letter (N) means the jail is in norun status
     or the letter (M) which means the jail is in manual start only status.
     The letter (V) means this is a vnet jail, and it's followed by a space
     and number 0 through 3 indicating which firewall is enabled in the vnet
     jail. 0-none, 1=ipfw, 2=pf, 3=ipfilter. See the qjail config subcommand
      -r -R -m -M -v -V for details
     Column (2)
     Contains the jail's jid number if the jail is started, and N/A for not
     available if the jail is stoped.
     Column (3)
     is the network interface device name, this is the value entered on the
     "create -n" option. If the "create -n value" was not used, the
     "route command" is used to identify the default network interface device
     name which is the device connected to the public internet and then
     automatically populates the "-n value".
     Column (4)
     is the jails IPv4 and IPv6 address or addresses, entered with the
     "create" command.
     Column (5)
     is the jails jailname.

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone. When this option
             is coded an addition heading "Jails in zone xxxx" displays right
             above the normal heading. "xxxx" is the zone name.

     jailname
             If absent all the jails are listed. Multiple jailnames separated
             by a space are allowed on the command. The group prefix option is
             enabled. xxxx= will cause only those jailnames matching the xxxx
             characters to be selected for processing. The equal sign "=" is
             the wildcard symbol that signifies all the characters to its left
             are to be used to match on jailname to create a list of jailnames
             to be processed.

qjail [start | stop | restart] jailname.....
     When start, stop, or restart command is issued WITHOUT jailnames, all the
     jails under qjail control are processed. When start, stop, or restart
     command is issued WITH jailnames, only those jailnames are processed. A
     single line informational message is issued as each jailname is processed
     saying Started successfully jailname or Already running jailname or
     Stopped successfully jailname or Already stopped jailname or Bypassed
     norun status jailname.

     Jails are started, stopped, and restarted in ascending alphabetical
     order, "a to z" based on the spelling of the jailname. If you want
     selected jails to start before other jails prefix those jailnames with
     numbers. All norun status jails are ignored.

     The function subcommands are as follows:

       start  Start all jails at once if jailname is absent.

       stop   Stop all jails at once if jailname is absent.

       restart  Restart all jails at once if jailname is absent.

     The options are as follows:

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     jailname
             If absent all the jails are used. Multiple jailnames separated by
             a space are allowed on the command. The group prefix option is
             enabled for these subcommands.  xxxx= will cause only those
             jailnames matching the "xxxx" to be selected for processing. The
             equal sign "=" is the wildcard symbol that signifies all the
             characters to its left are to be used to match on jailname to
             create a list of jailnames to be processed. Use the qjail "list"
             subcommand to list all the jails under qjail's scope.

qjail console
     Attaches your host console to the selected jail. You are logged in as
     root by default. The command line prompt shows the name of the jail and
     the path. Entering exit will terminate the console. You can not activate
     the jails console if the jail is not currently running. This is intended
     for administration use only. Normally used to install ports or packages
     and do other system customization.

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -c      This option is for submitting console commands to a jail. If the
             command has arguments they need to be enclosed in quotes. This
             option can be used with the -U option to target other user ids.
             Some examples; -c 'ls -l' or -c "ps ax" or -c ls

     -u      If this is absent, the /usr/bin/login -f root command is executed
             logging you in as root. Coding the -u option with the user id of
             some user account already created in the jail will cause the
             console to be attached to that user. The "Welcome" message is
             displayed.

     jailname
             Jailname is a mandatory parameter. Only a single jailname is
             valid. Use the subcommand list to display list of all jailnames.

qjail archive
     Creates a backup of one, or all jails. The specified jails directory tree
     is backed up as a tar file. The jails to be archived are required to be
     in stopped mode before this "archive" command executes. The sharedfs and
     the template can also be archived, but only when specified as the only
     jailname on the "archive" command. The archive file name is derived from
     jailname, with the date and time of the archive appended to the file
     name. The default archive directory is /usr/jails/archive.  The jailnames
     to be archived are required to be in stopped mode before this "archive"
     command executes.

     There is no qjail function to delete archive files. It's the users
     responsibility to delete unwanted archives using the host's rm command.
     It's also the user responsibility to keep a log of archive file names
     with a description of why the archive was created, so the correct archive
     can be restored if desired.

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -s      This option makes a backup of the qjail internal definition and
             control files to the archive directory as "system.bkup", plus the
             qjail executable scripts are archived to the archive directory as
             "pgm.bkup". The vnet feature may cause the host system to freeze
             up and wipe out the contents of any open files. Experience has
             shown that at times this has happened to the qjail internal
             definition and control files, and with less frequency to the
             qjail executable scripts. If your going to be using vnet jails,
             it's highly recommended you have a current backup.

     -A      When used with no other parameters all jails are archived. Any
             other parameter coded with -A is an syntax error.

     jailname
             Multiple jailnames separated by a space are allowed on this
             command. The group prefix option is enabled. xxxx= will cause
             only those jailnames matching the xxxx character to be selected
             for processing. The equal sign "=" is the wildcard symbol that
             signifies all the characters to its left are to be used to match
             on jailname to create a list of jailnames to be processed.
             Jailname is a mandatory parameter. Jails in "norun" status or
             "man" manual start status are also candidates for archiving.

             If jailname is sharedfs or template it will be archived. A
             sharedfs containing only the minimum system install, takes less
             than one minute elapse time to complete. A sharedfs containing
             portsnap downloaded ports tree may take up to 7 minutes elapse
             time to complete. Template and all other jails takes less than 15
             seconds elapse time to complete. Use the subcommand list to
             display list of all jailnames.

             Use qjail restore to restore an archive.

qjail delete
     Totally removes the jailnames directory /usr/jails/jailname, and its
     entry in the three administration control files
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab/jailname /usr/local/etc/qjail.local/jailname
     and /usr/local/etc/qjail.global/jailname.  The jailnames to be deleted
     are required to be in stopped mode before this "delete" command executes.

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -A      This option will delete all the jails under qjail's control. You
             are advised to archive all your jails before doing this. This
             will also reset the qjail.vnetctl counter to zero.

     jailname
             Multiple jailnames separated by a space are allowed on this
             command. The group prefix option is enabled. xxxx= will cause
             only those jailnames matching the xxxx character to be selected
             for processing. The equal sign "=" is the wildcard symbol that
             signifies all the characters to its left are to be used to match
             on jailname to create a list of jailnames to be processed.
             Jailname is a mandatory parameter. Jails in "norun" status are
             NOT excluded from being deleted.

qjail restore
     Creates new jails from archive files. The default archive directory is
     /usr/jails/archive. If a jail exists with the same jailname as the
     archive being restored, the restore is terminated. You have to delete the
     existing matching jailname before you can restore it. Archived jails that
     have "norun" status or "manual start" status will be restored with
     "norun" or "man" status intact.

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -s      This option restores the backup of the qjail internal definition
             and control files from the archive "system.bkup" directory, plus
             the qjail executable scripts from the archive "pgm.bkup"
             directory. The vnet feature may cause the host system to freeze
             up and wipe out the contents of any open files. Experience has
             shown that at times this has happened to the qjail internal
             definition and control files, and with less frequency to the
             qjail executable scripts. If your going to be using vnet jails,
             it's highly recommended you have a current backup.

     jailname
             The most current archive file matching the jailname will be
             restored. To restore an older file you have to specify the full
             archive file name with the date and time of the archive appended
             to it. Multiple jailnames separated by a space are allowed on the
             command. The group prefix option is disabled for this subcommand.
             Jailname is a mandatory parameter. To view all the full archive
             file names, use this command ls /usr/jails/archive/.

             If jailname is sharedfs or template and it's the only jailname on
             the command, it will be restored. A sharedfs containing only the
             minimum system install, takes less than one minute elapse time to
             complete. A sharedfs with source and full ports tree may take up
             to 7 minutes elapse time to complete. The existing sharedfs or
             template will be renamed to previous.sharedfs and
             previous.template before restoring begins.

qjail config
     Manage parameters of specific jails. The selected jailnames are required
     to be in stopped mode before this command will process the jailname.

     The options are as follows:

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -A      This option is valid with all options except -i, -n and -d. When
             coded, a jailname is invalid. This -A option means to set the
             selected option on "ALL" the jailnames including those in "norun"
             and "man" status.

     -b      Lower case b populates the devfs_ruleset per-jail option with the
             rule number representing the custom ruleset you added to the
             host's /etc/devfs.rules file. If this -b rule# is omitted the
             default ruleset number 4 is used and in most cases is sufficient.

             To create your custom devfs_ruleset always copy rule number 4
             from the hosts /etc/defaults/devfs.rules and create a host's
             /etc/devfs.rules file renaming number 4 to a unused number of
             your choice. Never grant access to raw disk devices inside of a
             jail, this may permit processes to exit the jail container and
             modify files outside of the jail. To enable your new rule issue
             "service devfs restart" from the hosts console.
             Type "man devfs" or "man devfs.rules" for information on how to
             create devfs rulesets to limit access and expose only appropriate
             device nodes to a jail.

             Example; If a jail were to run OpenVPN in a jail it requires
             access to the "tun" device which rule number 4 does not include.
             This is when a customized ruleset would be called for.

             There is a customized ruleset number 50 that adds the "bfp"
             device which allows dhclient(8) and tcpdump(1) and maybe some
             others to work inside both non-vnet jails and vnet jails. It's
             not added by default but the first time you use "-b 50" command
             it will be created automatically.

     -B      Upper case B disables the devfs_ruleset per-jail option and
             reverts the jail to the default #4 devfs.rules for jails.

     -c      The new network interface device name you want to replace the
             selected jailname "NIC" network interface device name with.
             Coded -c NIC jailname.

     -d      Display's the jails jail(8) format definition from
             "/usr/local/etc/qjail.config/jailname" which shows the values set
             for the jail. Coded "-d jailname"

     -f      Set the FIB (routing table) to use when running commands from
             inside the jail. This is a very advanced function used under very
             special conditions. Coded "-f numeric value" to identify which
             routing table the jail is to use.

             First you need to increase the number of host routing tables by
             compiling the kernel with "option ROUTETABLES=3" or use the
             net.fibs=3 option in /boot/loader.config. The result would be
             0 = default host routing table,
             1 = first additional routing table,
             2 = second additional routing table.
             Then issue host console command;
             setfib 1 route add default "That jails default route ip address"
             Where 1 represents the first additional routing table.
             This route table will remain in effect until the next boot.
             Adding that command to /etc/rc.conf would make it happen on every
             boot of the host system.

             Then use -f option with value of 1 to assign that routing table
             to the selected jail. See setfib(8) for more details.

     -F      Upper case F disables the setfib per-jail option.

     -h      This option will enable ssh and create a user account having the
             login ID and password of the jailname. To address basic security
             concerns, on first login the user will be prompted to enter a new
             password. The jailname user account belongs to the "wheel" group
             so it has "su" access to "root".

             When the jails modified with the -h option are started for the
             first time, the changes to configure ssh and create the user
             account for that jail are applied. Doing a qjail restart jailname
             or a qjail stop jailname followed by qjail start jailname is
             required to enable the changes which will be in effect from that
             point on.

     -4      The new IPv4 addresses you want to replace the selected jailname
             IPv4 address with. More than a single IPv4 address can be
             assigned to a jail. Multiple IPv4 addresses have to be a list of
             IPv4 addresses separated by a comma "," without spaces before or
             after. Example 10.0.0.2,10.0.0.3,10.0.0.4
             Coded "-4 new-IPv4 jailname"
             Coded "-4 none" will cause the ip4 field to be set to null.

     -6      The new IPv6 addresses you want to replace the selected jailname
             IPv6 address with. More than a single IPv6 address can be
             assigned to a jail. Multiple IPv6 addresses have to be a list of
             IPv6 addresses separated by a comma "," without spaces before or
             after. Coded "-6 new-IPv6 jailname"
             Coded "-6 none" will cause the ip6 field to be set to null.

     -k      This negates the security of the jail concept and should never be
             used on a jail accessible from the public Internet. Lower case
             "k" enables the allow.raw_sockets per-jail option. Normally the
             ping command will get "Operation not permitted" error when issued
             from inside of a jail. This is a security design default of the
             jail environment. This security feature does not allow users or
             jail applications to create raw sockets. With raw sockets enabled
             a jail user could use perl or python or some other port utilities
             to create raw sockets and launch attacks on the host or the
             public network. If the jail has public internet access, an public
             attacker may compromise the jail and launch attacks on the host
             or the public network. Consideration of the security risk verses
             the convenience of using the ping command from inside of the jail
             is in order. However this restriction may be nullified by coding
             this option. Recommend using dig or whois commands to verify
             public access.

             There are some valid situations for enabling allow.raw_sockets
             for an individual jail, such as running mysql or php or
             PostgreSQL which require local Unix sockets to work.

     -K      Upper case K disables the allow.raw_sockets per-jail option.

     -l      Lower case l enables the allow.mount.nullfs per-jail option.
             This is restricted to nullfs mounts on directories inside of the
             jail. It has nothing to do with mounting nullfs from the host to
             the jail filesystem which is always available to do. Any
             mount_nullfs commands issued from within the jail are only in
             effect for the duration the jail is running. When the jail is
             stopped the established nullfs mount is neutralized.
             The exec.prestart or exec.poststart parameters may be used to
             automate the issuing of the desired mount_nullfs commands.
             Documented in jail(8).

     -L      Upper case L disables the allow.mount.nullfs per-jail option.

     -m      Means put this jail in "manual start" status.
             If qjail_enable="YES" is present in the "host's" /etc/rc.conf
             file, then all jails in "man" status will be bypassed when the
             host is booted or powered up.

     -M      Upper case M disables the "man" per-jail option.

     -n      The new jailname you want to replace the selected jailname with.
             This changes the jailname and the jails directory name that the
             jail is known by. Coded "-n new-jail-name current-jail-name".
             The new jail name can only have alphanumeric, dash, and
             underscore characters and all numeric jail names are invalid.

     -p      Edits a text file containing the names of packages you want
             installed in the jail. Enter one package name per line.

     -P      Upper case P runs a "pkg install" command reading the content of
             the text file created by the lower case -p option. The host must
             have public Internet access to download the package. The target
             jail must be running.

     -q      Lower case q enables the allow.quotas per-jail option. Quota has
             to be compiled into the host's system kernel first for this
             option to function. "option QUOTA" is the statement you have to
             add to your kernel definition source. Documented in jail(8).

     -Q      Upper case Q disables the allow.quotas per-jail option.

     -r      Means put this jail in "norun" status.
             If qjail_enable="YES" is present in the "host's" /etc/rc.conf
             file, then all jails in "norun" status will be bypassed when the
             system is booted and also when the start command is used.

     -R      Upper case R disables the "norun" per-jail option.

     -s      Enables the securelevel per-jail option. Documented in jail(8).
             There are five different security levels. Any super-user process
             can raise the level, but no process can lower it.
             The security levels are:

              -1    Permanently insecure mode - always run the system in
                    insecure mode. This is the default initial value.

              0     Insecure mode - immutable and append-only flags may be
                    turned off. All devices may be read or written subject
                    to their permissions.

              1     Secure mode - the system immutable and system append-only
                    flags may not be turned off; disks for mounted file
                    systems, /dev/mem and /dev/kmem may not be opened for
                    writing.

              2     Highly secure mode - same as secure mode, plus disks may
                    not be opened for writing (except by mount(2)) whether
                    mounted or not. This level precludes tampering with file
                    systems by un-mounting them, but also inhibits running
                    newfs(8) while the system is in multiuser. In addition,
                    kernel time changes are restricted to less than or equal
                    to one second. Attempts to change the time by more than
                    this will log the message "Time adjustment clamped to
                    +1 second".

              3     Network secure mode - same as highly secure mode, plus IP
                    packet filter rules (see ipfw(8), ipfirewall(4) and
                    pfctl(8) cannot be changed and dummynet(4) or pf(4)
                    configuration cannot be adjusted.

             This does not really apply to the qjail jail system because all
             of the system executables are in an read only nullfs mounted
             filesystem which makes it impossible to change file content or
             add files to those directories. This is by far a stronger form of
             jail security than the securelevel parameter can provide on an
             per-jail basis.

     -S      Upper case S disables the securelevel per-jail option.

     -t      Lower case t enables the allow.mount.tmpfs per-jail option. This
             is restricted to tmpfs mounts on directories inside of the jail.

     -T      Upper case T disables the allow.mount.tmpfs per-jail option.

     -v      Lower case v enables the vnet per-jail option.
             WARNING: The vnet configuration used here is designed for host
             systems running version 12.0-RELEASE or newer.
             Vnet (virtualized network stack) is included in the kernel.
             Information given here maybe different in newer RELEASES.

             The "bridge/epair" method is used to establish network access for
             the vnet jail. The /usr/local/etc/qjail.vnetctl file contains the
             counter whos number is used to assign a unique permanent number
             to the vnet jail's virtual ethernet epair interfaces. The epair
             pair are named epair<n>[ab] where <n> is the unique number
             generated using the value in the qjail.vnetctl file. This means
             the names of the first pair of epair interfaces would be named
             epair1a and epair1b. The bridge qjail uses is named bridge10 to
             greatly reduce the likelyhood of the host administrator creating
             a bridge with the same name.

             The -v option requires a value of none, ipfw, pf, or ipf, to
             select which firewall to run in the vnet jail. The same firewall
             is required to run on the host and in the vnet jail.
             Note: ipf is short for ipfilter.

             Only vnet jails on GATEWAY hosts, IE; a host that is connected
             directly to the public internet, need a firewall with NAT rules.
             Hosts that are nodes on a LAN IE; local area networks, don't need
             NAT because their traffic pass through their up-stream GATEWAY
             host where NAT is done and firewall rules inspect the traffic.

             Because of the increased likely hood of host system freezes or
             page faults, vnet jails are restricted to directory type
             filesystem jails only. No image jail type are allowed because of
             the manually effort required to recover them. Experience has
             shown that at times a vnet system freeze may cause the contents
             of any open files to be wiped out leaving only the file name.
             This effects the qjail internal definition and control files.
             It's highly recommended you use the "archive -s" option to create
             a current backup of these files. Using the "restore -s" option
             will restore those files after a vnet system freeze greatly
             simplifying the recovery process.

     -V      Upper case V disables the vnet per-jail option.

     -x      Lower case x enables the allow.mount.zfs per-jail option. This
             option has mandatory host requirements before it's useful. The
             host must have all or some part of it's hard drive space defined
             to zfs and actively using it. See zfs(8) for information on how
             to configure the zfs filesystem to operate from inside a jail.
             The exec.prestart or exec.poststart parameters may be used to
             automate the issuing of the desired zfs commands.
             Documented in jail(8).

     -X      Upper case X disables the allow.mount.zfs per-jail option.

     -y      Lower case y enables the allow.sysvipc per-jail option.  Grant
             processes within the jail access to System V IPC (semaphores).
             Enabling sysvipc makes the jail considerably less secure in
             respect to shared memory. This feature should not be used unless
             absolutely necessary when no other option is available.
             Documented in ipcs(1).

             Example: Zabbix (a system monitoring tool) which is the major
             competitor of naigos would need allow.sysvipc enabled so it will
             start.

     -Y      Upper case Y disables the allow.sysvipc per-jail option.

     jailname
             For all options except -d, -i, and -n, multiple jailnames
             separated by a space are allowed on the command. The group prefix
             option is enabled. xxxx= will cause only those jailnames matching
             the xxxx characters to be selected for processing. The equal sign
             "=" is the wildcard symbol that signifies all the characters to
             its left are to be used to match on jailname to create a list of
             jailnames to be processed. Jailname is a mandatory parameter. Use
             subcommand "list" to show a list of all jailnames.

qjail update
     Provides the ability to add or update the ports collection on sharedfs,
     and a method for synchronizing the host's system binaries and those of
     the sharedfs.

     -z      Code the same zone value used with the "install" subcommand to
             have this subcommand process against that zone.

     -b      The basic requirement of FreeBSD jails is the jail environment
             and the host run the same version of the systems binaries. Since
             the FreeBSD-update utility only inspects the host system to
             determine the systems RELEASE level it's not applicable in a
             jailed environment. Performing a make buildworld/installworld on
             sharedfs's source is such a waste of effort and resources after
             having done this already for the host system. This option makes
             the buildworld/installworld obsolete for the qjail environment.

             This option deletes all the system binaries from the sharedfs and
             them copies the host's system binaries to sharedfs. It's intended
             to be used after running the FreeBSD-update utility on the host
             to apply security updates or to upgrade the GENERIC host from one
             RELEASE to another newer RELEASE, or after performing a make
             buildworld/installworld on the host updating its system binaries.
             Basically update the host and copy your work to the sharedfs
             getting both environments synchronized.

             Note: When going from one subversion to a newer subversion within
             the same major RELEASE, IE: 11.0 to 11.1 there is no need to
             update your installed ports/packages. When going to a newer major
             RELEASE IE; 11.1 to 12.0 then your installed ports/packages need
             updateing.

     -p      This option Invokes the portsnap utility to fetch and extract a
             FreeBSD ports tree from "portsnap.FreeBSD.org" (475MB). By design
             the "sharedfs" filesystem includes the "/usr/ports" directory
             which is not automatically populated by "qjail install".

             An alternative to executing portsnap to populate
             "sharedfs/usr/ports" would be to temporarily make the hosts
             "/usr/ports" directory tree available to the jails by using the
             "mv" command like this:
             mv /usr/ports /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr and returned doing
             mv /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr/ports /usr

             Portsnap will initially download a compressed file containing the
             complete ports tree. Elapse download time greater than 15 minutes
             is normal. On its initial execution, an extract is performed
             creating the /usr/ports sub-directories and populating them.
             Subsequent executions, the /usr/ports directory exists, so an
             update is done populating the /usr/ports directory tree with only
             things that have been changed or added. This is portsnap's
             default behavior. This behavior can be somewhat modified by
             changing the content of the /usr/local/etc/qjail.portsnap.conf
             file. Add REFUSE statements to select the ports categories you
             don't want populated to your /usr/ports directory tree. Ideal
             candidates to REFUSE are the non-English languages, astro,
             biology, cad, finance, games, math, mbone, and science. From
             there you can select additional categories to REFUSE based on
             your normal jail port usage. For more details see Appendix
             A.6-Using Portsnap and Chapter 24.3 Portsnap in the FreeBSD
             Handbook or "man portsnap".

     -P      This is an upper case P. This option copies the hosts /usr/ports
             directory tree to the /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr/ports directory
             tree after first deleting the existing one.

     -S      This is an upper case S. This option copies the hosts /usr/src
             directory tree to the /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr/src directory tree
             after first deleting the existing one.

     -l      This enables or disables [on | off] logging of all qjail commands
             and error messages to /var/log/qjail.log file. Each log entry is
             prefixed with a date/time stamp and the user account name of the
             user entering the commands. An entry is also made in
             /etc/newsyslog.conf to auto rotate the qjail.log file.

qjail logmsg
     This subcommand will post what every follows the subcommand as a textual
     comment to the qjail system log. Offers the user the opportunity to place
     their own documentation into the log about what or why their doing
     things. Totally free form.

qjail help
     Help without any sub-command displays the qjail(8) manual. Help followed
     by a valid sub-command displays the syntax of that sub-command and
     details about that sub-command option flags. "help help" gives help about
     help.

GENERAL QJAIL USAGE TIPS
     *   Qjail must be run by a superuser login account such as "root"
         or a normal user login account belonging to the "wheel" group.
         For user accounts in the wheel group, after logging in they have
         to issue the "su" command and reply with the root password to
         gain the superuser access required by qjail. The "sudo" port
         can be used instead of "su" to perform the same function
         if so desired.

     *   For a jail to receive unsolicited inbound traffic from the
         public internet, the host's firewall must have a rule to allow
         the desired port number to pass through the firewall and a NAT
         forward rule targeting the IP address and port number of the
         desired jail. For additional details read qjail-howto man page.

     *   You can remotely access a jail through ssh if that option was
         selected during the jail create process and the host's firewall
         and NAT forwarding rules are in place.

     *   The orderly stopping of jails that have databases or other
         applications that may have delayed buffered writes to files is
         accomplished by the use of the "qjail stop" command or issuing
         the "shutdown now" command on the host. Using the host's halt
         and reboot commands or pressing the computers reset or power on
         buttons results in the running jails being instantly terminated
         which some applications can not tolerate. Always use the host's
         shutdown command or "qjail stop" command.

     *   By design the "sharedfs" filesystem includes the "/usr/ports" and
         "/usr/src" directories which are not automatically populated by
         "qjail install". You can temporarily make the hosts "/usr/ports"
         or "/usr/src" directory trees available to the jails by using the
         "mv" command like this:
         mv /usr/ports /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr and returned doing
         mv /usr/jails/sharedfs/usr/ports /usr

     #   There are some common utilities that require the "bfp" device to
         function in a jail such as dhclient(8) and tcpdump(1). There is
         a customized ruleset number 50 that adds the "bfp" device. The
         first time you use the "qjail config -b 50" command it will be
         created automatically.

     *   In environments where you want all the jails to use the same set
         of ports but don't want to have to compile these ports in every jail,
         you can do the following. Populate sharedfs/usr/ports/packages/
         directory with the packages you want. All jails have access to this
         shared directory. Then create a SEED jail to be used as the source
         to clone all of the other jails from. First create your basic SEED
         jail using the template. You may wish to customize a flavor
         to contain any desired /etc config files unique to that seed.
         Additionally you can start the SEED jails console and perform any
         other customization such as "pkg install" for the pre-staged
         packages or "make install" on ports you want. When your satisfied
         with the SEED jail's configuration, archive it. Then use the SEED's
         archive file jailname in the -a option of the create subcommand so
         it's used as the source template to create the other jails from.
         Optionally you could use the -d and or -I options with the -a
         option for mass duplication of jails based on that SEED
         configuration.

     *   In the situation where you want "all" the jails that you EVER create
         to have the same selection of ports, create a "SEED" jail as
         described above. When your satisfied with your "SEED" jail, delete
         the /usr/jails/template directory and rename your "SEED" jail to
         /usr/jails/template directory.
         mv /usr/jails/SEED /usr/jails/template
         rm /usr/local/etc/qjail.local/SEED
         rm /usr/local/etc/qjail.global/SEED
         rm /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab/SEED
         From that point on, all new jails created using the template
         will contain your standard ports.

     *   The /etc/rc.conf in the default flavor has this statement;
         cron_flags="$cron_flags -J 60" this enables time jitter
         for all /etc/crontab jobs run by the superuser, which on a
         pristine jail environment is everything in the crontab file.
         Time jitter works this way: Prior to executing commands in the
         /etc/crontab file, cron will sleep a random number of seconds
         in the range from 1 to 60 seconds. This option greatly helps
         to reduce host system load spikes during moments when a
         lot of cron jobs are likely to start at once, IE, at the
         beginning of the first minute of each hour. Without this
         statement in every deployed jail to randomly spread the
         starting of cron tasks over the first minute, most likely
         the host system would come to a darn near halt. The default
         flavor has another customized configuration file just for
         jails. The /etc/periodic.conf overrides the normal emailing
         of reports and instead creates daily, weekly, and monthly
         logs within each jails /var/log directory. These logs get
         rotated and deleted as specified in the jails
         /etc/newsyslog.conf.

     *   Its a mandatory requirement of the FreeBSD "jail" system that the
         host and the jails are both running the same version of the operating
         system binaries. First you have to get your host system running at
         the newer RELEASE version. You can do the fresh install from scratch
         method, or update your host's current RELEASE version by using the
         Freebsd-update utility or svn update your system source and make
         buildworld/installworld. After the host is running the new RELEASE
         version and before starting any qjail's. You can run the "install"
         subcommand again and re-install with the newer RELEASE version
         matching what is on the host, without disturbing the existing
         installed jails, or run the "update" subcommand with the -b option
         to copy the hosts operating system binaries to the sharedfs.
         If going to a newer major RELEASE, IE: 10.2 to 11.0; 11.2 to 12.0;
         then remember, all existing jails that have ports or packages in
         them will need them updated to versions compatible with the new
         major RELEASE version. On the other hand, if going from a
         subversion to a newer subversion within the same major RELEASE,
         IE: 9.1 to 9.2; 11.0 to 11.1, then there is no need to update your
         installed ports/packages.

     *   Each jail has a console log located in the host's /var/log/
         directory named jail_*_console.log. Where "*" = jailname.
         These logs don't grow much but if the jails are going to be
         used long term, their names should be added to the hosts
         /etc/newsyslog.conf so they get auto rotated and deleted.
         You don't want some jail user to cause console messages and
         flood the jails log until all the host's disk space is
         consumed bring the host to a abrupt stop.

     *   If you have qjail start a image jail, then the contents of its
         sparse image file are accessible by the host system. From the host
         you can "cd" into the image jails jailname directory and access
         the directory tree there just like any other directory tree.

     *   The ping command will get "Operation not permitted." error when
         issued from inside of a jail. This is not a qjail restriction, but
         a design default of the FreeBSD jail command. This default does not
         allow users or jail applications to create raw sockets. This is a
         security feature. With raw sockets a jail user could use perl or
         python or some other port utilities to create raw sockets and launch
         attacks on the host or the public network. The config -k option
         maybe used to enable allow.raw_sockets function on a per-jail basis.

     *   Once your jail has public network access, (test with whois)
         then all your normal application install functions are available,
         (ports tree update, svn update, ports and package installs) right
         from the jails console using the "qjail console" command.

     *   Jails do not have a network stack of their own, so they can't have
         a firewall. The host's firewall and network is in control.

     *   If you want absolute control over starting your Jails. (IE. no boot
         time auto-start of the jails), then don't put the qjail_enable="YES"
         statement in the hosts rc.conf file.

     *   If for whatever reason you want to completely delete the qjail
         jail environment so you can start over with the install
         subcommand from scratch, execute these commands;
          rm -rf /usr/jails
          rm -rf /usr/local/etc/qjail.local
          rm -rf /usr/local/etc/qjail.global
          rm -rf /usr/local/etc/qjail.config
          rm -rf /usr/local/etc/qjail.packages
          rm -rf /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab
          rm /var/log/jail_*
          rm /var/log/jails.lo*

FILES
     /usr/local/bin/qjail            The main work horse
     /usr/local/etc/rc.d/qjail.bootime  Boot time jail starter
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.local/*    internal jail definition files for no
     zones
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.global/*   internal jail definition files for all
     zones
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.config/*   jail.config jail definition files for all
     zones
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.packages/* List of packages to "pkg install" per
     jail.
     /usr/local/etc/qjail.fstab/*    sharedfs null mount record for each jail
     /var/run/jail_*.pid             Run pid record for each started jail
     /var/log/jail_*_console.log      * = jailname
     /usr/local/share/examples/qjail  Example flavors
     /usr/jails                       Location of qjail's jails
     /usr/jails/archive               Location of qjail's archives
     /usr/jails/flavors               Location of qjail's flavors
     /var/log/jails.log               Location of qjail's system log file

SEE ALSO
     qjail-intro(8), qjail-drive-traffic(8), qjail-vnet-howto(8),
     qjail-ipv6-testing, jail(8), mount_nullfs(8), mdconfig(8), devfs(5),
     portsnap(8), freebsd-update(8)

AUTHOR
     ezjail version 3.1 which qjail was forked from was written by
     Dirk Engling <erdgeist@erdgeist.org>
     http://erdgeist.org/arts/software/ezjail/

     qjail versions 1.0 through 2.2 written by
     The Qjail project team, Angeles City, Philippines
     Joe Barbish <qjail1@a1poweruser.com> for the Qjail project team.

     qjail version 3.0 and newer maintained by
     Joe Barbish <qjail1@a1poweruser.com>
     http://qjail.sourceforge.net/

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 12, 2020           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
