quail-howto(8)          FreeBSD System Manager's Manual         quail-howto(8)

NAME
     qjail-howto – Details explaining how to use qjail to build a NON-VIMAGE
     jail system.

DESCRIPTION
     This howto will strive to explain how the qjail utility is used in a real
     world application Utilizing a documentation approach that fills in the
     blanks of how all the separate network functions fit together.

SCENARIO DESCRIPTION
     Please keep in mind that all this is fictitious, completely fake. For the
     purpose of this discussion, this host is typical of a home user or a
     Small Business. There is an officially registered domain name that points
     to the hosts IP address assigned by the ISP. The user has purchased a
     Home Class type of Internet service which gets assigned a Dynamic IP
     address. A business may purchase Business Class type of Internet service
     which gets assigned a static IP address. In both cases the host jails get
     configured the same way. All this is predicated on the jail being
     configured correctly first. This can be tested by logging into the
     running jail from the host console using this qjail command
     qjail console jail-name then issuing whois 9.9.9.9 command, you will
     receive a reply if jail is configured correctly.

STATIC VERSUS DYNAMIC IP ADDRESS
     There is a big difference between the two in how they get configured on
     the host system and the yearly fee the ISP charges.

     Static IP addresses are only assigned by the ISP for Business Class
     Internet service. The IP addresses assigned are public routable and
     permanent. The ISP does not provide any auto configuration services for
     Static IP address. The host configuration files have to be manually
     configured. The ISP will convey the following information;

     The one or more assigned static IP addresses. These will need ifconfig
     statements added to the hosts /etc/rc.conf file to enable their usage.
     The fully qualified domain names of the ISP's two DNS servers plus their
     IP addresses. This info is used to populate the hosts /etc/resolv.conf
     file.

     Dynamic IP addresses are only assigned by the ISP for Home Class Internet
     service. A single assigned IP address is public routable. The ISP
     provides auto configuration services through DHCP. Dynamic means the ISP
     can change the assigned IP address on you while in use or change the DSN
     IP addresses and their domain names or reconfigure their network on the
     fly to use a different block of network IP address.
     The /etc/rc.conf ifconfig_rl0="DHCP" statement will automatically handle
     this change on the fly transparently. This class of service is far
     cheaper than Business Class. Don't be fooled by who uses Home Class
     internet service. Many small to medium sized businesses have this type of
     service.

     While were talking about IP addresses, per RFC 1918, there are groups of
     IP address ranges reserved for private networks that will never be
     connected to the public internet. These are intended for Local Area
     Networks. They are not routable on the public Internet without first
     being NATed.
                      10.0.0.0        -   10.255.255.255
                      172.16.0.0      -   172.31.255.255
                      192.168.0.0     -   192.168.255.255

DOMAIN NAMES
     Domain names have to be registered in the country where they are located
     and a yearly fee is charged. The domain name is linked to your IP address
     and this information is distributed to public Internet DNS servers so
     users on the internet can put your fully qualified domain name in the URL
     field of their web browser and find it's way to the IP address of your
     host.

     If you used a dynamic IP address to link to your domain name then when
     the dynamic IP address changes the linked domain name no longer points to
     your host and all Internet traffic stops. Now there are solutions to
     address this problem. Some domain name registers, and companies that host
     domain names, offer services where a program is run on the host that
     watches for dynamic IP changes and then updates the linked IP address of
     the domain name with the new dynamic IP address when a change occurs.
     Using this technique will keep your domain name pointing at your host.

TECHNICAL OVERVIEW
     The users domain name register hosts the domain name and points it to
     your hosts ip address. The ISP assigned one dynamic IP address to the
     host. The host is running RELEASE 11.0 and its already connected to the
     public internet and working correctly. All firewall rules are keep state
     and only inbound ports 53, 67, 22 are allowed in and only outbound ports
     43, 53, 3690 are allowed out. All other inbound/outbound ports are
     blocked by default. Issuing whois 9.9.9.9 command from the hosts console
     should work as the test to verify the host is functional. It's assumed
     that all host commands are issued from the host's local console keyboard.

     The host only has 2 services running on it, SSH and IPFILTER firewall.
     The firewall allows remote public Internet access to SSH. SSH login
     authentication method is not important here as what ever method you want
     to use can be setup. The Host has two jails one for apache web server and
     the other one with ssh access.

GENERAL GUIDE LINES
     1. NON-VIMAGE jails which we are talking about here do not have their
        own firewalls. All jail traffic passes through the hosts firewall.
        Security of what you want allowed in/out of the jail is controlled by
        the hosts firewall based on the port numbers being used.

     2. For jails to receive unsolicited inbound public access, each jail
        needs a unique port number assigned to each separate jail for each
        service you are going to run in that jail.

     3. A firewall keep state rule to allow that unique port number in has to
        be added to your hosts firewall rule set.

     4. A NAT forward rule forwarding that unique port number to the IP
        address assigned to the jail is required to be added to the hosts
        firewall rule set. Different firewalls code this in different ways.
        Read your firewall manual for details.

     5. You can NOT run the same service on the host and in a jail or in
        other jails without using a unique inbound port number to forward the
        selected traffic to the desired jail.

     6. Your domain name hoster plays a big part here. They have online
        administrator functions where you can configure all port 80 traffic to
        be forwarded to what ever port number you have used to point to the
        desired jail. You can do this same thing for what ever other standard
        port numbers you want forwarded to a jails unique port numbers. This
        is how you drive different public domain name traffic to a single host
        with jails serving services for just that domain name.

JAIL CONFIG SETUP USING QJAIL
     Step 1.  Enter pkg install qjail to Install the qjail software.

     Step 2.  Enter qjail install to install the qjail environment.

     Step 3.  Enter qjail create -4 10.10.0.1 -c ssh  To create a
              directory tree type jail with ssh enabled.

     Step 4.  Enter qjail create -4 10.10.0.2 www  To create a
              directory tree type jail.

     Step 5.  Enter qjail start ssh  Start this jail.

     Step 6.  Enter qjail restart ssh to stop and start the jail so
              SSH will start running in the jail.

     Step 7.  Enter qjail start www  Start this jail.

     Step 8.  Enter qjail console www  Auto login to this jails console.
              Enter pkg install apache24  Install web server software.
              Enter echo "apache24_enable="YES"" >> /etc/rc.conf
              Enter exit to leave jail console.

     Step 9.  Enter qjail restart www to stop and start the jail so
              apache web server will start running.

Config host firewall for jail traffic
     For the purpose of this discussion the host system is using the ipfilter
     firewall which is based on a IPF rules file and IPF NAT rules file. The
     actual IPF rules will be shown to illustrate their syntax.

     To drive public traffic to a jail and have that same service run on the
     host means the same default port numbers can not be used in both the host
     and the jails. So port numbers 22 & 80 are used for the host. To target
     traffic to a jail we must assign the jails unique port numbers, 6122 for
     the ssh jail and 6180 for the www jail. These unique port numbers are
     arbitrarily chosen. You can chose whatever number fits your fancy.

     These 2 unique port numbers must be allowed to pass through the IPF
     firewall. To do so add these 2 rules to the IPF rule set.

     # Allow in www function for apache in qjail jail www
     pass in quick rl0 tcp from any to any port = 6188 flags S keep state

     # Allow in ssh function in qjail jail ssh
     pass in quick rl0 tcp from any to any port = 6122 flags S keep state

     In the NAT rules file is where the real action takes place. First of all,
     the MAP command must cover the compete range of IP addresses you plan to
     use on the host system for assignment to jails or LAN machines. In this
     case that's this command.

     map rl0 10.0.0.0/8 -> 0/32    # for normal lan + all jails

     Now we have to code forward commands to point the inbound port numbers
     6122 & 6188 to the jails IP addresses like this.

     # Forward inbound unique port to jail ssh
     rdr rl0 0.0.0.0/0 port 6122 -> 10.10.0.1 port 22 tcp

     # Forward inbound unique port to jail www
     rdr rl0 0.0.0.0/0 port 6188 -> 10.10.0.2 port 80 tcp

     Load the NAT file to the system.

     #This command loads the ipnat rules
     ipnat -FC -f /etc/ipnat.rules

     #This command will resync ipnat with current host ip address
     ipf -y

     Now we have to return to the IPF rules file and add rules to allow
     traffic outputted by the NAT forward rules to pass through the firewall
     by adding these two rules.

     pass in quick rl0 tcp from any to 10.10.0.1 port = 22 flags S keep state
     pass in quick rl0 tcp from any to 10.10.0.2 port = 80 flags S keep state

     Load the IPF rules file.
     ipf -FS -Fa -f /etc/ipf.rules

Testing remote jail traffic
     From any device with a browser, as long as its IP address is not
     associated with the hosts IP address. Enter this URL format
     hosts_domain_name:8010/ or hosts_ip_address:8010/
     Your browser will get this message It worked meaning you now have remote
     access to your www apache web server.

     From any device with a ssh client, as long as its IP address is not
     associated with the hosts IP address. Use "hosts_domain_name" and port
     8010 for ssh login or "hosts_ip_address" and port 8010. Use login name of
     "ssh" and first time password of ssh. You will be prompted to change the
     password. You now have remote SSH access to your ssh jail.

Some host debug commands
     sockstat -j jid    jib=jail running number
     sockstat -4        display all the in use host ip address and port number
                        being listened on.
     sockstat -4 | grep 10.10.0.1   display only info for that ip number
     ipnat -lhd         display nat info with count of times rule was hit
     ipfstat -hni       list inbound firewall rules with hit count.
     Note: Any rule that is allowing in a unique port number that gets
              forwarded does not show a hit count. Look for the rule that
              allows in the jails ip address port number for the count.

     You can add the tcpdump function to a jail be changing the devfs_ruleset
     number in the jails jail.conf definition from 4 to 50. There is a
     customized ruleset number 50 that adds the "bfp" device that tcpdump
     requires to work. The first time you use the "qjail config -b 50" command
     it will be created automatically.

     From inside running jail issue
     tcpdump -v ip host jail-ip-address
     tcpdump -v tcp port 6122

SEE ALSO
     qjail(8), qjail-intro(8), qjail-vnet-howto(8), qjail-ipv6-testing

AUTHOR
     Joe Barbish ⟨qjail1@a1poweruser.com⟩

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4        February 16, 2017                quail-howto(8)
