qmail-dk(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            qmail-dk(8)

NAME
       qmail-dk - sign/verify and queue a mail message for delivery

SYNOPSIS
       qmail-dk

DESCRIPTION
       qmail-dk has the same interface as qmail-queue except that it inserts
       an appropriate DomainKeys header before it queues the message.  There
       are two separate ways to invoke qmail-dk.  For one way, you can patch
       qmail with the http://qmail.org/qmailqueue patch and set QMAILQUEUE to
       point to qmail-dk in the environment when you send or receive email.
       For another way, you can rename qmail-queue to qmail-queue.orig, and
       set DKQUEUE=bin/qmail-queue.orig.

       qmail-dk has been patched with qmail-dk-0.54-auth.patch, which sets up
       a bit of automatic behavior.  If RELAYCLIENT is found in the
       environment, qmail-dk imports the DKSIGN environment variable and tries
       to sign the mail.  If RELAYCLIENT is not found in the environment,
       DKVERIFY is imported, and we attempt to verify the mail.

       qmail-dk supports DomainKey signing and verification.  It uses the
       libdomainkey and OpenSSL libraries.  To sign a message, set the DKSIGN
       environment variable to the pathname to the private key that will be
       used to sign the message.  If there is a % character in the environment
       variable, it is removed and replaced by the domain name in the From:
       header.  If, after substituting the %, that file does not exist, the
       message will not be signed.  If there is no % and the file does not
       exist, the message will be rejected with error 32.  The selector will
       be taken from the basename of the file.  The private key should be
       created by dknewkey, which comes with libdomainkey.

       To verify a message, set the DKVERIFY environment variable to a desired
       set of letters.  Precisely, if you want a libdomainkey return status to
       generate an error, include that letter, where A is the first return
       status (DK_STAT_OK), B is the second (DK_STAT_BADSIG), etc.  The letter
       should be uppercase if you want a permanent error to be returned (exit
       code 13), and lowercase if you want a temporary error to be returned
       (exit code 82).

       For example, if you want to permanently reject messages that have a
       signature that has been revoked, include the letter 'K' in the DKVERIFY
       environment variable.  A conservative set of letters is DEGIJKfh.
       Reject permanently BADSIG, NOKEY, BADKEY, SYNTAX, ARGS, REVOKED, and
       INTERNAL errors, and temporarily CANTVRFY and NORESOURCE.  Add in B if
       you want to reject messages that have a signature that doesn't verify
       (presumably because the message is a forgery or has been damaged in
       transit.  Note that qmail-dk always inserts the DomainKey-Status
       header, so that messages can be rejected at delivery time, or in the
       mail reader.

       Typically, you would sign messages generated on-host by setting DKSIGN
       in the environment before running an email program.  DKSIGN will be
       carried through qmail's sendmail emulation through qmail-inject to
       qmail-dk.  You would also set it for qmail-smtpd at the same time
       RELAYCLIENT is set, most often in the tcpserver cdb file.  If a host is
       authorized to relay, you probably want to sign messages sent by that
       host.  DKVERIFY should be set for all other hosts.

       If neither DKSIGN nor DKVERIFY are set, then DKSIGN will be set to
       /etc/domainkeys/%/default.  If such a private key exists, it will be
       used to sign the domain.

       qmail-dk will ordinarily spawn qmail-queue, but if DKQUEUE is set in
       the environment, the program that it points to will be executed
       instead.  If DKQUEUE is not set, and qmail-dk has been invoked as
       qmail-queue then qmail-queue.orig is spawned instead.


EXIT CODES
       qmail-dk returns the same exit codes as qmail-queue with these
       additions:

       32   The private key file does not exist.

       57   Trouble waiting for qmail-queue to exit.

       58   Unable to vfork.

       59   Unable to create a pipe to qmail-queue.

SEE ALSO
       addresses(5), envelopes(5), qmail-header(5), qmail-inject(8), qmail-
       qmqpc(8), qmail-queue(8), qmail-send(8), qmail-smtpd(8)

                                                                   qmail-dk(8)
