qprint(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              qprint(1)

NAME
       qprint - encode / decode file as RFC 1521 MIME Quoted-Printable

SYNOPSIS
       qprint -d|-e [ options ] [ infile [ outfile ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       The MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) specification RFC 1521
       and successors) defines a mechanism for encoding text consisting
       primarily of printable ASCII characters, but which may contain
       characters (for example, accented letters in the ISO 8859 Latin-1
       character set) which cannot be encoded as 7-bit ASCII or are non-
       printable characters which may confuse mail transfer agents.

       qprint is a command line utility which encodes and decodes files in
       this format.  It can be used within a pipeline as an encoding or
       decoding filter, and is most commonly used in this manner as part of an
       automated mail processing system.  With appropriate options, qprint can
       encode pure binary files, but it's a poor choice since it may inflate
       the size of the file by as much as a factor of three.  The Base64 MIME
       encoding is a better choice for such data.

OPTIONS
       -b, --binary
                   Treat the input (when encoding) or output (when decoding)
                   file as pure binary, and process end of line sequences as
                   binary data.  Encoding and decoding a file with this option
                   preserves the exact sequence of bytes in the input, but
                   does not perform the translation of end of line sequences
                   normally performed by Quoted-Printable encoding.

       --copyright Print program copyright information.

       -d, --decode
                   Decodes the input, previously created by qprint, to recover
                   the original input file.

       -e, --encode
                   Encodes the input into an output text file containing its
                   qprint encoding.

       -i, --ebcdic
                   Encode ASCII characters for which no equivalent exists in
                   the EBCDIC character set.  This renders files more portable
                   when transported to EBCDIC systems.

       -n, --noerrcheck
                   Suppress error checking when decoding.  By default, upon
                   encountering a non white space character which does not
                   belong to the qprint set, or discovering the input file is
                   incorrectly padded to a multiple of four characters, qprint
                   issues an error message and terminates processing with exit
                   status 1.  The -n option suppresses even this rudimentary
                   error checking; invalid characters are silently ignored and
                   the output truncated to the last three valid octets if the
                   input is incorrectly padded.

       -p ,--paranoid
                   Every character in the input file will be encoded as an
                   escape sequence.  You must also specify the -b or --binary
                   option if you wish end of line sequences to be escaped as
                   well.  This option is a last resort when there's no other
                   way to transmit the file, but an encoding explicitly
                   designed for binary data such as Base64 is a much more
                   economical choice.

       -u, --help  Print how-to-call information.

       --version   Print program version information.

EXIT STATUS
       qprint returns status 0 if processing was completed without errors, 1
       if an I/O error occurred or errors were detected in decoding a file
       which indicate it is incorrect or incomplete, and 2 if processing could
       not be performed at all due, for example, to a nonexistent input file.

FILES
       If no infile is specified or infile is a single ``-'', qprint reads
       from standard input; if no outfile is given, or outfile is a single
       ``-'', output is sent to standard output.  The input and output are
       processed strictly serially; consequently qprint may be used in
       pipelines.  The program can process files of any size supported by the
       system containing text lines of arbitrary length.

BUGS
       Encoding a file with a large percentage of non-ASCII characters may
       dramatically increase its size.  This is inherent in the design of
       Quoted-Printable encoding.

       Please report bugs and documentation errors to bugs@fourmilab.ch.

SEE ALSO
       base64(1), uuencode(1), RFC1521

AUTHOR
            John Walker
            http://www.fourmilab.ch/

       This software is in the public domain.  Permission to use, copy,
       modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any
       purpose and without fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or
       restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' without express or
       implied warranty.

       This is version 1.1 of qprint.  The current version of this program may
       be downloaded from http://www.fourmilab.ch/webtools/qprint.

4th Berkeley Distribution         16 DEC 2014                        qprint(1)
