PAK(1)                     QuakeForge User's Manual                     PAK(1)

NAME
       pak - The QuakeForge Packfile Tool

SYNOPSIS
       pak <command> [options] ARCHIVE FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       pak is a utility for managing pack (*.pak) archives. The format used is
       compatible with Quake and Quake II. Pak archives are a convenient way
       to store groups of related files. Some engines allow pak archives to be
       compressed internally.

COMMANDS
       pak accepts the following arguments as a command. Only one command may
       be used at a time.

       -c, --create
              Create an archive. Overwrites any contents the archive may have
              had.

       -t, --test
              Test an archive for valid formatting.

       -x, --extract
              Extract an archive. Overwrites any files in the current
              directory with the same names as those inside the archive.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -V, --version
              Show the version of pak.

OPTIONS
       pak takes the following arguments as options.

       -f, --file ARCHIVE
              Use ARCHIVE as the archive filename, instead of the first non-
              option argument.  This option is provided for compatibility with
              older versions of pak.

       -p, --pad
              Can be useful when creating an archive. File space is padded to
              a 4-byte boundary, assisting in the speed of loading files from
              the archive. The file data itself is not changed.

       -q, --quiet
              Inhibit some of pak's normal output.

       -v, --verbose
              Display more output than usual.

EXIT STATUS
       pak returns a zero exit status when it has completed a command
       successfully (without error). Otherwise, it returns a non-zero exit
       status.

BUGS
       The program does not currently handle compression or decompression.
       This is planned for a future version.

       The program does not currently handle extraction of individual files
       inside an archive. This is planned for a future version.

       The program cannot modify an archive once it has been created.

AUTHORS
       Bill Currie (taniwha@quakeforge.net) wrote most of the program.

       Jeff Teunissen (deek@quakeforge.net) wrote the command-line interface
       and the documentation.

SEE ALSO
       quakeforge(1), qfcc(1)

QuakeForge                       03 May, 2002                           PAK(1)
