QUFTP(1)                         David Parrish                        QUFTP(1)

NAME
       quftp - command line FTP client

SYNOPSIS
       quftp [-vhi] [-r filename] [-s filename] [-d[n]] [URL]

DESCRIPTION
       Command line FTP client, with support for queueing and transferring
       server-to-server

       -v     Display version number, then exit

       -h     Display usage help, then exit

       -i     Ignore any errors that may occur processing a script

       -r     Use filename as the configuration instead of the default

       -s     Read in script commands from filename. If an error occurs during
              script execution, quftp will exit unless -i is specified. After
              the script is finished executing, quftp will drop into
              interactive mode.

       URL    Specify a valid ftp:// URL to connect to. Any valid URL should
              be acceptable.
              ftp://username:password@hostname:port/directory/

USAGE
       Normally, quftp runs in interactive mode, where commands are entered at
       the command line. Any of these commands can be put into a script file,
       which is executed with the -s command line option.

       Variables can be inserted into the command line using $variable, where
       variable has already been defined using the set command.

       To execute a shell command, enter !command at the prompt.

       Basic help for each command can be obtained from within quftp by the
       help commad.

       quit   Exit the program

       exit   Exit the program

       ls [filespec]
              List current directory. If filespec is given, it is passed
              directly to the FTP server.

       lls    List the local directory

       cd [dirname]
              Change the current directory to dirname if dirname is not given,
              display the current directory.

       lcd dirname
              Change the current local directory to dirname if dirname is not
              given, display the current directory.

       pwd    Show current working directory

       get filename...
              Queue a file or files for download.

       put filename...
              Queue a file or files for upload

       mkdir  Create a new directory dirname

       rmdir  Remove a directory dirname

       fxp filename...
              Queue a file or files to be transferred between the current
              connection and the last connection ($LAST_CONNECTION). Use
              switch to change the connection.

       go     Start transferring the queue

       clear  Delete all items from the queue

       queue  List all items on the queue

       close  Disconnect from the server

       open URL
              Connect to a server specified by URL.

       status Show the current status of all available connections.

       stat [filename]
              Display statistics for filename.

       nlst   List just the filenames in the current directory.

       switch [connection]
              Switch to another connection. If connection is not given, switch
              to the lat used connection ($LAST_CONNECTION).

       debug [debuglevel]
              Set debugging level. If debuglevel is not given, increase the
              debugging level by 1.  Debugging levels are:
              1         No information - fairly quiet
              2         Normal
              3         More information
              4         Internal function calls
              5         Control connection data

       user username [password]
              Enter username and password for the server. If password is not
              given, prompt the user for the password. This forces a re-
              connect if a connection is already established.

       cat [filename]
              Output filename to stdout

       more [filename]
              Page filename using the command given in $pager.

       set variable value
              Set variable to equal value. This is most commonly used in the
              configuration file.

       unset variable
              Remove variable.

       rm filename...
              Delete a remote file or files.

       run filename
              Run a script file. After the script has finished, control is
              returned to the user.

       alias alias command
              Define alias to execute command. If neither alias or command is
              specified, list all the aliases that have been defined.

       getlist filename
              Read in filename and retrieve all the files listed.

       assert Be sure the last command was successful. If it was not, exit the
              program. This is normally only used in scripts, to stop
              execution if a command does not work.

       quote command
              Send command verbatim to the server, and display the result.

CONFIGURATION
       Configuration is read at startup from ~/.quftprc, although this can be
       specified as a different file using the -c command line option. This
       file must contain valid quftp commands, one per line. These commands
       are generally ste commands that configure the quftp environment.

       This section provides a brief overview of the configuration variables
       and their possible values.

       motd (true/false)
              Display the server's Message Of The Day when establishing a
              connection

       passive (true/false)
              Use passive mode when transferring files. Read RFC 959 for a
              description of passive mode.

       pager (any valid program)
              The name of the program to use as the pager when using the more
              command. This should be specified with the full path.

       email (any valid e-mail address)
              This is uesd as the password when connecting to a server
              anonymously.

       progress_update (number)
              How often should the progress bar be updated during a file
              transfer (in seconds). If this is 0 then the progress bar will
              not be displayed.

       queuefiles (true/false)
              Use the queue when transferring files. If false, then files will
              be transferred immediately after entering the get, put or fxp
              command.

       quftp by default supports only UNIX-style listings from servers. If you
       have a need to access another server type, run a ls command with the
       debug level set to 5 (debug 5), and E-mail me with the the output from
       the LIST command. Alternatively, you can try adding your own list
       description in ftp.c (around line 35). This is unsupported, so please
       e-mail me with any changes you make.

INTERNAL VARIABLES
       State information internal to quftp is accessable read-only using the
       normal variable commands, including set and normal variable expansion
       ($variable).

       PROGRAM_NAME
              Always contains "quftp"

       VERSION
              The version number of quftp being used. This is also the version
              that is reported by the -v command line option.

       CURRENT_CONNECTION
              The number of the connection currently being actioned. Use the
              switch command to use a different connection.

       LAST_CONNECTION
              The number of the last connection used. This is also the
              connection that any files transferred with the fxp command will
              go to.

       HOSTNAME
              The name of the host the current connection applies to.

       USERNAME
              The username currently being used on the current connection.

BUGS
       Report bugs to <david@dparrish.com>.

David Parrish                     March 2000                          QUFTP(1)
