QUOT(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                QUOT(8)

NAME
     quot – display disk space occupied by each user

SYNOPSIS
     quot [-acfhknv] [filesystem ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The quot utility is used to gather statistics about the disk usage for
     each local user.

     The following options are available:

     -a      Include statistics for all mounted file systems.

     -c      Display three columns containing number of blocks per file,
             number of files in this category, and aggregate total of blocks
             in files with this or lower size.

     -f      For each user, display count of files and space occupied.

     -h      Estimate the number of blocks in each file based on its size.
             Despite that this does not give the correct results (it does not
             account for the holes in files), this option is not any faster
             and thus is discouraged.

     -k      Force the numbers to be reported in kilobyte counts.  By default,
             all sizes are reported in 512-byte block counts.

     -n      Given a list of inodes (plus some optional data on each line) in
             the standard input, for each file print out the owner (plus the
             remainder of the input line).  This is traditionally used in the
             pipe:

                   ls -i | sed -e 's,^  *,,' | sort -k 1n | quot -n filesystem

             to get a report of files and their owners.

     -v      In addition to the default output, display the number of files
             not accessed within 30, 60 and 90 days.

ENVIRONMENT
     BLOCKSIZE  If the environment variable BLOCKSIZE is set, and the -k
                option is not specified, the block counts will be displayed in
                units of that size block.

SEE ALSO
     df(1), quota(1), getmntinfo(3), fstab(5), mount(8)

HISTORY
     This implementation of quot is by Wolfgang Solfrank / TooLs GmbH.

BUGS
     ncheck (which would be a lot more useful than ls -i in the example above)
     does not exist in FreeBSD.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        February 8, 1994        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
