QUOTACHECK(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          QUOTACHECK(8)

NAME
     quotacheck – file system quota consistency checker

SYNOPSIS
     quotacheck [-guv] [-c 32 | 64] [-l maxrun] -a
     quotacheck [-guv] [-c 32 | 64] filesystem ...

DESCRIPTION
     The quotacheck utility examines each file system, builds a table of
     current disk usage, and compares this table against that recorded in the
     disk quota file for the file system.  If any inconsistencies are
     detected, both the quota file and the current system copy of the
     incorrect quotas are updated (the latter only occurs if an active file
     system is checked).  By default both user and group quotas are checked.

     The following options are available:

     -a      If supplied in place of any file system names, quotacheck will
             check all the file systems indicated in /etc/fstab to be read-
             write with disk quotas.  By default only the types of quotas
             listed in /etc/fstab are checked.

     -c 32 | 64
             Before performing its checks, quotacheck will convert the quota
             file to the specified word size.  A conversion size of 64 is
             given to request conversion to the new 64-bit quota file format.
             A conversion size of 32 is given to request conversion back to
             the old 32-bit quota file format.  The original quota file is
             left unchanged and moved aside with an underscore and its format
             size plus a .orig extension added to its name.  Thus, the
             original 32-bit quota.user quota file converted to the 64-bit
             format quota file will be renamed to quota.user_32.orig.

     -g      Only group quotas listed in /etc/fstab are to be checked.

     -l maxrun
             Specifies the maximum number of concurrent file systems to check
             in parallel.  If this option is omitted, or if maxrun is zero,
             parallel passes are run as per fsck(8).  This option is
             deprecated and parallel passes are always run as per fsck(8).

     -u      Only user quotas listed in /etc/fstab are to be checked.

     -v      Report discrepancies between the calculated and recorded disk
             quotas and other additional diagnostic messages.

     Specifying both -g and -u is equivalent to the default.  Parallel passes
     are run on the file systems required, using the pass numbers in
     /etc/fstab in an identical fashion to fsck(8).

     Normally, quotacheck operates silently.

     The quotacheck utility expects each file system to be checked to have a
     quota files named quota.user and quota.group which are located at the
     root of the associated file system.  These defaults may be overridden in
     /etc/fstab.  If a file is not present, quotacheck will create it.  These
     files should be edited with the edquota(8) utility.

     The quotacheck utility is normally run at boot time from the /etc/rc
     file.  The rc startup procedure is controlled by the /etc/rc.conf
     variable check_quotas.  Note that to enable this functionality in /etc/rc
     you also need to enable startup quota procedures with the variable
     enable_quotas in /etc/rc.conf.  The kernel must also be built with
     options QUOTA.

     The quotacheck utility accesses the raw device in calculating the actual
     disk usage for each user.  Thus, the file systems checked should be
     quiescent while quotacheck is running.

FILES
     quota.user   at the file system root with user quotas
     quota.group  at the file system root with group quotas
     /etc/fstab   default file systems

SEE ALSO
     quota(1), quotactl(2), fstab(5), rc.conf(5), edquota(8), fsck(8),
     quotaon(8), repquota(8)

HISTORY
     The quotacheck utility appeared in 4.2BSD.

BUGS
     The quota system will ignore UIDs or GIDs that would be negative when
     evaluated as a signed value.  Typically those types of ids can appear in
     the file system from NFS mounts or archive files from other operating
     systems.  Extremely large UIDs or GIDs will cause quotacheck to run for
     an unreasonable amount of time and also produce extremely large quota
     data files.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        January 25, 2007        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
