clogin(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              clogin(1)

NAME
     clogin - Cisco login script

SYNOPSIS
     clogin [-autoenable] [-noenable] [-dhiSV] [-m|M] [-c  command] [-E
     var=x] [-e  enable-password] [-f  cloginrc-file] [-p  user-password] [-s
     script-file] [-t  timeout] [-u  username] [-v  vty-password] [-w  enable-
     username] [-x  command-file] [-y  ssh_cypher_type] router [router...]

DESCRIPTION
     clogin is an expect(1) script to automate the process of logging into a
     Cisco router, Catalyst switch, Arista switch, Extreme switch, Juniper
     ERX/E-series, or Redback router.  There are complementary scripts for
     A10, Alteon, Avocent (Cyclades), Bay Networks (nortel), Brocade, Cisco
     Small Business devices, ADC-kentrox EZ-T3 mux, Fortinet firewalls,
     Foundry, Cisco Firepower, HP Procurve switches and Cisco AGMs, Hitachi
     routers, Juniper Networks, MRV optical switch, Mikrotik routers,
     Netscreen firewalls, Nokia (Alcatel-Lucent), Netscaler, Riverbed
     Steelhead, Riverstone, Netopia, Cisco WLCs, Extreme devices and Xirrus
     arrays or Arrcus routers, named a10login, alogin, avologin, blogin,
     brlogin, csblogin, elogin, flogin, fnlogin, fxlogin, hlogin, htlogin,
     jlogin, mrvlogin, mtlogin, nlogin, noklogin, nslogin, rblogin, rivlogin,
     tlogin, wlogin, xlogin, and xilogin, respectively.  Lastly, plogin is a
     poly-login script using the router.db(5) files of rancid groups and the
     rancid.types.base(5) and rancid.types.conf(5) files to determine which
     login script to execute for the device type of the given device.

     clogin reads the .cloginrc file for its configuration, then connects and
     logs into each of the routers specified on the command line in the order
     listed.  Command-line options exist to override some of the directives
     found in the .cloginrc configuration file.

     The command-line options are as follows:

     -S     Save the configuration on exit, if the device prompts at logout
            time.  This only has affect when used with -c.

     -V     Prints package name and version strings.

     -c     Command to be run on each router list on the command-line.
            Multiple commands maybe listed by separating them with semi-colons
            (;).  The argument should be quoted to avoid shell expansion.

     -d     Enable expect debugging.

     -E     Specifies a variable to pass through to scripts (-s).  For
            example, the command-line option -Efoo=bar will produce a global
            variable by the name Efoo with the initial value "bar".

     -e     Specify a password to be supplied when gaining enable privileges
            on the router(s).  Also see the password directive of the
            .cloginrc file.

     -f     Specifies an alternate configuration file.  The default is
            $HOME/.cloginrc.

     -h     Display usage line and exit.

     -i     Enter interactive mode after processing -[cx] options.

     -[mM]  Display .cloginrc information for matching lines; either the first
            match (-m) or all matches (-M), then exit.  The display format is:

            look-up variable:filename:line number: glob

     -p     Specifies a password associated with the user specified by the -u
            option, user directive of the .cloginrc file, or the Unix username
            of the user.

     -s     The filename of an expect(1) script which will be sourced after
            the login is successful and is expected to return control to
            clogin, with the connection to the router intact, when it is done.
            Note that clogin disables log_user of expect(1)when -s is used.
            Example script(s) can be found in share/rancid/*.exp.

     -t     Alters the timeout interval; the period that clogin waits for an
            individual command to return a prompt or the login process to
            produce a prompt or failure.  The argument is in seconds.

     -u     Specifies the username used when prompted.  The command-line
            option overrides any user directive found in .cloginrc.  The
            default is the current Unix username.

     -v     Specifies a vty password, that which is prompted for upon
            connection to the router.  This overrides the vty password of the
            .cloginrc file's password directive.

     -w     Specifies the username used if prompted when gaining enable
            privileges.  The command-line option overrides any user or enauser
            directives found in .cloginrc.  The default is the current Unix
            username.

     -x     Similar to the -c option; -x specifies a file with commands to run
            on each of the routers.  The commands must not expect additional
            input, such as 'copy rcp startup-config' does.  For example:

               show version
               show logging

     -y     Specifies the encryption algorithm for use with the ssh(1) -c
            option.  The default encryption type is often not supported.  See
            the ssh(1) man page for details.  The default is 3des.

RETURNS
     If the login script fails for any of the devices on the command-line, the
     exit value of the script will be non-zero and the value will be the
     number of failures.

ENVIRONMENT
     clogin recognizes the following environment variables.

     CISCO_USER
            Overrides the user directive found in the .cloginrc file, but may
            be overridden by the -u option.

     CLOGIN clogin will not change the banner on your xterm window if this
            includes the character 'x'.

     CLOGINRC
            Specifies an alternative location for the .cloginrc file, like the
            -f option.

     HOME   Normally set by login(1) to the user's home directory, HOME is
            used by clogin to locate the .cloginrc configuration file.

FILES
     $HOME/.cloginrc   Configuration file.

SEE ALSO
     cloginrc(5), expect(1)

CAVEATS
     clogin expects CatOS devices to have a prompt which includes a '>', such
     as "router> (enable)".  It uses this to determine, for example, whether
     the command to disable the pager is "set length 0" or "term length 0".

     The HP Procurve switches that are Foundry OEMs use flogin, not hlogin.

     The -S option is a recent addition, it may not be supported in all of the
     login scripts or for every target device.

BUGS
     Do not use greater than (>) or pound sign (#) in device banners or
     hostnames or prompts.  These are the normal terminating characters of
     device prompts and the login scripts need to locate the initial prompt.
     Afterward, the full prompt is collected and makes a more precise match so
     that the scripts know when the device is ready for the next command.

     All these login scripts for separate devices should be rolled into one.
     This goal is exceedingly difficult.

     The HP Procurve switch, Motorola BSR, and Cisco AGM CLIs rely heavily
     upon terminal escape codes for cursor/screen manipulation and assumes a
     vt100 terminal type.  They do not provide a way to set a different
     terminal type or adjust this behavior.  The resulting escape codes make
     automating interaction with these devices very difficult or impossible.
     Thus bin/hpuifilter, which must be found in the user's PATH, is used by
     hlogin to filter these escape sequences.  While this works for rancid's
     collection, there are side effects for interactive logins via hlogin;
     most of which are formatting annoyances that may be remedied by typing
     CTRL-R to reprint the current line.

     WARNING: repeated ssh login failures to HP Procurves cause the switch's
     management interface to lock-up (this includes snmp, ping) and sometimes
     it will crash.  This is with the latest firmware; 5.33 at the time of
     this writing.

                                  5 May 2020                         clogin(1)
