RAND(3)                FreeBSD Library Functions Manual                RAND(3)

NAME
     rand, srand, rand_r – bad random number generator

LIBRARY
     Standard C Library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
     #include <stdlib.h>

     void
     srand(unsigned seed);

     int
     rand(void);

     int
     rand_r(unsigned *ctx);

DESCRIPTION
     The functions described in this manual page are not cryptographically
     secure.  Applications which require unpredictable random numbers should
     use arc4random(3) instead.

     The rand() function computes a sequence of pseudo-random integers in the
     range of 0 to RAND_MAX, inclusive.

     The srand() function seeds the algorithm with the seed parameter.
     Repeatable sequences of rand() output may be obtained by calling srand()
     with the same seed.  rand() is implicitly initialized as if srand(1) had
     been invoked explicitly.

     In FreeBSD 13, rand() is implemented using the same 128-byte state LFSR
     generator algorithm as random(3).  However, the legacy rand_r() function
     is not (and can not be, because of its limited *ctx size).  rand_r()
     implements the historical, poor-quality Park-Miller 32-bit LCG and should
     not be used in new designs.

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     Since FreeBSD 13, rand() is implemented with the same generator as
     random(3), so the low-order bits should no longer be significantly worse
     than the high-order bits.

SEE ALSO
     arc4random(3), random(3), random(4)

STANDARDS
     The rand() and srand() functions conform to ISO/IEC 9899:1990
     (“ISO C90”).

     The rand_r() function is not part of ISO/IEC 9899:1990 (“ISO C90”) and is
     marked obsolescent in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).  It may be
     removed in a future revision of POSIX.

CAVEATS
     Prior to FreeBSD 13, rand() used the historical Park-Miller generator
     with 32 bits of state and produced poor quality output, especially in the
     lower bits.  rand() in earlier versions of FreeBSD, as well as other
     standards-conforming implementations, may continue to produce poor
     quality output.

     These functions should not be used in portable applications that want a
     high quality or high performance pseudorandom number generator.  One
     possible replacement, random(3), is portable to Linux — but it is not
     especially fast, nor standardized.

     If broader portability or better performance is desired, any of the
     widely available and permissively licensed SFC64/32, JSF64/32, PCG64/32,
     or SplitMix64 algorithm implementations may be embedded in your
     application.  These algorithms have the benefit of requiring less space
     than random(3) and being quite fast (in header inline implementations).

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        February 1, 2020        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
