AVS2PS(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              AVS2PS(1)

NAME
       avs2ps - convert AVS image input on stdin to monochrome PostScript on
       stdout


SYNOPSIS
          avs2ps [-b] [-dpi xxx] < infile.avs > outfile.ps


       avs2ps converts a 24-bit color image file in AVS format into a dithered
       monochrome PostScript image with the same number of pixels as the input
       file.  avs2ps may be used as a filter for the output of the render
       program to produce a PostScript file directly.

       avs2ps is machine independent, and does not impose restrictions on the
       tile size in the original image.  It supersedes the programs molras3d
       and hdither in the viewtools package.


EXAMPLES
       Produce an unbordered black & white image suitable for printing on a
       300 dpi PostScript printer.

            render < infile.r3d | avs2ps > image.ps

       Add a border, and prepare image for a 400dpi printer

            render < infile.r3d | avs2ps -b -dpi 400 > image.ps

OPTIONS
       -b

       Draw a border around the figure.  By default avs2ps will produce a
       borderless image 0.5 inch in from the bottom left of the page.

       -dpi xxx

       By default avs2ps writes header records into the PostScript output file
       which are correct for a 300dpi printer (e.g. an HP IIIsi).  If there is
       a mis-match between the header records and the actual resolution of the
       printer the image quality is substantially degraded.  This option
       allows one to specify a different printer resolution (e.g. -dpi 400 for
       a Next printer, or -dpi 95 for GhostScript on a 1280x1024 workstation
       screen).


DESCRIPTION
       avs2ps converts the input stream to a grey scale image and then applies
       an empirical algorithm for dithering and error propagation to produce a
       monochrome output image.


SOURCE
       anonymous ftp site:
            ftp.bmsc.washington.edu

       web URL:
            http://www.bmsc.washington.edu/raster3d/raster3d.html

       contact:
            Ethan A Merritt
            University of Washington, Seattle WA 98195
            merritt@u.washington.edu


SEE ALSO
       render(l), raster3d(l), avs

AUTHORS
       Ethan A Merritt.
        Dithering algorithm derived from code by Randy Read and Albert
       Berghuis.


Raster3D                           8 May 1999                        AVS2PS(1)
