RAWREC(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              RAWREC(1)

NAME
       rawrec - buffered raw audio recording/playing


SYNOPSIS
       rawrec [option]... [file]

       rawplay [option]... [file]


DESCRIPTION
       rawrec reads raw audio data from a digital signal processor (DSP) and
       writes it to the given file, or to standard output if no file is given.

       rawplay reads raw audio data from the given file, or from standard
       input if no file is given, and writes it to a DSP.

       The user of this program will almost certainly want some program to set
       the mixer device parameters for their sound card, rawrec/rawplay don't
       make any attempt to do so.

OPTIONS
       There are many options, but most users will probably only be interested
       in -t, -s, -f, -c, and possibly -v.  Options may appear multiple times;
       those without arguments act as toggles, those with arguments have the
       values of their arguments overwritten by successive occurences.  Any
       option requiring an argument may be given the special argument 'dflt',
       which restores the default behavior (causes rawrec/rawplay to behave
       exactly as if that option had not yet appeared on the command line at
       all).  When options interact, the interaction is between the final
       values arrived at after all overwriting and toggling is finished.  This
       arrangement allows full customization via alias or shell variable
       mechanisms without any sacrifice in flexibility.

       In the following discussion, unless otherwise noted, the term "sample"
       is taken to mean one full set of digitized bits_per_sample-bit values,
       one for each channel.  For example, when recording stereo (2 channel)
       sound in a 16 bit format, one full sample is 32 bits long.

       SECS arguments can have fractional parts, all other numerical arguments
       need to be integral.

       -B SIZE, --ring-buffer-size=SIZE
              explicitly sets the size of the big ring buffer to SIZE bytes.
              This may be useful if the machine is heavily loaded or doesn't
              have a lot of physical memory.  If you don't know what this is
              about you should probably not bother with this option.  The
              default is 2 megabytes.

       -c CHANNELS, --channels=CHANNELS
              sets the number of channels.  Currently, only mono (1 channel)
              and stereo (2 channel) modes are supported.  In 2 channel mode,
              left channel data always precedes right channel data.  The
              default is 2 channels.

       -d DEVICE, --audio-device=DEVICE
              use DEVICE instead of the default /dev/dsp to record from or
              play to.

       -e SECS, --end-record-time=SECS
              directs rawrec to put SECS seconds of silence at the end of the
              recording run.  Note that this silent padding is added virtually
              instantaneously, and has little or no impact on the wall clock
              time rawrec takes to run.  If rawrec is interrupted by a signal
              before the recording run is finished, this silence will never
              get added.  This option is only applicable to rawrec, and is
              ignored if given to rawplay.  If both -e and -E are specified,
              the one which will result in more silent data being recorded
              will be used.  The default is 0.

       -E SAMPS, --end-record-samples=SAMPS
              directs rawrec to put SAMPS samples of silence at the end of the
              recording run.  A sample consists of bits_per_sample * channels
              / 8 bytes of data.  In other respects, this option works in the
              same way as -e , above.  The default is 0.

       -f FMT, --sample-format=FMT
              sets the format to be used for the samples for individual
              channels.  FMT may be one of the following strings:

                 s16_le    Signed 16 bit little endian.

                 s16_be    Signed 16 bit big endian.

                 u16_le    Unsigned 16 bit little endian.

                 u16_be    Unsigned 16 bit big endian.

                 s8       Signed eight bit.

                 u8       Unsigned eight bit.

             Not all format are supported by all sound cards.        The
       default is s16_le.

       -g FRAG_SZ, --fragment-size=FRAG_SZ
              explicity sets the kernel audio buffer fragment size to FRAG_SZ
              bytes.  Smaller fragment sizes will result in lower latency,
              larger sizes will give better odds of getting smooth recording
              or playback under load.  Note that the latency caused by the use
              of large block sizes may cause the overall run time to increase
              noticably, though the actual amount of data recorded will not
              change.  Large fragment sizes also increase signal response
              latency in some cases.  Modern kernel audio drivers do a fine
              job of picking a fragment size that results in smooth, low-
              latency audio for a given set of sampling parameters (sampling
              speed, bits per sample, and number of channels), the default
              behavior is to let it do so.  If you know that you must set this
              option, it needs to be a power of two greater than or equal to
              16.

       -h     Hold the dsp device during the entire execution, even when it
              isn't strictly necesary.  In particular, the audio device is
              held during any silent pausing that may occur at the beginning (
              -p or -P ) or end ( -z or -Z ) of execution.  This toggle starts
              off.

       -j SECS, --start-jump-time=SECS directs
              rawplay to skip the first SECS seconds worth of audio data in
              the argument data file or standard input.  This option is only
              applicable to rawplay, and is ignored if given to rawrec.  If
              both -j and -J are given, the one which will result in more data
              being skipped is used.  The default is 0.

       -J SAMPS, --start-jump-samples=SAMPS
              directs rawplay to skip the first SAMPS samples of data it sees.
              In other respects, this option works in the same way as -j ,
              above.  The default is 0.

       -p SECS, --start-pause-time=SECS
              directs rawrec/rawplay to sleep for SECS seconds before
              recording or playing as specified by the other options.  During
              this time, the audio dsp device is not held, unless the -h
              toggle is on.  If both -p and -P are specified, the one which
              will result in a longer pause will be used.  The default is 0.

       -P SAMPS, --start-pause-samples=SAMPS
              directs rawrec/rawplay to sleep for the time that would be
              required to play SAMPS samples worth of data (at the sampling
              rate specified).  In other respects, this option works in the
              same way as -p , above.  The default is 0.

       -r SECS, --start-record-time=SECS directs
              rawrec to put SECS seconds of silence at the beginning of the
              recording run.  Note that this silent padding is added as fast
              as possible, and generally has little or no impact on the wall
              clock time rawrec takes to run.  This option is only applicable
              to rawrec, and is ignored if given to rawplay.  If both -r and
              -R are specified, the one which will result is more silent data
              being recorded will be used.  The default is 0.

       -R SAMPS, --start-record-samples=SAMPS
              directs rawrec to put SAMPS samples of silence at the beginning
              of the recording run.  In other respects, this option works in
              the same way as -r , above.  The default is 0.

       -s SPEED, --sampling-rate=SPEED
              sets the sampling rate to SPEED samples per second.  Generally
              SPEED will need to be a value between 8000 and 44100, but some
              cards may be able to handle sampling rates as low as 4000 or as
              high as 96000.  Not all frequencies between the limits will be
              available, small adjustments will be made for you.  If you want
              to determine exactly what frequency is being used when you
              request a given SPEED, use the -v option.  The default is 44100.

       -t SECS, --time-limit=SECS
              directs rawrec/rawplay to play or record SECS seconds worth of
              data.  If neither -t nor -T are specified, rawrec will record
              until interrupted or until its standard output breaks, and
              rawplay will play its entire argument file, or until its
              standard input ends.  If both -t and -T are specified, the one
              which will result in more data being recorded or played will be
              used.  If when playing a data file there is not enough data
              available to skip (with -j or -J ) and play the requested amount
              of data, the entire file will be played.  If standard input ends
              without supplying sufficient data, an error will pe printed when
              the input ends.  By default, there is no time limit, and
              execution will proceed until one of the above occurs.

       -T SAMPS, --sample-limit=SAMPS
              directs rawrec/rawplay to play or record SAMPS samples worth of
              data.  In all other respects this option works like -t , above.

       -v, --verbose
              enables verbose errors and warnings.  For example, when the
              exact sampling frequency requested is unavailable, and a nearby
              frequency is picked instead, there is no warning given unless
              verbose is on.  This option is genally good to use when you need
              to know what's going on under the hood.  This toggle starts off.

       -z SECS, --end-pause-time=SECS
              directs rawrec/rawplay to sleep for SECS seconds after recording
              or playing as specified by the other options.  Note that if
              execution was interruped by a signal during the run, this pause
              will never be performed.  During the pause, the audio dsp device
              is not held, unless the -h toggle is on.  If both -p and -P are
              specified, the one which will result in a longer pause will be
              used.  The default is 0.

       -Z SAMPS, --end-pause-samples=SAMPS
              directs rawrec/rawplay to sleep for the time that would be
              required to play SAMPS samples worth of data (at the sampling
              rate specified).  In other respects, this option works in the
              same way as -p , above.  The default is 0.


USING RAWREC/RAWPLAY TO OR FROM STANDARD IO
       rawrec/rawplay can be used effectively in pipelines to act as the sound
       card interface for a wide variety of other programs.  However, unlike
       many classical command line utilities, rawrec and rawplay place soft
       real time demands on the programs they connect to.  There is no way for
       rawrec/rawplay to ensure that these programs will behave well in this
       capacity, or perform consistently if the system is heavily loaded.


SIGNAL HANDLING
       rawrec and rawplay respond to most signals by aborting immediately.
       This means that anything that the command line invocation indicated
       should happen at the end of the run (silent padding with -e or -E, end
       pausing with -z or -Z) won't.  The job control signal SIGTSTP (normally
       associated with terminal input Ctrl-Z) is ignored, as there is no
       reasonable way to handle it until Linux Threads become fully POSIX
       conformant with respect to signal handling.  There can be a significant
       delay (like one second or more) between the time a process-terminating
       signal is delivered to a rawrec or rawplay process and the time that
       the threads spawned by that process finally die.  This would only be
       irritating if it wasn't for the fact that the process in which the
       initial thread runs reports itself as having died immediatly, even
       though child threads are still happilly playing or recording away and
       hogging the dsp device.  Special handling is in place for the SIGTERM
       and SIGINT signals which corrects this problem.


RESOURCES
       rawrec/rawplay obviously needs access to a dsp device.  It is best if
       the rawrec executable is installed setuid root; if it isn't, it can't
       lock down important parts of its memory space or modify the priority or
       scheduling policy of time critical threads, in other words, it can't
       provide any good gaurantee of decent performance if the system load is
       high or fluctuates.  rawrec uses root authority only while doing the
       above things, and never uses strcpy at all.


DIAGNOSTICS
       rawrec/rawplay will complain and die on a variety of resource errors.
       If the -v option is used, warnings will also be issued for a variety of
       non-fatal conditions of potential interest.

       If when playing the ring buffer used to move data between the argument
       file or stdio and the audio device becomes empty, the audio output may
       halt momentarily, but this is not considered a fatal error.

       rawrec always aborts immediately with a diagnostic if it finds that the
       ring buffer has become full.

       If you are trying to play data from standard input, and rawplay dies
       complaining about 'too many empty ring buffer segments', it means that
       the standard input didn't provide enough data fast enough for rawplay
       to play at the requested rate, sample resolution, and number of
       channels.  This could for example happen if you try to run some really
       expensive (normal gunzip works fine) decompression algorithm as the
       input to rawplay, or if the system load got heavy and caused a normally
       affordable decompression algorithm to get slow (since the decompression
       probably isn't running at elevated priority).


EXAMPLES
       These examples assume that you have your mixer channels set up
       correctly (i.e. set up so that you can record from some live source and
       can audibly play back sampled streams).

       Record CD quality (44100 sample per second, 2 channel signed 16 bit
       little endian) audio into foo.raw until interrupted:

            rawrec foo.raw

       Record 100 seconds of half speed unsigned 8 bit mono data, and issue a
       warning if the sampling rate can't be set exactly as desired or some
       other unexpected thing happens:

            rawrec -t 100 -s 22050 -f u8 -c 1 -v bar.raw

       Play back the data just recorded, at a speed that will make us sound
       like maniacal chipmunks (the point here being that rawrec and rawplay
       deal in raw data, its up to the user to make it make sense):

            rawplay -s 44100 -f u8 -c 1 -v bar.raw

       Record some CD quality sound, then have the sox program pack it up as a
       .cdr file, ready for CD mastering with cdrecord or the like:

            rawrec -t 100 | sox -t sw -r 44100 -c 2 - -t cdr foobar.cdr

       Play back the .cdr file:

            sox -t cdr foobar.cdr -t sw -r 44100 -c 2 - | rawplay -t 100

SEE ALSO
       aumix(1), cdrecord(1), sox(1)


COPYRIGHT
       rawrec/rawplay are Copyright (C) 2006  Britton Leo Kerin

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.


BUGS
       When playing, if the exact sample rate can't be set as desired, the
       rate may get adjusted up, possibly causing there to suddenly not be
       enough data in the data file to play for the length of time and with
       the jump requested, even if the math on the command line is correct.
       This is not really a bug so much as an unfortunate consequence of sound
       card inconsistency.  The use of -v can help explain this behavior.

       The situation where the standard output of rawrec gets connected to the
       standard input of some really slow process has not been investigated
       properly.


AUTHOR
       Britton Leo Kerin (fsblk@aurora.alaska.edu)

                                  04 Jan 2006                        RAWREC(1)
