REDCSL(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              REDCSL(1)

NAME
       redcsl - Run REDUCE under CSL

Synopsis
       redcsl [ command-line switches ] [ file ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       redcsl runs REDUCE based on the CSL Lisp system.

REDCSL Options
       file   read input from file.

              After all other options have been processed, the files given on
              the rest of the command line are read in and processed. A
              filename of - can be used to designate standard input.

       -b [OIP]
              tells the system to avoid any attempt to recolour prompts and
              input text.  It will mainly be needed on X terminals that have
              been set up so that they use colours that make the defaults here
              unhelpful, like white-on-black.

              This option can be followed by colour specifications to make
              things yet more specific. It is supposed to be the idea that
              three colours can be specified after it for output, input and
              prompts, with the letters KRGYbMCW standing for blacK, Red,
              Green, Yellow, blue, Magenta, Cyan and White.

              This may not fully work yet!

       -d symbol[=value]
              defines Lisp symbol symbol at system start, with value value

       -g     enables debugging mode.  It sets a lisp variable !*backtrace and
              arranges that all backtraces are displayed notwithstanding use
              of errorset.

       -i imagefile, -i-
              CSL and Reduce use image files to keep both initial heap images
              and fasl loadable modules. By default if the executable launched
              has some name, say xxx, then an image file xxx.img is used. But
              to support greater generality -i introduces a new image, -i-
              indicates the default one and a sequence of such directives list
              image files that are searched in the order given. These are
              read-only.  The similar option -o equally introduces image files
              that are scanned for input, but that can also be used for
              output. Normally there would only be one -o directive.

       -j dumpfile
              dumps a record of all the files read during the Lisp run into
              dumpfile with a view that it can be included in a Makefile to
              document dependencies.

       -k nnn[/ss]
              sets the size of the heap to be used.  If -knnn is given then
              that much memory will be allocated and the heap will never
              expand.  Without this option a default amount is used, and (on
              many machines) it will grow if space seems tight.

              If this options is given as -k nnn/ss then ss is the number of
              CSL pages to be allocated to the Lisp stack.  The default value
              (which is 1) should suffice for almost all users, and it should
              be noted that the C stack is separate from and independent of
              this one and it too could overflow.

              A suffix K, M or G on the number indicates units of kilobytes,
              megabytes or gigabytes, with megabytes being the default. so
              -k200M might represent typical usage.

       -l logfile
              sends a copy of the standard output to logfile. It is very much
              as if the Lisp function (spool logfile) had been invoked at the
              start of the run.

       -n     ignore startup function.

              Normally when the system is started it will run a restart
              function as indicated in its heap image. There can be cases
              where a heap image has been created in a bad way such that the
              saved restart function always fails abruptly, and hence working
              out what was wrong becomes hard. In such cases it may be useful
              to give the -n options that forces CSL to ignore any startup
              function and merely begin in a minimal Lisp-style read-eval-
              print loop.

       -o     see -i

       -q     quiet run: sets !*echo to nil and switches off garbage collector
              messages.

       -r nnn[,mmm]
              seed random number generator.

              The random-number generator in CSL is normally initialised to a
              value based on the time of day and is hence not reproducible
              from run to run.  In many cases that behavious is desirable, but
              for debugging it can be useful to force a seed. The directive -r
              nnn[,mmm] sets the seed to up to 64 bits taken from the values
              nnn and mmm.  THe second value is optional, and specifying -r0
              explicitly asks for the non-reproducible behaviour (I hope).
              Note that the main Reduce-level random number source is coded at
              a higher level and does not get reset this way - this is the
              lower level CSL generator.

       -s     sets the Lisp variable !*plap and hence the compiler generates
              an assembly listing.

       -t name
              reports the time-stamp on the named module, and then exits. This
              is for use in perl scripts and the like, and is needed because
              the stamps on modules within an image or library file are not
              otherwise instantly available.

              Note that especially on windowed systems it may be necessary to
              use this with -- filename since the information generated here
              goes to the default output, which in some cases is just the
              screen.

       -u symbol
              forcibly undefine a Lisp symbol. There are probably very very
              few cases where it is useful since I do not have a large number
              of system-specific predefined names.

       -v     An option to make things mildly more verbose. It displays more
              of a banner at startup and switches garbage collection messages
              on.

       -w     force console mode.

              On a typical system if the system is launched it creates a new
              window and uses its own windowed intarface in that. If it is run
              such that at startup the standard input or output are associated
              with a file or pipe, or under X the variable DISPLAY is not set
              it will try to start up in console mode. The flag -w indicates
              that the system should run in console more regadless, while -w+
              attempts a window even if that seems doomed to failure. When
              running the system to obey a script it will often make sense to
              use the -w option. Note that on Windows the system is provided
              as two separate (but almost identical) binaries. For example the
              file csl.exe is linked in windows mode. A result is that if
              launched from the command line it detaches from its console, and
              if launched by double-clicking it does not create a console. It
              is in fact very ugly when double clicking on an application
              causes an unwanted console window to appear. In contrast csl.com
              is a console mode version of just the same program, so when
              launched from a command line it can communicate with the console
              in the ordinary expected manner.

       -z     start without image.

              When bootstrapping it is necessary to start up the system for
              one initial time without the benefit of any image file at all.
              This option makes this happen, so when it is specified the
              system starts up with a minimal environment and only those
              capabilities that are present in the CSL kernel. It will
              normally make sense to start loading some basic Lisp definitions
              rather rapidly. The files compat.lsp , extras.lsp and
              compiler.lsp have Lisp source for the main things I use, and
              once they are loaded the Lisp compiler can be used to compile
              itself.

       --help It is probably obvious what this option does! But in particular
              it displays an explanation of the --dump-source option, and
              hence should count as a prominent and easy-to-find way of
              alerting people to their rights and obligations. Note that on
              Windows of the application was linked as a windows binary it
              carefully creates a console to display the help text in, and
              organizes a delay to give people a chance to read it.

       -- filename
              If the application is run in console mode then its standard
              output could be redirected to a file using shell facilities. But
              the -- directive (followed by a file name) redirects output
              within the Lisp rather than outside it. If this is done a very
              limited capability for sending progress or status reports to
              stderr (or the title-bar when running in windowed mode) remains
              via the report!-right function.

              The -w option may frequently make sense in such cases, but if
              that is not used and the system tries to run in a window it will
              create it starting off minimised.

redcsl                          2010 October 10                      REDCSL(1)
