reed(1)                       Autoscrolling Pager                      reed(1)

NAME
       breed - prepare files for reed

SYNOPSIS
       breed [options] [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       breed prepares files for viewing by reed. Although the most common use
       is viewing compressed files (.gz, .bz2, etc), it also supports many
       other file formats. It can only take one filename as a parameter,
       however.

       breed has some advantages over other generic viewer programs (like
       lessfile or zmore) because it can tell Reed the "real" filename so
       bookmarks act correctly.

OPTIONS
       Breed has the same options as Reed. In addition, if you have
       /usr/bin/fold installed, Breed can word wrap text automatically, using
       the -w parameter.

USAGE
       breed supports all command line options reed does, although it only
       allows one filename.

FILES
       .html, .htm, .shtml
              Uses Lynx. breed is also capable of using Lynx to download
              remote files, for example
              breed http://www.sacredchao.net/software/reed/

       .bz2, .bz, .gz, .z
              Uses bunzip2, bunzip, and gunzip, respectively. Uncompresses the
              file and displays it. Note that the behaviour is different for
              .tar.gz or .tar.bz2 files.

       .tar, .tar.gz (.tgz), .tar.bz2 (.tb2), .tar.z
              Displays a listing of files in the archive.

       .arj, .zip (.jar), .lha, .lhz
              Display a listing of the files in the archive. Requires unarj,
              unzip, and lha respectively.

       .rpm, .deb
              Display information about the package. Requires rpm and dpkg.

       .pdf, .ps, .doc
              Display an approximation of the document. Requires pdftotext,
              ps2ascii, and catdoc, respectively.

       .pdb   View a Palm DOC file. Requires doctotext, from the Pyrite
              Publisher package.

       .gpg   Decrypt a file and display the contents. Requires gpg.

SEE ALSO
       reed(1), fold(1)

SCOL                            June 20th, 2019                        reed(1)
