REMAKE(1)                        User Commands                       REMAKE(1)

NAME
       remake - GNU make utility to maintain groups of programs

SYNOPSIS
       remake [OPTION]... [TARGET]...

DESCRIPTION
       The remake utility will determine automatically which pieces of a large
       program need to be recompiled, and issue the commands to recompile
       them.  The manual describes the GNU implementation of make from which
       remake is derived, which was written by Richard Stallman and Roland
       McGrath, and is currently maintained by Paul Smith.  Extended error
       reporting, debugger, and profiling extensions were written by Rocky
       Bernstein.  Our examples show C programs, since they are very common,
       but you can use remake with any programming language whose compiler can
       be run with a shell command.  In fact, remake or make are not limited
       to programs.  You can use it to describe any task where some files must
       be updated automatically from others whenever the others change.

       To prepare to use remake, you must write a file called the makefile
       that describes the relationships among files in your program, and the
       states the commands for updating each file.  In a program, typically
       the executable file is updated from object files, which are in turn
       made by compiling source files.

       Once a suitable makefile exists, each time you change some source
       files, this simple shell command:

              remake

       suffices to perform all necessary recompilations.  The remake program
       uses the makefile description and the last-modification times of the
       files to decide which of the files need to be updated.  For each of
       those files, it issues the commands recorded in the makefile.

       remake executes commands in the makefile to update one or more target
       names, where name is typically a program.  If no -f option is present,
       remake will look for the makefiles GNUmakefile, makefile, and Makefile,
       in that order.

       Normally you should call your makefile either makefile or Makefile.
       (We recommend Makefile because it appears prominently near the
       beginning of a directory listing, right near other important files such
       as README.) The first name checked, GNUmakefile, is not recommended for
       most makefiles.  You should use this name if you have a makefile that
       is specific to GNU remake, and will not be understood by other versions
       of remake.  If makefile is '-', the standard input is read.

       remake updates a target if it depends on prerequisite files that have
       been modified since the target was last modified, or if the target does
       not exist.

OPTIONS
       Below we give options that are specific to remake.  For the other
       options, please refer to the GNU Make documentation


       -c, --search-parent
            if a Makefile or goal target isn't found in the current directory,
            remake will search in the parent directory for a Makefile. On
            finding a parent the closest parent directory with a Makefile,
            remake will set its current working directory to the directory
            where the Makefile was found.

            In this respect the short option '-c', is like '-C' except no
            directory need to be specified.


       -!, --post-mortem
            Go into the debugger on an error. This is the Same as options:
            --debugger --debugger-stop=error


       -P,  --profile [=TYPE]
            Enables timing and dependency profiling output using the specified
            TYPE for formatting.  TYPE can be either callgrind or json.  If
            omitted, it defaults to callgrind.  Files generated using
            callgrind can be analyzed with kcachegrind, callgrind_annotate, or
            gprof2dot. Files generated with json have the format specified in
            the info manual.


       --profile-directory=[PATH]
            Specifies the PATH that profiling files should be written to. Must
            exist before running make.  It is assumed to be a relative path to
            the initial directory where make is called, unless it begins with
            a ~ or /.


       --targets
            Print a list of explicitly-named targets found in read-in
            makefiles.


       --tasks
            Print a list of explicitly-named targets found in read-in
            makefiles which have description comments. A description comment
            is added by putting a single comment before the target that starts
            with '#:'.


       -x,  --trace [=FLAGS]
            Set trace flags If the FLAGS are omitted, then the behavior is the
            same as if --trace=normal was specified.  FLAGS may be read for
            tracing Makefiles read in, noshell which is like normal but shell
            tracing is disabled, or full for maximum tracing.


       -X, --debugger [=TYPE]
            Enter debugger with If the TYPE are omitted, then the behavior is
            the same as if --debugger=normal was specified.  TYPE may be goal
            for all tracing Makefiles read preread which stop before any
            Makefiles are read goal which stops after the goal target is built
            normal which is the same as given no option preaction which is
            like normal but shell tracing is disabled full for maximum
            tracing. It is the same as giving all of the options except
            "normal" .  fatal for entering the debugger on a fatal error,
            error for entering the debugger on an error


SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for remake is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
       If the info and remake programs are properly installed at your site,
       the command

              info remake

       should give you access to the remake manual.

BUGS
       Since this is derived from GNU Make, it most of its bugs.


       See the chapter ``Problems and Bugs'' in The GNU Make Manual.


       For remake -specifc bugs see https://github.com/rocky/remake/issues/.

AUTHORS
       The GNU make from which remake is derived, was written by Richard
       Stallman and Roland McGrath, and is currently maintained by Paul Smith.

       However remake is the brainstorm of Rocky Bernstein. The help of others
       though has been, and is, greatly appreciated.  Michael Lord Welles
       however thought of the name, remake.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 1992-1993, 1996-2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  This
       file is part of GNU make.

       GNU Make is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       GNU Make is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
       ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
       FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
       for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

GNU                               5 June 2020                        REMAKE(1)
