REOP(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                REOP(1)

NAME
     reop – reasonable expectation of privacy

SYNOPSIS
     reop -D -x encfile
     reop -E [-1b] [-i ident] -m message -p pubkey -s seckey
     reop -S [-e] [-x sigfile] -s seckey -m message
     reop -V [-eq] [-x sigfile] -p pubkey -m message

DESCRIPTION
     The reop utility creates and verifies cryptographic signatures and
     encrypts and decrypts files.  The mode of operation is selected with the
     following options:

     -D          Decryption, both public key and symmetric.

     -E          Encryption, both public key and symmetric.  When run without
                 a public key, will ask for a password and perform symmetric
                 encryption.

                 When run with a public key, will encrypt the message so that
                 it can be decrypted by the matching secret key.  Public key
                 encryption also uses encryptor's secret key to authenticate
                 the message.  Once encrypted, the message can only be
                 decrypted by recipient's secret key.  Although authenticated,
                 messages are deniable (forgeable by recipient).

     -G          Generate a new key pair.

     -S          Sign the specified message file and create a signature.

     -V          Verify the message and signature match.

     The other options are as follows:

     -1            Encrypt messages using older v1 format.

     -b            Use a binary format for encrypted files.  This can result
                   in a considerable space savings over the default base64
                   encoded format.  Decryption automatically detects the
                   correct format.

     -e            When signing, create a signed message instead of just a
                   signature.

     -i ident      Specify the ident to be created during key generation or
                   looked up when using public cryptography.

     -m message    When signing, the file containing the message to sign.
                   When verifying, the file containing the message to verify.
                   When encrypting or decrypting, the plaintext.

     -n            Do not ask for a passphrase during key generation.
                   Otherwise, reop will prompt the user for a passphrase to
                   protect the secret key.

     -p pubkey     Public key produced by -G, and used by other commands.

     -q            Quiet mode.  Suppress informational output.

     -s seckey     Secret (private) key produced by -G, and used by other
                   commands.

     -x xfile      The signature file to create or verify.  The default is
                   message.sig.  When encrypting, the encrypted file.  The
                   default is message.enc.

     The key and data files created by reop have similar format.  A plain text
     line of the form ident: is used to match key pairs.  Most of the actual
     key data follows and is base64 encoded.

     The ~/.reop directory is searched for default keys named:
     seckey      User's secret key
     pubkey      User's public key
     pubkeyring  User's set trusted of trusted third party keys, searched by
                 ident.

EXIT STATUS
     The reop utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.  It may
     fail because of one of the following reasons:

     •   Some necessary files do not exist.
     •   Entered passphrase is incorrect.
     •   The message file was corrupted and its signature does not match.
     •   The message file is too large.

EXAMPLES
     Create a new key pair.
           $ reop -G -p newkey.pub -s newkey.sec

     Create a new key pair, assuming the ~/.reop directory exists:
           $ reop -G

     Sign a file, specifying a signature name:
           $ reop -S -s key.sec -m message.txt -x msg.sig

     Verify a signed message, using the default identity:
           $ reop -V -x generalsorders.sig

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            March 16, 2014            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
