rexx(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                rexx(1)

NAME
       rexx - general purpose programming language

SYNOPSIS
       rexx [ -options ] [ -x ] [ filename | - ] [ arguments ...]
       rexx [ -options ] -{sc} instructions [ arguments ...]
       rexx [ -options ] -i [ arguments ...]
       rexx -v

DESCRIPTION
       Rexx is a procedural programming language that allows programs and
       algorithms to be written in a clear and structured way, and it is
       designed to be easy to use as well as flexible.  It keeps the use of
       special characters to a minimum to promote readability, and does not
       prevent the use of keywords as variables or program labels.  It uses a
       single datatype, namely the string of characters.  Rexx has been
       standardised by the American National Standards Institute, although the
       majority of interpreters are not yet fully compliant.  Most
       interpreters do however follow the reference work `The Rexx Language'
       by M. F. Cowlishaw, second edition.

       The interpreter documented by this manual page is from the REXX/imc
       package.  The syntax of the Rexx language is described in other
       documents from that package.  This manual page contains a summary of
       how to invoke the Rexx interpreter.

       In the first form of invocation, rexx is supplied with the name of a
       program to execute.  (Systems supporting the `#!' notation invoke
       interpreters this way.)  If the filename parameter is omitted or is a
       single hyphen then the program will be read from the standard input;
       otherwise the program will be read from the given file.  The
       interpreter will search for the program along the path given by the
       environment variable REXXPATH or (if that is not set) PATH.  If
       filename does not contain a dot and the file `filename.rexx' can be
       found then it is read and executed; otherwise filename is treated as
       the literal name of the file to be executed.

       In the second form of invocation the program is supplied as a single
       list of instructions following the -s or -c flags (which are
       equivalent).  Note that this list will usually need to be supplied in
       quotes to stop the shell from tokenising it.  The instructions will be
       treated just as if they had been read in from a program file.

       The -i flag supplies a minimal program to the interpreter which makes
       it enter interactive trace mode, in which instructions may be typed in
       and will be executed immediately.  This should be ended by typing
       `exit'.

       The command `rexx -v' with no further arguments causes the interpreter
       to print its version information and exit.

       Any text remaining after the flags and program name have been processed
       is collected up and passed to the Rexx program as a parameter string.
       This parameter string should not begin with a hyphen, or it will be
       mistaken for a flag; the exception is when the filename parameter is
       present: this terminates flag processing and all further text is taken
       to be the program's argument string.

OPTIONS
       The following are valid flags.

       -c string
              Same as -s string.

       -i     Equals: -t?a -s 'do forever;nop;end'

       -s string
              Specifies a string of instructions to execute as a program.

       -tval  Executes the Rexx instruction `TRACE val' before running the
              program.

       -v     Causes the version string to be printed.  If this is the only
              option then the interpreter exits, otherwise it continues as
              normal.

       -x     Stops the interpreter from appending `.rexx' to the file name,
              and makes it ignore the first line of the file (which can
              therefore be a line of shell script used to invoke the
              interpreter).  This flag ends argument processing and the next
              parameter is taken to be the literal name of the file to
              execute.

       Any keyword recognised by the Rexx OPTIONS instruction is also a valid
       flag for the interpreter when preceded by a hyphen.  These are as
       follows.

       -expose
              Allow `PROCEDURE EXPOSE' at the beginning of a program.

       -noexpose
              Disallow `PROCEDURE EXPOSE' at the beginning of a program.

       -nosetrc
              Do not make input and output operations set the RC special
              variable.

       -nosigpipe
              Exit when a SIGPIPE signal is received.

       -setrc Make input and output operations set the RC special variable.

       -sigpipe
              Trap SIGPIPE signals instead of exiting.

       -tracefile=file
              Send trace output to the named file.  The name can be `stdout'
              or `stderr' to send trace output to the standard output or
              standard error, respectively.  This option may be abbreviated to
              -trace=file.

       See the REXX/imc language reference for more information.

ENVIRONMENT
       REXXEXT  The default filename extension added to the names of Rexx
                programs (default `.rexx').

       REXXIMC  The directory in which the rxque(1) program can be found (this
                only needs to be set if for some reason the interpreter cannot
                find it, or if a different version is required).

       REXXLIB  The (colon-separated) path in which to search for Rexx
                function libraries or shared objects requested by RxFuncAdd
                and RexxRegisterFunctionDll.  The default value was chosen at
                compile time to be: /usr/local/lib.

       REXXFUNC The path in which to search for external functions requested
                by Rexx programs.  The default value is the value of REXXPATH.

       REXXPATH The path in which to search for the program named on the
                command line.  The default value is the value of PATH with the
                current directory appended.

       RXSTACK  Used in the interface between the Rexx stack and its clients
                (including the interpreter itself).  If set it contains the
                name of the communication socket.  See rxque(1) and the
                REXX/imc technical reference for more details.

SEE ALSO
       rxque(1), rxstack(1), The REXX/imc documentation.

BUGS
       Too slow and too much of a hack.

       See the REXX/imc language reference for specific limitations.

AUTHOR
       Ian Collier <imc@comlab.ox.ac.uk>

NOTICE
       REXX/imc is copyright, but free.  Permission is granted to use, copy
       and redistribute its code, provided that the same permission is granted
       to all recipients, and that due acknowledgement is given to the author.

       This software is provided on an as-is basis in the hope that it will be
       useful.  It comes with no warranty of any kind, either expressed or
       implied, and the author will not be held responsible for any damages
       arising out of the use of the software.

                                 February 1999                         rexx(1)
