RMAP(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                RMAP(1)


NAME
       rmap - Map portions of the earth from long/lat info

SYNOPSIS
         rmap --cities --zoom=20 --category=all --yrot=-120
              --xrot 35 --continent=all --outfile=south_california.gif


DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the utility rmap.  rmap is a small utility
       that goes against a custom format of the CIA's world data bank II
       global vector information to generate images of the earth from either a
       distance fairly zoomed in.  There are a variety of options to control
       the display of the image.  The format of the image depends on the
       version of libgd that you have.  Older versions generate gifs, but due
       to copyright issues, the newer ones generate png or jpegs.

OPTIONS
       --zoom number
            Zoom level of the earth.  Deafault is 1 which is the whole earth.

       --xrot number
            Rotate the earth around the x-axis (Latitude) in degrees.

       --yrot number
            Rotate the earth around the y-axis (Longitude) in degrees.

       --zrot number
            Rotate the earth around the z-axis in degrees.

       --colorfile filename
            The path to the colorfile which defines the colors various things
            will be displayed in, or if they will be displayed at all.  If the
            value is not specified, the file ~/.rmaprc will be checked, and
            then the default file (rmap.colors).  The location of this file is
            specified at compile time based on the either the --prefix or
            --datadir options to configure.

       --datafile filename
            The path to the datafile.  The default location of this file is
            specified at compile time based on the either the --prefix or
            --datadir options to configure.

       --outfile filename
            The path of the image to be generated.  If none is specified, then
            EarthImage will be generated in the current working directory.

       --continent list
            Either the word `all' or a list of comma seperated numbers where
            1=Africa, 2=Asia, 3=Europe, 4=N. America, 5=S. America.  If no
            option is specified then `all' is assumed.

       --category list
            Either the word `all' or a list of comma seperated numbers where
            1=US State Boundaries, 2=Rivers, 3=International Boundaries,
            4=Coasts, Islands, Lakes.  If no option is specified then `all' is
            assumed.

       --height number
            The height of the image to generate, in pixles.

       --width number
            The width of the image to generate, in pixles.

       --nogridlines
            Do not display gridlines ontop of the earth.  By default they are
            drawn in red, spaced at 15 degrees.

       --cities
            Overlay all applicable city names (from the file city.h) on top of
            the image.

       -h   Display a brief help page, then terminate.

       -v   Display the version of code.

AUTHOR
       Reza Naima <reza@reza.net>

BUGS
       This is the first released version, so there are bound to be bugs.
       Also, as always, beware of buffer overflow attacks if you use this in a
       web-based application.
























3rd Berkeley Distribution                                              RMAP(1)
