SCHEDULER(9)           FreeBSD Kernel Developer's Manual          SCHEDULER(9)

NAME
     curpriority_cmp, maybe_resched, resetpriority, roundrobin,
     roundrobin_interval, sched_setup, schedclock, schedcpu, setrunnable,
     updatepri – perform round-robin scheduling of runnable processes

SYNOPSIS
     #include <sys/param.h>
     #include <sys/proc.h>

     int
     curpriority_cmp(struct proc *p);

     void
     maybe_resched(struct thread *td);

     void
     propagate_priority(struct proc *p);

     void
     resetpriority(struct ksegrp *kg);

     void
     roundrobin(void *arg);

     int
     roundrobin_interval(void);

     void
     sched_setup(void *dummy);

     void
     schedclock(struct thread *td);

     void
     schedcpu(void *arg);

     void
     setrunnable(struct thread *td);

     void
     updatepri(struct thread *td);

DESCRIPTION
     Each process has three different priorities stored in struct proc:
     p_usrpri, p_nativepri, and p_priority.

     The p_usrpri member is the user priority of the process calculated from a
     process' estimated CPU time and nice level.

     The p_nativepri member is the saved priority used by
     propagate_priority().  When a process obtains a mutex, its priority is
     saved in p_nativepri.  While it holds the mutex, the process's priority
     may be bumped by another process that blocks on the mutex.  When the
     process releases the mutex, then its priority is restored to the priority
     saved in p_nativepri.

     The p_priority member is the actual priority of the process and is used
     to determine what runqueue(9) it runs on, for example.

     The curpriority_cmp() function compares the cached priority of the
     currently running process with process p.  If the currently running
     process has a higher priority, then it will return a value less than
     zero.  If the current process has a lower priority, then it will return a
     value greater than zero.  If the current process has the same priority as
     p, then curpriority_cmp() will return zero.  The cached priority of the
     currently running process is updated when a process resumes from
     tsleep(9) or returns to userland in userret() and is stored in the
     private variable curpriority.

     The maybe_resched() function compares the priorities of the current
     thread and td.  If td has a higher priority than the current thread, then
     a context switch is needed, and KEF_NEEDRESCHED is set.

     The propagate_priority() looks at the process that owns the mutex p is
     blocked on.  That process's priority is bumped to the priority of p if
     needed.  If the process is currently running, then the function returns.
     If the process is on a runqueue(9), then the process is moved to the
     appropriate runqueue(9) for its new priority.  If the process is blocked
     on a mutex, its position in the list of processes blocked on the mutex in
     question is updated to reflect its new priority.  Then, the function
     repeats the procedure using the process that owns the mutex just
     encountered.  Note that a process's priorities are only bumped to the
     priority of the original process p, not to the priority of the previously
     encountered process.

     The resetpriority() function recomputes the user priority of the ksegrp
     kg (stored in kg_user_pri) and calls maybe_resched() to force a
     reschedule of each thread in the group if needed.

     The roundrobin() function is used as a timeout(9) function to force a
     reschedule every sched_quantum ticks.

     The roundrobin_interval() function simply returns the number of clock
     ticks in between reschedules triggered by roundrobin().  Thus, all it
     does is return the current value of sched_quantum.

     The sched_setup() function is a SYSINIT(9) that is called to start the
     callout driven scheduler functions.  It just calls the roundrobin() and
     schedcpu() functions for the first time.  After the initial call, the two
     functions will propagate themselves by registering their callout event
     again at the completion of the respective function.

     The schedclock() function is called by statclock() to adjust the priority
     of the currently running thread's ksegrp.  It updates the group's
     estimated CPU time and then adjusts the priority via resetpriority().

     The schedcpu() function updates all process priorities.  First, it
     updates statistics that track how long processes have been in various
     process states.  Secondly, it updates the estimated CPU time for the
     current process such that about 90% of the CPU usage is forgotten in 5 *
     load average seconds.  For example, if the load average is 2.00, then at
     least 90% of the estimated CPU time for the process should be based on
     the amount of CPU time the process has had in the last 10 seconds.  It
     then recomputes the priority of the process and moves it to the
     appropriate runqueue(9) if necessary.  Thirdly, it updates the %CPU
     estimate used by utilities such as ps(1) and top(1) so that 95% of the
     CPU usage is forgotten in 60 seconds.  Once all process priorities have
     been updated, schedcpu() calls vmmeter() to update various other
     statistics including the load average.  Finally, it schedules itself to
     run again in hz clock ticks.

     The setrunnable() function is used to change a process's state to be
     runnable.  The process is placed on a runqueue(9) if needed, and the
     swapper process is woken up and told to swap the process in if the
     process is swapped out.  If the process has been asleep for at least one
     run of schedcpu(), then updatepri() is used to adjust the priority of the
     process.

     The updatepri() function is used to adjust the priority of a process that
     has been asleep.  It retroactively decays the estimated CPU time of the
     process for each schedcpu() event that the process was asleep.  Finally,
     it calls resetpriority() to adjust the priority of the process.

SEE ALSO
     mi_switch(9), runqueue(9), sleepqueue(9), tsleep(9)

BUGS
     The curpriority variable really should be per-CPU.  In addition,
     maybe_resched() should compare the priority of chk with that of each CPU,
     and then send an IPI to the processor with the lowest priority to trigger
     a reschedule if needed.

     Priority propagation is broken and is thus disabled by default.  The
     p_nativepri variable is only updated if a process does not obtain a sleep
     mutex on the first try.  Also, if a process obtains more than one sleep
     mutex in this manner, and had its priority bumped in between, then
     p_nativepri will be clobbered.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        November 3, 2000        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
