PPPOE.CONF(5)             FreeBSD File Formats Manual            PPPOE.CONF(5)



NAME
       pppoe.conf - Configuration file used by pppoe-start(8), pppoe-stop(8),
       pppoe-status(8) and pppoe-connect(8).


DESCRIPTION
       /usr/local/etc/ppp/pppoe.conf is a shell script which contains
       configuration information for RP-PPPoE scripts.  Note that pppoe.conf
       is used only by the various pppoe-* shell scripts, not by pppoe itself.

       pppoe.conf consists of a sequence of shell variable assignments.  The
       variables and their meanings are:


       ETH    The Ethernet interface connected to the DSL modem (for example,
              eth0).


       USER   The PPPoE user-id (for example, b1xxnxnx@sympatico.ca).


       SERVICENAME
              If this is not blank, then it is passed with the -S option to
              pppoe.  It specifies a service name to ask for.  Usually, you
              should leave it blank.


       ACNAME If this is not blank, then it is passed with the -C option to
              pppoe.  It specifies the name of the access concentrator to
              connect to.  Usually, you should leave it blank.


       DEMAND If set to a number, the link is activated on demand and brought
              down after after DEMAND seconds.  If set to no, the link is kept
              up all the time rather than being activated on demand.


       DNSTYPE
              One of NOCHANGE, SPECIFY or SERVER.  If set to NOCHANGE, pppoe-
              connect will not adjust the DNS setup in any way.  If set to
              SPECIFY, it will re-write /etc/resolv.conf with the values of
              DNS1 and DNS2.  If set to SERVER, it will supply the usepeerdns
              option to pppd, and make a symlink from /etc/resolv.conf to
              /usr/local/etc/ppp/resolv.conf.


       DNS1, DNS2
              IP addresses of DNS servers if you use DNSTYPE=SPECIFY.


       NONROOT
              If the line NONROOT=OK (exactly like that; no whitespace or
              comments) appears in the configuration file, then pppoe-wrapper
              will allow non-root users to bring the conneciton up or down.
              The wrapper is installed only if you installed the rp-pppoe-gui
              package.


       USEPEERDNS
              If set to "yes", then pppoe-connect will supply the usepeerdns
              option to pppd, which causes it to obtain DNS server addresses
              from the peer and create a new /etc/resolv.conf file.
              Otherwise, pppoe-connect will not supply this option, and pppd
              will not modify /etc/resolv.conf.


       CONNECT_POLL
              How often (in seconds) pppoe-start should check to see if a new
              PPP interface has come up.  If this is set to 0, the pppoe-start
              simply initiates the PPP session, but does not wait to see if it
              comes up successfully.


       CONNECT_TIMEOUT
              How long (in seconds) pppoe-start should wait for a new PPP
              interface to come up before concluding that pppoe-connect has
              failed and killing the session.


       PING   A character which is echoed every CONNECT_POLL seconds while
              pppoe-start is waiting for the PPP interface to come up.


       FORCEPING
              A character which is echoed every CONNECT_POLL seconds while
              pppoe-start is waiting for the PPP interface to come up.
              Similar to PING, but the character is echoed even if pppoe-
              start's standard output is not a tty.


       PIDFILE
              A file in which to write the process-ID of the pppoe-connect
              process (for example, /var/run/pppoe.pid).  Two additional files
              ($PIDFILE.pppd and $PIDFILE.pppoe) hold the process-ID's of the
              pppd and pppoe processes, respectively.


       SYNCHRONOUS
              An indication of whether or not to use synchronous PPP (yes or
              no).  Synchronous PPP is safe on Linux machines with the n_hdlc
              line discipline.  (If you have a file called "n_hdlc.o" in your
              modules directory, you have the line discipline.)  It is not
              recommended on other machines or on Linux machines without the
              n_hdlc line discipline due to some known and unsolveable race
              conditions in a user-mode client.


       CLAMPMSS
              The value at which to "clamp" the advertised MSS for TCP
              sessions.  The default of 1412 should be fine.


       LCP_INTERVAL
              How often (in seconds) pppd sends out LCP echo-request packets.


       LCP_FAILURE
              How many unanswered LCP echo-requests must occur before pppd
              concludes the link is dead.


       PPPOE_TIMEOUT
              If this many seconds elapse without any activity seen by pppoe,
              then pppoe exits.


       FIREWALL
              One of NONE, STANDALONE or MASQUERADE.  If NONE, then pppoe-
              connect does not add any firewall rules.  If STANDALONE, then it
              clears existing firewall rules and sets up basic rules for a
              standalone machine.  If MASQUERADE, then it clears existing
              firewall rules and sets up basic rules for an Internet gateway.
              If you run services on your machine, these simple firewall
              scripts are inadequate; you'll have to make your own firewall
              rules and set FIREWALL to NONE.


       PPPOE_EXTRA
              Any extra arguments to pass to pppoe


       PPPD_EXTRA
              Any extra arguments to pass to pppd


       LINUX_PLUGIN
              If non-blank, the full path of the Linux kernel-mode PPPoE
              plugin (typically /usr/local/etc/ppp/plugins/rp-pppoe.so.)  This
              forces pppoe-connect to use kernel-mode PPPoE on Linux 2.4.x
              systems.  This code is experimental and unsupported.  Use of the
              plugin causes pppoe-connect to ignore CLAMPMSS, PPPOE_EXTRA,
              SYNCHRONOUS and PPPOE_TIMEOUT.


       By using different configuration files with different PIDFILE settings,
       you can manage multiple PPPoE connections.  Just specify the
       configuration file as an argument to pppoe-start and pppoe-stop.


SEE ALSO
       pppoe(8), pppoe-connect(8), pppoe-start(8), pppoe-stop(8), pppd(8),
       pppoe-setup(8), pppoe-wrapper(8)




4th Berkeley Distribution      21 February 2000                  PPPOE.CONF(5)
