RPC.STATD(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           RPC.STATD(8)

NAME
     rpc.statd – host status monitoring daemon

SYNOPSIS
     rpc.statd [-d] [-F] [-h bindip] [-p port]

DESCRIPTION
     The rpc.statd utility is a daemon which co-operates with rpc.statd
     daemons on other hosts to provide a status monitoring service.  The
     daemon accepts requests from programs running on the local host
     (typically, rpc.lockd(8), the NFS file locking daemon) to monitor the
     status of specified hosts.  If a monitored host crashes and restarts, the
     remote daemon will notify the local daemon, which in turn will notify the
     local program(s) which requested the monitoring service.  Conversely, if
     this host crashes and re-starts, when the rpc.statd re-starts, it will
     notify all of the hosts which were being monitored at the time of the
     crash.

     The following option is available:

     -d      Cause debugging information to be written to syslog, recording
             all RPC transactions to the daemon.  These messages are logged
             with level LOG_DEBUG and facility LOG_DAEMON.  Error conditions
             are logged irrespective of this option, using level LOG_ERR.

     -F      Run rpc.statd in the foreground, rather than going into daemon
             mode.  This is useful if some other process uses fork(2) and
             exec(3) to run rpc.statd, and wants to monitor when and how it
             exits.

     -h bindip
             Specify specific IP addresses to bind to.  This option may be
             specified multiple times.  If no -h option is specified,
             rpc.statd will bind to INADDR_ANY.  Note that when specifying IP
             addresses with -h, rpc.statd will automatically add 127.0.0.1 and
             if IPv6 is enabled, ::1 to the list.

     -p      The -p option allow to force the daemon to bind to the specified
             port, for both AF_INET and AF_INET6 address families.

     The rpc.statd utility must NOT be invoked by inetd(8) because the
     protocol assumes that the daemon will run from system start time.
     Instead, it should be run from rc(8) after the network has been started.

FILES
     /var/db/statd.status            non-volatile record of currently
                                     monitored hosts.
     /usr/include/rpcsvc/sm_inter.x  RPC protocol specification used by local
                                     applications to register monitoring
                                     requests.

SEE ALSO
     syslog(3), rc(8), rpc.lockd(8)

STANDARDS
     The implementation is based on the specification in X/Open CAE
     Specification C218, "Protocols for X/Open PC Interworking: XNFS, Issue
     4", ISBN 1 872630 66 9

BUGS
     There is no means for the daemon to tell when a monitored host has
     disappeared permanently (e.g. catastrophic hardware failure), as opposed
     to transient failure of the host or an intermediate router.  At present,
     it will re-try notification attempts at frequent intervals for 10
     minutes, then hourly, and finally gives up after 24 hours.

     The protocol requires that symmetric monitor requests are made to both
     the local and remote daemon in order to establish a monitored
     relationship.  This is convenient for the NFS locking protocol, but
     probably reduces the usefulness of the monitoring system for other
     applications.

     The current implementation uses more than 1Kbyte per monitored host in
     the status file (and also in VM).  This may be inefficient for NFS
     servers with large numbers of clients.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        November 21, 2019       FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
