RPCBIND(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             RPCBIND(8)

NAME
     rpcbind – universal addresses to RPC program number mapper

SYNOPSIS
     rpcbind [-6adiLlswW] [-h bindip]

DESCRIPTION
     The rpcbind utility is a server that converts RPC program numbers into
     universal addresses.  It must be running on the host to be able to make
     RPC calls on a server on that machine.

     When an RPC service is started, it tells rpcbind the address at which it
     is listening, and the RPC program numbers it is prepared to serve.  When
     a client wishes to make an RPC call to a given program number, it first
     contacts rpcbind on the server machine to determine the address where RPC
     requests should be sent.

     The rpcbind utility should be started before any other RPC service.
     Normally, standard RPC servers are started by port monitors, so rpcbind
     must be started before port monitors are invoked.

     When rpcbind is started, it checks that certain name-to-address
     translation-calls function correctly.  If they fail, the network
     configuration databases may be corrupt.  Since RPC services cannot
     function correctly in this situation, rpcbind reports the condition and
     terminates.

     The rpcbind utility can only be started by the super-user.

OPTIONS
     -6      Bind to AF_INET6 (IPv6) addresses only.

     -a      When debugging (-d), do an abort on errors.

     -d      Run in debug mode.  In this mode, rpcbind will not fork when it
             starts, will print additional information during operation, and
             will abort on certain errors if -a is also specified.  With this
             option, the name-to-address translation consistency checks are
             shown in detail.

     -h bindip
             IP addresses to bind to when servicing TCP and UDP requests.
             This option may be specified multiple times and is typically
             necessary when running on a multi-homed host.  If no -h option is
             specified, rpcbind will bind to INADDR_ANY, which could lead to
             problems on a multi-homed host due to rpcbind returning a UDP
             packet from a different IP address than it was sent to.  Note
             that when specifying IP addresses with -h, rpcbind will
             automatically add 127.0.0.1 and if IPv6 is enabled, ::1 to the
             list.

     -i      “Insecure” mode.  Allow calls to SET and UNSET from any host.
             Normally rpcbind accepts these requests only from the loopback
             interface for security reasons.  This change is necessary for
             programs that were compiled with earlier versions of the rpc
             library and do not make those requests using the loopback
             interface.

     -L      Allow old-style local connections over the loopback interface.
             Without this flag, local connections are only allowed over a
             local socket, /var/run/rpcbind.sock.

     -l      Turn on libwrap connection logging.

     -s      Cause rpcbind to change to the user daemon as soon as possible.
             This causes rpcbind to use non-privileged ports for outgoing
             connections, preventing non-privileged clients from using rpcbind
             to connect to services from a privileged port.

     -W      Enable libwrap (TCP wrappers) support.

     -w      Enable the warmstart feature.

             The warmstart feature saves RPC registrations on termination.
             Any saved RPC registrations are restored on restart if -w is
             specified.  This feature helps avoid RPC service interruption
             when restarting rpcbind.  warmstart support must be compiled in
             to rpcbind.  Portmap registrations are stored in
             /tmp/portmap.file.  rpcbind registrations are stored in
             /tmp/rpcbind.file.

NOTES
     All RPC servers must be restarted if rpcbind is restarted.

FILES
     /tmp/portmap.file      saved portmap registrations file.
     /tmp/rpcbind.file      saved rpcbind registrations file.
     /var/run/rpcbind.sock  socket used for local connections.

SEE ALSO
     rpcbind(3), netconfig(5), rpcinfo(8)

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1         April 19, 2017         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
