RTADVCTL(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            RTADVCTL(8)

NAME
     rtadvctl – control program for rtadvd(8) daemon

SYNOPSIS
     rtadvctl [-v] subcommand [interface ...]

DESCRIPTION
     rtadvctl is a utility that communicates with rtadvd(8) daemon and
     displays information about Router Advertisement messages being sent on
     each interface.

     This utility provides several options and subcommands.  The options are
     as follows:

     -v      Increase verbosity level.  When specified once, the rtadvctl
             utility shows additional information about prefixes, RDNSS, and
             DNSSL options.  When given twice, it additionally shows
             information about inactive interfaces and some statistics.

     The subcommands are as follows:

     reload [interfaces...]
             Specifies to reload the configuration file.  If one or more
             interface is specified, configuration entries for the interfaces
             will be reloaded selectively.

     enable interfaces...
             Specifies to mark the interface as enable and to try to reload
             the configuration entry.  This subcommand is useful for
             dynamically-added interfaces.

             The rtadvd(8) daemon marks an interface as enable if the
             interface exists and the configuration file has a valid entry for
             that when it is invoked.

     disable interfaces...
             Specifies to mark the interface as disable.

     shutdown
             Makes the rtadvd(8) daemon shut down.  Note that the rtadvd(8)
             daemon will send several RAs with zero lifetime to invalidate the
             old information on each interface.  It will take at most nine
             seconds.

     show [interfaces...]
             Displays information on Router Advertisement messages being sent
             on each interface.

SEE ALSO
     rtadvd.conf(5), rtadvd(8)

HISTORY
     The rtadvctl command first appeared in FreeBSD 9.0.

AUTHORS
     rtadvctl was written by Hiroki Sato <hrs@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          July 16, 2011         FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
