RTQUERY(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             RTQUERY(8)

NAME
     rtquery – query routing daemons for their routing tables

SYNOPSIS
     rtquery [-np1] [-w timeout] [-r addr] [-a secret] host ...
     rtquery [-t op] host ...

DESCRIPTION
     The rtquery utility is used to query a RIP network routing daemon, such
     as routed(8), for its routing table by sending a request or poll command.
     The routing information in any routing response packets returned is
     displayed numerically and symbolically.

     The rtquery utility by default uses the request command.  When the -p
     option is specified, rtquery uses the poll command, an undocumented
     extension to the RIP protocol supported by the commercial gated routing
     product.  When querying gated, the poll command is preferred over the
     request command because the response is not subject to Split Horizon
     and/or Poisoned Reverse, and because some versions of gated do not answer
     the request command.  The routed(8) utility does not answer the poll
     command, but recognizes requests coming from rtquery and so answers
     completely.

     The rtquery utility is also used to turn tracing on or off in routed(8).

     The following options are available:

     -n      displays only the numeric network and host numbers instead of
             both numeric and symbolic.

     -p      uses the poll command to request full routing information from
             gated.  This is an undocumented extension RIP protocol supported
             only by gated.

     -1      queries using RIP version 1 instead of RIP version 2.

     -w timeout
             changes the delay for an answer from each host.  By default, each
             host is given 15 seconds to respond.

     -r addr
             asks about the route to destination addr.

     -a passwd=XXX

     -a md5_passwd=XXX|KeyID
             causes the query to be sent with the indicated cleartext or MD5
             password.

     -t op   changes tracing, where op is one of the following.  Requests from
             processes not running with UID 0 or on distant networks are
             generally ignored by the daemon except for a message in the
             system log.  gated is likely to ignore these debugging requests.

               on=tracefile
                       turns tracing on into the specified file.  That file
                       must usually have been specified when the daemon was
                       started or be the same as a fixed name, often
                       /etc/routed.trace.

               more    increases the debugging level.

               off     turns off tracing.

               dump    dumps the daemon's routing table to the current
                       tracefile.

SEE ALSO
     routed(8)

     Routing Information Protocol, RIPv1, RFC1058.

     Routing Information Protocol, RIPv2, RFC1723.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          June 1, 1996          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
