SAMEARCHIVE-LITE(1)                SAMESAME                SAMEARCHIVE-LITE(1)



NAME
       samearchive-lite - find identical files, while keeping archives intact

SYNOPSIS
       samearchive-lite [-g size] [-m size] [-S sep] [-0qVv] dir1 dir2 [...]

DESCRIPTION
       samearchive-lite reads the paths from the input from stdin and output
       the identical files. This program is written for the special case where
       each directory acts as an archive or backup. The output will only
       contain filename pairs that have the same relative path from the
       archive base.

       This version uses a lot less memory then samefile and is faster, but
       only find a partial set of identical files. It basicaly does 80% of the
       job, but does this in 50% of the time while using 10% of the resources
       compared to samearchive.

       The output will only contain filename pairs that have the same relative
       path. For each filename pair with identical contents, a line consisting
       of six fields is output: The size in bytes, two filenames, the
       character ``='' if the two files are on the same device, ``X''
       otherwise, and the link counts of the two files.  The output is sorted
       in reverse order by size as the primary key and a user defined field(s)
       as the secondary key.

OPTIONS
       -0     Indicates that the input list of file names is NUL terminated,
              for example as generated by implementations of find(1) that
              support the -print0 option.  Without this option, the file names
              are assumed to be newline terminated.

       -g size
              Compare only files with size greater than size bytes. Default is
              0.

       -m size
              Compare only files with size less or equal than size bytes.
              Default is 0 which indicates there is no limit.

       -q     This option keep the information you are recieved during the
              processes to a minimum. (Verbose level 0)

       -S sep Use string sep as the output field separator, defaults to a tab
              character. Useful if filenames contain tab characters and output
              must be processed by another program, say awk (1).

       -V     Print the version information and exit.

       -v     This option increases the amount of information you recieve
              while running samearchive-lite. At level 0 you will just see the
              error messages. At level 1 you will see warning messages
              indicating that samearchive-lite coudn't do something. Defaults
              to verbose level 1.

EXAMPLES
       Find all identical files with in the system archives that live within
       the current working directory:

       % find system-arch1 | samearchive system-arch1 system-arch*

DIAGNOSTICS
       inaccessible: <path> This is probably due to a 'permission denied'
       error on files or directories within the given path for which you have
       no read permission.

       unreadable: <path> The file could be opend for reading jet failed while
       reading. You shouldn't encounter such a warnings but if you do, and
       recieve more than a few, this could be very well due to failing hard
       disk.

       Skipped line path because it didn't start with %s. This indicates that
       the former path was skipped because the it didn't start with first
       argument on the command prompt.

SEE ALSO
       samearchive(1) samefile(1) samelink(1) find(1) ls(1)

NOTES
       Input filenames must not have leading or trailing white space unless
       the white space is part of the filename.

AUTHOR
       Alex de Kruijff


                                 14 APRIL 2009             SAMEARCHIVE-LITE(1)
