SASH(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                SASH(1)

NAME
       sash - stand-alone shell with built-in commands

SYNOPSYS
       sash [-c command] [-f fileName ] [-p prompt] [-q] [-a]

DESCRIPTION
       The sash program is a stand-alone shell which is useful for recovering
       from certain types of system failures.  In particular, it was created
       in order to cope with the problem of missing shared libraries or
       important executables.

       Sash can execute external programs, as in any shell.  There are no
       restrictions on these commands, as the standard shell is used to
       execute them if there are any non-wildcard meta-characters in the
       command.

       More importantly, however, is that many of the standard system commands
       are built-in to sash.  These built-in commands are:

            -ar, -chattr, -chgrp, -chmod, -chown, -chroot, -cmp,
            -cp, -dd, -echo, -ed, -grep, -file, -find, -gunzip,
            -gzip, -kill, -losetup, -ln, -ls, -lsattr, -mkdir,
            -mknod, -more, -mount, -mv, -pivot_root, -printenv, -pwd,
            -rm, -rmdir, -sum, -sync, -tar, -touch, -umount, -where

       These commands are generally similar to the standard programs with
       similar names.  However, they are simpler and cruder than the external
       programs, and so many of the options are not implemented.  The
       restrictions for each built-in command are described later.

       The built-in commands which correspond to external programs begin with
       a dash character in order to distinguish them from the external
       programs.  So typing "ls", for example, will attempt to run the real ls
       program.  If "-ls" is typed, then the built-in command which mimics ls
       is called.

       For the built-in commands, file names are expanded so that asterisks,
       question marks, and characters inside of square brackets are recognised
       and are expanded.  Arguments can be quoted using single quotes, double
       quotes, or backslashes.  However, no other command line processing is
       performed.  This includes specifying of file redirection, and the
       specifying of a pipeline.

       If an external program is non-existant or fails to run correctly, then
       the "alias" built-in command may be used to redefine the standard
       command so that it automatically runs the built-in command instead.
       For example, the command "alias ls -ls" redefines "ls" to run the
       built-in command.  This saves you the pain of having to remember to
       type the leading dash all of the time.  If many external programs will
       not run, then the "aliasall" command may be useful to create multiple
       aliases.

       The "help" command will list all of the built-in commands in sash .  If
       an argument is given, it will list only those built-in commands which
       contain the given argument as a sub-string.  Each built-in command is
       described below in more detail.

       alias [name [command]]
              If name and command are provided, this defines an alias for a
              command with the specified name which executes the specified
              command with possible arguments.  Arguments containing wildcards
              can be quoted in order to defer their expansion until the alias
              is invoked.  If just name is provided, then the definition of
              the specified command alias is displayed.  If nothing is
              provided, then the definitions of all aliases are displayed.

       aliasall
              This defines aliases for all of the built-in commands that start
              with dashes to the corresponding names without the dashes.  This
              may be useful when the system is so corrupted that no external
              programs may be executed at all.

       -ar [txp][v] arfile [filename]...
              List or extract files from an ar archive.  The arfile argument
              specifies a file name which contains the archive.  If no
              additional filenames are specified, then all files in the
              archive are operated on.  Otherwise, only those archive members
              which have the same name as one of the additional filenames are
              operated on.  Filenames which do not appear in the archive are
              ignored.  Archives cannot be created or modified.  The archiver
              correctly handles 4.0BSD archives, and understands both the SysV
              and 4.4BSD extensions for long file names.  The extended pseudo-
              BSD formats are not supported; nor are the two antediluvian
              binary formats derived from V7 and earlier.  (The GNU archiver
              normally creates archives in the 4.0BSD format with SysV
              extensions.)

       cd [dirName]
              If dirName is provided, then the current directory is changed to
              the dirName.  If dirName is absent, then the current directory
              is changed to the user's home directory (value of the $HOME
              environment variable).

       -chattr [+i] [-i] [+a] [-a] fileName ...
              Change the attributes of the specified files on an ext2 or ext3
              file system.  Using a plus sign adds the specified attribute for
              the files.  Using a minus sign removes the specified attributes
              for the files.  The 'i' attribute makes a file immutable so that
              it cannot be changed.  The 'a' attribute makes a file append-
              only.  This command is only available on Linux.

       -chgrp gid fileName ...
              Change the group id for the specified list of files.  The gid
              can either be a group name, or a decimal value.

       -chmod mode fileName ...
              Change the mode of the specified list of files.  The mode
              argument can only be an octal value.

       -chown uid fileName ...
              Change the owner id for the specified list of files.  The uid
              can either be a user name, or a decimal value.

       -chroot path
              Changes  the  root  directory to that specified in path.  This
              directory will be used for path  names  beginning with /. The
              root directory is inherited by all children of the current
              process.

       -cmp fileName1 fileName2
              Determines whether or not the specified file names have
              identical data.  This says that the files are links to each
              other, are different sizes, differ at a particular byte number,
              or are identical.

       -cp srcName ... destName
              Copies one or more files from the srcName to the destName.  If
              more than one srcName is given, or if destName is a directory,
              then all the srcNames are copied into the destName directory
              with the same names as the srcNames.

       -dd if=name of=name [bs=n] [count=n] [skip=n] [seek=n]
              Copy data from one file to another with the specified
              parameters.  The if and of arguments must be provided, so stdin
              and stdout cannot be specified.  The bs argument is the block
              size, and is a numeric value (which defaults to 512 bytes).
              Count is the number of blocks to be copied (which defaults to
              end of file for the input file).  Skip is the number of blocks
              to ignore before copying (seek is used if possible, and the
              default is 0).  Seek is the number of blocks to seek in the
              output file before writing (and defaults to 0).  Any of the
              numeric decimal values can have one or more trailing letters
              from the set 'kbw', which multiplies the value by 1024, 512, and
              2 respectively.  The command reports the number of full blocks
              read and written, and whether or not any partial block was read
              or written.

       -echo [args] ...
              Echo the arguments to the -echo command.  Wildcards are
              expanded, so this is a convenient way to get a quick list of
              file names in a directory.  The output is always terminated with
              a newline.

       -ed [fileName]
              Edit the specified file using line-mode commands.  The following
              ed commands are provided: = c r w i a d p l s f k z and q.  Line
              numbers can be constants, ".", "$", "'x", /string/ and simple
              arithmetic combinations of these.  The substitute command and
              the search expression can only use literal strings.  There are
              some small differences in the way that some commands behave.

       exec fileName [args]
              Execute the specified program with the specified arguments.
              This replaces sash completely by the executed program.

       exit   Quit from sash.

       -file fileName ...
              Examine the specified files and print out their file type.  This
              indicates whether the files are regular files or not, whether
              they contain printable text or shell scripts, are executables,
              or contain binary data.

       -find dirName [-xdev] [-type chars] [-name pattern] [-size minSize]
              Find all files contained within the specified directory tree
              which meet all of the specified conditions.  The -xdev option
              prevents crossing of mount points.  The -name option specifies a
              wildcard pattern to match the last component of the file names.
              The -type option specifies that the files must have a type
              matching the specified list from the set: f d c b p s l.  These
              represent regular files, directories, character devices, block
              devices, named pipes, sockets, and symbolic links.  The -size
              option specifies that the files must be regular files or
              directories which contain at least the specified number of
              bytes.

       -grep [-in] word fileName ...
              Display lines of the specified files which contain the given
              word.  If only one file name is given, then only the matching
              lines are printed.  If multiple file names are given, then the
              file names are printed along with the matching lines.  Word must
              be a single word, (ie, not a regular expression).  If -i is
              given, then case is ignored when doing the search.  If -n is
              given, then the line numbers of the matching lines are also
              printed.

       -gunzip inputFileName ... [-o outputPath]
              Uncompress one or more files that had been compressed using the
              gzip or compress algorithms.  If the -o option is not given,
              then each of the input file names must have one of the
              extensions ".gz", ".tgz", or ".Z", and those files will be
              replaced by the uncompressed versions of those files.  The
              original files will be deleted after the output files have been
              successfully created.  The uncompressed versions of the files
              have the same names as the original file names, except for a
              simple modification of their extensions.  If an extension is
              ".tgz", then the extension is replaced by ".tar".  Otherwise,
              the ".gz" or ".Z" extension is removed.

              If the -o option is given, then the input files will not be
              deleted, and the uncompressed versions of the files will be
              created as specified by outputPath.  If the output path is a
              directory, then the uncompressed versions of the input files
              will be placed in that directory with their file names modified
              as described above, or with the same name if the input file name
              does not have one of the special extensions.  If the output path
              is a regular file, then only one input file is allowed, and the
              uncompressed version of that input file is created as the output
              path exactly as specified.  If the output path is a block or
              character device, then the uncompressed versions of the input
              files are concatenated to the device.

              This command is only available if sash was compiled to use the
              gzip library.

       -gzip inputFileName ... [-o outputPath]
              Compresses one or more files using the gzip algorithm.  If the
              -o option is not given, then each of the input file names will
              be replaced by the compressed versions of those files, The
              original files will be deleted after the output files have been
              successfully created.  The compressed versions of the files have
              the same names as the original file names, except for a simple
              modification of the extensions.  If an extension is ".tar", then
              the extension is replaced by ".tgz".  Otherwise, the ".gz"
              extension is added.

              If the -o option is given, then the input files will not be
              deleted, and the compressed versions of the files will be
              created as specified by outputPath.  If the output path is a
              directory, then the compressed versions of the input files will
              be placed in that directory with their file names modified as
              described above.  If the output path is not a directory, then
              only one input file is allowed, and the compressed version of
              that input file is created as the output path exactly as
              specified.

              This command is only available if sash was compiled to use the
              gzip library.

       help [word]
              Displays a list of built-in commands along with their usage
              strings.  If a word is given, then just those commands whose
              name or usage contains the word is displayed.  If a word is
              specified which exactly matches a built-in command name, then a
              short description of the command and its usage is given.

       -kill [-signal] pid ...
              Sends the specified signal to the specified list of processes.
              Signal is a numeric value, or one of the special values HUP,
              INT, QUIT, KILL, TERM, STOP, CONT, USR1 or USR2.  If no signal
              is specified then SIGTERM is used.

       -losetup [-d] loopDev [file]
              Associates loopback devices with files on the system. If -d is
              not given, the loopback device loopDev is associated with file.
              If -d is given, loopDev is unassociated with the file it's
              currently configured for.

       -ln [-s] srcName ... destName
              Links one or more files from the srcName to the specified
              destName.  If there are multiple srcNames, or destName is a
              directory, then the link is put in the destName directory with
              the same name as the source name.  The default links are hard
              links.  Using -s makes symbolic links.  For symbolic links, only
              one srcName can be specified.

       -ls [-lidFC] fileName ...
              Display information about the specified list of file names.  The
              normal listing is simply a list of file names, one per line.
              The options available are -l, -n, -i, -d, and -F.  The -l option
              produces a long listing giving the normal 'ls' information.  The
              -n option is like -l except that numeric user and group ids are
              shown.  The -i option displays the inode numbers of the files.
              The -d option displays information about a directory, instead of
              the files within it.  The -F option appends a slash or asterisk
              to the file name if the file is a directory or is executable.
              The -C option displays the file names in a multi-column format.
              The width of the output is calculated using the COLS environment
              variable.

       -lsattr fileName ...
              Display attributes for the specified files on an ext2 or ext3
              file system.  The letter 'i' indicates that the file is
              immutable and cannot change.  The letter 'a' indicates that the
              file is append-only.  Dashes are shown where the attributes are
              not set.  This command is only available on Linux.

       -mkdir dirName ...
              Creates the specified directories.  They are created with the
              default permissions.

       -mknod fileName type major minor
              Creates a special device node, either a character file or a
              block file.  Filename is the name of the node.  Type is either
              'c' or 'd'.  Major is the major device number.  Minor is the
              minor device number.  Both of these numbers are decimal.

       -more fileName ...
              Type out the contents of the specified file names, one page at a
              time.  For each page displayed, you can type 'n' and a return to
              go to the next file, 'q' and a return to quit the command
              completely, or just a return to go to the next page.  The
              environment variables LINES and COLS can be used to set the page
              size.

       -mount [-t type] [-r] [-s] [-e] [-m] devName dirName
              Mount a filesystem on a directory name.  The -t option specifies
              the type of filesystem being mounted, and defaults to "ext3" for
              Linux and "ffs" for BSD.  The -r option indicates to mount the
              filesystem read-only.  The -s option indicates to mount the
              filesystem no-suid.  The -e option indicates to mount the
              filesystem no-exec.  The -m option indicates to remount an
              already mounted filesystem.  The -m option is only available on
              Linux.

       -mv srcName ... destName
              Moves one or more files from the srcName to the destName.  If
              multiple srcNames are given, or if destName is a directory, then
              the srcNames are copied into the destination directory with the
              same names as the srcNames.  Renames are attempted first, but if
              this fails because of the files being on different filesystems,
              then copies and deletes are done instead.

       -pivot_root newRoot putOld
              Moves the root file system of the current process to the
              directory putOld and makes newRoot the  new root file system of
              the current process.

       -printenv [name]
              If name is not given, this prints out the values of all the
              current environment variables.  If name is given, then only that
              environment variable value is printed.

       prompt [word] ...
              Sets the prompt string that is displayed before reading of a
              command.  A space is always added to the specified prompt.

       -pwd   Prints the current working directory.

       quit   Exits from sash.

       -rm fileName ...
              Removes one or more files.

       -rmdir dirName ...
              Removes one or more directories.  The directories must be empty
              for this to be successful.

       setenv name value
              Set the value of an environment variable.

       source fileName
              Execute commands which are contained in the specified file name.

       -sum fileName ...
              Calculates checksums for one or more files.  This is the 16 bit
              checksum compatible with the BSD sum program.

       -sync  Do a "sync" system call to force dirty blocks out to the disk.

       -tar [ctxv]f tarFileName [fileName] ...
              Create, list or extract files from a tar archive.  The f option
              must be specified, and accepts a device or file name argument
              which contains the tar archive.  When creating, at least one
              file name must be specified to be stored.  If a file name is a
              directory, then all the files and directories within the
              directory are stored.  Linked files and other special file types
              are not handled properly.  When listing or extracting files,
              only those files starting with the specified file names are
              processed.  If no file names are specified, then all files in
              the archive are processed.  Leading slashes in the tar archive
              file names are always removed so that you might need to cd to
              "/" to restore files which had absolute paths.

       -touch fileName ...
              Updates the modify times of the specifed files.  If a file does
              not exist, then it will be created with the default protection.

       umask [mask]
              If mask is given, sets the "umask" value used for initializing
              the permissions of newly created files.  If mask is not given,
              then the current umask value is printed.  The mask is an octal
              value.

       -umount [-f] fileName
              Unmounts a file system.  The file name can either be the device
              name which is mounted, or else the directory name which the file
              system is mounted onto.  The -f option unmounts the filesystem
              even if it is being used.  The -f option is only available on
              BSD.

       unalias name
              Remove the definition for the specified alias.

       -where program
              Prints out all of paths defined by the PATH environment variable
              where the specified program exists.  If the program exists but
              cannot be executed, then the reason is also printed.

OPTIONS
       There are several command line options to sash.

       The -c option executes the next argument as a command (including
       embedded spaces to separate the arguments of the command), and then
       exits.

       The -f option executes the commands contained in the file name
       specified by the next argument, and then exits.  This feature can be
       used to create executable scripts for sash by starting the script file
       with a line similar to:
            #! /bin/sash -f

       The -p option takes the next argument as the prompt string to be used
       when prompting for commands.

       The -q option makes sash quiet, which simply means that it doesn't
       print its introduction line when it starts.  This option is also
       implied if the -c or -f options are used.

       The -a option creates aliases for the built-in commands so that they
       replace the corresponding standard commands.  This is the same result
       as if the 'aliasall' command was used.

SYSTEM RECOVERY
       This section contains some useful information about using sash with
       lilo to perform system recovery in some situations.  Similar concepts
       should exist for other boot loaders and operating systems.

       When important shared libraries are being upgraded, it might be a good
       idea to have sash already running on a console by itself.  Then if
       there is a problem with the shared libraries sash will be unaffected
       and you may be able to use it to fix the problem.

       If a problem with the system shows up at boot time so that you cannot
       enter multi-user mode and log in, then you can first try booting into
       single-user mode by adding the single keyword after your kernel image
       name at the lilo prompt.  If you manage to reach a shell prompt, then
       you can run sash from that shell (if necessary).  One reason for doing
       this is that you might need to use the -mount command with the -m
       option to remount the root file system so that it can be modified.

       If you cannot reach the shell in single-user mode, then you can try
       running sash directly as a replacement for the init process.  This is
       done by adding the init=/bin/sash keyword after your kernel image name
       at the lilo prompt.  When this is done, then the use of the aliasall
       command might be useful to reduce attempts to access the root file
       system when running commands.

       If your root file system is so corrupted that you cannot get sash to
       run at all, then you will have to resort to a system recovery floppy.

WARNINGS
       Sash should obviously be linked statically, otherwise its purpose is
       lost.  Note that even if the rest of the program is linked statically,
       the password and group lookup routines in the C library can still be
       dynamic.  For that reason, if there are problems then it might be
       necessary to only use numeric ids for the -chown and -chgrp commands
       and to use the -n option instead of -l for the -ls command.

       Several other system commands might be necessary for system recovery,
       but aren't built-in to sash.

AUTHOR
       David I. Bell
       dbell@tip.net.au
       5 March 2014

                                                                       SASH(1)
