grosciteco.tes(1)       FreeBSD General Commands Manual      grosciteco.tes(1)

NAME
       grosciteco -- GNU roff post-processor for SciTECO

SYNOPSIS
       grosciteco.tes [-t tec_output] [--] text_output input

DESCRIPTION
       grosciteco is a post-processor for GNU roff which works similar to
       groff's grotty post-processor and driver.  Similarily, grosciteco is a
       plain-text formatter — but since it lays out the document itself and is
       written in the SciTECO language, it will generate an additional SciTECO
       macro that can be executed to style the plain-text document.

       The plain-text document will usually have the extension “woman” and the
       accompanying SciTECO macro will have the extension “woman.tec”.  Both
       files combined are called womanpage since they are commonly
       SciTECO-formatted man pages.

       Furthermore, womanpages can be indexed by search terms (called topics).
       A per-file topic index is generated as part of the “woman.tec” output
       file.  Users of grosciteco can define topics in troff markup using the
       SCITECO_TOPIC troff macro defined in the “sciteco.tmac” macro package.
       This macro package should always be loaded when processing troff
       documents which are going to be post-processed by grosciteco.

       Preparing a womanpage for display is usually performed automatically by
       SciTECO's “woman.tes” lexer definition whenever you open a “*.woman”
       file in SciTECO.  womanpages are recommended to be installed into a
       special directory in SciTECO's standard library.  The SciTECO command ?
       provides an online help feature which gives fast access to properly-
       installed womanpages.  It builds a global topic index of all womanpages
       installed in the $SCITECOPATH/women directory.  grosciteco is thus a
       central component in providing SciTECO's help system, in documenting
       internal commands, the SciTECO standard library macros and third-party
       macro packages.  The generation of womanpages at compile-time means
       that no troff is required by end users to browse documentation within
       SciTECO.

OPTIONS
       -t tec_output
              The SciTECO script that when executed after loading text_output
              into a Scintilla view, styles that document.  It can be thought
              of as representing meta-information for text_output.  In order
              to cooperate with the “woman” lexer and SciTECO's ? command, its
              file name should be text_output.tec, e.g. “great-
              macro.woman.tec”.  This is also the default when omitted.

       text_output
              The plain-text output file, e.g. “great-macro.woman”.

       input  The input file is in troff's device-independant output format.

SPECIAL TROFF MACROS
       troff documents should be processed with the “sciteco.tmac” macro
       package that also ships with SciTECO.  It tweaks formatting for display
       in SciTECO (assuming that the lexer system for womanpages is in place)
       and provides the following troff macros that can be called by
       documentation authors:

       .SCITECO_TOPIC topics...
              Defines one or more topics in SciTECO's help system.  Every
              topic must be in its own macro argument.  A topic can be looked
              up in SciTECO using the ?topic$ command, but in case of topic
              collisions, SciTECO will modify the topic name to keep it
              unique.  The ? (question mark) command will jump to the position
              that corresponds to the macro call in troff markup.  Topics can
              and should only consist of printable characters, so escape
              characters should be written in their up-caret notation (e.g.
              “^[” instead of escape).  SciTECO expands control characters to
              their printabel form when looking up terms.
       .SCITECO_TT [line length]
              Marks the beginning of an area that must be formatted in a
              monospaced font.  grosciteco has only limited support for Troff
              font styles and the font family used depends on the SciTECO UI
              used to show the womanpage.  Since line drawing commands assume
              a TTY-like output device, SCITECO_TT should precede those
              sections of text (including the tbl macro TS).  An optional
              temporary line length may also be specified which is especially
              useful for tables.
       .SCITECO_TT_END [SP]
              Marks the end of an area that must be formatted in a monospaced
              font.  The optional SP keyword may be specified to skip one line
              vertically (via troff's .sp request).
       .SCITECO_STARTSTYLING
              Marks the beginning of a block for manual Scintilla styling.
       .SCITECO_SETSTYLING style
              Assign the given Scintilla style number to the block beginning
              with .SCITECO_STARTSTYLING.  This style must have been
              configured in a custom macro.

       These public macros will be ignored if “sciteco.tmac” is not loaded, so
       it is safe to use them in man pages that are also installed into the
       system.

       Note that “sciteco.tmac” is not installed into the standard GNU roff
       macro search directories, but into SciTECO data directory at
       “/usr/local/share/gsciteco”.  It must thus be moved or linked manually
       into one of the search paths, or the data dir must be added to the
       search paths.  Alternatively, you may also add it to the groff command
       line with the -M option.

EXAMPLES
       The following UNIX shell commands will generate the womanpage for a
       SciTECO macro package with a man page called great-macro.tes(7sciteco):
              groff -Z -Kutf-8 -Tutf8 -man -M/usr/local/share/gsciteco -msciteco \
                    great-macro.tes.7sciteco >great-macro.tes.7sciteco.intermediate
              grosciteco.tes great-macro.tes.7sciteco.woman great-macro.tes.7sciteco.woman.tec \
                             great-macro.tes.7sciteco.intermediate

       The resulting files should be installed to
       /usr/local/share/gsciteco/lib/women (or wherever $SCITECOPATH points to
       at runtime) to make the files accessible in SciTECO's online-help
       system.

BUGS
       grosciteco is quite slow, although this is a SciTECO issue.

       The pic(1) preprocessor is poorly supported and diacritics may not be
       rendered properly.

SEE ALSO
       SciTECO invocation and help on its environment variables:
              sciteco(1)

       Language reference including additional information on the ? command:
              sciteco(7)

       A documentation tool generating man-page markup:
              tedoc.tes(1)

       The GNU roff front end program:
              groff(1)

       The GNU roff “man” macros for writing man pages:
              groff_man(7)

AUTHOR
       This manpage and the SciTECO program was written by Robin Haberkorn
       <robin.haberkorn@googlemail.com>.

SciTECO Version 2.2.0             12 Aug 2025                grosciteco.tes(1)
