SCREEN.LUA(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          SCREEN.LUA(8)

NAME
     screen.lua – FreeBSD screen manipulation module

DESCRIPTION
     screen.lua contains functionality for manipulating the screen.  This
     includes functionality such as clearing the screen, moving the cursor,
     and setting foreground/background colors using sequences provided by
     color.lua(8).

     Before using the functionality provided by screen.lua, it must be
     included with a statement such as the following:

           local screen = require("screen")

     The following variables are exported from screen.lua:

           screen.default_x     The x component of the default cursor
                                position.

           screen.default_y     The y component of the default cursor
                                position.

     The following functions are exported from screen.lua:

           screen.clear()   Clears the screen.  screen.clear() will do nothing
                            if a serial boot is detected.

           screen.setcursor(x, y)
                            Sets the cursor position to x, y.
                            screen.setcursor() will do nothing if a serial
                            boot is detected.

           screen.setforeground(color_value)
                            Sets the foreground color to color_value, which
                            should be a constant defined in color.lua(8).
                            screen.setforeground() will do nothing if color is
                            disabled.

           screen.setbackground(color_value)
                            Sets the background color to color_value, which
                            should be a constant defined in color.lua(8).
                            screen.setbackground() will do nothing if color is
                            disabled.

           screen.defcolor()
                            Sets the default color scheme, as defined by
                            color.default().  screen.defcolor() will do
                            nothing if color is disabled.

           screen.defcursor()
                            Sets the default cursor position to that defined
                            by screen.default_x, screen.default_y.

SEE ALSO
     color.lua(8)

AUTHORS
     The screen.lua file was originally written by Pedro Souza
     <pedrosouza@FreeBSD.org>.  Later work and this manual page was done by
     Kyle Evans <kevans@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         August 19, 2018        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
