SERIALVIEW(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          SERIALVIEW(1)



NAME
       serialview - Terminal emulator for uCsim



SYNOPSIS
       serialview -i <filename> -o <filename> -L n -a <pattern> -A <answer>
       -IOh



DESCRIPTION
       serialview is a simple terminal emulator which can be used with uCsim.



OPTIONS
       -i filename
              filename is the pipe to the controllers's serial input.
              Characters typed into the input panel will be written to this
              file.


       -o filename
              filename is the pipe to the controllers's serial output. Content
              of this file is prosented on the output panel.


       -I     Use hexadecimal filter on input. Only hexadecimal characters are
              accepted in input panel. Two characters are combined into a
              hexadecimal code and value is written to the input pipe.


       -O     Use hexadecimal filter on output. Content of output pipe is
              presented as a hexadecimal dump. -L option can be used to set
              how many bytes are printed in one line.


       -a pattern
              pattern is a string which is recognized in output stream and
              automatically answered by sending an answer string (see -A
              option). String can be formatted as a C string, non-asci
              characters can be escaped in C style.


       -A answer
              answer is a string which is sent when a pattern (see -a option)
              is detected in simulator's output. This answer string is written
              to the input pipe but not shown in the input panel.


       -L n   Set line length of hexadecimal dump in output panel (default=8).


       -h     Show summary of options.


       When no options are provided the input and output pipes are created in
       /tmp and named respectively in and out



SEE ALSO
       sdcc(1), ucsim(1).



AUTHOR
       Timothy Hurman

                                                                 SERIALVIEW(1)
