SDLROIDS(6)                          Games                         SDLROIDS(6)

NAME
       SDLRoids - an enhanced shoot-the-asteroids game for X

SYNOPSIS
       sdlroids [options]

DESCRIPTION
       SDLRoids is essentially an Asteroids clone, but with a few extra
       features, and some nice game physics.

       You can run in either windowed mode (default) or in fullscreen mode.
       You can (usually) switch between them during play by pressing Alt-
       Enter.

       The play area (apart from the score/lives/etc. display) is a square,
       centred playing area, as the original Hyperoid did. This is a feature,
       not a bug. :-)

OPTIONS
       -f, --fullscreen
              Start in fullscreen mode.

       -g, --geometry WxH
              Open a window W pixels wide and H pixels high instead of the
              default 480x480.

       -b, --benchmark FRAMES
              Run in benchmark mode. Display FRAMES frames without delay and
              quit, printing the resulting FPS.

       -s, --nosound
              Don't initialize the sound.

       -l, --list-joysticks
              List all available joysticks and exit.

       -n, --joynr NR
              The index of the joystick to use. All found joysticks should be
              listed when SDLRoids starts.

       -j, --joystick PATH
              Use the specified device as the primary joystick. If the path is
              correct, this joystick will become number zero.

       -0, --fire NUM
              The number of the joystick button to use for firing the main
              guns. Default = 0.

       -1, --shields NUM
              The number of the joystick button to use to turn on the shields.
              Default = 1.

       -2, --bomb NUM
              The number of the joystick button to use for detonating
              smartbombs. Default = 2.

       -h, --help
              Print usage information and exit.

       -v, --version
              Print version number and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       These are the environment variables you can set to change the behavior
       of SDLRoids.


       SRDATADIR
              SDLRoids looks for datafiles in the same directory as the
              binary, the current directory and the compiled in path. You can
              override the location using this environment variable.

       SDL_JOYSTICK_DEVICE
              The joystick device to use as your main joystick. This
              environment variable is overridden by the --joystick argument.

GAMEPLAY
       The object of the game is intuitive - shoot everything that movies,
       except the stars (which are powerups or other good stuff).

       You have 3 lives, unlimited fuel and firepower, 150 shield energy and 3
       smartbombs. Your ship gets darker when you lose a life, but you keep on
       playing (unless you hit an asteroid). You get an extra life every
       100,000 points. When you lose the game, you start over immediately at
       level 1 (there is no waiting around between games).  Alternatively, you
       can press F1 to get a new game starting on level 1.

       In addition to the asteroids and yourself, there are four other things
       you'll encounter in the game:

       Hunters
              The `UFO' equivalent. Can take one or more hits, the colour
              gives you a hint how many - they start off light cyan, but if
              they initially needed two or more hits, they'll turn dark cyan
              when they only need one more hit.

       Spinners
              These spinning kamikaze baddies chase you and try to crash into
              you.  The colour indicates how many hits are left before you
              destroy it - 1=dark purple, 2=cyan, 3=dark cyan, 4=yellow,
              5=dark yellow, 6=blue, 7=dark blue, 8=green, 9=dark green. And
              if you get far enough into the game, they can take more hits
              than even that.  :-) When they crash into you, the number of
              hits left is how many hits they take out on your ship - if a
              dark cyan one hits you, that's three lives gone. So for yellow
              or worse, which can be hard to hit enough, using a bomb to get
              them is often the best/safest bet. (Shields are worth a try in
              emergencies, but it's hard to time it right.)

       Swarmers
              These green squares are basically inert, but recursively split
              up several times unless you catch them early (before they've
              `swarmed' much).

       Bonuses
              Spinning stars which chase you like Spinners (be careful not to
              confuse the two) and give you a bonus when they hit you. They
              are always in `light' colours, and the colour indicates the type
              - red=score (the amount depends on which level you're on),
              green=extra shield, blue=extra bomb, yellow=extra life. The
              bonus type works its way backwards through that list over time,
              so (most notably) extra life bonuses have to be caught as
              quickly as possible to avoid merely getting a bomb.

KEYS
       The following keys control your ship:

       Cursor Left/Right
              Spin your ship to the left or right. Self explanatory, really.
              :)

       Cursor Up/Down
              Forward or reverse thrust. Since this is a game that takes place
              in space, you only use the thrust to change speed / direction.
              If you don't use the thrust, you'll continue gliding in the same
              direction even if you steer.

       Space  Fire your main guns (you can, and should, hold this one down -
              the wonder of autofire). You can get double or triple powerups
              as well as a powerup that increase the range of your guns.

       Tab    Turn on your shields while pressed down. When your shields are
              on, you can't be hurt but enemy craft will be. You have limited
              shield power, so make sure to keep a look on the shield counter.

       s      Detonate a smartbomb. This will kill all enemies ships (i.e
              everything xcluding asteroids and bonuses).

       Other keys:

       Esc    Exit the game.

       Pause Key
              Pause / unpause the game.

       F1     Quit your current game and start new game from level 1.

       Alt-Enter
              Toggle between fullscreen and windowed mode (if supported).

       Ctrl-z Iconfify and pause the game.

       Ctrl-g When running in windowed mode, this grabs/releases the mouse and
              keyboard focus and hides/shows the mouse pointer. It has no
              effect in fullscreen mode.

JOYSTICK CONTROL
       Since version 1.3.3 you can also play with a joystick or gamepad (if
       supported by your computer). You can use both analog and digital
       joysticks / gamepads. When using an analog controller there is a small
       deadzone. These are the default bindings (buttons can be remapped with
       command line options):

       X-Axis Turn your ship left or right.

       Y-Axis Forward or reverse thrust.

       Button 1
              Fire main guns.

       Button 2
              Activate shields.

       Button 3
              Detonate a smartbomb.

BUGS
       Bonuses currently only come in one color. This is a bug and it will be
       fixed eventually.

       The sound is only 8-bit 8kHz mono.

AUTHORS
       Edward Hutchins wrote the original Hyperoid, for Windows 3.x.

       Russell Marks (russell.marks@ntlworld.com) ported it to Unix/Linux and
       added sound, and wrote this man page (partly based on the original
       version's help dialog, but mostly based on game experience and RTFS
       :-)).

       David Hedbor (david@hedbor.org) ported the game to SDL (both for
       graphics and sound) and has since added lots of features. See the
       ChangeLog for details.

Version 1.3.4                  March 27th, 2001                    SDLROIDS(6)
