SDORFEHS(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            SDORFEHS(1)

NAME
     sdorfehs – window manager without mouse dependency

SYNOPSIS
     sdorfehs [-hv]
     sdorfehs [-d dpy] [-s num] [-f file]
     sdorfehs [-d dpy] [-s num] [-i] -c command [-c command ...]

DESCRIPTION
     sdorfehs is a window manager without fat library dependencies, fancy
     graphics or dependence on a mouse.

     The screen can be split into non-overlapping frames.  All windows are
     kept maximized inside their frames.

     All interaction with the window manager is done through keystrokes.
     sdorfehs has a prefix map to minimize key clobbering.

     The options are as follows:

     -c command
         Send sdorfehs a command.  There must be a sdorfehs instance running
         as window manager for the given display/screen for this to work.  Do
         not forget to quote the command if it contains spaces.  For example:

               sdorfehs -c "echo hello world"

     -d display
         Set the X display to use or send commands to.

     -f filename
         Specify an alternate configuration file.  If this is not given,
         sdorfehs will try $HOME/.config/sdorfehs/config and execute each
         command when starting up.

     -h  Show summary of options.

     -i  Execute commands given with -c in interactive mode.  That means it
         will behave exactly as if called with C-a : like prompting for
         missing arguments and things like that.

     -s number
         Only use the specified screen.

KEY BINDINGS
     To avoid conflicts with other programs, all default sdorfehs key bindings
     start with an escape key which, by default, is C-a (Control-a).  Some
     important default key bindings:

     C-a ?   Show key bindings

     C-a a   Send a Control-a to the current window

     C-a c   Start an X terminal

     C-a n   Switch to next window

     C-a p   Switch to previous window

     C-a 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
             Switch to window number 0 | 1 | 2 | ...

     C-a k   Close the current window

     C-a K   XKill the current application

     C-a s | S
             Split the current frame into two vertical | horizontal ones

     C-a Tab | Left | Up | Right | Down
             Switch to the next | left | top | right | bottom frame.

     C-a Q   Make the current frame the only one

     C-a :   Execute a sdorfehs command

     C-a F1 | F2 | F3 | F4 | F5 | F6 | F7 | F8 | F9 | F10 | F11 | F12
             Switch to vscreen number 0 | 1 | 2 | ...

     Further default key bindings can be found in parentheses after the
     commands in the next section.

COMMANDS AND DEFAULT ALIASES
     abort   (C-a C-g) Do nothing and that successfully.  (Useful if you
             pressed C-a in error).

     addhook event command
             Add a hook: run command whenever event is called.  Possible
             events are:

             deletewindow
                     Run after a window is withdrawn.

             key     Run whenever a top level key is pressed (by default C-a).

             newwindow
                     Run after a new window is mapped.

             quit    Run before exiting sdorfehs.

             restart
                     Run before restarting sdorfehs.

             switchframe
                     Run after a frame actually switched, but before the
                     window in it is focused.

             switchscreen
                     Run when the user switches to a different screen.

             switchvscreen
                     Run when the user switches to a different virtual screen.

             switchwin
                     Run after a new window is selected.  (With dedication, it
                     may already be inactive again, if it was put into another
                     frame)

     alias alias command
             Add alias as new way to call command.

     bind key command
             alias for "definekey root key command"

     banish  (C-a b) Banish the rat cursor to the lower right corner of the
             screen.

     banishrel
             Banish the rat cursor to the lower right corner of the current
             window.  If there isn't a window in the current frame, it
             banishes the rat cursor to the lower right corner of the frame.

     chdir [directory]
             If the optional argument is given, change the current directory
             of sdorfehs to directory.  If nothing is given, change it to the
             value of the environment variable "HOME".

     clrunmanaged
             Clears the unmanaged window list.

     cnext   Like next but switch to the next window with another resource
             class than the current one.  (That means the next window
             belonging to another type of application than the current one.)

     cprev   Like prev but switch to the previous window with another resource
             class than the current one.  (That means the previous window
             belonging to another type of application than the current one.)

     colon sdorfehs-command (C-a :)
             Execute sdorfehs-command interactively.  (i.e. ask for possible
             missing arguments.)

     cother  Like other but switch to the window of the current vscreen that
             was last accessed and has another resource class but is not
             currently visible.

     curframe (C-a F)
             Show a bar marking the current frame.

     definekey keymap key command
             Add a new key binding in keymap for key to execute command.
             Default keymaps are top normally only containing C-a, which reads
             a key from root, containing all the normal commands.

             Note that you have to describe ":" by "colon", "!" by "exclam"
             and so on.  If you cannot guess a name of a key, try either C-a
             key and look at the error message, or try :describekey root and
             pressing the key.

     dedicate [0 | 1]
             Consider the current frame dedicated/chaste (1) or promiscuous
             (0).

             A dedicated frame will not accept new windows.  When new windows
             are to be focused, they will be opened in a non-dedicated frame
             instead.

             If no argument is given, toggle the current dedicateness.  By
             default no windows are dedicated.

     delete (C-a k)
             Close the current window.

     delkmap keymap
             Deletes the keymap named keymap, that was generated with newkmap.
             The keymaps top (or whatever was specified by set topkmap) and
             root cannot be deleted.

     describekey keymap
             Grab the next key.  Similar to readkey, describekey shows only
             the command in keymap, that would be executed by readkey.

     echo text
             Show text as sdorfehs message.

     escape key
             Update the default escape key to key.

             Strictly speaking it updates the readkey root command in the
             keymap top to key, the other binding in root to key, and meta
             binding in root to key without modifiers or C-key if key has no
             modifiers.  (If set topkmap was called with an argument other
             than top that will be used instead of top.)

     exchangedown (C-a C-Down)
             Exchange the window in the current frame with the window in the
             frame below the current frame.

     exchangeleft (C-a C-Left)
             Exchange the window in the current frame with the window in the
             frame left of the current frame.

     exchangeright (C-a C-Right)
             Exchange the window in the current frame with the window in the
             frame right of the current frame.

     exchangeup (C-a C-Up)
             Exchange the window in the current frame with the window in the
             frame above the current frame.

     exec shell-command (C-a !)
             Spawn a shell executing shell-command.

     execa shell-command
             Spawn a shell executing shell-command, without remembering the
             current frame, so that _NET_WM_PID declaring programs will be
             placed into the frame active when they open a window instead of
             the frame active when sdorfehs gets this command.

     execf frame shell-command
             Spawn a shell executing shell-command, showing _NET_WM_PID
             supporting programs in the given frame instead of the frame
             selected when this program is run.

     execv vscreen shell-command
             Spawn a shell within a specific vscreen vscreen, executing
             shell-command as in the 'exec' command (i.e., using "sh -c").
             This is not likely to work well with 'winaddcurvscreen' set to 1
             anywhere in the configuration file.

     execw shell-command
             Spawn a shell executing shell-command, but wait for it to finish.
             This should behave the same as exec but will wait for completion.
             Use timeout(1) if it might hang, or sdorfehs will hang itself
             waiting for completion.  Use the 'exec' shell builtin as the
             first word in the command string to get similar behavior to execa
             owing to the forked pid remaining stable and known to sdorfehs.

     fdump [screenno]
             Output the defining data for all frames of the current screen, or
             for screen number screenno if this is specified.

     focus (C-a Tab)
             Focus the next frame.

     focuslast
             Switch to the last selected focus.

     focusleft (C-a Left)
             Switch to the frame to the left of the current one.

     focusdown (C-a Down)
             Switch to the frame beneath the current one.

     focusright (C-a Right)
             Switch to the frame to the right of the current one.

     focusprev
             Focus the previous frame.

     focusup (C-a Up)
             Switch to the frame above the current one.

     frestore frames
             Replace the current frames with the ones specified in frames in
             the format as generated by fdump.

     fselect [frameno] (C-a f)
             If an argument is supplied, switch to a frame given by number
             frameno.

             If no argument is given, show a frame selector in each frame and
             wait for a key to be pressed.  If the key matches an existing
             frame selector, this frame gets focused.

             Frame selectors are by default the numbers starting with zero,
             but they can be changed by setting framesels.

     getenv variable
             Output the value of the environment variable variable.

     getsel  Paste the current X Selection into the current window.

     gravity [nw | w | sw | n | c | s | ne | e | se]
             Change how in its frame the current window is aligned.

     help [keymap]
             If the optional parameter keymap is given, list all keybindings
             in this keymap, otherwise list all key bindings in keymap root.

     hsplit [l/p | [-]pixels] (C-a S)
             Split the current frame into left frame and a right frame.  If no
             parameter is given, split in halves.  If two numbers separated by
             a slash (‘/’) are given, the left one is l times the pth part and
             the right one (p - l) times the pth part of the prior width.
             Otherwise the right half is pixels wide or the left one is pixels
             wide, depending whether there is ‘-’ in front of the number or
             not.

     inext   Like next but switch to the next window with the same resource
             class as the current one.  (That means the next window belonging
             to the same application as the current one.)

     info (C-a i)
             Output the current the width, height, window number and window
             name of the current window.  (What name means is chosen by “set
             winname”.)

     iprev   Like prev but switch to the previous window with the same
             resource class as the current one.  (That means the previous
             window belonging to the same application as the current one.)

     iother  Like other but switch to the window of the current vscreen that
             was last accessed and has the same resource class but is not
             currently visible.

     kill (C-a K)
             Close the X-connection of the X-client responsible for the
             current window.

     lastmsg (C-a m)
             Reshow the last message.

     link key [keymap]
             Do what key is bound to in the keymap keymap if supplied.
             Otherwise what key is bound to in keymap root.

     listhook event
             List all commands specified with addhook to be executed when even
             event occurs.

     meta [key] (C-a t)
             Send the escape key (that which normally is C-a) to the current
             window.  If a key is specified, this is sent instead.  Note that
             some applications by default ignore the synthetic key that is
             sent using this command as it is considered a security hole.
             xterm is one such application.

     newkmap keymap
             Generate a new keymap named keymap.  This keymap can be used to
             add new key-command mappings to it with definekey and can be
             called with readkey.

     next (C-a Return | C-a n | C-a space)
             Switch to the next window in the current vscreen.

     nextscreen (C-a N)
             Switch to the next screen. (If you have multiple physical ones.)

     number new [old]
             Give the number new to the window with the number old or the
             current window.

     only (C-a Q)
             Remove all frames on the current screen except the current frame
             and maximize this one to the size of the whole screen.

     other (C-a C-a)
             Switch to the window of the current vscreen that was last
             accessed but is not currently visible.

     prev (C-a p)
             Switch to the previous window in the current vscreen.

     prevscreen (C-a P)
             Switch to the previous screen. (If you have multiple physical
             ones.)

     prompt [prompt]
             sdorfehs will ask the user for input, showing prompt (or a single
             colon, if no argument is given) and output the input the user has
             made.  Note that this command probably does not make much sense
             in interactive mode.

     putsel x-selection
             Replace the X selection with the text x-selection.  It can be
             inserted into the current window with getsel.

     quit    Quit sdorfehs.

     ratinfo
             Display the x y coordinates of the rat cursor relative to the
             screen.

     ratrelinfo
             Display the x y coordinates of the rat cursor relative to the
             current window or current frame if no window is focused

     ratwarp x y
             Move the rat cursor to the position (x, y).

     ratrelwarp deltax deltay
             Move the rat cursor to (deltax, deltay), relative to the current
             position.

     ratclick [button]
             Simulate a rat click with button (button 1=left button if none
             given).

     rathold (up | down) [button]
             Simulate pressing|releasing rat button button (1=left button if
             none given).

     readkey keymap
             Grab the next key pressed, and execute the command associated to
             this key in keymap.  To show it is waiting for a key, sdorfehs
             will change the rat cursor to a square if waitcursor is set.
             This command is perhaps best described with its usage in the
             default configuration: by pressing C-a, which is the only key in
             the keymap top , the command "readkey root" is executed.  The
             next key then executes the command in keymap root belonging to
             this command.

     redisplay (C-a l)
             Extend the current window to the whole size of its current frame
             and redisplay it.  (Useful to redisplay normal windows or bring
             transient windows to the full size of the frame as only normal
             windows are maximized by sdorfehs)

     redo (C-a U)
             Revert the last undo of frame changes.

     remhook event command
             Remove command command from the list of commands to be called
             when event event is hit.  (The command has to specified, as an
             event can have multiple commands attached to it.)  Use "listhook
             hook" to get a list of all attached commands.

     remove (C-a R)
             Remove the current frame and extend some frames around to fill
             the remaining gap.

     resize [deltax deltay] (C-a r)
             If deltax and deltay are supplied, resize the current frame by
             that (i.e. move the bottom right corner by the given offsets and
             then move this frame and resize adjacent frames to make the
             frames fill the whole screen again.)

             If in interactive mode no arguments are supplied, resize the
             current frame interactively:

               Return         finish resizing
               C-g, Escape    abort resizing
               C-n, Down, j   grow vertically
               C-p, Up, k     shrink vertically
               C-f, Right, l  grow horizontally
               C-b, Left, h   shrink horizontally
               s              shrink to size of current window

             While resizing interactively, changes are in multiples of the
             amount of pixels given by set resizeunit (by default 10).

     restart
             Restart sdorfehs.

     sdump   Output the list of all screens.  The screens are separated by
             commas.  Each screen is shown as 6 values: its number, its x-
             coordinate, its y-coordinate, its width, its height and if it is
             currently selected (1=true, 0=false).

     select (- | name | number) (C-a ')
             If a number is given, switch to the window with number number.
             If a name is given, switch to the window in the current vscreen
             with name name.  Blank the current frame, if - is given.

     set [variable [value]]
             If no argument is given, output all sdorfehs variables and their
             values.

             If one argument is given, output the value of sdorfehs variable
             variable.  Otherwise set variable to value.  What values are
             valid depends on the variable.  See the section VARIABLES later
             in this document for details.

     setenv variable value
             Set the environment variable variable to value.  (Environment
             variables will be passed to all programs started from sdorfehs.)

     sfdump  Output all frames similar to fdump, but not limited to one
             screen, but all screens at once and with the screen number after
             each frame.

     sfrestore frames
             Replace the current frames with the ones specified in frames in
             the format as generated by sfdump.

     shrink  Shrink the current frame to the size of the current window with
             in.

     split [split] (C-a s)
             alias for vsplit

     source file
             Read file and execute each line as sdorfehs command.

     sselect screennumber
             Switch to the screen screennumber.  (If you have multiple
             physical ones.)

     smove [screen]
             Move the current window to the current frame and vscreen on
             screen screen and focus it.

     stick   Mark the current window as sticky in its current frame, making it
             unavailable to other frames when selecting an available window.

     swap dest-frame [src-frame] (C-a x)
             Exchange the window in src-frame (or the current frame if there
             is no second argument) with the window dest-frame (or ask
             interactively which frame to swap with if there is no argument).

     title newname (C-a A)
             Overwrite the title of the current window with newname.  All
             following sdorfehs commands will only know the window under the
             new name.

     unalias alias
             Remove the alias alias.

     unbind key
             alias for
                   undefinekey root key

     undefinekey keymap key
             Remove the binding for key from keymap.

     undo (C-a _, C-a u)
             Un-do the last change to the frameset.  (Like splitting,
             resizing, deleting, ...)

             The amount of steps that can be undone is specified by the
             variable maxundos.

     unmanage [name]
             Add name to the list of unmanaged windows.  Thus, windows of this
             name will not be managed but allowed to choose their position
             themselves.

             In non-interactive mode calling it without arguments will print
             the list.

             The list can be cleared again by calling clrunmanaged.

     unsetenv variable
             Remove variable variable from the list of environment variables.

     unstick
             No longer consider the current window as sticky in its current
             frame, making it again available to appear in other frames.

     verbexec cmdline
             Spawn a shell executing cmdline after showing a message with the
             command.

     version (C-a v)
             Output version and compile time information.

     vmove [vscreen]
             Move the current window to the current frame on vscreen vscreen
             and switch to it.  Specify by either name or number.

     vnext   Switch to next vscreen.

     vother  Switch to the last-accessed vscreen before the current one.

     vprev   Switch to previous vscreen.

     vrename
             Rename current vscreen.

     vscreens
             Output a list of all vscreens with their number.

     vselect vscreen
             Select the vscreen named vscreen.

     vsplit [l/p | pixels-from-top | -pixels-from-bottom] (C-a s)
             Split the current frame into upper frame and a lower frame.  If
             no parameter is given, split in halves.  If two numbers separated
             by a slash (“/”) are given, the upper one is l times the pth part
             and the lower one (p - l) times the pth part of the prior height.
             Otherwise the lower one is pixels from bottom wide or the upper
             one pixels from top high, depending whether there is a “-” in
             front of the number or not.

     windows [format] (C-a w)
             In interactive mode, show the list of all windows in the current
             vscreen for the duration specified by the variable msgwait.  If
             msgwait was zero, toggle between indefinitely showing and not
             showing.

             The messages are shown in columns or rows depending on the value
             of winliststyle in the format set by set winfmt.  The following
             substitutions happen in format:

               %a  application name (resource name)
               %c  resource class
               %f  frame number
               %g  gravity of the window
               %h  height of the window
               %H  unit to resize the window vertically (height_inc)
               %i  X Window ID
               %p  process ID
               %l  last access number
               %M  string Maxsize, if it specifies a maximum size
               %n  window number
               %s  window status (‘*’ is active window, ‘+’ would be chosen by
                   other, ‘-’ otherwise)
               %S  screen number
               %t  window name (see set winname),
               %T  the string “Transient”, if it is a transient window
               %w  width of the window
               %W  unit to resize the window horizontally (width_inc)
               %x  xrandr screen number
               %%  litteral ‘%’

             Additionally there can be a positive decimal integer number
             between the percent sign and the format string to specify the
             length this value should be truncated to if longer.  (For
             example: %20t)

             In non-interactive mode, output the list of windows in the
             current vscreen line by line.  The format string can be
             overwritten by the optional parameter format.

VARIABLES
     sdorfehs variables can be shown and set with set.  The following
     variables are supported:

     barborder pixels
             Selects how thick the frame around sdorfehs's bar, prompt, and
             message windows is.

             Default is 1.

     barbordercolor color
             The color of the bar, prompt, and message windows sdorfehs
             creates.

             Default is black.

     bargravity nw | w | sw | n | c | s | ne | e | se
             Select the location where message and prompt bars appear.

             Default is nw.

     barinpadding 0 | 1
             If there is padding, determines whether the bar appears at the
             edge of the screen (1) or at the edge of the window area (0).

             Default is 1.

     barpadding x y
             Set horizontal padding of sdorfehs windows to x and vertical
             padding to y.

             Default is 14 10.

     barsticky 0 | 1
             When set to 1, the bar remains on screen at all times and when
             messages or lists are not being shown, it displays the output of
             the current window information formatted with stickyfmt.

             Default is 1.

     bgcolor color
             The background color of the windows sdorfehs creates.

             Default is black.

     border pixels
             Selects how thick the frame around windows is.

             Default is 1.

     bwcolor color
             The border color of unfocused windows.

             Default is black.

     fgcolor color
             The foreground color of the windows sdorfehs creates.

             Default is #eeeee.

     font font
             Make sdorfehs use font font.

     framefmt format
             Choose the default format for the window label shown when
             selecting a different frame.

             Default is Frame %f (%Wx%H).

     framemsgwait seconds
             The duration the ‘Current frame’ indicator is shown.  If seconds
             is zero, wait until the next interactive command.  If seconds is
             -1, don't show any message.

     framesels selectors
             Override the frame selectors fselect uses.  The first character
             is the selector for the first frame, the second character is the
             selector for the second frame and so on.

             Using this variable, one can directly access more than 10 frames.

             Default is an empty string, which is equivalent to "0123456789".

     fwcolor color
             The border color of the focused window.

             Default is black.

     gap pixels
             Specify the number of pixels surrounding each frame, except for
             the outer edges which border the screen or its padding.

             Default is 20.

     historysize number
             Specify maximum number of values kept in input history.

             Default is 20.

     winaddcurvscreen 0 | 1
             When set to (1), new windows will always start in whatever the
             current vscreen, ignoring vscreen of the origin process.

             Default is 0.

     ignoreresizehints 0 | 1
             When set to (1), window resize hints will be ignored, forcing
             windows to be the exact sizes of their containing frame.

             Default is 0.

     inputwidth pixels
             Determine the width of the input window.

             Default is 200.

     maxsizegravity nw | w | sw | n | c | s | ne | e | se
             Set the default gravity new self-maximized windows will get.
             Possible values are the same as in the gravity command, which
             changes the gravity of an existing window: cardinal points or
             numbers 1 to 9.

             Default is c.

     maxundos number
             The maximal amount of step sdorfehs can undo with the undo
             command.

             Default is 20.

     msgwait seconds
             The duration the message window is shown.  If seconds is zero,
             wait infinitely.

             Default is 3.

     onlyborder 0 | 1
             Determine whether to show borders and gaps (1) or not (0) when
             there is only one frame on the screen.

             Default is 1.

     padding left top right bottom
             Set how much space at the borders of the screen will not be used.

             Default is 20 20 20 20.

     resizefmt format
             Choose the default format for the window label shown when
             interactively resizing a window.

             Default is Resize frame (%Wx%H) which shows the window width and
             height divided by any PResizeInc hints, which for terminals will
             show the number of columns and lines.

     resizeunit pixels
             Set the amount of pixels interactive resize will add/subtract in
             each step.

             Default is 5.

     rudeness number
             Show or set what kind of windows are allowed to jostle into the
             foreground.

             number is a bitwise OR of the following values:

               1   Transient windows may raise.
               2   Normal windows may raise.
               4   New transient windows end up in the foreground.
               8   New normal windows end up in the foreground.
               16  Window raise from different vscreen will be permitted.

             Default is all allowed except vscreen switch, i.e. 15.

     startupmessage 0 | 1
             Decide whether to show a greeting message at startup.

             The default is 1.

     stickyfmt format
             Choose the default format for current window information shown in
             the bar when the barsticky setting is enabled.

             Default is %t.

     topkmap kmap
             Make kmap the top keymap sdorfehs grabs directly.

             The default value is top.

     transgravity nw | w | sw | n | c | s | ne | e | se
             Set the default gravity new transient windows will get.  Possible
             values are the same as in the gravity command, which changes the
             gravity of an existing window: cardinal points or numbers 1 to 9.

             Default is c.

     vscreens number
             Set the number of virtual screens (vscreens).

             Default is 12.

     warp 0 | 1
             Decide if focusing a window moves the rat cursor to the place it
             had been last time this window was focused, or not.

             Default is 0 (off).

     wingravity nw | w | sw | n | c | s | ne | e | se
             Set the default gravity new normal windows will get.  Possible
             values are the same as in the gravity command, which changes the
             gravity of an existing window: cardinal points or numbers 1 to 9.

             Default is nw.

     waitcursor 0 | 1
             Determine whether to change the rat cursor when waiting for a key
             (1) or not (0) See readkey and describekey.

             Default is 1.

     winfmt format
             Choose the default format for the windows command.

             Default is %n%s%t.

     winliststyle row | column
             Determines whether windows are shown in rows or in columns.

             Default is column.

     winname title | name | class
             Choose what is considered the "name" of the window by sdorfehs:

             title   The title of the window.
             name    The resource name of the window.
             class   The resource class i.e. the name of the application.

             Default is title.

FILES
     ~/.config/sdorfehs/config
             Configuration file read at startup time, if present.

     ~/.config/sdorfehs/control
             Unix socket which accepts remote control commands sent by
             sdorfehs -c.

     ~/.config/sdorfehs/bar
             FIFO/named pipe which accepts input to show on the sticky bar
             when barsticky is enabled.

EXIT STATUS
     The sdorfehs utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

AUTHORS
     sdorfehs is maintained by joshua stein <jcs@jcs.org> and is derived from
     ratpoison which was originally written by Shawn Betts
     <sabetts@gmail.com>.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 22, 2019           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
