SDPCONTROL(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          SDPCONTROL(8)

NAME
     sdpcontrol – Bluetooth Service Discovery Protocol query utility

SYNOPSIS
     sdpcontrol -h
     sdpcontrol -a address command [parameters ...]
     sdpcontrol -l [-c path] command [parameters ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The sdpcontrol utility attempts to query the specified Service Discovery
     Protocol (SDP) server.  Remote SDP servers are identified by their
     address.  Connection to the local SDP server is made via the control
     socket.  The sdpcontrol utility uses Service Search Attribute Requests
     and prints results to standard output and error messages to standard
     error.

     The options are as follows:

     -a address
             Connect to the remote device with the specified address.  The
             address can be specified as BD_ADDR or a name.  If a name was
             specified, the sdpcontrol utility attempts to resolve the name
             via bt_gethostbyname(3).

     -c path
             Specify path to the control socket.  The default path is
             /var/run/sdp.

     -h      Display usage message and exit.

     -l      Query the local SDP server via the control socket.

     command
             One of the supported commands (see below).  The special command
             help can be used to obtain a list of all supported commands.  To
             get more information about a specific command, use help command.

     parameters
             One or more optional space separated command parameters.

COMMANDS
     The currently supported node commands in sdpcontrol are:

           Browse
           Search

EXIT STATUS
     The sdpcontrol utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     bluetooth(3), sdp(3)

AUTHORS
     Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>

CAVEATS
     The sdpcontrol utility only implements client side functionality.

     The sdpcontrol utility only requests the following attributes from the
     SDP server:

           1.   Service Record Handle
           2.   Service Class ID List
           3.   Protocol Descriptor List
           4.   Bluetooth Profile Descriptor List

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        February 7, 2015        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
