SDPD(8)                 FreeBSD System Manager's Manual                SDPD(8)

NAME
     sdpd – Bluetooth Service Discovery Protocol daemon

SYNOPSIS
     sdpd [-dh] [-c path] [-g group] [-u user]

DESCRIPTION
     The sdpd daemon keeps track of the Bluetooth services registered on the
     host and responds to Service Discovery inquiries from the remote
     Bluetooth devices.

     In order to use any service remote Bluetooth device need to send Service
     Search and Service Attribute or Service Search Attribute request over
     Bluetooth L2CAP connection on SDP PSM (0x0001).  The sdpd daemon will try
     to find matching Service Record in its Service Database and will send
     appropriate response back.  The remote device then will process the
     response, extract all required information and will make a separate
     connection in order to use the service.

     Bluetooth applications, running on the host, register services with the
     local sdpd daemon.  Operation like service registration, service removal
     and service change are performed over the control socket.  It is possible
     to query entire content of the sdpd Service Database with sdpcontrol(8)
     by issuing browse command on the control socket.

     The command line options are as follows:

     -d      Do not detach from the controlling terminal.

     -c path
             Specify path to the control socket.  The default path is
             /var/run/sdp.

     -g group
             Specifies the group the sdpd should run as after it initializes.
             The value specified may be either a group name or a numeric group
             ID.  This only works if sdpd was started as root.  The default
             group name is “nobody”.

     -h      Display usage message and exit.

     -u user
             Specifies the user the sdpd should run as after it initializes.
             The value specified may be either a user name or a numeric user
             ID.  This only works if sdpd was started as root.  The default
             user name is “nobody”.

CAVEAT
     The sdpd daemon will listen for incoming L2CAP connections on a wildcard
     BD_ADDR.

     In case of multiple Bluetooth devices connected to the same host it is
     possible to specify which services should be “bound” to which Bluetooth
     device.  Such assignment should be done at service registration time.

     Requests to register, remove or change service can only be made via the
     control socket.  The sdpd daemon will check peer's credentials and will
     only accept the request if the application has the same effective user ID
     as the “root” user ID.

     The sdpd daemon does not check for duplicated Service Records.  It only
     performs minimal checking on the service data sent in the Service
     Register request.  It is assumed that application must obtain all
     required resources such as RFCOMM channels etc., before registering the
     service.

FILES
     /var/run/sdp

SEE ALSO
     sdp(3), sdpcontrol(8)

AUTHORS
     Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>

BUGS
     Most likely.  Please report if found.

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        January 13, 2004        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
