serveez(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             serveez(1)

NAME
       GNU Serveez - A server framework.

SYNOPSIS
       serveez [options]

DESCRIPTION
       GNU Serveez is a server framework.  It provides routines and help for
       implementing IP-based servers (currently TCP, UDP and ICMP).  It
       supports named pipes for all connection-oriented protocols.

       We think it is worth the effort because many people need server
       functionality within their applications.  However, many people
       experience problems with select(2) or poll(2) loops, and with non-
       blocking operations.

       GNU Serveez demonstrates various aspects of advanced network
       programming in a portable manner.  It is known to compile and run on
       GNU/Linux systems, as well as on other 32-bit and 64-bit flavours of
       Unix and on Microsoft Windows (9x/ME/NT/2000/XP).

       You can use it for implementing your own servers or for understanding
       how certain network services and operations work.

       The package includes a number of servers that work already: an HTTP
       server, an IRC server, a Gnutella spider and some others.  One of the
       highlights is that you can run all protocols on the same port.  The
       application itself is single threaded but it uses helper processes for
       concurrent name resolution and ident lookups.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

       -V, --version
              display version information and exit

       -L, --list-servers
              display prefix and description of each builtin server and exit

       -i, --iflist
              list local network interfaces and exit

       -f, --cfg-file=FILENAME
              file to use as configuration file (serveez.cfg)

       -v, --verbose=LEVEL
              set level of verbosity

       -l, --log-file=FILENAME
              use FILENAME for logging (default is stderr)

       -P, --password=STRING
              set the password for control connections

       -m, --max-sockets=COUNT
              set the max. number of socket descriptors

       -d, --daemon
              start as daemon in background

       -c, --stdin
              use standard input as configuration file

       -s, --solitary
              don't start any coservers

REPORTING BUGS
       Please send bug reports to <bug-serveez@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2013, 2014, 2020, 2021 Thien-Thi Nguyen

       Copying and distribution of this manpage, with or without modification,
       are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved.  This manpage is offered as-is,
       without any warranty.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for serveez is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
       If the info(1) and serveez programs are properly installed at your
       site, the command

              info serveez

       should give you access to the complete manual.  Additionally, the GNU
       Serveez homepage:

              https://www.gnu.org/software/serveez/

       has news and links to the latest release, development site, etc.

GNU Serveez 0.3.1                 2021-12-11                        serveez(1)
