SETXKBMAP(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           SETXKBMAP(1)

NAME
     setxkbmap – set keymaps and layouts via the X Keyboard Extension

SYNOPSIS
     setxkbmap [options] [layout [variant [option ...]]]

DESCRIPTION
     The setxkbmap utility maps the keyboard to use the specified layout in an
     X(7) session.  For a table of available layouts and options, see
     xkeyboard-config(7).

     The options are as follows:

     -?, -help
             Print a message describing the valid input to setxkbmap.

     -compat name
             Specify the name of the compatibility map component used to
             construct a keyboard layout.

     -config file
             Specify the name of an XKB configuration file which describes the
             keyboard to be used.

     -device deviceid
             Specify the numeric device id of the input device to be updated
             with the new keyboard layout.  If not specified, the core
             keyboard device of the Xorg(1) server is updated.

     -display display
             Specify the display to be updated with the new keyboard layout.

     -geometry name
             Specify the name of the geometry component used to construct a
             keyboard layout.

     -I directory
             Add a directory to the list of directories to be used to search
             for the specified layout or rules files.

     -keycodes name
             Specify the name of the keycodes component used to construct a
             keyboard layout.

     -keymap name
             Specify the name of the keymap description used to construct a
             keyboard layout.

     -layout name
             Specify the name of the layout used to determine the components
             which make up the keyboard description.  The -layout option may
             only be used once.  Multiple layouts can be specified as a comma-
             separated list.

     -model name
             Specify the name of the keyboard model used to determine the
             components which make up the keyboard description.  Only one
             model may be specified on the command line.

     -option name
             Specify the name of an option to determine the components which
             make up the keyboard description; multiple options may be
             specified, one per -option flag.  Note that setxkbmap adds
             options specified in the command line to the options that were
             set before (as saved in root window properties).  If you want to
             replace all previously specified options, use the -option flag
             with an empty argument first.

     -print  Print component names in a format acceptable by the xkbcomp(1)
             keymap compiler and exit.  The option can be used for tests
             instead of a verbose option and in cases when one needs to run
             both the setxkbmap and xkbcomp(1) utilities in chain (see below).

     -query  Print the current rules, model, layout, variant, and options,
             then exit.

     -rules file
             Specify the name of the rules file used to resolve the requested
             layout and model to a set of component names.

     -symbols name
             Specify the name of the symbols component used to construct a
             keyboard layout.

     -synch  Force synchronization for X requests.

     -types name
             Specify the name of the types component used to construct a
             keyboard layout.

     -variant name
             Specify which variant of the keyboard layout should be used to
             determine the components which make up the keyboard description.
             The -variant option may only be used once.  Multiple variants can
             be specified as a comma-separated list and will be matched with
             the layouts specified with -layout.

     -v[erbose] [level]
             Specify level of verbosity in output messages.  Valid levels
             range from 0 (least verbose) to 10 (most verbose).  Default: 5.
             If no level is specified, each -v or -verbose flag raises the
             level by 1.

     -version
             Print the utility's version number and exit.

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     An XKB keymap is constructed from a number of components which are
     compiled only as needed by converting the arguments to the names of XKB
     configuration files in /usr/local/share/X11/xkb on the X(7) client.
     Those filenames are then passed to the Xorg(1) server, unless printed to
     stdout(4), with -print.

FILES
     /usr/local/share/X11/xkb  source for all XKB components

EXIT STATUS
     The setxkbmap utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     Rebind the Caps Lock key as an additional Left Control:

           setxkbmap -option ctrl:nocaps

     Set the layout to US, composing the keymap on the client for situations
     where XKB component files may differ between the Xserver(1) and client:

           setxkbmap us -print | xkbcomp - $DISPLAY

     Reset XKB options:

           setxkbmap -option

DIAGNOSTICS
     Cannot open display "default display"  The shell environment is not aware
     of a currently running X(7) session.  Start X(7) before using this
     utility, or set the DISPLAY environment variable.

     Running setxkbmap against an Xwayland server  This utility will not run
     in an Xwayland(1) session.  Use the Wayland Compositor's native XKB
     configuration method instead.

SEE ALSO
     xkbcomp(1), X(7), xkeyboard-config(7)

HISTORY
     setxkbmap first appeared in XFree86 3.2.

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4         March 29, 2025                    SETXKBMAP(1)
