SFF(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 SFF(1)

NAME
     sff – simple and fast terminal file manager

SYNOPSIS
     sff [-bcHmvh] [-d keys] [path]

DESCRIPTION
     sff (simple file finder) is a simple, fast, and feature-rich terminal
     file manager inspired by nnn and guided by the suckless philosophy. It
     consists of two parts: a core program and an extension script. The core
     program is designed as a pure file browser and selector with minimal
     built-in functionality. All file operations, such as copying, moving, and
     deleting, are implemented by the extension script. For more details, see
     the EXTENSION SCRIPT section.

     sff opens the current working directory if path is not specified.

OPTIONS
     The following options are available:

     -b      Force the program to run in browse mode. For more details, see
             the RUNNING MODE section.

     -c      Enable case sensitivity when sorting by filename.

     -d keys
             Specify the details to show by default. Valid keys include:

                 - t: time
                 - o: owner & group
                 - p: permissions
                 - s: size
                 - n: none

     -H      Show hidden files.

     -h      Display program help and exit.

     -m      Mix directories and files when sorting.

     -v      Print version information and exit.

KEY BINDINGS
     Press '?' or 'F1' in sff to see the list of key bindings for built-in
     functions.

     Press Alt+'/' in sff to see the list of key bindings for extension
     functions and plugins.

CONFIGURATION
     sff does not use a runtime configuration file. To customize sff, you need
     to edit config.h and recompile the program. config.h is a source code
     file which is included by sff.c (the main source code module). It is a C
     language header file, and serves as the configuration file for default
     settings, key bindings, and colors.

EXTENSION SCRIPT
     The extension functions are provided by a POSIX-compliant shell script
     named sff-extfunc, which is installed by default in /usr/libexec/sff/
      or /usr/local/libexec/sff/.

     You can easily customize key bindings for extension functions and
     plugins, modify existing functions, or add your own functions by editing
     this file. It is generally not recommended to directly modify the system-
     wide sff-extfunc. Instead, copy it to the user's config directory and
     make modifications there.

     The user's config directory is required for executing extension
     functions. This directory is either $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sff or
     ~/.config/sff, whichever is encountered first. If this directory does not
     exist, the program will attempt to create it when calling an extension
     function.

     During initialization, sff determines the location of sff-extfunc by
     checking the following directories in order, and uses the first
     occurrence found:

         1. The user's config directory
         2. The directory where the sff executable resides
         3. /usr/libexec/sff/ or /usr/local/libexec/sff/

TABS
     The tab status is displayed in the top-left corner of the screen. Five
     tab indicators are shown, with the current tab highlighted in reverse
     video. Tabs 1 through 4 are regular tabs and are indicated by '*' when
     inactive. When switching to an inactive tab, the new tab will be
     activated and use the current directory path as its starting path. The
     fifth tab is a special tab, indicated by '#', dedicated to handling
     search results.

SELECTION
     The names of the selected files are highlighted in reverse video. By
     default, the file under the cursor is automatically selected. When a file
     selection operation is performed by the user, the program enters manual
     selection mode, and the file under the cursor will no longer be
     automatically selected. Clearing all selections causes the program to
     exit manual selection mode and return to the default state.

     sff allows file selection across directories. Each tab maintains its own
     independent selection state. The second set of numbers in the bottom
     status bar (highlighted in reverse video) indicates the total number of
     selected files in the current tab.

     When an extension function is executed, if it sends a request, the
     absolute paths of the selected files are delivered to the extension
     function via a FIFO.

FILTERS
     Filters are strings used to dynamically list matching files in the
     current directory. When a filter is enabled, it appears above the bottom
     status bar, and the program enters input mode. In this mode, you can
     perform the following actions:

         - Enter a filter matching string (matching is case-insensitive).

         - Use the Up and Down Arrow keys to move the cursor.

         - Press Enter or Esc to exit input mode while keeping the filter
           active.

         - Press '/' to disable the filter.

     The filter only applies to the current directory. When navigating away
     from the current directory, the filter is automatically disabled.

QUICK FIND
     Quick Find is used to quickly locate a file within the current directory.
     When Quick Find is enabled, it appears above the bottom status bar, and
     the program enters input mode. In this mode, you can perform the
     following actions:

         - Enter a search string to match filenames.

         - Enter '/' as the first character to navigate to the root directory.

         - Press Tab or '/' to enter the directory under the cursor and clear
           the search string.

         - Press the Left Arrow key to go to the parent directory.

         - Use the Up and Down Arrow keys to move the cursor.

         - Press Enter or Esc to exit Quick Find.

     Matching is case-insensitive and prioritizes matches at the beginning of
     filenames. If no filename starts with the search string, it matches
     filenames containing the string. Upon a match, the cursor jumps to the
     first matching file.

ADVANCED SEARCH
     Advanced Search is an extension function based on the find command. It
     requires two inputs:

         1. Filename pattern: This is passed to the -name option of the find
            command. So remember to use wildcards when necessary. For example,
            to search for files containing 'lib' in their name, enter '*lib*'
            instead of just 'lib'. If you do not want to search by filename,
            enter '*' to match all files.

         2. Additional search options: Here, you can provide more options for
            the find command, such as '-size +4k' to search for files larger
            than 4KB. If no additional options are needed, leave this field
            blank and press Enter.

     After both inputs are provided, the executed command will be:

         find ./ input2 -name "input1"

     The search results are sent back to sff and listed in the fifth tab,
     where you can further process them.

UNDO AND REDO
     sff supports undoing or redoing the last file operation. Supported
     operations include:

         - Create new files
         - Copy-paste (when none of the pasted files already exist)
         - Cut-paste (when none of the pasted files already exist)
         - Rename
         - Duplicate

     Undo/redo actions apply across different tabs and even different sff
     instances. A file operation performed in one sff instance can be undone
     or redone in another instance.

RUNNING MODE
     Browse Mode:
     A green reversed 'B' is displayed in the bottom-left corner of the screen
     as an indicator.

     This can be considered a safe mode. In this mode, extension functions are
     disabled, and sff does not make any changes to the file system.

     The program is forced into browse mode and cannot exit this mode until
     termination under the following conditions:

         - When the -b option is used while running sff
         - During initialization, if certain non-fatal errors occur
           (e.g., the sff-extfunc file is missing).

     Sudo Mode:
     A red reversed 'S' is displayed in the bottom-left corner of the screen
     as an indicator.

     When sff is run as a regular user and switched to sudo mode, the
     following operations are executed with superuser privileges:

         - All extension functions
         - File editing

     However, all other operations are still performed by the current user.

     When sff is run as the superuser, the program will always run in sudo
     mode until termination or can be switched to browse mode. All operations
     are performed by the superuser.

PLUGINS
     Plugins are shell scripts used to extend functionality. They are invoked
     by the extension script, which also sets their keybindings. By default,
     plugins are installed in /usr/libexec/sff/plugins/ or
     /usr/local/libexec/sff/plugins/.

     Detailed information about a plugin should usually be provided as
     comments at the beginning of the script. To view this information, refer
     directly to the plugin file.

     If you wish to modify or add your own plugins, it is recommended to do so
     in the plugins directory within the user's config directory. For details
     on the user's config directory, see the EXTENSION SCRIPT section. When
     the extension script invokes a plugin, it searches for the plugin in the
     following locations in order and uses the first match found:

         1. The plugins directory in the user's config directory
         2. The plugins directory where the currently running extension
            script resides
         3. /usr/libexec/sff/plugins/ or /usr/local/libexec/sff/plugins/

ENVIRONMENT
     EDITOR: The default text editor used in the program. If not set, 'vi' is
     used.

     HOME: The home directory used by the program. If not set, '/' is used.

AUTHORS
     Shi Yanling <sylphenix@outlook.com>

HOMEPAGE
     https://codeberg.org/sylphenix/sff

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE               2025-5-22              FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
