SGMLFMT(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             SGMLFMT(1)

NAME
     instant - manipulates ESIS from parsed SGML instance

Synopsis
     instant [ -bhuvxHISW ]  [ -t file]  [ -o file]  [ -D variable=value ...]
     [ -i id]  [ -l directory]  [file]

DESCRIPTION
     The instant program manipulates an SGML document instance in a variety of
     ways, including translating into a form suitable for a formatting
     application and printing information about this instance.  Input to
     instant is the output of sgmls, whose format is called Element Structure
     Information Set (ESIS).

FLAGS
     The following are the possible command line options to instant. Output is
     sent to the standard output, except where otherwise noted.

     -t file
             Translate the SGML instance to another form, usually suitable for
             a formatting application.  The file is called a translation spec,
             which specifies how the tags are to be translated. See
             transpec(4).  By convention, names for file use the suffix .ts,
             for translation spec.

     -d      "Data hack" — strip newline at the beginning of data records

     -f length
             Set the threshold for the length, in characters, of an <Entry>,
             over which it is called a block of filled text, to length.

     -o file
             Write all output (except error and warning messages) to file
             file. By default, output goes to stdout.

     -h      Print a text representation of the hierarchy of the instance
             elements.  The deeper an element is in the tree, the more it is
             indented. The data content is not printed.

     -u      Print a summary of the usage of each element in the instance.
             Information given includes attributes, number of children, and
             depth in the hierarchy.

     -S      Print some statistics about element usage in the instance,
             including how often each element is used and how much PCDATA is
             contained.

     -x      Print the context of each element in the instance, from each
             element to the root of the document tree.

     -v      Validate the SGML instance based on the set of constraints or
             descriptions in the transpec file.  This flags tells instant to
             turn off normal output, leaving only diagnostics.

     -l directory
             Try to read the translation specs or other files from in the
             directory directory if not found in the current directory.  This
             is called the library directory.  The environment variable
             TPT_LIB may also be used to specify this.

     -b      Interactive browser mode. The user is prompted for actions, which
             include moving among and examining the various nodes in the
             hierarchy of the instance, displaying information about them,
             etc.

     -I      List the IDs of all elements in the instance that have an ID.
             The format is more suitable for other programs than humans.
             Lines show the ID, element GI, filename, and line, separated by
             colons.  (This depends on the -l option to sgmls which provide
             filenames and line numbers.)

     -i id   When translating the instance, begin processing at the element
             whose ID is id instead of the topmost element.

     -D variable=value
             Define the variable variable with value value.

     -W      Do not print warning messages.

     -H      Print a help message briefly describing the options.

     file    Read the instance from the file file.  This is expected to be the
             output of the program sgmls.  If not specified, instant reads the
             instance from its standard input.

     In some cases it makes no sense to combine options.  This is especially
     true if one of the options is to perform a translation. No checking is
     done for this.

INTERACTIVE BROWSER
     These are the commands to the interactive browser:

     cd args ...
             Change to a different element in the hierarchy.  cd id id will
             change to the element whose ID is id.  cd N will change to the
             Nth child element of the current element.  Several values of N
             may be specified, so the program will change to successively
             descending elements in the hierarchy.  The string .. may appear
             for N to move up a level in the hierarchy (like in a unix file
             system).  A / may be specified for N to change to the top of the
             hierarchy.

     cont    Print the context of each element.

     data N  Show the data content (PCDATA, RCDATA, and DATA) of child node N.

     find spec
             Find paths to elements matching spec, where spec may be one of:

             parent gi
                     Find all elements whose parent element is gi.

             child gi
                     Find all elements which have a child element gi.

             gi gi   Find all elements whose name is gi.

             attr name value
                     Find all elements that have a attribute name that have a
                     value value.

     id ID   Show location of element whose ID is ID.  If ID is ?, it will
             list all IDs with the paths to them.

     ls      List information about the current element in the hierarchy.
             This includes element name, line number in instance, context,
             attributes and their values, child elements, data directly within
             this element, and the order of the current element among its
             siblings.

     q relation element
             Report whether or not the current element has the relation
             relation to the named element element.  Values of relation are
             the same as for _followrel in transpec reference page.

     stat    Show statistics about the hierarchy.

     sum     Show a tag usage summary about the hierarchy.

     tran outfile
             Write translated output to file outfile.  If outfile is not
             specified, output is sent to stdout.

     tree    Print a textual representation of the hierarchy of the instance,
             where deeper elements are indented more.

     where   Show current position in the hierarchy.

     <control-D>
             Exits the program.

     The stat, sum, tree, cont commands take an optional first argument (of
     any value), which means to only consider the entire instance instead of
     the hierarchy from the current element.

FILES
     file.ts
             Translation specification file.

SEE ALSO
     transpec(5), sgmls(1), Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML), ISO
     8879.

FreeBSD 2.2                    September 5, 1996                   FreeBSD 2.2
