SHTK(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                SHTK(1)

NAME
     shtk – Interface to the Shell Toolkit

SYNOPSIS
     shtk build [-m main_function] [-o output_file] [-s shell] [input_file]
     shtk version

DESCRIPTION
     The Shell Toolkit, or shtk for short, is a collection of modules written
     in sh(1) that provide common functionality to simplify the implementation
     of complex shell scripts.

     The tool described in this page, also named shtk, is a program that
     accompanies the Shell Toolkit and provides functionality that may be
     necessary to use the toolkit.  For documentation on the API, please see
     shtk(3).

     The interface of shtk is that of a program with commands as shown in the
     synopsis section.  The following subsections describe the various
     commands supported by the tool.

   The build command
     The build command takes a script that uses shtk modules and generates an
     executable script with the necessary boilerplate code to be able to
     locate said modules.

     The input_file argument specifies the path to the file to process.  This
     file should end with an ‘.sh’ extension, in which case the build command
     will proceed to generate a binary of the same name without any extension.
     If the extension is not present, then the name of the output file must be
     provided by specifying the -o flag.  The input file can also be ‘-’, in
     which case the code is read from the standard input.

     The following options are supported:

     -m main_function
           Name of the function that implements the entry point of the
           program.  For programs using the shkt_unittest(3) module, this
           should be passed as -m shtk_unittest_main.

           All scripts that use shtk should implement a main function and
           should avoid placing any code at the top level of the file.  The
           main function is automatically executed by the generated script.
           If the value of main_function is empty, then no call to main is
           issued which may be necessary if the script already has a call to
           main for whatever reason.

           Default: ‘main’.

     -o output_file
           Path to the output file to generate.

           Default: if input_file ends in ‘.sh’, the output file has the same
           name as the input file but without the extension.  Otherwise this
           flag must be specified.

     -s shell
           Path to the shell interpreter to write in the shebang line of the
           file.

           Default: /bin/sh.

   The version command
     The version command prints the name of the package and its version to the
     standard output.  This command always exits successfully.

ENVIRONMENT
     SHTK_MODULESDIR
           Overrides the built-in location of the modules.

     SHTK_MODULESPATH
           Colon-separated list of directories in which to look for modules.
           SHTK_MODULESDIR is always implied at the end of the path.  The user
           can define this variable to point to other directories.  This is
           especially handy in packages that install custom modules and want
           to use such modules before installing them.

     SHTK_SHELL
           Overrides the built-in location of the default shell interpreter.

FILES
     /usr/local/share/shtk/
           Location of the shtk modules.

SEE ALSO
     shtk(3)

AUTHORS
     The shtk package was developed by Julio Merino ⟨jmmv@google.com⟩.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           November 8, 2014           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
