sid-filter(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          sid-filter(8)

NAME
       sid-filter - SPF and Sender-ID filter for sendmail

SYNOPSIS
       sid-filter -p socketspec [-a peerlist] [-A] [-B] [-c] [-C cmin] [-d
       domains] [-D] [-f] [-h] [-H name] [-l] [-L level] [-M text] [-n] [-P
       pidfile] [-q] [-Q] [-r rmode] [-R rmin] [-t] [-T secs] [-u userid] [-V]

DESCRIPTION
       sid-filter implements the SPF (Sender Policy Framework) and Microsoft,
       Inc.'s Sender-ID experimental proposals for validating the
       sending/relaying host of a piece of e-mail.

       Details regarding the protocol and other issues related to the
       proposals can be found in RFC4406 (Sender ID) and RFC4408 (SPF).

OPTIONS
       -a peerlist
              Identifies a file of "peers" which identifies clients whose
              connections should be accepted without processing by this
              filter.  The peerlist should contain on each line a hostname,
              domain name (e.g. ".example.com"), IP address, an IPv6 address
              (including an IPv4 mapped address), or a CIDR-style IP
              specification (e.g. "192.168.1.0/24").  An entry beginning with
              a bang ("!") character means "not", allowing exclusions of
              specific hosts that are otherwise members of larger sets.  The
              order of entries in this file is therefore significant.

       -A     Automatically re-start on failures.  Use with caution; if the
              filter fails instantly after it starts, this can cause a tight
              fork(2) loop.

       -B     Use "best-guess processing" when a domain has no published
              policy.  This means a "NXDOMAIN" code returned from the
              nameserver will cause a policy of "v=spf1 a/24 mx/24 ptr ?all"
              to be applied on behalf of the purported sender of the message.

       -c     Continue processing messages when the Purported Responsible
              Address (PRA), the main parameter to Sender ID evaluations,
              cannot be determined.  By default, such messages are rejected.

       -C cmin
              When doing Cloudmark Rating checks, require that the reported
              confidence of the returned rating be at least cmin to be
              meaningful.

       -d domain[,...]
              A comma-separated list of domains whose mail should be ignored
              by this filter.

       -D     Treat DNS errors as soft failures and allow delivery, rather
              than telling the filter to temp-fail the message and try again
              later.

       -f     Normally sid-filter forks and exits immediately, leaving the
              service running in the background.  This flag suppresses that
              behaviour so that it runs in the foreground.

       -h     Causes sid-filter to add a header indicating the presence of
              this filter in the path of the message from injection to
              delivery.  The product's name, version, and the job ID are
              included in the header's contents.

       -H name
              Use the specified name when adding identifying or results
              headers rather than the hostname being used by the MTA.

       -l     Log via calls to syslog(3) any interesting activity.

       -L level
              Request logging of libmarid activity to the syslog daemon at
              LOG_DEBUG level.  The level parameter refers to the log level
              inside libmarid, not the log level used by the daemon.

       -M message
              Sets the SMTP rejection message to be returned by the MTA when
              messages are rejected by the filter; the text may contain tokens
              for substitution as follows: %a (the e-mail address which was
              evaluated), %e (the error message returned from libmarid, if
              any), %i (the IP address of the connecting client), %t (which
              test was applied, i.e. the string "Sender-ID" or the string
              "SPF"), and %% (a literal percent-sign character).

       -n     Don't use "spf1" (SPF) records for PRA (Sender-ID) scope checks.

       -p socketspec
              Specifies the socket that should be established by the filter to
              receive connections from sendmail(8) in order to provide
              service.  socketspec is in one of two forms: local:path which
              creates a UNIX domain socket at the specified path, or
              inet:port[@host] which creates a TCP socket on the specified
              port.  If the host is not given as either a hostname or an IP
              address, the socket will be listening on all interfaces.  This
              option is mandatory.

       -P pidfile
              Writes the process ID of the filter, once started, to the
              filename given.

       -q     Quarantine rejected messages rather than actually rejecting
              them.

       -Q     Quiet logging; requests that no informational messages be
              logged, only warnings and errors.

       -r rmode
              Sets the rejection mode for the filter.  Valid values are: 0,
              which accepts all mail (but still adds a status header); 1,
              which rejects mail if both the Sender ID and SPF tests report
              "fail"; 2, which rejects mail if either the Sender ID or SPF
              test reports "fail"; 3, which rejects mail unless either the
              Sender ID or SPF test reports "pass"; 4, which rejects mail
              unless both the Sender ID and SPF tests report "pass"; or 5,
              which rejects mail for which a "fail" from either test unless a
              "pass" was reported by the other.  The default is 0.

       -R rmin
              Requests queries of the sender against the Cloudmark Rating
              engine, and reports those results in a header.  The message will
              be reported to "fail" this check unless the reported rating is
              at least rmin.  See also -C.

       -t     Test mode; never reject a message, even if the responsible
              sender could not be determined.  By default, such messages are
              temp-failed.

       -T secs
              Sets the DNS timeout in seconds.  A value of 0 causes the
              package to wait forever for DNS replies.  The default is 5.
              Note that this only applies if the asynchronous resolver is in
              use; if the native resolver is used, no timeout facility is
              available.  See also the NOTES section below.

       -u userid
              Attempts to be come the specified userid before starting
              operations.

       -V     Print the version number and exit without doing anything else.

OPERATION
       When a connection arrives, the headers are accepted and stored.  At the
       end of the headers, the "responsible sender" is determined based on
       headers as per the Sender-ID specification (or the envelope sender for
       the SPF evaluation).  The filter then attempts to extract an e-mail
       policy for the responsible sender domain.  When the policy has been
       evaluated, the result is relayed via the addition of an Authentication-
       Results: header field.

NOTES
       When setting timeouts (see the -T option above), be careful not to
       select a timeout value that exceeds the timeouts being used between
       sendmail and the filter.  Otherwise, the MTA could give up waiting for
       a reply from the filter before the filter times out waiting for a DNS
       result.

VERSION
       This man page covers version 1.0.0 of sid-filter.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2004-2006, 2008, Sendmail, Inc. and its suppliers.  All
       rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       sendmail(8)

       Sendmail Operations Guide

       RFC2821 - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

       RFC2822 - Internet Messages

       RFC4406 - Sender ID: Authenticating E-Mail

       RFC4407 - Purported Responsible Address in E-Mail Messages

       RFC4408 - Sender Policy Framework (SPF) for Authorizing Use of Domains
       in E-Mail, Version 1

                                Sendmail, Inc.                   sid-filter(8)
