SIIS(4)                FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                SIIS(4)

NAME
     siis – SiliconImage Serial ATA Host Controller driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device pci
           device scbus
           device siis

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           siis_load="YES"

     The following tunables are settable from the loader(8):

     hint.siis.X.msi
     controls Message Signaled Interrupts (MSI) usage by the specified
     controller.

     hint.siisch.X.pm_level
     controls SATA interface Power Management for the specified channel,
     allowing some power to be saved at the cost of additional command
     latency.  Possible values:

           0   interface Power Management is disabled (default);

           1   device is allowed to initiate PM state change, host is passive.

     Note that interface Power Management is not compatible with device
     presence detection.  A manual bus reset is needed on device hot-plug.

     hint.siisch.X.sata_rev
     setting to nonzero value limits maximum SATA revision (speed).  Values 1,
     2 and 3 are respectively 1.5, 3 and 6Gbps.

DESCRIPTION
     This driver provides the CAM(4) subsystem with native access to the SATA
     ports of controller.  Each SATA port is represented to CAM as a separate
     bus with 16 targets.  Most of the bus-management details are handled by
     the SATA-specific transport of CAM.  Connected ATA disks are handled by
     the ATA protocol disk peripheral driver ada(4).  ATAPI devices are
     handled by the SCSI protocol peripheral drivers cd(4), da(4), sa(4), etc.

     Driver features include support for Serial ATA and ATAPI devices, Port
     Multipliers (including FIS-based switching), hardware command queues (31
     command per port), Native Command Queuing, SATA interface Power
     Management, device hot-plug and Message Signaled Interrupts.

     The activity LEDs of the adapters supported by the siis driver can be
     controlled via the led(4) API for localization or status reporting
     purposes.

HARDWARE
     The siis driver supports the following controller chips:

     •   SiI3124 (PCI-X 133MHz/64bit, 4 ports)
     •   SiI3131 (PCIe 1.0 x1, 1 port)
     •   SiI3132 (PCIe 1.0 x1, 2 ports)
     •   SiI3531 (PCIe 1.0 x1, 1 port)

FILES
     /dev/led/siisch*  identification LED device nodes

SEE ALSO
     ada(4), ata(4), cam(4), cd(4), da(4), led(4), sa(4)

HISTORY
     The siis driver first appeared in FreeBSD 8.0.

AUTHORS
     Alexander Motin <mav@FreeBSD.org>

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         March 23, 2015         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
