SIREN(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               SIREN(1)

NAME
     siren – text-based audio player

SYNOPSIS
     siren [-lv] [-c directory]

DESCRIPTION
     siren is a text-based audio player.

     The options are as follows.

     -c directory
             Use directory as the configuration directory.  The default is
             ~/.siren.

     -l      Log error and informational messages to a file.  The file is
             created in the current directory and named siren-%d.log where %d
             is replaced with siren's process ID.

     -v      Print version information and exit.

USER INTERFACE
     siren's user interface consists of three areas.

     The bottom line is the status line.  It is used to display error and
     informational messages and to enter commands and search queries.

     The two lines above the status line show playback-related information,
     such as the currently playing track and the volume level.

     The remainder of the screen is used to display a view.  Only one view can
     be displayed at a time, but each view can be selected with the
     select-view command (see COMMANDS below) or the default key bindings.

     The available views are as follows.

     Library view
             The library view shows all tracks in the library.  The add-path
             command may be used to add tracks.  The library view can be
             displayed by pressing the 1 key.

     Playlist view
             The playlist view shows the playlist loaded with the
             load-playlist command.  It can be displayed by pressing the 2
             key.

     Browser view
             The browser view shows the contents of a directory.  By default
             only directories and supported audio files are shown.  The
             browser view can be used to browse through the file system and
             play back audio files or add them to the library or queue.  The
             browser view can be displayed by pressing the 3 key.

     Queue view
             The queue view shows all tracks that have been added to the
             queue.  Tracks in the queue will be played back before those in
             other views.  A track will be removed from the queue as soon as
             it is being played back.  The queue view can be displayed by
             pressing the 4 key.

     The playback source is the view that provides the tracks for playback.
     The library, playlist and browser views each can act as a playback
     source.  A view implicitly becomes the playback source whenever a track
     from that view is selected for playback.

KEY BINDINGS
     siren supports configurable key bindings.  Each key binding has a scope:
     it is either specific to one view or common to all views.  Key bindings
     are changed with the bind-key and unbind-key commands or shown with the
     show-binding command.

     The default key bindings are as follows.

     Common key bindings
             q              Quit siren.
             x              Play.
             c              Pause.
             v              Stop.
             z              Play the previous track.
             b              Play the next track.
             left           Skip backward 5 seconds.
             ,              Skip backward 1 minute.
             <              Skip backward 5 minutes.
             right          Skip forward 5 seconds.
             .              Skip forward 1 minute.
             >              Skip forward 5 minutes.
             -              Decrease the sound volume by 5%.
             _              Decrease the sound volume by 10%.
             =              Increase the sound volume by 5%.
             +              Increase the sound volume by 10%.
             C              Toggle playback continuation.
             R              Toggle the repeated playback of all tracks.
             r              Toggle the repeated playback of the current track.
             1              Select the library view.
             2              Select the playlist view.
             3              Select the browser view.
             4              Select the queue view.
             enter          Activate the selected entry.
             i              Select the active entry.
             k, up          Select the previous entry.
             j, down        Select the next entry.
             g, home        Select the first entry.
             G, end         Select the last entry.
             ^B, page-up    Scroll up one page.
             ^U             Scroll up half a page.
             ^Y             Scroll up one line.
             ^F, page-down  Scroll down one page.
             ^D             Scroll down half a page.
             ^E             Scroll down one line.
             ^L             Refresh the screen.
             :              Enter the command prompt.
             /              Enter the search prompt to search forward.
             ?              Enter the search prompt to search backward.
             N, p           Search for the previous occurrence.
             n              Search for the next occurrence.
             X              Play the active track in the current view, even if
                            that view is not the playback source.
             s              Make the current view the playback source.

     Library view key bindings
             a              Add the selected entry to the queue.
             d, delete      Delete the selected entry.
             l              Delete all entries.

     Playlist view key bindings
             a              Add the selected entry to the queue.

     Browser view key bindings
             a              Add the selected entry to the queue.
             h              Toggle the display of hidden files.
             ^R             Refresh the current directory.
             backspace      Enter the parent directory.

     Queue view key bindings
             J              Move the selected entry downward.
             K              Move the selected entry upward.
             d, delete      Delete the selected entry.
             l              Delete all entries.

     Prompt key bindings
             The key bindings for the prompt currently cannot be changed.

             enter          Process the line and exit the prompt.
             ^G, escape     Cancel and exit the prompt.
             ^B, left       Move the cursor to the previous character.
             ^F, right      Move the cursor to the next character.
             ^A, home       Move the cursor to the beginning of the line.
             ^E, end        Move the cursor to the end of the line.
             ^H, backspace  Delete the character before the cursor.
             ^D, delete     Delete the character the cursor is at.
             ^W             Delete the word before the cursor.
             ^K             Delete all characters from the cursor to the end
                            of the line.
             ^U             Delete the entire line.
             down           Replace the line with the previous history entry.
             up             Replace the line with the next history entry.

COMMANDS
     siren is controlled by issuing commands.  Commands can be entered at the
     command prompt, bound to a key or added to the configuration file.

     Commands are parsed in a way similar to most shells.  A command line is
     delimited by a newline character or a ‘#’ character.  A ‘#’ character
     introduces a comment and extends to the end of the line.

     A command line is broken into separate words.  A word is a sequence of
     characters and is delimited by one or more space or tab characters.  On
     each word, tilde expansion and glob(7) pattern expansion is performed.

     The ‘#’, ‘~’, ‘*’, ‘?’, ‘[’, ‘\’, ‘'’ and ‘"’ characters and the space
     and tab characters are special characters.  A special character can be
     escaped by prepending it with a ‘\’ character or by enclosing it by
     matching ‘'’ or ‘"’ characters.

     The following commands are available.

     activate-entry
             Activate the selected entry in the current view.  In the library
             and playlist views, an activated entry is played back.  In the
             browser view, if the activated entry is a directory, it is
             entered.  Otherwise, if it is a file, it is played back.  In the
             queue view, an activated entry is played back and removed from
             the queue.

     add-entry [-l | -q]
             Add the selected entry to the library or the queue.  The options
             are as follows.

             -l      Add the selected entry to the library.  This is the
                     default.
             -q      Add the selected entry to the queue.

     add-path [-l | -q] path ...
             Add an audio file or a directory to the library or the queue.
             The options are as follows.

             -l      Add path to the library.
             -q      Add path to the queue.

             The default is to add path to the current view.  If path is a
             directory, then all audio files in it are added.

     bind-key scope key command
             Bind a key to a command.

             The scope argument specifies the scope of the key binding.  It
             should be one of browser, library, playlist, queue or common.

             A key binding is first looked up in the scope of the current
             view.  If no key binding is found in that scope, then it is
             looked up in the common scope.

             The key argument specifies the key to bind.  The following three
             types of keys can be bound.

             -   The printable ASCII characters: these are the ASCII character
                 codes between 32 and 126 decimal.  They are represented by
                 themselves.

             -   The ASCII control characters: these are the ASCII character
                 codes between 0 and 31 decimal.  They are specified in case-
                 insensitive caret notation.  For example, ^A and ^a both
                 denote the second control character.

             -   The following case-insensitive key-names are recognised:
                 backspace, backtab, delete, down, end, enter, escape, home,
                 insert, left, page-down, page-up, right, space, tab, up and
                 f1 to f20.

             The command argument can be any command listed in this section.

     cd [directory]
             Change the current working directory to directory and open it in
             the browser view.  If directory is not specified, the user's home
             directory is used instead.

     close-output-plugin
             Close the output plug-in.  This may be useful if siren blocks
             audio access for other programs.

     command-prompt
             Enter the command prompt.  The command prompt can be used to
             enter and execute commands.

     delete-entry [-a]
             Delete the selected entry in the current view.  This command is
             supported in the library and queue views only.  The options are
             as follows.

             -a      Delete all entries in the current view.

     load-playlist file
             Load the playlist file into the playlist view.  Each line of file
             should contain the path to a track.  Empty lines and lines
             starting with the ‘#’ character are ignored.

     move-entry-down
             Move the selected entry after its succeeding entry.  This command
             is supported in the queue view only.

     move-entry-up
             Move the entry before its preceding entry.  This command is
             supported in the queue view only.

     pause   Pause or resume playback.

     play    Start, restart or resume playback.

     play-active
             Play the active track in the current view, even if that view is
             not the playback source.

     play-next
             Play the next track in the playback source.

     play-prev
             Play the previous track in the playback source.

     pwd     Print the current working directory.

     quit    Quit siren.

     refresh-screen
             Refresh the screen.

     reopen-output-plugin
             Reopen the output plug-in.

     reread-directory
             Reread the current directory in the browser view.

     save-library
             Save the library to disk.  The library is automatically saved
             when siren quits.

     save-metadata
             Save the metadata cache to disk.  The metadata cache is
             automatically saved when siren quits.

     scroll-down [-h | -l | -p]
             Scroll down in the current view.  The options are as follows.

             -h      Scroll half a page.
             -l      Scroll one line.  This is the default.
             -p      Scroll one page.

     scroll-up [-h | -l | -p]
             Scroll up in the current view.  The options are analogous to
             those of the scroll-down command.

     search-next
             Search for the next occurrence of the text earlier specified with
             the search-prompt command.

     search-prev
             Search for the previous occurrence of the text earlier specified
             with the search-prompt command.

     search-prompt [-b]
             Enter the search prompt.  The search prompt can be used to search
             in the current view.  The options are as follows.

             -b      Search backward.  The default is to search forward.

     seek [-b | -f] [[hours:]minutes:]seconds
             Seek to the specified position in the currently playing track.
             The options are as follows.

             -b      Seek backward by subtracting the specified position from
                     the current position.
             -f      Seek forward by adding the specified position to the
                     current position.

     select-active-entry
             Select the active entry in the current view.

     select-first-entry
             Select the first entry in the current view.

     select-last-entry
             Select the last entry in the current view.

     select-next-entry
             Select the next entry in the current view.

     select-prev-entry
             Select the previous entry in the current view.

     select-view name
             Select a view.  The name argument must be one of browser,
             library, playlist or queue.

     set option [value]
             Set option to value.  If option is a Boolean value and value is
             not specified, it is toggled.  See OPTIONS below for a list of
             available options.

     set-playback-source [source]
             Set the playback source.  The source argument must be one of
             browser, library or playlist.  If source is not specified, the
             current view is used, if possible.

     set-volume [-d | -i] level
             Set the volume level.  The level argument should be an integer
             value between 0 and 100.  The options are as follows.

             -d      Decrease the volume level by level.
             -i      Increase the volume level by level.

             Not all output plug-ins have volume support.

             When using the oss output plug-in on FreeBSD, the volume level
             may be reset every time a track is played back.  To preserve the
             volume level, set the hw.snd.vpc_autoreset sysctl(8) variable to
             0.  See sound(4) for more information.

     show-binding scope key
             Show the command bound to key.  The scope and key arguments are
             analogous to those of the bind-key command.

     show-option option
             Show the value of option.

     source file
             Execute the commands in file.

     stop    Stop playback.

     unbind-key scope key
             Unbind key.  The scope and key arguments are analogous to those
             of the bind-key command.

     update-metadata [-d]
             Update the metadata cache.  The options are as follows.

             -d      Delete the metadata of tracks that cannot be found on the
                     file system.

OPTIONS
     The appearance and behaviour of siren may be modified by changing the
     value of various options.  Options are changed with the set command or
     shown with the show-option command.

     There are six types of options.  They are as follows.

     Attribute options
             Attribute options control the character attributes of a user-
             interface element.  Valid values are blink, bold, dim, normal,
             reverse, standout and underline.  Two or more attributes can be
             specified by separating them by a comma.

     Colour options
             Colour options control the foreground and background colour of a
             user-interface element.  Valid values are black, blue, cyan,
             green, magenta, red, white, yellow, default and colour0 to
             colourN where N + 1 is the number of colours supported by the
             terminal.

             If supported by the terminal, the colour default corresponds to
             the terminal's original background or foreground colour.
             Otherwise, default is equivalent to black when used as a
             background colour and to white when used as a foreground colour.

     Boolean options
             Valid values of Boolean options are true and false.  As a
             convenience, the values on, off, yes, no, 1 and 0 are accepted as
             well.

     Number options
             Valid values of number options are non-negative integers.  The
             maximum value is option-specific.

     String options
             Valid values of string options are option-specific.

     Format-string options
             Format-string options control the formatting of information
             displayed on the screen.  The syntax is reminiscent of that of
             the printf(3) family of functions.

             A format string consists of ordinary characters, which are
             displayed unchanged, and format fields, which specify how a
             variable is to be displayed.  A format field is introduced by the
             ‘%’ character.  Then, the following appears in sequence.

             -   An optional ‘-’ character to specify that the variable is to
                 be left-aligned within the field.  The default is to right-
                 align.

             -   An optional ‘0’ character to specify that the variable is to
                 be padded with leading zeroes.  The default is to pad with
                 space characters.  This flag is ignored if the variable is to
                 be left-aligned.

             -   An optional sequence of numeric characters to specify the
                 field width.  If the ‘*’ character is specified, the width is
                 variable and will be so long as possible.  If there are two
                 or more fields with a variable width, the available space
                 will be divided equally between them.

             -   The name of the variable to display, enclosed by braces (i.e.
                 the ‘{’ and ‘}’ characters).  Some variables also have a one-
                 character alias.  If this alias is specified, the braces may
                 be omitted.  Which variables are available is dependent on
                 the option.

                 Conditional fields are also supported.  A conditional field
                 is enclosed in braces and begins with a ‘?’ character,
                 followed by the name of the variable and two comma-separated
                 fields.  If the variable is a non-zero number or a non-empty
                 string, the first value is displayed; otherwise, the second
                 value.  For example, ‘%{?artist,yes,no}’ displays ‘yes’ if
                 artist is a non-empty string and ‘no’ otherwise.

             A literal ‘%’ character is displayed by specifying ‘%%’ in the
             format string.

     The following options are available.

     active-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the activated menu entry.  The default
             is normal.

     active-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the activated menu entry.  The default is
             default.

     active-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for the activated menu entry.  The default is
             yellow.

     continue (Boolean)
             Whether to play the next track if the current track has finished.
             The default is true.

     continue-after-error (Boolean)
             Whether to play the next track if playback of the current track
             was stopped due to an error.  The default is false.

     error-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for error messages.  The default is normal.

     error-bg (colour)
             Background colour for error messages.  The default is default.

     error-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for error messages.  The default is red.

     info-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for informational messages.  The default is
             normal.

     info-bg (colour)
             Background colour for informational messages.  The default is
             default.

     info-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for informational messages.  The default is
             cyan.

     library-format (format string)
             The format used to display tracks in the library.  The following
             variables are available.

             Name           Alias    Description
             album          l        Album
             albumartist    A        Album artist
             artist         a        Artist
             comment        c        Comment
             date           y        Date or year
             discnumber     s        Disc number
             disctotal      S        Total number of discs
             duration       d        Duration (as ‘m:ss’ or ‘h:mm:ss’)
             filename       F        Filename
             genre          g        Genre
             path           f        File path
             title          t        Title
             tracknumber    n        Track number
             tracktotal     N        Total number of tracks

             The default is ‘%-*a %-*l %4y %2n. %-*t %5d’.

     library-format-alt (format string)
             The alternative format used to display tracks in the library that
             have a missing or empty title metadata field.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  If this
             option is empty, the library-format option is used.  The default
             is ‘%-*F %5d’.

     output-plugin (string)
             The name of the output plug-in to use.  If the special name
             default is specified, the output plug-in with the highest
             priority will be used.

             The following output plug-ins may be available, depending on the
             compile-time options used.  They are listed in descending order
             of priority.

             sndio      OpenBSD sndio(7) output plug-in
             pulse      PulseAudio output plug-in
             sun        Sun output plug-in
             alsa       ALSA output plug-in
             oss        OSS output plug-in
             ao         libao output plug-in
             portaudio  PortAudio output plug-in

             The default is ‘default’.

     player-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the player area.  The default is
             reverse.

     player-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the player area.  The default is default.

     player-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour of the player area.  The default is default.

     player-status-format (format string)
             The format used to display the player status.  The following
             variables are available.

             Name            Alias    Description
             continue        c        Expands to ‘continue’ or the empty
                                      string, depending on the value of the
                                      continue option
             duration        d        Duration of the currently playing track
                                      (as ‘m:ss’ or ‘h:mm:ss’)
             position        p        Position in the currently playing track
                                      (as ‘m:ss’ or ‘h:mm:ss’)
             repeat-all      r        Expands to ‘repeat-all’ or the empty
                                      string, depending on the value of the
                                      repeat-all option
             repeat-track    t        Expands to ‘repeat-track’ or the empty
                                      string, depending on the value of the
                                      repeat-track option
             source          u        Playback source
             state           s        Expands to ‘Playing’, ‘Paused’ or
                                      ‘Stopped’, depending on the playback
                                      state
             volume          v        Sound volume

             The default is:

                   %-7s  %5p / %5d  %3v%%  %u%{?c,  continue,}%{?r,  repeat-all,}%{?t,  repeat-track,}

     player-track-format (format string)
             The format used to display the currently playing track.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  The
             default is ‘%a - %l (%y) - %n. %t’.

     player-track-format-alt (format string)
             The alternative format used to display the currently playing
             track if it has a missing or empty title metadata field.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  If this
             option is empty, the player-track-format option is used.  The
             default is ‘%F’.

     playlist-format (format string)
             The format used to display tracks in the playlist view.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  The
             default is ‘%-*a %-*t %5d’.

     playlist-format-alt (format string)
             The alternative format used to display tracks in the playlist
             that have a missing or empty title metadata field.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  If this
             option is empty, the playlist-format option is used.  The default
             is ‘%-*F %5d’.

     prompt-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the prompt.  The default is normal.

     prompt-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the prompt.  The default is default.

     prompt-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for the prompt.  The default is default.

     queue-format (format string)
             The format used to display tracks in the queue.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  The
             default is ‘%-*a %-*t %5d’.

     queue-format-alt (format string)
             The alternative format used to display tracks in the queue that
             have a missing or empty title metadata field.  See the
             library-format option for a list of available variables.  If this
             option is empty, the queue-format option is used.  The default is
             ‘%-*F %5d’.

     repeat-all (Boolean)
             Whether to repeat playback of all tracks in the playback source.
             The default is true.

     repeat-track (Boolean)
             Whether to repeat playback of the current track.  This option
             takes precedence over the repeat-all option.  The default is
             false.

     selection-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the selection indicator.  The default is
             reverse.

     selection-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the selection indicator.  The default is
             white.

     selection-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for the selection indicator.  The default is
             blue.

     show-all-files (Boolean)
             Whether to show all files in the browser view.  If set to false,
             only directories and supported audio files are shown.  The
             default is false.

     show-cursor (Boolean)
             Whether always to show the cursor.  The default is false.

     show-hidden-files (Boolean)
             Whether to show hidden files and directories in the browser view.
             The default is false.

     status-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the status line.  The default is normal.

     status-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the status line.  The default is default.

     status-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for the status line.  The default is default.

     view-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the view.  The default is normal.

     view-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the view.  The default is default.

     view-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for the view.  The default is default.

     view-title-attr (attribute)
             Character attributes for the view title.  The default is reverse.

     view-title-bg (colour)
             Background colour for the view title.  The default is default.

     view-title-fg (colour)
             Foreground colour for the view title.  The default is default.

     The following options are specific to the alsa output plug-in.

     alsa-mixer-device (string)
             The name of the mixer device to use.  The default is ‘default’.

     alsa-mixer-element (string)
             The name of the mixer element to use.  The default is ‘PCM’.

     alsa-pcm-device (string)
             The name of the PCM device to use.  The default is ‘default’.

     The following options are specific to the ao output plug-in.

     ao-buffer-size (number)
             The size of the output buffer, specified in bytes.  The default
             is 4096.

     ao-driver (string)
             The name of the driver to use.  If empty, the default driver will
             be used.  See libao.conf(5) and
             https://www.xiph.org/ao/doc/drivers.html for possible values.
             The default is empty.

     The following options are specific to the oss output plug-in.

     oss-device (string)
             The path of the audio device to use.  The default is ‘/dev/dsp’.

     The following options are specific to the portaudio output plug-in.

     portaudio-buffer-size (number)
             The size of the output buffer, specified in bytes.  The default
             is 4096.

     The following options are specific to the pulse output plug-in.

     pulse-buffer-size (number)
             The size of the output buffer, specified in bytes.  The default
             is 4096.

     The following options are specific to the sndio output plug-in.

     sndio-device (string)
             The name of the device to use.  See sndio(7) for possible values.
             The default is ‘default’.

     The following options are specific to the sun output plug-in.

     sun-device (string)
             The path of the audio device to use.  The default is
             ‘/dev/audio’.

CONFIGURATION FILE
     Upon start-up siren reads the configuration file ~/.siren/config, if it
     exists.  This file should contain a set of siren commands (see COMMANDS)
     which are executed in sequence.

FILES
     ~/.siren/config    Configuration file.
     ~/.siren/library   Library file.
     ~/.siren/metadata  Metadata cache file.

SEE ALSO
     pulseaudio(1), sound(4), libao.conf(5), sndio(7)

     https://www.kariliq.nl/siren/

AUTHORS
     Tim van der Molen <tim@kariliq.nl>

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE              May 2, 2019             FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
