sitecopy(1)                      User Manuals                      sitecopy(1)



NAME
       sitecopy - maintain remote copies of web sites

SYNOPSIS
       sitecopy [options] [operation mode] sitename ...

DESCRIPTION
       sitecopy is for copying locally stored web sites to remote web servers.
       A single command will upload files to the server which have changed
       locally, and delete files from the server which have been removed
       locally, to keep the remote site synchronized with the local site.  The
       aim is to remove the hassle of uploading and deleting individual files
       using an FTP client.  sitecopy will also optionally try to spot files
       you move locally, and move them remotely.

       FTP, WebDAV and other HTTP-based authoring servers (for instance,
       AOLserver and Netscape Enterprise) are supported.


GETTING STARTED
       This section covers how to start maintaining a web site using sitecopy.
       After introducing the basics, two situations are covered: first, where
       you have already upload the site to the remote server; second, where
       you haven't.  Lastly, normal site maintenance activities are explained.


   Introducing the Basics
       If you have not already done so, you need to create an rcfile, which
       will store information about the sites you wish to administer. You also
       need to create a storage directory, which sitecopy uses to record the
       state of the files on each of the remote sites. The rcfile and storage
       directory must both be accessible only by you - sitecopy will not run
       otherwise.  To create the storage directory with the correct
       permissions, use the command
            mkdir -m 700 .sitecopy
       from your home directory. To create the rcfile, use the commands
            touch .sitecopyrc
            chmod 600 .sitecopyrc
       from your home directory. Once this is done, edit the rcfile to enter
       your site details as shown in the CONFIGURATION section.


   Existing Remote Site
       If you have already uploaded the site to the remote server, ensure your
       local files are synchronized with the remote files. Then, run
            sitecopy --catchup sitename
       where sitename is the name of the site you used after the site keyword
       in the rcfile.

       If you do not have a local copy of the remote site, then you can use
       fetch mode to discover what is on the remote site, and synchronize mode
       to download it. Fetch mode works well for WebDAV servers, and might
       work if you're lucky for FTP servers. Run
            sitecopy --fetch sitename
       to fetch the site - if this succeeds, then run
            sitecopy --synch sitename
       to download a local copy.  Do NOT do this if you already have a local
       copy of your site.


   New Remote Site
       Ensure that the root directory of the site has been created on the
       server by the server administrator. Run
            sitecopy --init sitename
       where sitename is the name of the site you used after the site keyword
       in the rcfile.


   Site Maintenance
       After setting up the site as given in one of the two above sections,
       you can now start editing your local files as normal. When you have
       finished a set of changes, and you want to update the remote copy of
       the site, run:
            sitecopy --update sitename
       and all the changed files will be uploaded to the server. Any files you
       delete locally will be deleted remotely too, unless the nodelete option
       is specified in the rcfile. If you move any files between directories,
       the remote files will be deleted from the server then uploaded again
       unless you specify the checkmoved option in the rcfile.

       At any time, if you wish to see what changes you have made to the local
       site since the last update, you can run
            sitecopy sitename
       which will display the list of differences.


   Synchronization Problems
       In some circumstances, the actual files which make up the remote site
       will be different from what sitecopy thinks is on the remote site. This
       can happen, for instance, if the connection to the server is broken
       during an update. When this situation arises, Fetch Mode should be used
       to fetch the list of files making up the site from the remote server.


INVOCATION
       In normal operation, specify a single operation mode, followed by any
       options you choose, then one or more site names. For instance,
            sitecopy --update --quiet mainsite anothersite
       will quietly update the sites named 'mainsite' and 'anothersite'.


OPERATION MODES
       -l, --list
              List Mode - produces a listing of all the differences between
              the local files and the remote copy for the specified sites.

       -ll, --flatlist
              Flat list Mode - like list mode, except the output produced is
              suitable for parsing by an external script or program. An AWK
              script, changes.awk.  is provided which produces an HTML page
              from this mode.

       -u, --update
              Update Mode - updates the remote copy of the specified sites.

       -f, --fetch
              Fetch Mode - fetches the list of files from the remote server.
              Note that this mode has only limited support in FTP - the server
              must accept the MDTM command, and use a Unix-style 'ls' for LIST
              implementation.

       -s, --synchronize
              Synchronize Mode - updates the local site from the remote copy.
              WARNING: This mode overwrites local files. Use with care.

       -i, --initialize
              Initialization Mode - initializes the sites specified - making
              sitecopy think there are NO files on the remote server.

       -c, --catchup
              Catchup Mode - makes sitecopy think the local site is exactly
              the same as the remote copy.

       -v, --view
              View Mode - displays all the site definitions from the rcfile.

       -h, --help
              Display help information.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

OPTIONS
       -y, --prompting
              Applicable in Update Mode only, will prompt the user for
              confirmation for each update (i.e., creating a directory,
              uploading a file etc.).

       -r RCFILE, --rcfile=RCFILE
              Specify an alternate run control file location.

       -p PATH, --storepath=PATH
              Specify an alternate location to use for the remote site storage
              directory.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet output - display the filename only for each update
              performed.

       -qq, --silent
              Very quiet output - display nothing for each update performed.

       -o, --show-progress
              Applicable in Update Mode only, displays the progress
              (percentage complete) of data transfer.

       -k, --keep-going
              Keep going past errors in Update Mode or Synch Mode


       -a, --allsites
              Perform the given operation on all sites - applicable for all
              modes except View Mode, for which it has no effect.

       -d MASK, --debug=KEY[,KEY...]
              Turns on debugging.  A list of comma-separated keywords should
              be given. Each keyword may be one of:
                socket    Socket handling
                files     File handling
                rcfile    rcfile parser
                http      HTTP driver
                httpbody  Display response bodies in HTTP
                ftp       FTP driver
                xml       XML parsing information
                xmlparse  Low-level XML parsing information
                httpauth  HTTP authentication information
                cleartext Display passwords in plain text

              Passwords will be obscured in the debug output unless the
              cleartext keyword is used. An example use of debugging is to
              debug FTP fetch mode:

                   sitecopy --debug=ftp,socket --fetch sitename


CONCEPTS
       The stored state of a site is the snapshot of the state of the site
       saved into the storage directory (~/.sitecopy/). The storage file is
       used to record this state between invocations. In update mode, sitecopy
       builds up a files list for each site by scanning the local directory,
       reading in the stored state, and comparing the two - determining which
       files have changed, which have moved, and so on.


CONFIGURATION
       Configuration is performed via the run control file (rcfile).  This
       file contains a set of site definitions.  A unique name is assigned to
       every site definition, which is used on the command line to refer to
       the site.

       Each site definition contains the details of the server the site is
       stored on, how the site may be accessed at that server, where the site
       is held locally and remotely, and any other options for the site.


   Site Definition
       A site definition is made up of a series of lines:

       site sitename
          server server-name
          remote remote-root-directory
          local local-root-directory
        [ port port-number ]
        [ username username ]
        [ password password ]
        [ proxy-server proxy-name
          proxy-port port-number ]
        [ url siteURL ]
        [ protocol { ftp | webdav } ]
        [ ftp nopasv ]
        [ ftp showquit ]
        [ ftp { usecwd | nousecwd } ]
        [ http expect ]
        [ http secure ]
        [ safe ]
        [ state { checksum | timesize } ]
        [ permissions { ignore | exec | all | dir } ]
        [ symlinks { ignore | follow | maintain } ]
        [ nodelete ]
        [ nooverwrite ]
        [ checkmoved [renames] ]
        [ tempupload ]
        [ exclude pattern ]...
        [ ignore pattern ]...
        [ ascii pattern ]...

       Anything after a hash (#) in a line is ignored as a comment.  Values
       may be quoted and characters may be backslash-escaped.  For example, to
       use the exclude pattern *#, use the following line:
            exclude "*#"


   Remote Server Options
       The server key is used to specify the remote server the site is stored
       on.  This may be either a DNS name or IP address. A connection is made
       to the default port for the protocol used, or that given by the port
       key.  sitecopy supports the WebDAV or FTP protocols - the protocol key
       specifies which to use, taking the value of either webdav or ftp
       respectively. By default, FTP will be used.

       The proxy-server and proxy-port keys may be used to specify a proxy
       server to use. Proxy servers are currently only supported for WebDAV.

       If the FTP server does not support passive (PASV) mode, then the key
       ftp nopasv should be used.  To display the message returned by the
       server on closing the connection, use the ftp showquit option.  If the
       server only supports uploading files in the current working directory,
       use the key ftp usecwd (possible symptom: "overwrite permission
       denied").  Note that the remote-directory (keyword remote) must be an
       absolute path (starting with '/'), or usecwd will be ignored.

       If the WebDAV server correctly supports the 100-continue expectation,
       e.g. Apache 1.3.9 and later, the key http expect should be used. Doing
       so can save some bandwidth and time in an update.

       If the WebDAV server supports access via SSL, the key http secure can
       be used.  Doing so will cause the transfers between sitecopy and the
       host to be performed using an secure, encrypted link.  The first time
       SSL is used to access the server, the user will be prompted to verify
       the SSL certificate, if it's not signed by a CA trusted in the system's
       CA root bundle.

       To authenticate the user with the server, the username and password
       keys are used. If it exists, the ~/.netrc will be searched for a
       password if one is not specified. See ftp(1) for the syntax of this
       file.

       Basic and digest authentication are supported for WebDAV. Note that
       basic authentication must not be used unless the connection is known to
       be secure.

       The full URL that is used to access the site can optionally be
       specified in the url key. This is used only in flat list mode, so the
       site URL can be inserted in 'Recent Changes' pages. The URL must not
       have a trailing slash; a valid example is
            url http://www.site.com/mysite

       If the tempupload option is given, new or changed files are upload with
       a ".in." prefix, then moved to the true filename when the upload is
       complete.


   File State
       File state is stored in the storage files (~/.sitecopy/*), and is used
       to discover when a file has been changed.  Two methods are supported,
       and can be selected using the state option, with either parameter:
       timesize (the default), and checksum.

       timesize uses the last-modification date and the size of files to
       detect when they have changed.  checksum uses an MD5 checksum to detect
       any changes to the file contents.

       Note that MD5 checksumming involves reading in the entire file, and is
       slower than simply using the last-modification date and size. It may be
       useful for instance if a versioning system is in use which updates the
       last-modification date on a 'checkout', but this doesn't actually
       change the file contents.


   Safe Mode
       Safe Mode is enabled by using the safe key. When enabled, each time a
       file is uploaded to the server, the modification time of the file as on
       the server is recorded. Subsequently, whenever this file has been
       changed locally and is to be uploaded again, the current modification
       time of the file on the server is retrieved, and compared with the
       stored value. If these differ, then the remote copy of the file has
       been altered by a foreign party.  A warning message is issued, and your
       local copy of the file will not be uploaded over it, to prevent losing
       any changes.

       Safe Mode can be used with FTP or WebDAV servers, but if Apache/mod_dav
       is used, mod_dav 0.9.11 or later is required.

       Note Safe mode cannot be used in conjunction with the nooverwrite
       option (see below).


   File Storage Locations
       The remote key specifies the root directory of the remote copy of the
       site.  It may be in the form of an absolute pathname, e.g.
            remote /www/mysite/
       For FTP, the directory may also be specified relative to the login
       directory, in which case it must be prefixed by "~/", for example:
            remote ~/public_html/

       The local key specifies the directory in which the site is stored
       locally.  This may be given relative to your home directory (as given
       by the environment variable $HOME), again using the "~/" prefix.
            local ~/html/foosite/
            local /home/fred/html/foosite/
       are equivalent, if $HOME is set to "/home/fred".

       For both the local and remote keywords, a trailing slash may be used,
       but is not required.


   File Permissions Handling
       File permissions handling is dictated by the permissions key, which may
       be given one of three values:

       ignore to ignore file permissions completely (the default),

       exec   to mirror the permissions of executable files only,

       all    to mirror the permissions of all files.

       This can be used, for instance, to ensure the permissions of CGI files
       are set. The option is currently ignored for WebDAV servers. For FTP
       servers, a chmod is performed remotely to set the permissions.

       To handle directory permissions, the key:
          permissions dir
       may be used in addition to a permissions key of either exec, local or
       all.  Note that permissions all does not imply permissions dir.


   Symbolic Link Handling
       Symlinks found in the local site can be either ignored, followed, or
       maintained. In 'follow' mode, the files references by the symlinks will
       be uploaded in their place. In 'maintain' mode, the link will be
       created remotely as well, see below for more information. The mode used
       for each site is specified with the symlinks rcfile key, which may take
       the value of ignore, follow or maintain to select the mode as
       appropriate.

       The default mode is follow, i.e. symbolic links found in the local site
       are followed.


   Symbolic link Maintain Mode
       This mode is currently only supported by the WebDAV driver, and will
       work only with servers which implement WebDAV Advanced Collections,
       which is a work-in-progress. The target of the link on the server is
       literally copied from the target of the symlink. Hint: you can use
       URL's if you like:
            ln -s "http://www.somewhere.org/" somewherehome

       In this way, a "302 Redirect" can be easily set up from the client,
       without having to alter the server configuration.


   Deleting and Moving Remote Files
       The nodelete option may be used to prevent remote files from ever being
       deleted. This may be useful if you keep large amounts of data on the
       remote server which you do not need to store locally as well.

       If your server does not allow you to upload changed files over existing
       files, then you can use the nooverwrite option. When this is used,
       before uploading a changed file, the remote file will be deleted.

       If the checkmoved option is used, sitecopy will look for any files
       which have been moved locally. If any are found, when the remote site
       is updated, the files will be moved remotely.

       If the checkmoved renames option is used, sitecopy will look for any
       files which have been moved or renamed locally. This option may only be
       used in conjunction with the state checksum option.

       WARNING

       If you are not using MD5 checksumming (i.e. the state checksum option)
       to determine file state, do NOT use the checkmoved option if you tend
       to hold files in different directories with identical sizes,
       modification times and names and ever move them about. This seems
       unlikely, but don't say you haven't been warned.


   Excluding Files
       Files may be excluded from the files list by use of the exclude key,
       which accepts shell-style globbing patterns. For example, use
            exclude *.bak
            exclude *~
            exclude "#*#"
       to exclude all files which have a .bak extension, end in a tilde (~)
       character, or which begin and end with a a hash. Don't forget to quote
       or escape the value if it includes a hash!

       To exclude certain files within an particular directory, simply prefix
       the pattern with the directory name - including a leading slash. For
       instance:
            exclude /docs/*.m4
            exclude /files/*.gz
       which will exclude all files with the .m4 extension in the 'docs'
       subdirectory of the site, and all files with the .gz extension in the
       files subdirectory.

       An entire directory can also be excluded - simply use the directory
       name with no trailing slash. For example
            exclude /foo/bar
            exclude /where/else
       to exclude the 'foo/bar' and 'where/else' subdirectories of the site.

       Exclude patterns are consulted when scanning the local directory, and
       when scanning the remote site during a --fetch.  Any file which matches
       any exclude pattern is not added to the files list.  This means that a
       file which has already been uploaded by sitecopy, and subsequently
       matches an exclude pattern will be deleted from the server.


   Ignoring Local Changes to Files
       The ignore option is used to instruct sitecopy to ignore any local
       changes made to a file. If a change is made to the contents of an
       ignored file, this file will not be uploaded by update mode. Ignored
       files will be created, moved and deleted as normal.

       The ignore option is used in the same way as the exclude option.

       Note that synchronize mode will overwrite changes made to ignored
       files.


   FTP Transfer Mode
       To specify the FTP transfer mode for files, use the ascii key. Any
       files which are transferred using ASCII mode have CRLF/LF translation
       performed appropriately. For example, use
            ascii *.pl
       to upload all files with the .pl extension as ASCII text.  This key has
       no effect with WebDAV (currently).


RETURN VALUES
       Return values are specified for different operation modes. If multiple
       sites are specified on the command line, the return value is in respect
       to the last site given.


   Update Mode
        -1 ... update never even started - configuration problem
         0 ... update was entirely successful.
         1 ... update went wrong somewhere
         2 ... could not connect or login to server


   List Mode (default mode of operation)
        -1 ... could not form list - configuration problem
         0 ... the remote site does not need updating
         1 ... the remote site needs updating


EXAMPLE RCFILE CONTENTS
   FTP Server, Simple Usage
       Fred's site is uploaded to the FTP server 'my.server.com' and held in
       the directory 'public_html', which is in the login directory. The site
       is stored locally in the directory /home/fred/html.

       site mysite
         server my.server.com
         url http://www.server.com/fred
         username fred
         password juniper
         local /home/fred/html/
         remote ~/public_html/


   FTP Server, Complex Usage
       Here, Freda's site is uploaded to the FTP server ´ftp.elsewhere.com´,
       where it is held in the directory /www/freda/. The local site is stored
       in /home/freda/sites/elsewhere/

       site anothersite
         server ftp.elsewhere.com
         username freda
         password blahblahblah
         local /home/freda/sites/elsewhere/
         remote /www/freda/
         # Freda wants files with a .bak extension or a
         # trailing ~ to be ignored:
         exclude *.bak
         exclude *~


   WebDAV Server, Simple Usage
       This example shows use of a WebDAV server.

       site supersite
         server dav.wow.com
         protocol webdav
         username pow
         password zap
         local /home/joe/www/super/
         remote /


FILES
       ~/.sitecopyrc Default run control file location.
       ~/.sitecopy/ Remote site information storage directory
       ~/.netrc Remote server accounts information


BUGS
       Known problems: Fetch + synch modes are NOT reliable for FTP.  If you
       need reliable operation of fetch or synch modes, you shouldn't be using
       sitecopy.  Try rsync instead.


       Please send bug reports and feature requests to <sitecopy@lyra.org>
       rather than to the author, since the mailing list is archived and can
       be a useful resource for others.


SEE ALSO
       rsync(1), ftp(1), mirror(1)


STANDARDS
       [Listed for reference only, no claim of compliance to any of the below
       standards is made.]

       RFC 959 - File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
       RFC 1521 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions Part One
       RFC 1945 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0
       RFC 2396 - Uniform Resource Identifiers: Generic Syntax
       RFC 2518 - HTTP Extensions for Distributed Authoring -- WEBDAV
       RFC 2616 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1
       RFC 2617 - HTTP Authentication
       REC-XML - Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0
       REC-XML-NAMES - Namespaces in XML


DRAFT STANDARDS
       draft-ietf-ftpext-mlst-05.txt - Extensions to FTP
       draft-ietf-webdav-collections-protocol-03.txt - WebDAV Advanced
       Collections Protocol

AUTHOR
       Joe Orton and others.
       e-mail: sitecopy@lyra.org
       www: http://www.lyra.org/sitecopy/




sitecopy                           June 2001                       sitecopy(1)
