SLIDERULE(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           SLIDERULE(1)

NAME
       sliderule - calculator featuring a historic slide rule

SYNOPSIS
       sliderule [-display display]  [-bw pixels] [-stip] [-rv] [-geometry
       geometry]

DESCRIPTION
       Sliderule features a historic slide rule calculator.  You can multiply,
       divide, calculate reciprocals, squares, square roots, and even
       trignometrical functions.  Anyway, you need to know how to do this.
       You can't add or subtract - but if you know a sliderule, you knew this
       already.  If you don't know, don't worry: this man page won't make you
       learning it either.

OPTIONS
       -display displayname
               This option specifies the X server to contact.

       -geometry geometry
               This option specifies the size and placement of the top level
               window.  By default, the minimum size will be used.  Doesn't
               work very well at all.

       -fg color
               This option specifies the foreground color to use.

       -bg color
               This option specifies the background color to use.

       -bw pixels
               This option specifies the border width in pixels.

       -stip   This option indicates that the background of the calculator
               should be drawn using a stipple of the foreground and
               background colors.  On monochrome displays this makes for a
               nicer display.

       -rv     This option indicates that reverse video should be used.

OPERATION
       The slide rule is operated with the pointer.  The only keyboard input
       that has any effect at all is the key "q" to quit the program.

       The slide rule consists mainly of three different areas: the outside
       scales that are normally fixed with the left hand, and the slider that
       is moved with the right hand.  When moving the slider, a black
       background will become visible.

       Pressing button 1 inside the outer part of the slide rule will move the
       hairline to the pointer position, and update the digital display at the
       left-hand side (some comfort a real slide-rule wasn't fond of).  Moving
       the pointer around while keeping button 1 pressed, will drag the
       hairline.

       Pressing button 2 or 3 in the outer part, will double or half the width
       of the slide rule, respectively.  This doesn't work very well.

       Pressing button 1 on the slider, or in the black area exposed by the
       moved away slider, will move the slider so that the pointer position
       will become the "1" on the slider.  Moving the pointer then, while
       keeping the button pressed, will drag the slider accordingly.

       Pressing button 3 on the slider, or in the black area, will behave
       similarly, using the "10" position of the slider.

       Pressing button 2 on the slider allows you to grab and drag the slider
       without moving it first.

       For the curious, the various scales are:

              L    mantissa of the decimal logarithm of D
              A    square of D
              B    square of C
              CI   reciprocal of C
              C    base scale
              D    base scale
              DI   reciprocal of D
              S    arc sine of D
              T    arc tangent of D

SEE ALSO
       xcalc(1)

BUGS
       Resizing of either way doesn't work pretty well.  Best leave the
       geometry as it is.

       Sliderule uses a prehistoric way to obtain X resources, which is not
       documented in this man page.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
       See X(1) for a full statement of rights and permissions.

AUTHORS
       John Bradley, University of Pennsylvania
       Mark Rosenstein, MIT Project Athena

HISTORY
       Sliderule used to be the option "-analog" of the old xcalc application,
       up to X11R3.  This option has been dropped later, when the stock X11
       xcalc was rewritten as a Toolkit application.  This sliderule
       application is just the old "-analog" code only, with some bugs and
       inaccuracies fixed, and the trigonometrical scales added.  This work
       was done by Joerg Wunsch.

X Version 11                     3 August 1997                    SLIDERULE(1)
