SMART(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               SMART(8)

NAME
     smart – retrieve health / SMART data from a device

SYNOPSIS
     smart [-dDhitvx] [-a page:attribute[,page:attribute]...] [--debug] device

DESCRIPTION
     The smart command allows the user to monitor the various information
     reported by Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (SMART)
     present on most ATA, SCSI, and NVMe storage media.  Because the format of
     this information varies across protocols, smart normalizes entries using
     the format:

             <Page ID>    <Attribute ID>    <Value>    <Threshold>

     Fields are tab-delimited by default, but the command can output data in
     any format supported by libxo(3).

     Because ATA does not have log pages, smart uses the Command Feature field
     value in place of the log page ID.  For SMART READ DATA, this value is
     208 / 0xd0. Note that devices choose which attribute ID values they
     support and the description for it. Additionally, smart reports the value
     of the SMART STATUS command (Command Feature field value 218 / 0xda). As
     this command does not return any data, the command represents this entry
     with a synthetic attribute ID of 0, and it uses the command status (0 or
     1) as the attribute value.

     NVMe devices support the SMART/Health log page (Page ID 2 / 0x2).  The
     data returned in this log page is not structured as attribute IDs.
     Instead, smart uses the byte offset of each field as the attribute ID.
     For example, byte 3 is the Available Spare. Thus, for NVMe, attribute ID
     3 is Available Spare. Note that NVMe health data does not include
     threshold values, and as a result, the command will ignore the
     --threshold option.

     SCSI devices can support a number of log pages which report drive health.
     The command will report the following pages:

           -   Write Errors (Page ID 2 / 0x2)
           -   Read Errors (Page ID 3 / 0x3)
           -   Verify Errors (Page ID 5 / 0x5)
           -   Non-medium Errors (Page ID 6 / 0x6)
           -   Last N Errors (Page ID 7 / 0x7)
           -   Temperature (Page ID 13 / 0xd)
           -   Start-stop Cycles (Page ID 14 / 0x3)
           -   Informational Exceptions (Page ID 47 / 0x2f)

     Note that all log pages are optional, and a particular drive may not
     support all these pages. For SCSI devices, the Attribute ID maps to the
     SCSI parameter code defined by the command. Parameter codes are integer
     values from 0 to N, and, by themselves, are ambiguous outside the context
     of a particular log page. Note that SCSI health data does not include
     threshold values, and as a result, the command will ignore the
     --threshold option.


     The following options are available:

     -a page:attribute, --attribute=page:attribute
                  A comma-separated list of attributes to display.  If page is
                  missing, display the matching attribute from any page.

     -d, --decode
                  Decode the attribute ID values.

     -D, --no-decode
                  Do not decode the attribute ID values.

     -h, --help   Prints a usage message and exits.

     -i, --info   Print general device information.

     -t, --threshold
                  Also print the threshold values.

     -v, --version
                  Print the version and copyright.

     -x, --hex    Print the values in hexadecimal.

     device       An explicit device path ( /dev/ada0 ) or GEOM provider (
                  ada0 ).

EXIT STATUS
     The smart utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
           # smart -t ada0
           Print all SMART READ DATA and SMART STATUS including the threshold
           values for ATA drive ada0.

           # smart -a 5 ada0
           Print only attribute ID 5 ("Reallocated Sectors Count") for ATA
           drive ada0.

           # smart -a 5,171 ada0
           Print attribute IDs 5 ("Reallocated Sectors Count") and 171 ("SSD
           Program Fail") for ATA drive ada0.

           # smart da0
           Print all health pages supported by SCSI device da0 including:
                 -   Write Errors
                 -   Read Errors
                 -   Verify Errors
                 -   Non-medium Errors
                 -   Last N Errors
                 -   Temperature
                 -   Start-stop Cycles
                 -   Informational Exceptions

           # smart -x nda0
           Print all Health log page entries in hexadecimal for NVMe device
           nda0.

DIAGNOSTICS
     The command may fail for one of the following reasons:

     No output displayed  The device does not support health data.

     CAMGETPASSTHRU ioctl failed  smart relies on cam(4) to retrieve data from
     devices and will display this message if the device does not have a
     passthrough driver. This can happen, for example, if the system uses the
     nvd(4) NVMe driver instead of the nda(4) driver.

SEE ALSO
     cam(4), nda(4)

AUTHORS
     This manual page was written by Chuck Tuffli <chuck@FreeBSD.org>.

BUGS
     Probably.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            October 8, 2021           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
