SNAC(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                SNAC(1)

NAME
     snac – A simple, minimalistic ActivityPub instance

SYNOPSIS
     snac command basedir [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The snac daemon processes messages from other servers in the Fediverse
     using the ActivityPub protocol.

     This is the user manual and expects an already running snac installation.
     For the administration manual, see snac(8).  For file and data formats,
     see snac(5).

   Web Interface
     The web interface provided by snac is split in two data streams: the
     public timeline and the private timeline. There are no other feeds like
     the server-scoped or the federated firehoses provided by other similar
     ActivityPub implementations like Mastodon or Pleroma.

     The public timeline, also called the local timeline, is what an external
     visitor sees about the activity of a snac user: that is, only the list of
     public notes, boosts and likes the user generates or participates into.
     This is, obviously, read-only, and not very remarkable, unless the user
     publishes messages of staggering genious. A set of history links, grouped
     by month, will also be available at the bottom of the page.

     The private timeline, or simply the timeline, is the private, password-
     protected area of a snac server where the user really interacts with the
     rest of the Fediverse.

     The top area of the timeline provides a big text area to write notes for
     the public (i.e. for the user followers). As this is the second most
     important activity on the Fediverse, this is located in the most
     prominent area of the user page. You can enter plain text, @user@host
     mentions and other things. See the snac(5) manual for more information on
     the allowed markup.

     Other fields immediately below the big text one allow some control about
     the post to be sent:

           Sensitive content
                   If you set this checkbox, your post will be marked with a
                   content warning. The immediately following, optional text
                   box allows you to write a description about why your
                   content is so sensitive.

           Only for mentioned people
                   If you set this checkbox, your text will not be public, but
                   only sent to those people you mention in the post body.

           Reply to (URL)
                   If you fill this optional text field with the URL of
                   another one's post, your text will be considered as a reply
                   to it, not a standalone one.

     More options are hidden under a toggle control. They are the following:

           Follow (by URL or user@host)
                   Fill the input area with a user 'actor' URL or a user@host
                   Fediverse identifier to follow.

           Boost (by URL)
                   Fill the input area with the URL of a Fediverse note to be
                   boosted.

           Like (by URL)
                   Fill the input area with the URL of a Fediverse note to be
                   liked.

           User setup...
                   This option opens the user setup dialog.

           Followed hashtags...
                   Enter here the list of hashtags you want to follow, one per
                   line, with or without the # symbol.

           Blocked hashtags...
                   Enter here the list of hashtags you want to block, one per
                   line, with or without the # symbol.

     The user setup dialog allows some user information to be changed,
     specifically:

           User name
                   Your user name, or not really that. People like to include
                   emojis, flags and strange symbols for some reason.

           Avatar URL
                   The URL of a picture to be used as your avatar in timelines
                   around the world.

           Bio     Enter here a bunch of self-indulgent blurb about yourself.
                   The same markup options available for text notes apply
                   here.

           Always show sensitive content
                   By default, snac hides content marked as sensitive by their
                   publishers.  If you check this option, sensitive content is
                   always shown.

           Email address for notifications
                   If this field is not empty, an email message will be sent
                   to this address whenever a post written by you is liked,
                   boosted or replied to.

           Telegram notifications
                   To enable notifications via Telegram, fill the two provided
                   fields (Bot API key and Chat id). You need to create both a
                   Telegram channel and a bot for this; the process is rather
                   cumbersome but it's documented everywhere. The Bot API key
                   is a long string of alphanumeric characters and the chat id
                   is a big, negative number.

           ntfy notifications
                   To enable notifications via ntfy (both self-hosted or
                   standard ntfy.sh server), fill the two provided fields
                   (ntfy server/topic and, if protected, the token).  You need
                   to refer to the https://ntfy.sh web site for more
                   information on this process.

           Maximum days to keep posts
                   This numeric value specifies the number of days to pass
                   before posts (yours and others') will be purged. This value
                   overrides what the administrator defined in the global
                   server settings only if it's lesser (i.e. you cannot keep
                   posts for longer than what the admin desires). A value of 0
                   (the default) means that the global server settings will
                   apply to the posts in your timeline.

           Drop direct messages from people you don't follow
                   Just what it says in the tin. This is to mitigate spammers
                   coming from Fediverse instances with lax / open
                   registration processes. Please take note that this also
                   avoids possibly legitimate people trying to contact you.

           This account is a bot
                   Set this checkbox if this account behaves like a bot (i.e.
                   posts are automatically generated).

           Auto-boost all mentions to this account
                   If this toggle is set, all mentions to this account are
                   boosted to all followers. This can be used to create
                   groups.

           This account is private
                   If this toggle is set, posts are not published via the
                   public web interface, only via the ActivityPub protocol.

           Collapse top threads by default
                   If this toggle is set, the private timeline will always
                   show conversations collapsed by default. This allows easier
                   navigation through long threads.

           Follow requests must be approved
                   If this toggle is set, follow requests are not
                   automatically accepted, but notified and stored for later
                   review. Pending follow requests will be shown in the people
                   page to be approved or discarded.

           Publish follower and following metrics
                   If this toggle is set, the number of followers and
                   following accounts are made public (this is only the
                   number; the specific lists of accounts are never
                   published).

           Web interface language
                   If the administrator has installed any language file, it
                   can be selected here.

           Time zone
                   The time zone the user is on (default: UTC). Only used for
                   scheduled posts.

           Password
                   Write the same string in these two fields to change your
                   password. Don't write anything if you don't want to do
                   this.

     The rest of the page contains your timeline in reverse chronological
     order (i.e., newest interactions first).  snac shows the conversations as
     nested trees, unlike other Fediverse software; every time you contribute
     something to a conversation, the full thread is bumped up, so new
     interactions are shown always at the top of the page while the forgotten
     ones languish at the bottom.

     Private notes (a.k.a. direct messages) are also shown in the timeline as
     normal messages, but marked with a cute lock to mark them as non-public.
     Replies to direct messages are also private and cannot be liked nor
     boosted.

     For each entry in the timeline, a set of reasonable actions in the form
     of buttons will be shown. These can be:

           Reply   Unveils a text area to write your intelligent and acute
                   comment to an uninformed fellow. This note is sent to the
                   original author as well as to your followers. The note can
                   include mentions in the @user@format; these people will
                   also become recipients of the message. If you reply to a
                   boost or like, you are really replying to the note, not to
                   the admirer of it.

           Like    Click this if you admire this post. The poster and your
                   followers will be informed.

           Boost   Click this if you want to propagate this post to all your
                   followers. The original author will also be informed.

           Bookmark
                   Click this to bookmark a post.

           Follow  Click here if you want to start receiving all the
                   shenanigans the original author of the post will write in
                   the future.

           Unfollow
                   Click here if you are fed up of this fellow's activities.

           Delete  Click here to send this post to the bin. If it's an
                   activity written by you, the appropriate message is sent to
                   the rest of involved parts telling them that you no longer
                   want your thing in their servers (not all implementations
                   really obey this kind of requirements, though).

           MUTE    This is the most important button in snac and the Fediverse
                   in general. Click it if you don't want to read crap from
                   this user again in the foreseeable future.

           Hide    If a conversation is getting long and annoying but not
                   enough to MUTE its author forever, click this button to
                   avoid seeing the post and its children anymore.

           Edit    Posts written by you on snac version 2.19 and later can be
                   edited and resent to their recipients.

   Command-line options
     The command-line tool provide the following commands:

           init [basedir]
                   Initializes the data storage. This is an interactive
                   command; necessary information will be prompted for. The
                   basedir directory must not exist.

           upgrade basedir
                   Upgrades the data storage after installing a new version.
                   Only necessary if snac complains and demands it.

           httpd basedir
                   Starts the daemon.

           purge basedir
                   Purges old data from the timeline of all users.

           adduser basedir [uid]
                   Adds a new user to the server. This is an interactive
                   command; necessary information will be prompted for.

           deluser basedir uid
                   Deletes a user, unfollowing all accounts first.

           resetpwd basedir uid
                   Resets a user's password to a new, random one.

           queue basedir uid
                   Processes the output queue of the specified user, sending
                   all enqueued messages and re-enqueing the failing ones.
                   This command must not be executed if the server is running.

           follow basedir uid actor
                   Sends a Follow message for the specified actor URL.

           request basedir uid url
                   Requests an object and dumps it to stdout. This is a very
                   low level command that is not very useful to you.

           announce basedir uid url
                   Announces (boosts) a post via its URL.

           note basedir uid text [file file ...]
                   Enqueues a Create + Note message to all followers. If the
                   text argument is -e, the external editor defined by the
                   EDITOR environment variable will be invoked to prepare a
                   message; if it's - (a lonely hyphen), the post content will
                   be read from stdin.  The rest of command line arguments are
                   treated as media files to be attached to the post. The LANG
                   environment variable (if defined) is used as the post
                   language.

           note_unlisted basedir uid text [file file ...]
                   Like the previous one, but creates an "unlisted" (or "quiet
                   public") post.

           note_mention basedir uid text [file file ...]
                   Like the previous one, but creates a post only for accounts
                   mentioned in the post body.

           block basedir instance_url
                   Blocks a full instance, given its URL or domain name. All
                   subsequent incoming activities with identifiers from that
                   instance will be immediately blocked without further
                   inspection.

           unblock basedir instance_url
                   Unblocks a previously blocked instance.

           verify_links basedir uid
                   Verifies all links stored as metadata for the given user.
                   This verification is done by downloading the link content
                   and searching for a link back to the snac user url that
                   also contains a rel="me" attribute. These links are
                   specially marked as verified in the user's public timeline
                   and also via the Mastodon API.

           export_csv basedir uid
                   Exports some account data as Mastodon-compatible CSV files.
                   After executing this command, the following files will be
                   written to the export/ subdirectory inside the user
                   directory: bookmarks.csv, blocked_accounts.csv, lists.csv,
                   and following_accounts.csv.

           alias basedir uid @account@remotehost
                   Sets an account as an alias of this one. This is a
                   necessary step to migrate an account to a remote Mastodon
                   instance (see snac(8), section 'Migrating from snac to
                   Mastodon').

           migrate basedir uid
                   Starts a migration from this account to the one set as an
                   alias (see snac(8), section 'Migrating from snac to
                   Mastodon').

           import_csv basedir uid
                   Imports CSV data files from a Mastodon export. This command
                   expects the following files to be inside the import/
                   subdirectory of a user's directory inside the server base
                   directory: bookmarks.csv, blocked_accounts.csv, lists.csv,
                   and following_accounts.csv.

           state basedir
                   Dumps the current state of the server and its threads. For
                   example:

                         server: comam.es (snac/2.45-dev)
                         uptime: 0:03:09:52
                         job fifo size (cur): 45
                         job fifo size (peak): 1532
                         thread #0 state: input
                         thread #1 state: input
                         thread #2 state: waiting
                         thread #3 state: waiting
                         thread #4 state: output
                         thread #5 state: output
                         thread #6 state: output
                         thread #7 state: waiting

                   The job fifo size values show the current and peak sizes of
                   the in-memory job queue. The thread state can be: waiting
                   (idle waiting for a job to be assigned), input or output
                   (processing I/O packets) or stopped (not running, only to
                   be seen while starting or stopping the server).

           import_list basedir uid file
                   Imports a Mastodon list in CSV format. The file must be
                   stored inside the import/ subdirectory of a user's
                   directory inside the server base directory.  This option
                   can be used to import "Mastodon Follow Packs".

           import_block_list basedir uid file
                   Imports a Mastodon list of accounts to be blocked in CSV
                   format. The file must be stored inside the import/
                   subdirectory of a user's directory inside the server base
                   directory.

           lists basedir uid
                   Prints the name of the user created lists.

           list_members basedir uid name
                   Prints the list of actors in the named list.

           create_list basedir uid name
                   Creates a new list.

           delete_list basedir uid name
                   Deletes an existing list.

           list_add basedir uid name account
                   Adds an account (by its @name@host handle or actor URL) to
                   a list.

           list_del basedir uid name actor_url
                   Deletes an actor (by its actor URL) from a list.

   Migrating an account to/from Mastodon
     See snac(8) for details.

   Using Mastodon-compatible apps
     Since version 2.27, snac includes support for the Mastodon API, so you
     can use Mastodon-compatible mobile and desktop applications to access
     your account. Given a correctly configured server, the usage of these
     programs should be straightforward.  Please take note that they will show
     your timeline in a 'Mastodon fashion' (i.e., as a plain list of posts),
     so you will lose the fancy, nested thread post display with the most
     active threads at the top that the web interface of snac provides.

   Implementing post bots
     snac makes very easy to post messages in a non-interactive manner. This
     example posts a string:

           uptime | snac note $SNAC_BASEDIR $SNAC_USER -

     You can setup a line like this from a crontab(5) or similar. Take note
     that you need a) command-line access to the same machine that hosts the
     snac instance, and b) write permissions to the storage directories and
     files.

     You can also post non-interactively using the Mastodon API and a command-
     line http tool like curl(1) or similar. This has the advantage that you
     can do it remotely from any host, anywhere; the only thing you need is an
     API Token. This is an example:

           curl -X POST https://$SNAC_HOST/api/v1/statuses \
           --header "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" -d "status=$(uptime)"

     You can obtain an API Token by connecting to the following URL:

           https://$SNAC_HOST/oauth/x-snac-get-token

ENVIRONMENT
     SNAC_BASEDIR
             This optional environment variable can be set to the base
             directory of your installation; if set, you don't have to add the
             base directory as an argument to command-line operations. This
             may prove useful if you only have one snac instance in you system
             (which is probably your case).

     DEBUG   Overrides the debugging level from the server 'dbglevel'
             configuration variable. Set it to an integer value. The higher,
             the deeper in meaningless verbiage you'll find yourself into.

     EDITOR  The user-preferred interactive text editor to prepare messages.

     LANG    The language of the post when sending messages.

SEE ALSO
     snac(5), snac(8)

AUTHORS
     grunfink @grunfink@comam.es: https://comam.es/snac/grunfink

LICENSE
     See the LICENSE file for details.

CAVEATS
     Use the Fediverse sparingly. Don't fear the MUTE button.

BUGS
     Probably many. Some issues may be even documented in the TODO.md file.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 17, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
