snarf(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               snarf(1)

NAME
       snarf - Simple Non-interactive All-purpose Resource Fetcher

SYNOPSIS
       snarf [-avqprzm] URL [outfile] ...

DESCRIPTION
       Retrieves data from a variety of protocols, namely http, ftp, and
       gopher.


USAGE
       snarf is invoked with any number of URLs and outfiles. If an outfile is
       not specified, snarf preserves the remote file name when saving.

       For example, snarf http://foo.bar.com/images/face.gif will retrieve the
       file ``face.gif'' to the local system.  In the event that there is no
       filename (the url ends in a slash), the data is retrieved and stored in
       the file index.html for http URLs, ftpindex.txt for ftp URLs, or
       gopherindex.txt for gopher URLs.

       Using a dash, "-", as the outfile causes snarf to send its output to
       stdout rather than a file.

       To log in to an ftp server or website that requires a username and
       password, use the syntax http://username:password@site.com/. If you
       omit the password, you will be prompted for it.

       Snarf has a built-in option to download the latest version of itself;
       simply run snarf LATEST.



   OPTIONS
       -a     Causes snarf to use "active" ftp. By default, snarf uses passive
              ftp, and, if the server does not support it, falls back to
              active ftp. Using the -a option will avoid the initial passive
              attempt.

       -r     Resumes an interrupted ftp or http transfer by checking if there
              is a local file with the same name as the remote file, and
              starting the transfer at the end of the local file and
              continuing until finished. This option only works with HTTP
              servers that understand HTTP/1.1 and ftp servers that support
              the REST command. snarf uses this option automatically if the
              outfile already exists.

       -n     Don't resume; ignore the outfile if it exists and re-transfer it
              in its entirety.

       -q     Don't print progress bars.

       -p     Forces printing of progress bars. Snarf has a compile-time
              option for whether progress bars print by default or not. The -p
              option overrides the -q option. In addition, if progress bars
              are enabled by default, snarf suppresses them when standard
              output is not a terminal. Using -p will override this behavior.

       -v     Prints all messages that come from the server to stderr.

       -z     Send a user-agent string similar to what Netscape Navigator 4.0
              uses.

       -m     Send a user-agent string similar to what Microsoft Internet
              Explorer uses.

       Each option only affects the URL that immediately follows it. To have
       an option affect all URLs that follow it, use an uppercase letter for
       the option, e.g. -Q instead of -q.


ENVIRONMENT
       Snarf checks several environment variables when deciding what to use
       for a proxy. It checks a service-specific variable first, then
       SNARF_PROXY, then PROXY.

       The service-specific variables are HTTP_PROXY, FTP_PROXY, and
       GOPHER_PROXY.


       Snarf also checks the SNARF_HTTP_USER_AGENT environment variable and
       will use it when reporting its user-agent string to an HTTP server. In
       the same spirit, it also uses the SNARF_HTTP_REFERER environment
       variable to spoof a Referer to the web server.


BUGS
       Bugs? What bugs? If you find 'em, report 'em.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2000 Zachary Beane (xach@xach.com)

                                  17 Jun 2000                         snarf(1)
