SOL(6)                       FreeBSD Games Manual                       SOL(6)



NAME
       sol, solscores - Solitaire card game.


SYNOPSIS
       sol [-hHV] [-M file] [--help] [--highscores] [--version]
       [--merge-highscores=file]

       solscores


DESCRIPTION
       sol is a card game for lonely persons, highly inspired by the game
       bundeled with a well known non-Unix "operating system".

       I assume the motive of the game is well known, so I won't go into any
       details here, but rather explain the controls of this particular
       implementation.

       To select new cards from the upper left pile, click on the back of the
       pile. When the pile is empty, click on the outline to turn it. The
       number of cards to draw may be either one or three, selectable from the
       Options menu. You may turn the pile as many times you like.

       Cards may be moved in a drag--drop fashion. Click on a card with button
       1 (normally the left button), drag the card to the destination pile,
       and release the button. You may drag several cards at once: Pointing at
       a card not at the top of a pile, will move the chosen card, and all
       cards above it.

       You may double-click on a card to move it to one of the four upper
       right target piles. The program will locate the correct pile, if any.
       You may also use button 2 or 3 for the same purpose.

       The game features a site-wide highscore file, containing the top 200
       players. Each user may appear once only in the highscore table. The
       highscore list is sorted on the time taken to bring the game to a
       solution. Chose the Highscores menu to bring up a window containing the
       list. The window is updated every now and then. If you don't want to be
       part of the race, you may avoid being included in the highscore list
       from the Options menu.

       All options are stored in .solrc in your home directory, along with a
       count of games played, and the time used for playing. The latter two
       may be viewed from the About menu.

       For technical reasons, sol connects to the X11 server before parsing
       options. This makes it impossible to eg. browse the highscore table
       using -H if no server is available.  To be able to see the scores in
       such a case, solscores produces the same output as sol with option -H,
       but does no attempt on connecting to the X11 server.


   OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Print a usage message on standard output, and exit successfully.


       -H, --highscores
              Dump the highscore list to standard output, and exit
              successfully.  Starting sol with the name solscore does the same
              thing, without first connecting to the X11 server.


       -V, --version
              Print version information on standard output, then exit
              successfully.


       -M, --merge-highscores=file
              Merge separate highscore file file into the default highscore
              file, and exit successfully. Displays the new highscore table.
              This option is for the game owner or root only.


X11 OPTIONS
       In addition to the above mentioned options, sol accepts the standard
       X11 toolkit options.


AUTHOR
       Sverre H. Huseby <shh@thathost.com>.

                               22 February 1997                         SOL(6)
