SOUNDGRAB(1)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         SOUNDGRAB(1)


NAME
       soundgrab - select and save sections of an audio file

SYNOPSIS
       soundgrab [option]... [file]

DESCRIPTION
       soundgrab is a perl script which runs the aplay and sox and possibly
       the ogg123, ogginfo, oggenc and flac executables to let the user play
       back a raw audio or '.ogg' file and interactively select and export
       portions of the file to other files.

       It is also possible to save a sequence of soundgrab commands in a file
       and execute them later in batch mode (with the --execute option).

EXAMPLES
       soundgrab -f ogg foo.ogg
           Type 'help' to get started interactively dissecting file 'foo.ogg',
           exporting chunks in '.ogg' format by default.

       soundgrab -r 44100 -c 2 -i s16_le bar.raw
           Like the above example, but the input file consists of 2 channels
           of signed sixteen bit little endian audio data sampled at 44.1 kHz,
           and exported chunks will be in this format by default.

OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS
       -b KBITRATE, --ogg-kbitrate=KBITRATE
           Files exported in the Ogg Vorbis lossy compression format should
           use approximately KBITRATE kilobits per second encoding.  The
           default behavior is to use the oggenc default.  This option may not
           be used together with the --quality (-q) option.

       -c CHANNELS, --channels=CHANNELS
           The file on which soundgrab is to operate contains CHANNELS-channel
           data, and/or exported raw audio should have CHANNELS channels.  One
           channel is mono, two is stereo.  Modern sound cards may support 4
           or more channels.  The default is 2.

       -d, DEVICE, --device=DEVICE
           This option is probably only useful if you are using an atypical
           arrangement for audio playback.

           Use DEVICE as the argument to a --device option of the ogg123 or
           aplay program.  Note that for '.ogg' volumes, it will probably be
           necessary to use the --device-option option as well.  For example:

               soundgrab --device=alsa09 --device-option=card:0 foo.ogg

           Note also that a given DEVICE isn't going to be correct for both
           types of volumes.  Finally, be warned that soundgrab has a tendency
           to unhelpfully eat the diagnostic output the ogg123 or aplay
           programs might normally generate when given a bad device
           specification.  The default behavior is to not pass any device
           options to ogg123 or aplay, causing them to use their own default
           behavior.

       --device-option=OPTION
           Use OPTION as the argument to a --device-option option of the
           ogg123 program.  The default behavior is to not pass and
           --device-option options to ogg123, causing it to use its own
           default behavior.  See also the --device option description.

       -e COMMAND_FILE, --execute=COMMAND_FILE
           Execute the commands in COMMAND_FILE immediately on startup.  See
           the online help for the 'execute' command.  Note that by ensuring
           that none of the commands need to prompt the user and making the
           last command in COMMAND_FILE a 'quit' command, soundgrab can be
           made to operate entirely in batch (non-interactive) mode.

       -f OFMT, --outpuf-file-format=OFMT
           The arguments to the export command (see online help) that do not
           end in a known dot extension should be saved in format OFMT in a
           file with the appropriate dot extension appended.  OFMT may be one
           of the following strings:

           cdr CD Mastering format.  This is two channel unsigned sixteen bit
               little endian data with some blocking and padding.

           flac
               FLAC lossless compressed format.

           ogg Ogg vorbis lossy compressed format.

           raw Raw data samples in the format specified with the sample-format
               option at the sampling rate specified with the sampling-rate
               option and containing the number of channels specified with the
               channels option.  If any of these options were not specied the
               default for that option is used.  Note that the output sample
               format uses the value of the sample-format option even if the
               volume being dissected isn't a raw data file.

           The default for this option is cdr.  The flac and ogg formats are
           only available if the appropriate encoder is present on the system.

       -i IFMT, --sample-format=IFMT
           The samples for the individual channels in any raw audio data input
           volumes or output files used should be in format IFMT, where IFMT
           is one of the following strings:

           s16_le
               Signed sixteen bit little endian format.

           u8  Unsigned eight bit.

       -q QUALITY, --quality=QUALITY
           Quality level to use when exporting files in ".ogg" format.  The
           argument to this option is passed as the argument to the -q option
           to oggenc when that encoder is run.  The default behavior is not to
           use -q option to oggenc and let it choose its own default behavior.
           This option may not be used together with the --kbitrate (-b)
           option.

       -s SPEED, --sampling-rate=SPEED
           Any raw audio data input volumes or output files used have sampling
           rate SPEED samples per second.

       -t TIME, --time-of-start=TIME
           Recording of the volume to be dissected was begun at time TIME.  If
           this option is used, it will be possible to jump to 'times' in the
           volume.  The format of the time string is the same as the format
           described in the output of the online command 'help jump', except
           day offsets are not allowed.

       -v, --verbose
           Enable verbose operation.

       --help
           Display help and exit.

       --version
           Print version information and exit.

       The single optional argument file indicates the file name of the volume
       to be dissected.  If the input file appears to be a '.ogg' file (i.e.
       if it has extension '.ogg' or the 'file' utility thinks its an ogg
       file), it is treated as such. Otherwise, in the absense of other
       options, the input file is assumed to contain 2 interleaved channels of
       signed 16 bit little endian raw audio data sampled at 44.1 kHz. A
       variety of output formats are available (some depend on the presence of
       certain encoder binaries in the user's path).

INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
       soundgrab acts like a tape player with almost instantaneous fast
       forward and rewind, the capability to jump to a particular point in the
       tape, and the capability to name and save sections of the tape to other
       files.  You can also browse through large volumes of audio, playing
       only some number of seconds and then skipping some number of seconds.
       The few commands required to do all these things are all documented
       online, just fire up soundgrab on an appropriate audio file and type
       'help'.

AUDIO FORMAT DETAILS
       Since soundgrab allows portions of a file in one format to be exported
       in different formats, it is sometimes impossible or undesirable to
       avoid changing the bits per sample, sample format, number of channels,
       or sampling rate of the data.  The characteristics of the input volume
       are preserved in the exported output files with the following
       exceptions:

       •   Raw audio output is always input and/or output in the form
           described by the relevant options or their defaults.

       •   Input or output in '.ogg' form is always considered to consist of
           16 bit samples (since ogginfo doesn't say anything about sample
           format)

       •   Output in the '.cdr' (CD mastering format) is always in 44.1 kHz
           two channel sixteen bits per sample form in accordance with the
           definition of that format.

NON-INTERACTIVE USE
       The --execute (-e) option makes it possible to use soundgrab in batch
       mode, but for this to work, you must ensure that soundgrab doesn't end
       up in a situation where it wants to prompt the user for additional
       input to complete a command.  What makes soundgrab decide it has to
       prompt the user?  Mostly, soundgrab prompts before doing anything that
       destroys information.  Some of the things that cause this include the
       redefinition of chunk names, the definition of chunk names that will
       cause files to be overwritten when they are exported, and the use of
       export commands that will overwrite files if executed.  Input is also
       requested when soundgrab thinks that a given chunk might fill the disk
       when exported (and it uses a pretty conservative estimate of space
       requirements of compressed files to determine this).

BUGS
       Job control with Control-Z (using signal SIGTSTP and friends) is not
       supported, even in batch mode.

       It is possible for soundgrab's notion of where it is in the volume to
       get out of sync with the reality of whats being played at a given
       instant.  Any command that moves or stops the head will generally fix
       things.

       There is no mpeg3 support because mpeg has a buggy license.

       Perl version 5.8.0 at least sometimes seg faults when soundgrab exits.

       oggenc version 1.0 based on libvorbis 1.0 at least doesn't handle its
       --comment option correctly, resulting in a spurious warning when
       outputing files in ogg format.

SEE ALSO
       amixer(1), arecord(1), aplay(1), sox(1), oggenc(1), ogginfo(1),
       ogg123(1), flac(1)

COPYRIGHT
       soundgrab is Copyright (C) 2007  Britton Leo Kerin

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
       option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

AUTHOR
       Britton Leo Kerin (soundgrab@letterboxes.org)

perl v5.40.2                      2025-08-10                      SOUNDGRAB(1)
