SPAR(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                SPAR(1)



NAME
       spar - a modular console calculator


SYNOPSIS
       spar [options] [--] expression


DESCRIPTION
       Spar is a console calculator, primarily intended for problem solving in
       arbitrary precision. It supports also modules (aka code that can be
       loaded dynamically) and a number of other features, such as: user
       variables, functions, and constants.


   OPTIONS
       -d, --decimals
              Set the decimal precision (number of digits printed after the
              point).

       -i, --integers
              Set the integer precision (number of digits printed before the
              point).

       -c, --config
              Use a user-defined modules configuration file.

       -q, --quiet
              Don't display the welcome message.

       -h, --help
              Display usage information and exit.

       -v, --version
              Print version information and exit.


       --     Terminate option list: now all arguments is interpreted as an
              expression to evaluate.


NUMBERS
       The most basic element in spar is the number.  Numbers are double
       precision numbers. All numbers are represented internally as a standard
       C double variable. There are no attributes of numbers, but the
       precision can affect the number output. This precision is both in the
       integer part and the decimal part.

       For example: The number 0.123456789 is represented internally as a
       double precision variable, but if we change the precision, the output
       will change: 0.123456789 = 0.123457


VARIABLES
       Numbers can be stored in named variables. Variable names begin with a
       letter followed by any number of letters, digits and underscores. The
       variable names are case sensitive. Variables may have values assigned
       to them as well as used in expressions and it contains a special data
       member that stores the "previous" value".

       To declare a variable you must supply both a name and a value. Any
       undeclared variable generate an error.  For example, to declare the
       variable i of value 5 enter:
                 i = 5


CONSTANTS
       Constants are special variables that is read-only. This means that you
       can read a constant value but you can modify. There is a number of
       "preloaded" variables such as "e", "pi" ecc.


FUNCTIONS
       spar support a number of often used scientific functions (directly from
       The Spar Library). For example, to get the value of the natural
       logarithm in 0 enter:
                 log(0)


   Trig Functions
       These are the familiar `sin', `cos', and `tan' functions.  The
       arguments to all of these functions are in units of radians; recall
       that pi radians equals 180 degrees.


   Inverse Trig Functions
       These are the usual arc sine, arc cosine and arc tangent functions,
       which are the inverses of the sine, cosine and tangent functions
       respectively.


   Exponents and Logarithms
       These are the 'exp' group, 'log' group, 'pow' group and 'sqrt' group.


   Hyperbolic Functions
       sinh, cosh, tanh. The functions in this section are related to the
       exponential functions.


   Inverse Hyperbolic Functions
       asinh, acosh, atanh. The functions in this section are related to the
       Hyperbolicfunctions.


   Infinite Functions
       isnan, finite, isinf.


   Special Functions
       Factorial, sum, and other specific spar functions.


EXPRESSIONS
       The numbers are manipulated by expressions and statements.  Since the
       math parser was implemented to be interactive, statements and
       expressions are executed as soon as possible.

       A simple expression is just a constant. spar displays constants using
       the current precision (see OPTIONS). Full expressions are similar to
       many other high level languages. Since there is only one kind of
       number, there are no rules for mixing types.

       In the following descriptions of legal expressions, "expr" refers to a
       complete expression and "var" refers to a simple variable.

       - expr The result is the negation of the expression.

       expr + expr
              The result of the expression is the sum of the two expressions.

       expr - expr
              The result of the expression is the difference of the two
              expressions.

       expr * expr
              The result of the expression is the product of the two
              expressions.

       expr / expr
              The result of the expression is the quotient of the two
              expressions.

       expr % expr
              The result of the expression is the "remainder" and it is
              computed in the following way.

       expr ^ expr
              The result of the expression is the value of the first raised to
              the second.

       ( expr )
              This alters the standard precedence to force the evaluation of
              the expression.

       var = expr
              The variable is assigned the value of the expression.

       var    This prints variable value's: note that "var" could be also a
              constant.


COMMANDS
       help   Print a brief commands notice. If a command name is supplied
              print a detailed command report.


       warranty
              Print a longer warranty notice. No arguments.


       comment
              Add a comment to a variable. At least two arguments.


       consts Print the built-in constants table. No arguments.


       funcs  Print the built-in functions table. No arguments.


       modules
              Print the all loaded modules. No arguments.


       old    Swap the current variable value with the old one. One argument.


       quit   Program termination.


       run    Run a module. Note that you must supply a valid module name
              otherwise, the list of the loaded modules is printed.


       vars   Print all user variables.


FEATURES
       Spar supports terminal features (termios) to allow the program to be
       more user-friendly and also more robust.


   READLINE OPTION
       Spar can be compiled (via configure script) to use the GNU readline
       input editor library.  This allows the user to do more editing of lines
       before sending them to spar.


       It also allows for a history of previous lines typed: the history can
       be viewed by '´ key, whereas the readline auto-completion was
       implemented by the TAB key. For more information, read the user manuals
       for the GNU readline and history libraries.  Instead the key '!' run
       the last command and, finally the key ':' can be used to display a
       specific history item. For example: ':1' shows the first history item.


   SIGNALS SUPPORT
       During a session, the SIGINT signal (usually generated by the control-C
       character from the terminal), SIGSTP signal (usually generated by the
       control-Z character from the terminal) and SIGTERM signal will cause
       execution to be interrupted. After all run-time structures have been
       cleaned up, a message will be printed to notify the user that spar is
       aborted.  All variables and modules are removed during the clean up
       process.


   TERMCAP SUPPORT
       The control key EOF is inhibited. spar restore this setting on exit.


BUGS
       The best way to submit a bug report for Spar is to use the file BUG-
       REPORT, that will enable me to fix the problem. Please visit the Spar
       homepages at:

            http://spar.sourceforge.net/index.html (main site)
            http://web.tiscalinet.it/Davide18/index.html

       for the latest version, patches and documentation.


FILES
       /usr/local/bin/spar                     Spar
       /usr/local/lib/libspar.so               Spar Library
       /usr/local/include/spar/*               Spar Headers
       /usr/local/lib/spar/*                   Spar modules
       /usr/local/share/spar/modules_config    Spar modules config


AUTHOR
       Davide Angelocola davide178@inwind.it


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
       The author would like to thank Sebastian Ritterbusch
       (Rascal@Ritterbusch.de) for his extensive help in testing the program
       and the documentation. Many great suggestions were given. Please visit
       his website http://rascal.sourceforge.net or the sourceforge project at
       http://sourceforge.net/projects/rascal.


SEE ALSO
       bc(1)    An arbitrary precision calculator language
       Spar can be used also as library, a API reference can be founded via
       web at http://sourceforge.net/projects/spar. Please help me to extend
       and correct it.

                                  26 Jun 2001                          SPAR(1)
