SPELLCAST(6)                 FreeBSD Games Manual                 SPELLCAST(6)

NAME
       spellcast  -  a game of duelling wizards

SYNOPSIS
       spellcast remotedisplay [ remotedisplay ...  ]

       One game window will appear on the default display (determined by the
       contents of the DISPLAY environment variable.) The second will appear
       on remotedisplay, which should be either an internet host name or a
       complete X display identifier (host:0.0, for example.) (If just a host
       name is given, display 0 and screen 0 are assumed.)  If more
       remotedisplay arguments are supplied, additional windows will appear on
       those screens, and you will have a game with three or more players.

       All other machines must add your machine to their X access lists, using
       xhost +.

       There is a maximum of seven remotedisplay arguments -- ie, an eight-
       player game.

RESOURCES
       The game makes use of two X resources:

       spellcast*name: namestring
       Sets the name used for your wizard. If you do not set this resource,
       the game assigns the names "White", "Black", "Red", and so forth.
       By default, each character is male. You can specify a gender by giving
       a namestring of the form
       name:f for a female character,
       name:m for a male,
       name:n for a character whose gender is ambiguous or not well-defined in
       human terms, and
       name:x for a genderless character.

       spellcast*font: fontname
       The font used for all text and labels in the game window. This should
       not be larger than about 12-point, or things will start to overflow
       their boundaries.

INTRODUCTION
       This is a game concerning the imaginary conflict between two or more
       powerful wizards in a duel of sorcery. The opponents perform magical
       gestures with their hands to create their supernatural weapons --
       spells. Some are so potent as to be able to blind a man, call forth
       terrifying creatures, or even kill the unfortunate victim instantly.
       Consequently each wizard must rely on his own cunning to be able to
       time enough defensive spells to avoid the brunt of his adversary's
       attack, yet force in sufficient offensive spells of his own to crack
       the magical armour of his opponent, and kill the wizard outright. The
       inventor wishes to state that he has never been involved in a magical
       duel but would be interested to discover how realistic the game is for
       those who have...

THE TURN
       In a turn, each wizard can either gesture with his hands for part of a
       spell, stab with his knife, or do nothing. They use both hands, and the
       hands can act either independently or in concert. Monsters cannot make
       magical gestures but will obey their masters' commands exactly --
       although the identity of the master could change as a result of
       enchantment. Since wizards are trained intelligent humans, they are
       able to gesture and attack, using both hands independently or in
       conjunction. Each monster, being an untrained, unintelligent biped,
       attacks the same way every time and picks whichever victim its master
       decides. As a result, only wizards can gesture and cast spells.
       Players personally acquainted with monsters who wish to vouch for their
       ability to cast spells are requested to keep quiet.

       After choosing his or her gestures, each wizard must make a certain
       number of decisions -- choosing targets for his spells, ordering his
       monsters to attack particular targets, deciding the effects of certain
       spells, and so forth. After all players have chosen their gestures and
       made any necessary decisions, the effects of all spells and attacks are
       resolved simultaneously.  The next turn then begins.

THE GAME WINDOW
       The spellcast window is divided into seven sections.

       The text window
       This is a large rectangle in the upper left side of the window.  It
       describes what happens in the duel, blow by blow. There is a scroll bar
       on the left side of the text window.

       The gesture history list
       This is several columns of small squares in the upper right side of the
       window -- one pair of columns for each player. The player's names are
       listed at the tops of the columns.

       Each column lists the recent gestures made by each player's left and
       right hands. The most recent gestures are at the bottom; as more turns
       pass, the columns scroll upwards. Each square may show a spell-gesture,
       a knife stab, or no gesture (an empty square).  There may also be a
       'disruption' icon, indicating that an 'anti-spell' has interrupted that
       wizard's gestures at that point, or a 'fog' icon, indicating that you
       could not see that gesture (because of blindness, for example.)

       Note that everyone's columns in the history list do not necessarily
       scroll at the same rate. If one player makes extra gestures (because of
       a 'time-stop' or 'haste'), his column will scroll up extra spaces.  Do
       not assume that gestures that appear to be lined up actually were
       performed at the same time.

       You also use the gesture history list to enter your gestures. At the
       beginning of each turn, the bottom (most recent) gestures in your
       column will be empty. (The bottom gestures in your opponent's column
       will be fogged, since you cannot see his gestures until you both finish
       choosing.) If you move the mouse into one of your bottom gesture
       squares, and hold down the left mouse button, a pop-up menu will
       appear, listing the possible gestures with that hand. When you have
       chosen gestures for both hands, press the "End Move" button.

       The status window
       This is the small window just below the gesture columns. It lists the
       name and status of every living being in the arena. Your name is at the
       top; your opponent's names are on successive lines. Names of monsters
       are indented, and listed below the wizards who control them. (Monsters
       who are uncontrolled are indented and listed at the top of the status
       window -- this occurs mostly in three-player game where a wizard has
       summoned a monster and then died.) There is a scroll bar on the window,
       in case you manage to have more beings than will fit.

       After each name is the number of hit points that being has left.  After
       that, there may be some letters indicating that certain spells are in
       effect:
       I: invisible
       H: resistant to heat
       C: resistant to cold
       P: protection from evil
       b: blind
       d: diseased
       p: poisoned

       Speech window
       This is a narrow window, one line tall, below the status window.
       Anything you type will appear here (the cursor need not be in the
       speech window.) When you hit Return, the message you have typed will
       appear in each player's text window.

       The common Emacs editing keys will work: ctrl-F, ctrl-B, Delete,
       ctrl-A, ctrl-E, ctrl-K.

       Spell List button
       This is a button labelled "Spell List", underneath the text window.  If
       you press and hold the mouse button on this button, a pop-up window
       will appear, listing all the spells and the gestures that produce them.

       If you use the left mouse button, the spell list will be sorted by
       gesture. If you use the middle mouse button, the list will be sorted
       alphabetically by spell name. If you use the right mouse button, the
       list will be sorted by the reversed gesture sequence -- all the spells
       that end with a clap, then all the spells that end with a digit, and so
       forth.  This is useful for looking up your opponent's gestures to see
       what he might be producing.

       End Move / End Answers button
       This is a button labelled "End Move", underneath the text window.  You
       should click it when you are finished entering your gestures at the
       start of the turn. If the button changes to read "Move ENDED", then you
       should wait for your opponent to finish entering his gestures.

       When the last player presses the "End Move" button, the game will
       determine which players need to make decisions (about spell targets or
       other matters.) The decisions you need to make will be listed in the
       questions window below, and the "End Move" button will change to read
       "End Answers". When you are finished answering, press the button, and
       it will change to "Answers ENDED".

       If at any time the button reads "please wait...", then you have nothing
       to do but wait. (This may be because there are no decisions you have to
       make this turn, or because your opponent is taking an extra turn
       because of a 'time stop' or something similar.) When your opponent is
       finished, he will click his "End" button and the game will proceed.

       When the duel is over, this button will change to say "Quit". When all
       players have pressed it, the windows will be removed and the program
       will exit.

       Question window
       This is the wide rectangle at the bottom of the screen. Whenever the
       game has decisions for you to make, it will put them in this window,
       one per line. (There is a scroll bar, in case there are more questions
       than lines.) Move the cursor onto a question and hold down the mouse
       button to get a pop-up menu listing the possible answers.

       You must have answers to all the questions before you click the "End
       Answers" button.  In some cases, there will be default answers already
       listed. You may change the answer or leave it alone.

GAME TRANSCRIPTS
       At the end of the game, in addition to his "Quit" button, the player
       who started the game will see the question "Do you want to save a
       transcript of this game?" If he answers "yes" before hitting "Quit",
       the program will store a text transcript of the game in a temporary
       directory (usually /tmp, unless your environment is configured
       otherwise.) This transcript will show all gestures made by each player,
       as well as all the text of the game, as seen by an outside observer.
       Everything said by any of the players will also be in the transcript,
       including comments made after the end of the game. The filename of the
       transcript will be printed on the standard output when all players have
       quit.

GESTURES
       Spells are created by sequences of gestures made with the hands.  There
       are five single-handed gestures: the fingers spread "F", the palm
       facing forward, "P", the snap "S", the wave "W" and the pointing digit
       "D". Some spells use two-handed gestures, which must be done
       simultaneously with both hands to be valid. The most common two-handed
       gesture is the clap "(c", but the double digit "(d", double wave "(w",
       and double snap "(s" are also used.  The other things which can be done
       with the hand are the non-gestures: the knife stab "k" and nothing " ".
       (In the game, the gestures are represented by images of the hands in
       the various positions. The single-letter and parenthesis-letter
       abbreviations are used only to make this man page readable.)

       To cast a spell, gestures are put in an order characteristic of a
       spell. A list of spells (including the gestures needed for them) is
       given later.  For example, 3 finger gestures on consecutive turns (F-F-
       F) initiates a 'paralysis' spell. The uniqueness of the game, however,
       is that gestures can be made to operate in more than one spell,
       provided that:
       a) the gestures have been made in the correct sequence without
       interruption;
       b) not more than one spell is created per gesture; c) all gestures for
       one spell are made with the same hand.

       For instance, the left hand could cast the F-F-F above and could be
       followed by S-S-D-D in the next 4 turns to finish off a 'fireball'
       spell (F-S-S-D-D) as the last 5 gestures are those associated with that
       spell. Another alternative is to simply perform another F for a second
       paralysis spell, as the last 3 gestures are still F-F-F. Thus, it is
       apparent that if spells are used in a wise manner and overlap a lot,
       the overall number of gestures needed to cast them can be cut quite
       dramatically.

       If a gesture can be construed to create two or more spells then the
       caster must choose which one he wants to use. For example, the last two
       gestures of a 'finger of death' are the same as 'missile', yet only on
       odd occasions would the latter be used. Another example of the one-
       spell-per-gesture concept is the following:

       Right hand:     P P W S    Last 4 gestures form 'invisibility'
       Left hand:      W W W S    Last 3 gestures form 'counter-spell'

       The trouble here is the 'invisibility' spell needs both hands to
       perform certain gestures. However, since the final S of the left hand
       cannot complete two spells it is clear that a choice must be made
       between the W-W-S of the 'counter-spell' and the P-P-(w-(s of the
       invisibility.  The caster must choose one spell if the gestures are
       completed in the correct sequence. Most spells can be shot off to
       nowhere if not required, but some cannot be; for example, 'fire storm',
       which gets you no matter where it is released. Some of the larger
       spells have smaller ones incorporated within.

       Spells can be aborted any way along their development simply by
       performing a gesture with the hand doing the spell which is not one
       needed for that spell. There is no penalty, save having wasted some
       time. Note that no spells contain "stab", "nothing", or "C" (half of a
       clap) and consequently after pursuing one of these alternatives, any
       spell must start from scratch. Note also that wizards only have one
       dagger each, so they cannot stab with both hands at the same time
       (although they can change hands for stabbing without wasting time.)
       Such are the disadvantages of physical violence...

       Certain spells cancel each other if they take effect simultaneously. An
       obvious example is 'finger of death' and 'raise dead'. Cancellation
       occurs when the subject for the spells concerned is the same person,
       although there are some of the heat versus cold variety which don't
       care who is the subject. Other spells which cancel harmlessly are
       mostly the enchantments, which direct that something be done which may
       be impossible to obey due to some contradiction (e.g.  you cannot both
       repeat last turn's gestures and give a random gesture with one hand, as
       you would if the subject of the spells 'amnesia' and 'confusion' at
       once).

       Since spells detonate simultaneously, there is occasionally confusion
       over spells which don't cancel, yet which seem to depend on which
       happened first. The best example is when a monster is created and, on
       the same turn, hit by a 'fireball', or something else sufficient to
       kill it. Since both are simultaneous, the monster will attack that turn
       whilst being destroyed. (There are some exceptions explicitly
       mentioned, for example ice elementals in 'ice storm', or 'counter-
       spell' / 'dispel magic' against all other spells.)

       Another example of a seeming conflict is when someone who is resistant
       to fire is the subject of both a 'remove enchantment' and 'fireball';
       the enchantment is removed as the fireball explodes (since they are
       simultaneous) hence the poor victim is fried. If, instead, he were not
       resistant to fire and was hit by a 'resist fire' and 'fireball' at
       once, then he would start to resist fire as the fireball exploded and
       thus be saved.

       Before the battle commences, the referee casts a 'dispel magic'
       followed by an 'anti-spell' at each of the wizards. This is so that
       they cannot commence gesturing prematurely. Thus being resistant to
       fire in your last battle doesn't do you any good in the next.

WINNING
       Each wizard can sustain 14 points of damage, but on the 15th or above
       he dies and the surviving wizard is declared the winner.  Simultaneous
       death is a posthumous draw. Damage given to wizards and monsters is
       cumulative (so you don't have to do it all in one go!)  Dead monsters
       take no further part in the game.

       There is another alternative to being killed, namely the 'surrender'.
       This is not a spell, but a pair of P gestures made by both hands at the
       same time.  If any wizard does this (accidentally or deliberately), he
       has surrendered, and will be eliminated from the game at the end of
       that turn.  See the end of the spell list for details.

SPELLS
       There now follows, in four sections, a list of the spells which may be
       cast.

       Protection spells

       'Shield': P

       This spell protects the subject from all attacks from monsters (that
       is, creatures created by a summoning spell), from 'missile' spells, and
       from stabs by wizards. The shield lasts for that turn only, but one
       shield will cover all such attacks made against the subject that turn.

       'Remove enchantment': P-D-W-P

       If the subject of this spell is currently being affected by any of the
       spells in the  "enchantments" section, or if spells from that section
       are cast at him at the same time as the remove enchantment, then all
       such spells terminate immediately (although their effect for that turn
       might already have passed.) For example, the victim of a 'blindness'
       spell would not be able to see what his opponent's gestures were on the
       turn that his sight is restored by a 'remove enchantment'. Note that
       the 'remove enchantment' affects all enchantments whether the caster
       wants them to all go or not. A second effect of the spell is to destroy
       any monster upon which it is cast, although the monster can attack in
       that turn.

       'Magic mirror': (c-(w

       Any spell cast at the subject of this spell is reflected back at the
       caster of that spell for that turn only. This includes spells like
       'missile' and 'lightning bolt' but does not include attacks by monsters
       already in existence, or stabs from wizards. Note that certain spells
       are cast by wizards usually upon themselves (e.g.  spells from this
       section and the "Summons" section); the mirror has no effect on these
       spells.  It is countered totally, with no effect whatsoever, if the
       subject is the simultaneous subject of either a 'counter-spell' or
       'dispel magic'. It has no effect on spells which affect more than one
       person, such as 'fire storm'. Two mirrors cast at someone
       simultaneously combine to form a single mirror.  If a spell is
       reflected from a mirror back at a wizard who also has a mirror, the
       spell bounces back and forth until it falls apart.

       'Counter-spell': W-P-P or W-W-S

       Any other spell cast upon the subject in the same turn has no effect
       whatever. In the case of blanket-type spells, which affect more than
       one person, the subject of the 'counter-spell' alone is protected. For
       example, a 'fire storm' spell would not affect a wizard if that wizard
       was simultaneously the subject of a 'counter-spell', but everyone else
       would be affected as usual (unless they had their own protection.)  The
       'counter-spell' will cancel all the spells cast at the subject for that
       turn, including 'remove enchantment' and 'magic mirror', but not
       'dispel magic' or 'finger of death'. It will combine with another spell
       of its own type for the same effect as if it were alone.  The 'counter-
       spell' will also act as a 'shield' on its subject, in addition to its
       other properties.  The spell has two alternative gesture sequences,
       either of which may be used at any time.

       'Dispel magic': (c-D-P-W

       This spell acts as a combination of 'counter-spell' and 'remove
       enchantment', but its effects are universal rather than limited to the
       subject of the spell. It will stop any spell cast in the same turn from
       working (apart from another 'dispel magic' spell which combines with it
       for the same result), and will remove all enchantments from all beings
       before they have effect. In addition, all monsters are destroyed,
       although they can attack that turn. 'Counter-spells' and 'magic
       mirrors' have no effect. Like the 'counter-spell', it also acts as a
       'shield' for its subject. 'Dispel magic' will not dispel stabs or
       surrenders, since they are not spells (although the 'shield' effect may
       block a stab.)

       'Raise dead': D-W-W-F-W-(c

       The subject of this spell is usually a recently dead human or monster
       corpse (it will not work on elementals, which dissipate when
       destroyed.)  When the spell is cast, life is instilled back into the
       corpse and any damage which it has sustained is cured until the owner
       is back to his usual state of health.  A 'remove enchantment' effect is
       also manifest so any 'diseases' or 'poisons' will be neutralized (plus
       any other enchantments).  The subject will be able to act as normal
       immediately, so that next turn he can gesture, fight, etc. If the
       subject is a monster, it will be under the control of the wizard who
       raised it, and it will be able to attack that turn.
       If the spell is cast on a live individual, the effect is that of a
       'cure wounds' recovering 5 points of damage, or as many as have been
       sustained if less than 5. In this case, 'diseases', 'poisons', and
       other enchantments are not removed.
       This is the only spell which affects corpses properly; therefore, it
       cannot be stopped by a 'counter-spell', since 'counter-spell' can only
       be cast on living beings. A 'dispel magic' spell will stop it, since
       that affects all spells no matter what their subject.  Once alive the
       subject is treated as normal.

       'Cure light wounds': D-F-W

       If the subject has received damage then he is cured by 1 point as if
       that point had not been inflicted. (Recall that all spells are resolved
       simultanously; if a wizard is suffers his 15th point of damage at the
       same time as he is affected by 'cure light wounds', he will remain
       alive with 14 points of damage at the end of the turn.) The effect is
       not removed by a 'dispel magic' or 'remove enchantment'.

       'Cure heavy wounds': D-F-P-W

       This spell is the same as 'cure light wounds' for its effect, but 2
       points of damage are cured instead of 1, or only 1 if only 1 had been
       sustained. A side effect is that the spell will also cure a disease.
       (Note that 'raise dead' on a live individual won't).

       Summons spells

       'Summon Goblin': S-F-W

       This spell creates a goblin under the control of the wizard upon whom
       the spell is cast. The goblin can attack immediately and its victim can
       be any any wizard or other monster the controller desires.  The goblin
       does 1 point of damage to its victim per turn and is destroyed after 1
       point of damage is inflicted upon it.

       'Summon Ogre': P-S-F-W

       This spell is the same as 'summon goblin', but the ogre created
       inflicts and is destroyed by 2 points of damage rather than 1.

       'Summon Troll': F-P-S-F-W

       This spell is the same as 'summon goblin', but the troll created
       inflicts and is destroyed by 3 points of damage rather than 1.

       'Summon Giant': W-F-P-S-F-W

       This spell is the same as 'summon goblin', but the giant created
       inflicts and is destroyed by 4 points of damage rather than 1.

       'Summon Elemental': (c-S-W-W-S

       This spell creates either a fire elemental or an ice elemental, at the
       discretion of the wizard upon whom the spell is cast (after he has seen
       all the gestures made that turn.)

       Elementals must be cast at someone and cannot be "shot off" harmlessly
       at some inanimate object. The elemental will, for that turn and until
       destroyed, attack everyone (including its owner, and other monsters),
       causing 3 points of damage per turn. Only wizards and monsters who are
       resistant to the elemental's element (heat or cold), or who have a
       'shield' or a spell with a 'shield' effect, are safe.  The elemental
       takes 3 points of damage to be killed but may be destroyed by spells of
       the opposite type (e.g. 'fire storm', 'resist cold' or 'fireball' will
       kill an ice elemental), and will also neutralize the cancelling spell.
       Elementals will not attack on the turn they are destroyed by such a
       spell. An elemental will also be engulfed and destroyed by a storm of
       its own type but, in such an event, the storm is not neutralized
       although the elemental still does not attack in that turn.  Two
       elementals of the opposite type will also destroy each other before
       attacking, and two of the same type will join together to form a single
       elemental of normal strength. If there are two opposite storms and an
       elemental, or two opposite elementals and one or two storms, all storms
       and elementals cancel each other out.

       Damaging Spells

       'Missile': S-D

       This spell creates a material object of hard substance which is hurled
       towards the subject of the spell and causes him 1 point of damage. The
       spell is thwarted by a 'shield' in addition to the usual 'counter-
       spell', 'dispel magic' and 'magic mirror' (the latter causing it to hit
       whoever cast it instead).

       'Finger of Death': P-W-P-F-S-S-S-D

       Kills the subject stone dead. This spell is so powerful that it is
       unaffected by a 'counter-spell', although a 'dispel magic' spell cast
       upon the final gesture will stop it. The usual way to prevent being
       harmed by this spell is to disrupt it during casting -- using an 'anti-
       spell', for example.

       'Lightning Bolt': D-F-F-D-D or W-D-D-(c

       The subject of this spell is hit by a bolt of lightning and sustains 5
       points of damage. Resistance to heat or cold is irrelevant. There are
       two gesture combinations for the spell, but the shorter one may be used
       only once per battle by any wizard. The longer one may be used without
       restriction. A 'shield' spell offers no defence.

       'Cause Light Wounds': W-F-P

       The subject of this spell is inflicted with 2 points of damage.
       Resistance to heat or cold offers no defence. A simultaneous 'cure
       light wounds' does not cancel the spell; it only heals one of the
       points of damage. A 'shield' has no effect.

       'Cause Heavy Wounds': W-P-F-D

       This has the same effect as 'cause light wounds' but inflicts 3 points
       of damage instead of 2.

       'Fireball': F-S-S-D-D

       The subject of this spell is hit by a ball of fire, and sustains 5
       points of damage unless he is resistant to fire. If at the same time an
       'ice storm' prevails, the subject of the 'fireball' is instead not
       harmed by either spell, although the storm will affect others as
       normal. If directed at an ice elemental, the fireball will destroy it
       before it can attack.

       'Fire storm': S-W-W-(c

       Everything not resistant to heat sustains 5 points of damage that turn.
       The spell cancels wholly, causing no damage, with either an 'ice storm'
       or an ice elemental. It will destroy but not be destroyed by a fire
       elemental. Two 'fire storms' act as one.

       'Ice storm': W-S-S-(c

       Everything not resistant to cold sustains 5 points of damage that turn.
       The spell cancels wholly, causing no damage, with either a 'fire storm'
       or a fire elemental; it will cancel locally with a 'fireball', sparing
       the subject of the 'fireball' but nobody else.  It will destroy but not
       be destroyed by an ice elemental. Two 'ice storms' act as one.

       Enchantments

       'Amnesia': D-P-P

       If the subject of this spell is a wizard, next turn he must repeat
       identically the gestures he made in the current turn, including
       "nothing" and "stab" gestures.  If the subject is a monster it will
       attack whoever it attacked this turn. If the subject is simultaneously
       the subject of any of 'confusion', 'charm person', 'charm monster',
       'paralysis' or 'fear' then none of the spells work.

       'Confusion': D-S-F

       If the subject of this spell is a wizard, next turn one of his gestures
       will be changed randomly. Either his left or his right hand (50% chance
       of either) will perform a half-clap, palm, digit, fingers, snap, or
       wave (chosen at random). (Recall that a one-handed clap is useless
       unless the other hand also attempts to clap.)  If the subject of the
       spell is a monster, it attacks at random that turn. If the subject is
       also the subject of any of 'amnesia', 'charm person', 'charm monster',
       'paralysis' or 'fear', none of the spells work.

       'Charm Person': P-S-D-F

       Except for cancellation with other enchantments, this spell only
       affects wizards. When the spell is cast, the caster tells the subject
       which of his hands will be controlled; in the following turn, the
       caster chooses the gesture he wants the subject's chosen hand to
       perform. This could be a stab or nothing.  If the 'charm person' spell
       reflects from a 'magic mirror' back at its caster, the subject of the
       mirror assumes the role of caster and controls down his opponent's
       gesture. If the subject is also the subject of any of 'amnesia',
       'confusion', 'charm monster', 'paralysis' or 'fear', none of the spells
       work.

       'Charm Monster': P-S-D-D

       Except for cancellation with other enchantments, this spell only
       affects monsters (but not elementals). Control of the monster is
       transferred to the caster of the spell (or retained by him) as of this
       turn; i.e., the monster will attack whosoever its new controller
       dictates from that turn onwards including that turn. Further charms
       are, of course, possible, transferring as before. If the subject of the
       charm is also the subject of any of: 'amnesia', 'confusion', 'charm
       person', 'fear' or 'paralysis', none of the spells work.

       'Paralysis': F-F-F

       If the subject of the spell is a wizard, then on the turn the spell is
       cast, after gestures have been revealed, the caster selects one of the
       wizard's hands; on the next turn that hand is paralyzed into the
       position it is in this turn. If the wizard already had a paralyzed
       hand, it must be the same hand which is paralyzed again. Most gestures
       remain the same (including "stab" and "nothing"), but if the hand being
       paralyzed is performing a C, S, or W it is instead paralyzed into F, D,
       or P respectively.  A favourite ploy is to continually paralyze a hand
       (F-F-F-F-F-F etc.) into a non-P gesture and then set a monster on the
       subject so that he has to use his other hand to protect himself, but
       then has no defence against other magical attacks. If the subject of
       the spell is a monster, it simply does not attack in the turn following
       the one in which the spell was cast. Elementals are unaffected.  If the
       subject of the spell is also the subject of any of 'amnesia',
       'confusion', 'charm person', 'charm monster' or 'fear', none of the
       spells work.

       'Fear': S-W-D

       In the turn following the casting of this spell, the subject cannot
       perform a C, D, F or S gesture with either hand. (He can stab,
       however.) This obviously has no effect on monsters.  If the subject is
       also the subject of 'amnesia', 'confusion', 'charm person', 'charm
       monster' or 'paralysis', then none of the spells work.

       'Anti-spell': S-P-F

       On the turn following the casting of this spell, the subject cannot
       include any gestures made on or before this turn in a spell sequence
       and must restart a new spell from the beginning of that spell sequence.
       (This is marked by a special 'disruption' icon interrupting the
       subject's gesture history.)  The spell does not affect spells which are
       cast on the same turn; nor does it affect monsters.

       'Protection from Evil': W-W-P

       For this turn and the following three turns, the subject of this spell
       is protected as if using a 'shield' spell, thus leaving both hands
       free.  Concurrent 'shield' spells offer no further protection, and
       compound 'protection from evil' spells merely overlap offering no extra
       cover.

       'Resist Heat': W-W-F-P

       The subject of this spell becomes permanently resistant to all forms of
       heat attack ('fireball', 'fire storm' and fire elementals). Only
       'dispel magic' or 'remove enchantment' will terminate this resistance
       once started (although a 'counter-spell' will prevent it from working
       if cast at the subject at the same time as this spell). A 'resist heat'
       cast directly on a fire elemental will destroy it before it can attack
       that turn, but there is no effect on ice elementals.

       'Resist Cold': S-S-F-P

       The effects of this spell are identical to 'resist heat' but resistance
       is to cold ('ice storm' and ice elementals). It destroys ice elementals
       if they are the subject of the spell, but doesn't affect fire
       elementals.

       'Disease': D-S-F-F-F-(c

       The subject of this spell immediately contracts a deadly (non-
       contagious) disease which will kill him at the end of 6 turns counting
       from the one upon which the spell is cast. The malady is cured by
       'remove enchantment', 'cure heavy wounds' or 'dispel magic' in the
       meantime.

       'Poison': D-W-W-F-W-D

       This is similar to the 'disease' spell, except that 'cure heavy wounds'
       does not stop its effects.

       'Blindness': D-W-F-F-(d

       For the next three turns (not including the one in which the spell was
       cast), the subject is unable to see. If he is a wizard, he cannot tell
       what his opponent's gestures are, although he will sense what spells
       are cast. If he tries to cast spells (or stab) at other beings, he will
       miss. Blinded monsters are instantly destroyed and cannot attack in
       that turn.

       'Invisibility': P-P-(w-(s

       This spell is similar to 'blindness'; the subject of the spell becomes
       invisible to his opponent and his monsters. His gestures cannot be
       seen, although his spells can. No other being can attack or cast spells
       at him, with the exception of elementals.  Any monster made invisible
       is destroyed due to the unstable nature of such magically created
       creatures.

       'Haste': P-W-P-W-W-(c

       For the next three turns, the subject is speeded up; wizards can make
       an extra set of gestures, and monsters can make an extra attack.  For
       wizards, the effects of both sets of gestures are taken simultaneously
       at the end of the turn.  Thus a single 'counter-spell' from his
       adversary could cancel two spells cast by the hastened wizard on two
       half-turns if the phasing is right. Non-hastened wizards and monsters
       can see everything the hastened individual is doing.  Hastened monsters
       can change target in the extra turns if desired.

       'Time stop': S-P-P-(c

       The subject of this spell immediately takes an extra turn, on which no-
       one can see or know about unless they are harmed. All non-affected
       beings have no resistance to any form of attack, e.g. a wizard halfway
       through the duration of a 'protection from evil' spell can be harmed by
       a monster which has had its time stopped. Time-stopped monsters attack
       whoever their controller instructs, and time-stopped elementals affect
       everyone, resistance to heat or cold being immaterial in that turn.

       'Delayed effect': D-W-S-S-S-P

       This spell must be cast upon a wizard. The next spell the subject
       completes, provided it is in one of the next three turns, is "banked"
       until needed -- i.e. it fails to work until its caster desires.  (If
       you have a spell banked, you will be asked each turn if you want to
       release it.) Note that spells banked are those cast by the subject, not
       those cast at him. If he casts more than one spell at the same time, he
       chooses which is to be banked. Remember that P is a 'shield' spell, and
       surrender is not a spell. A wizard may only have one spell banked at
       any one time.

       'Permanency': S-P-F-P-S-D-W

       This spell must be upon a wizard. The next spell he completes, provided
       it is in the next three turns, and which falls into the category of
       "Enchantments" will have its effect made permanent.  (Exeptions: 'anti-
       spell', 'disease', 'poison', 'time-stop', 'delayed effect', and
       'permanency' cannot be made permanent. Note that 'resist heat' and
       'resist cold' are inherently permanent enchantments.)  This means that
       the effect of the extended spell on the first turn of its duration is
       repeated eternally. For example, a 'confusion' spell will produce the
       same gesture on the same hand rather than changing randomly each turn;
       a 'charm person' will mean repetition of the chosen gesture, etc. If
       the subject of the 'permanency' casts more than one spell at the same
       time eligible for permanency, he chooses which has its duration
       extended. Note that the person who has his spell made permanent does
       not necessarily have to make himself the subject of the spell. If both
       a 'permanency' and 'delayed effect' are eligible for the same spell to
       be banked or extended, a choice must be made; whichever is not chosen
       will affect the next eligible spell instead.

       Non-spells

       'Surrender': (p

       This is not a spell; consequently, it cannot be cast at anyone, nor can
       it be dispelled, counter-spelled, reflected off a mirror, or banked.  A
       wizard who makes two simultaneous P gestures, irrespective of whether
       they terminate spells or not, surrenders and the contest is over. The
       surrendering wizard is deemed to have lost unless his gestures complete
       spells which kill his opponent. Two simultaneous surrenders count as a
       draw. It is a necessary skill for wizards to work their spells so that
       they never accidentally perform two P gestures simultaneously.  Wizards
       can be killed as they surrender (if hit with appropriate spells or
       attacks) but the "referees" will cure any diseases, poisons, etc.
       immediately after the surrender for them.

       'Stab': stab

       This is not a spell, but an attack which can be directed at any
       individual monster or wizard. Unless protected in that turn by a
       'shield' spell or another spell with the same effect, the target
       stabbed suffers 1 point of damage. The wizard only has one knife, so
       can only stab with one hand in any turn, although which hand doesn't
       matter. The stab cannot be reflected, counter-spelled, dispelled, or
       banked.

BUGS
       Does not conform exactly to the original Spellcaster rules. Tough. Some
       points of divergence:

       The choosing of targets for monsters is handled much too late in the
       round, and monster attacks are not perfectly simultaneous with spell
       attacks. This results in a number of minor effects which are
       inconsistent with the original rules. Since I don't plan to do a major
       rewrite anytime soon, you just get to live with it.

       If 'remove enchantment' is cast on a wizard who is also the subject of
       a summoning spell, the summoned monster should be destroyed after
       attacking.

       If a mind-control spell (paralysis, confusion, amnesia) is cast on a
       monster by a time-stopped wizard, the spell should take effect on the
       next turn, rather than (as currently happens) the turn after next.

       The 'delayed effect' and 'permanency' spells should be able to bank or
       extend spells cast during the same turn, as well as those cast during
       the next three turns.

HISTORY
       The original paper-and-pencil version of this game, entitled
       Spellbinder, was created by Richard Bartle; it was printed in his zine
       Sauce of the Nile.  He attempted to have it commercially produced, but
       apparently didn't get very far.
       It was reprinted (with some changes) as Spellcaster in the fanzine Duel
       Purpose, written by Mike Lean. From there, it was scanned and posted to
       the Net by Andrew Buchanan (buchanan@heron.enet.dec.com). I grabbed it
       and wrote this X version.
       Richard Bartle <76703.3042@compuserve.com> would like to point out that
       he is not at all dead. He has nicely given his permission to distribute
       this program, as long as it remains free.

AUTHOR
       Andrew Plotkin <ap1i+@andrew.cmu.edu>

                                     local                        SPELLCAST(6)
