newsbody(1)                      User Manuals                      newsbody(1)



NAME
       newsbody - Run a program on the body of a mail or news message


SYNOPSIS
       newsbody [-fhqsv] [-k headername ] -n message -p program [-- [
       arguments...  ]]


DESCRIPTION
       newsbody copies the body of a news or email article in message to a
       temporary file (called the bodyfile) and then calls program with its
       arguments.  program is supposed to somehow change the bodyfile.  It can
       for instance be a spell checker. Afterwards the possibly changed body
       is remerged with the headers and copied back into the message.


       If message is specified as - then newsbody will act as a filter, i.e.
       standard input and standard output will be used.


       %f in the arguments will be expanded to the name of the bodyfile, or -
       if the -f option is used. Use %% for a real % character.


OPTIONS
       -f     The called program is a filter so don't make a temporary file,
              but pipe the body to its standard input and read it back from
              its standard output.

       -h     Keep the entire header. This flag can also be used if newsfile
              doesn't have a header at all.

       -q     Also remove quotes before filtering the body. Lines starting
              with > are considered quotes.

       -s     Also remove signature before filtering the body.

       -k headername
              Keep these header lines in the bodyfile. Multiple -k flags are
              allowed.

       -v     Print the version and exit.


FILES
       newsbody uses one or two temporary files with names given by the
       tmpnam(3) function.


BUGS
       If some system call gives an unexpected error newsbody will stop
       immediately with an error message leaving its temporary files.


AUTHOR
       Byrial Jensen <byrial@image.dk>


SEE ALSO
       pospell(1).

Unix                              APRIL 2000                       newsbody(1)
