SCONVERT(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            SCONVERT(1)

NAME
       sconvert - convert spice formats

SYNOPSIS
       sconvert fromtype fromfile totype tofile
       sconvert fromtype totype
       sconvert

DESCRIPTION
       Sconvert translates spice output files among three formats: the old
       binary format, a new binary format, and a new ascii format.  The
       formats are specified by the fromtype and totype arguments: `o' for the
       old format, `b' for the new binary format, and `a' for the new ascii
       format.  Fromtype specifies the format to be read, and totype specifies
       the format to be written.  If fromfile and tofile are given, then they
       are used as the input and output, otherwise standard input and output
       are used.  (Note that this second option is only available on UNIX
       systems - on VMS and other systems you must supply the filenames.)  If
       no arguments are given, the parameters are prompted for.

       Binary format is the preferred format for general use, as it is the
       most economical in terms of space and speed of access, and ascii is
       provided to make it easy to modify data files and transfer them between
       machines with different floating-point formats.  The old format is
       provided only for backward compatibility. The three formats are as
       follows:

       Old:

                What          Size in Bytes

            title                    80
            date                8
            time                8
            numoutputs               2
            the integer 4            2
            variable names --
                 char[numoutputs][8] numoutputs * 8
            types of output               numoutputs * 2
            node index               numoutputs * 2
            plot title               numoutputs * 24
            the actual data               numpoints * numoutputs * 8

       Ascii:

            Title: Title Card String
            Date: Date
            [ Plotname: Plot Name
              Flags: complex or real
              No. Variables: numoutputs
              No. Points: numpoints
              Command: nutmeg command
              Variables:   0 varname1 typename1
                      1 varname2 typename2
                      etc...
              Values:
                0     n    n    n    n    ...
                1     n    n    n    n    ...
                And so forth...
            ] repeated one or more times


       If one of the flags is complex, the points look like r,i where r and i
       are floating point (in %e format). Otherwise they are in %e format.
       Only one of real and complex should appear.

       The lines are guaranteed to be less than 80 columns wide (unless the
       plot title or variable names are very long), so this format is safe
       to mail between systems like CMS.

       Any number of Command: lines may appear between the No. Points:
       and the Variables: lines, and whenever the plot is loaded into
       nutmeg they will be executed.

       Binary:

            Title Card            (a NULL terminated string)
            Date, Time            (a NULL terminated string)
            [
              Plot title          (a NULL terminated string)
              Number of variables   (an int)
              Number of data points (an int)
              flags          (a short)
              variable header struct (repeated numoutputs times)
                 variable name    (a NULL terminated string)
                 variable type    (an int)
              set of outputs      (repeated numpoints times)
            ] repeated one or more times.


       A set of outputs is a vector of doubles of length numoutputs, or
       a vector of real-imaginary pairs of doubles if the data is complex.

SEE ALSO
       nutmeg(1), spice(1), writedata(3)

AUTHOR
       Wayne Christopher (faustus@cad.berkeley.edu)

BUGS
       If variable names and the title and plotname strings have trailing
       blanks in them they will be stripped off when the file is read, if it
       is in ascii format.

       If a plot title begins with "Title:" nutmeg will be fooled into
       thinking that this is an ascii format file. Sconvert always requires
       the type to be specified, however.


4th Berkeley Distribution        20 March 1986                     SCONVERT(1)
