SQLR-EXPORT(1)                   User Commands                  SQLR-EXPORT(1)

NAME
       sqlr-export - manual page for sqlr-export 1.9.3

SYNOPSIS
       sqlr-export [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       sqlr-export is the SQL Relay database object export utility.

       Export a database object for import later or elsewhere using
       sqlr-import.

OPTIONS
   Connection options:
       -host host
              Host name or IP address of the server to connect to.

       -port port
              Port to connect to.

       -socket socket
              Local unix socket file name to connect to.  Can be used instead
              of host/port for making connections to local servers.

       -user user
              User name to auth with.

       -password password
              Password to auth with.

   Alternate connection options:
       -config config
              Override the default configuration with the specified
              configuration.

       -id instanceid
              Derive connection info and credentials from the specified
              instance, as defined in the configuration.

       -krb   Use Kerberos authentication and encryption.

       -krbservice svc
              Use the specified kerberos service.

       -krbmech mech
              Use the specified kerberos mechanism.

       -krbflags flags
              Use the specified kerberos flags, comma-separated.

       -tls   Use TLS/SSL authentication and encrpyiton.

       -tlsversion version
              Use the specified TLS/SSL version.

       -tlscert file
              Use the specified certificate chain file.  This file should
              contain the client's certificate, private key, and signing
              certificates, as appropriate.  On Windows systems, this must be
              a .pfx file.  On non-Windows systems, a variety of file formats
              are supported.

       -tlspassword pwd
              Use the specified password to acess the private key in the file
              specified by -tlscert.

       -tlsciphers "list"
              Allow the specified list of ciphers.  The list should be quoted
              and the ciphers should be separated by spaces.

       -tlsvalidate (no|ca|ca+host|ca+domain)
              Certificate validation option.  "no" - Don't validate the
              server's certificate.  "ca" - Validate that the server's
              certificate was signed by a trusted certificate authority.
              "ca+host" - Perform "ca" validation and also validate that one
              of the subject alternate names (or common name if no SANs are
              present) in the certificate matches the host parameter.  (Falls
              back to "ca" validation when a unix socket is used.)
              "ca+domain" - Perform "ca" validation and also validate that the
              domain name of one of the subject alternate naames (or common
              name if no SANs are present) in the certificate matches the
              domain name of the host parameter.  (Falls back to "ca"
              validation when a unix socket is used.)

       -tlsca file
              Use the specified certificate authority file when validating the
              server's certificate.  Or, if "file" is a directory, then use
              all certificate authority files found in that directory when
              validating the server's certifictate.

       -tlsdepth depth
              Set the maximum certificate chain validation depth to the
              specified depth.

   Command options:
       -table tbl
              Export the specified table.

       -sequence seq
              Export the specified sequence.

       -format xml|csv
              Format the output as specified.  Defaults to xml.

EXAMPLES
       Export a table and sequence using the server at svr:9000 as usr/pwd.

              sqlr-export -host svr -port 9000 -user usr -password pwd \

              -table mytable > mytable.tbl

              sqlr-export -host svr -port 9000 -user usr -password pwd \

              -sequence myseq > myseq.seq

       Export a table and sequence using the local server on socket
       /tmp/svr.sock as usr/pwd.

              sqlr-export -socket /tmp/svr.sock -user usr -password pwd \

              -table mytable > mytable.tbl

              sqlr-export -socket /tmp/svr.sock -user usr -password pwd \

              -sequence myseq > myseq.seq

       Export a table and sequence using connection info and credentials from
       an instance defined in the default configuration.

              sqlr-export -id myinst -table mytable > mytable.tbl

              sqlr-export -id myinst -sequence myseq > myseq.seq

       Export a table and sequence using connection info and credentials from
       an instance defined in the config file ./myconfig.conf

              sqlr-export -config ./myconfig.conf -id myinst \

              -table mytable > mytable.tbl

              sqlr-export -config ./myconfig.conf -id myinst \

              -sequence myseq > myseq.seq

       Rudiments version: 1.4.0 Compiled: Aug  9 2021 22:13:29

AUTHOR
       Written by David Muse.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 1999-2018 David Muse
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.

SQL Relay                         August 2021                   SQLR-EXPORT(1)
