SQUEAK(1)                   Squeak Smalltalk System                  SQUEAK(1)

NAME
       squeak, inisqueak - Unix Squeak virtual machine and installer

SYNOPSIS
       inisqueak
       squeak [ option... ] [ image ] [ script [ argument... ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       squeak is the virtual machine for the Squeak Smalltalk system.  It
       requires three files to operate correctly: an image file containing a
       `snapshot' of a live Squeak session, a changes file containing the
       source code for modified methods in the image, and a copy of (or a link
       to) a shared system sources file containing the source code for methods
       that have not been modified since the last major version increment.

       The image and changes files contain the state of a user's Squeak
       session, which is persistent between consecutive sessions.  Private
       copies of these files are therefore normally required.  The inisqueak
       script checks that the local Squeak installation appears sane, and then
       copies the required files to the current working directory.  If
       inisqueak encounters no problems, it will finish by running squeak to
       start a Squeak session using the newly copied image and changes files.

       inisqueak should be run once, when using Squeak for the first time, to
       create a new 'personal' Squeak session.  Afterwards, squeak should be
       run each time that session is to be resumed.

INVOCATION
       inisqueak has no options or arguments.  Simply 'cd' to the directory
       that is to contain the working copies of the image and changes files,
       then run it.

       squeak accepts various options (described below), and then an optional
       image name (which must not begin with a minus sign '-').  If an image
       name is given on the command line then squeak tries to run that image.
       Otherwise squeak checks the environment variable SQUEAK_IMAGE and, if
       it is set, uses its value as the name of the image to run.  Otherwise
       squeak looks for an image called 'squeak.image' in the current
       directory.  If the image file does not exist then squeak prints a
       message indicating which image file it failed to find and then exits.
       If the extension '.image' is missing in the image argument or in the
       value of the SQUEAK_IMAGE variable, it will be appended automatically.

       The image argument can be followed by a script name.  This is the name
       of a 'document' that should contain Smalltalk code to be executed on
       startup.  The document can be either the name of a file or a URL
       starting with 'http:'.  Any arguments that appear after the script name
       are ignored, but are made available to the script from within Squeak
       via the method getSystemAttribute:.  (See the section SCRIPTS below.)

       If image is given as '--' then squeak immediately stops argument
       processing (and behaves as if image was not specified).  This is useful
       to specify a script (possibly with script arguments) without specifying
       an explicit image.

OPTIONS
       Command line options fall into two categories: 'common' options that
       are recognised by the base VM and 'specific' options that are tied to a
       particular display or sound driver.  Common options will always be
       recognised by squeak, whereas a given specific option will be
       recognised only after squeak has loaded the driver to which it relates.
       Refer to the '-vm' option below for more details.

       The common options recognised by squeak are as follows:

       -encoding enc
              specifies the internal character encoding to be used by Squeak.
              This affects the translation that the VM performs when importing
              text (from the keyboard or via 'paste' from an external
              selection) or exporting text (pasting text from Squeak to
              another application, or when generating filenames containing
              special characters).  In other words, it affects the
              correspondence between what Squeak displays on the screen and
              what it sends to (or receives from) external applications.  The
              correct value depends on the way Squeak's internal fonts are
              encoded.  Current images are delivered with traditional
              Macintosh 'New York' fonts that use Mac Roman encoding, and so
              this is the default internal encoding.  If other fonts (from X11
              or elsewhere) are imported into the image and used as system
              fonts then the this default translation will give incorrect
              results for diacritical marks and special characters.  In such
              cases the -encoding option can be used to change the internal
              encoding, for example

                  -encoding ISO-8859-15

              (aka Latin9) which would be appropriate for many of the fonts
              designed for European languages.

       -help  prints a short summary of the command-line syntax, options and
              available drivers, then exits.

       -memory size[mk]
              requests that a fixed heap of size bytes be allocated for the
              Squeak image.  If the suffix `k' is given then the argument is
              expressed in kilobytes.  If the suffux `m' is given then the
              argument is expressed in megabytes.  This option SHOULD NOT be
              used, unless there is a good reason to do so, since it places an
              arbitrary limit on Squeak's object memory size.

       -mmap size[mk]
              requests that a variable heap of at most size bytes be
              allocated.  (The suffixes are as described for the '-memory'
              option.)  squeak will initially allocate a heap that is large
              enough to hold the image, with a small amount of headroom.  If
              at any time Squeak requires more memory for its image then
              additional space will be allocated dynamically.  Likewise, when
              memory is no longer needed it will deallocated and returned to
              the system.  The size argument places an upper limit on how big
              the heap can grow in this fashion.  squeak uses a dynamic heap
              by default with the maximum size set to 75% of the available
              virtual memory or 1 gigabyte, whichever is smaller.

       -noevents
              disables the new (image 2.8 and later) event-driven input
              mechanism.  This option is only useful for testing backwards
              compatibility with older images and should not be used.

       -notimer
              disables the use of the interval timer for keeping track of low-
              resolution time.  (If you are having problems with file, sound
              or socket i/o reporting `interrupted system call' then setting
              this flag might help.)

       -pathenc enc
              specifies the external character encoding to be used by Squeak
              when accessing the filesystem (file and directory pathnames).
              The correct value depends on the local platform's
              characteristics.  If no encoding conversion should be performed
              then this should be set to the same encoding as Squeak uses
              internally (see the -encoding option).  Otherwise ISO-8859-15
              (aka Latin9) might make sense on a filesystem supporting 8-bit
              characters, and UTF-8 for filesystems that use Unicode-based
              pathnames.  The default is UTF-8 which is correct for Mac OS X
              and very recent GNU/Linux distributions, and which (in an ideal
              world) will eventually be adopted by all Unix variants.

       -plugins path
              specifies an alternative location for external plugins
              (collections of named primitives) and drivers (for display and
              sound).  The path argument contains a pattern in which any
              occurrences of `%n' will be replaced by the name of the plugin
              or driver being loaded.  The path can name either a directory or
              the plugin itself and can be absolute or relative (to the
              directory in which squeak was run).  If a plugin or driver
              cannot be found in the location specified by path then the
              search continues in the default locations.

       -textenc enc
              specifies the external character encoding to be used by Squeak
              when exchanging clipboard text with other applications.  The
              default is UTF-8 on Mac OS X and ISO-8859-15 (aka Latin9) on
              other Unix systems.  Note that X11 applications requesting the
              selection converted to UTF8_STRING data will (correctly) receive
              the clipboard text encoded as UTF-8, regardless of this setting.

              Squeak recognises a subset of the encoding names defined by the
              IANA.  (If you prefer to use the international currency symbol
              rather than the Euro symbol in external text then you might want
              to set this to ISO-8859-1, aka Latin1.)

       -version
              prints three or more lines of version information, as follows:

                 •   the architecture configured for the virtual machine at
                     compile time, the compilation `sequence number', the time
                     and date of compilation, and the name (and version, if
                     known) of the compiler that was used to compile squeak;

                 •   the complete uname(1) information for the host on which
                     the virtual machine was compiled;

                 •   the default installed location for plugins and drivers;

              After printing the above, the virtual machine exits.

       -vm driver
              asks squeak to load a sound/display driver.  For each supported
              device there is a corresponding driver that squeak loads during
              initialisation.  Unless told otherwise, squeak will figure out
              sensible default drivers to load.  This choice can be overridden
              using this option.  The driver argument is a list of one or more
              'assignments' of the form

                   class=device

              separated by spaces or commas.  The supported combinations are
              currently:

                 display=X11
                     to display the Squeak window on a local or remote X
                     Window System server.

                 display=Quartz
                     to display on the local Mac OS X desktop.

                 display=none
                     to disable the display (and keyboard/mouse) entirely.
                     (This driver is useful primarily for running 'server'
                     applications in Squeak.)

                 sound=OSS
                     provides sound input and output via the Open Sound
                     System.  (If you have a device called '/dev/dsp' then
                     this is likely the one you want.)

                 sound=MacOSX
                     provides sound input/output via Core Audio on Mac OS X.

                 sound=NAS
                     provides sound i/o via the Network Audio System.

                 sound=Sun
                     provides sound on Sun Microsystems hardware.

                 sound=none
                     disables sound entirely.  squeak will not attempt to play
                     or record sounds when this driver is loaded.

              Note that only those drivers relevant to the local platform will
              be available.  Attempting to load an unsupported driver will
              cause squeak to exit with an error message.  A list of available
              drivers is printed by the '-help' option.  If a particular
              driver cannot load system libraries on which it depends then it
              will neither be listed nor be available to load at runtime.

              Note also that on Mac OS X both the X11 and Quartz display
              drivers are supported, although the former will refuse to load
              if the X11 client libraries are not installed on the local
              machine.  The Quartz driver will happily load (and Squeak will
              run as a fully-fledged application) even when squeak is invoked
              from the command line.  Exercise caution when logged into Mac OS
              X from another machine: forgetting to set DISPLAY before trying
              to run squeak on the remote display could cause embarrassement.

       Options specific to the X11 display driver are as follows:

       -browserWindow id
              specifies the id of the window that squeak should use for its
              display.  This option is intended for use when Squeak is running
              as a web browser plugin.

       -display server
              specifies that Squeak should connect to the given display server
              instead of looking in the environment variable DISPLAY (the
              default behaviour) to find the name of the server to use.

       -cmdmod N
              tells the VM to map modifier key N on the keyboard to the
              modifier code that the image expects for the Command key.

       -optmod N
              tells the VM to map modifier key N on the keyboard to the
              modifier code that the image expects for the Option key.

       -compositioninput
              enables support for an overlay window in which individual
              characters (e.g., Japanese hiragana) are composed before being
              interpreted as a single character (e.g., Japanese kanji) by the
              image.

       -xicfont font
              tells the VM to use the named font within the composition
              overlay window.

       -fullscreen
              causes the Squeak window to occupy as much of the screen area as
              possible.  Implies '-notitle'.

       -headless
              disables the graphical display and mouse/keyboard input.  This
              mode of operation is useful primarily for servers.

       -iconic
              asks the window manager to iconify the Squeak window at startup.

       -lazy  causes Squeak to `snooze' whenever the main winodw is unmapped.
              This can be used if Squeak appears to be using consuming CPU
              time while idling (which should not normally be the case).  Note
              that if this option is in effect, when the Squeak window is
              unmapped squeak will not respond to any external stimuli (other
              than to provide the X selection to requestors, when Squeak is
              the owner).

       -mapdelbs
              maps the Delete key onto Backspace.  Backspace deletes the
              character to the left of the cursor and Delete normally deletes
              the character to the right of the cursor.  With this option,
              Deletes will behave like Backspace.  The behaviour of Backspace
              is not changed.

       -noxdnd
              disables support for the X drag-and-drop protocol.

       -nointl
              disables the handling of dead keys on international keyboards.
              Without this option, dead key handling is enabled if either
              LC_ALL or LC_CTYPE is set in the environment.

       -notitle
              disables the title bar on the Squeak window (if the window
              manager supports it).  This option is implied by '-fullscreen'.

       -swapbtn
              swaps the yellow and blue buttons.   (Traditionally, the red
              button is on the left, yellow in the middle and blue on the
              right.  The colourful names come from the Xerox Alto on which
              Smalltalk was first implemented.)  Squeak normally maps X
              buttons 1, 2 and 3 to the red, yellow and blue buttons, in that
              order.  With this option, it maps X buttons 1, 2 and 3 to the
              red, blue and yellow buttons.)

       -xasync
              causes Squeak to use asynchronous display updates.  The virtual
              machine normally flushes and synchronises the display connection
              at regular intervals.  Using this option disables
              synchronisation, which will be performed only when the image
              explicitly requests it.

       -xshm  enables the use of the X Shared Memory extension on servers that
              support it.  This can dramatically improve display performance,
              but works only when Squeak is running on the server.

       Options specific to the FBDev display driver are as follows:

       -fbdev device
              Use the given framebuffer device instead of the default
              '/dev/fb0'.

       -kbmap mapfile
              Load the keyboard map from the given mapfile instead of reading
              it from the running kernel.  Note that squeak cannot (currently)
              read compressed or 'shorthand' map files (as found in
              /usr/share/keymaps or /lib/kbd/keymaps).  To generate a keymap
              file usable by squeak, execute the following program from the
              console:

                  dumpkeys -f -n --keys-only > key.map

              If squeak encounters a problem while trying to load mapfile, it
              will print an error message and exit.  See keymaps(5) for more
              information about the keymap file format.  The programs
              dumpkeys(1), loadkeys(1), and showkey(1) can be used to modify
              the keyboard map before creating a keymap file for squeak.

       -msdev device
              Use the given mouse device instead of the default.  The default
              is to try '/dev/psaux', '/dev/input/mice' and '/dev/adbmouse',
              in that order, and to use the first one that has a physical
              device attached.

       -msproto protocol
              Use the given mouse protocol instead of the default.  The
              supported protocols are 'ps2' and 'adb'.  The default is 'ps2'
              for mice attached to '/dev/psaux' or '/dev/input/mice', and
              'adb' for mice attached to '/dev/adbmouse'.

       -vtlock
              Disallows VT switching, regardless of whether the request comes
              from the keyboard or from another program such as chvt(1).

       -vtswitch
              Enables keyboard VT switching.  Note that this option is
              effectively disabled if the '-vtlock' option is also enabled.

       Options specific to the OSS and MacOSX sound drivers are as follows:

       -nomixer
              disables the primitives that change mixer (sound) settings.  If
              you prefer that Squeak leave these alone (they are, after all,
              really the reponsibility of whichever mixer program or sound
              control panel you use) then this option is for you.

       Options specific to the ALSA sound driver are as follows:

       -capture device
              Uses the named input device for sound capture.

       -playback device
              Uses the named output device for sound playback.

       Several common options are deprecated and are provided only for
       backward compatibility.  These options should not be used and will be
       removed in a future release:

       -display dpy
              is equivalent to '-vm display=X11 -display dpy'.

       -headless
              is equivalent to '-vm display=X11 -headless'.

       -nodisplay
              is equivalent to '-vm display=none'.

       -nosound
              is equivalent to '-vm sound=none'.

       -quartz
              is equivalent to '-vm display=Quartz'.

ENVIRONMENT
       Many of the options that can be set on the command line can also be set
       from environment variables.

       SQUEAK_ASYNC
              if set in the environment then equivalent to the '-xasync' flag.
              (The value is ignored.)

       SQUEAK_CAPTURE
              see '-capture'.

       SQUEAK_COMPOSITIONINPUT
              if set in the environment then equivalent to the
              '-compositioninput' flag.  (The value is ignored.)

       SQUEAK_ENCODING
              the name of the internal character encoding used by Squeak.
              Equivalent to giving the '-encoding' command-line option if set.

       SQUEAK_FBDEV
              the name of the framebuffer device to use when running on the
              console.  See the '-fbdev' option.

       SQUEAK_FULLSCREEN
              equivalent to '-fullscreen' if set.

       SQUEAK_ICONIC
              equivalent to the '-iconic' flag.

       SQUEAK_IMAGE
              the name of the image file to execute if no image argument is
              given on the command line.

       SQUEAK_KBMAP
              the name of the keymap file to use when running on the console.
              See the '-kbmap' option.

       SQUEAK_LAZY
              equivalent to the '-lazy' flag.

       SQUEAK_MAPDELBS
              equivalent to the '-mapdelbs' flag.

       SQUEAK_MEMORY
              the initial size of the heap, with optional 'k' or 'm' suffix.
              Equivalent to the '-memory size[km]' flag.

       SQUEAK_MSDEV
              the name of the mouse device to use when running on the console.
              See the '-msdev' option.

       SQUEAK_MSPROTO
              the name of the mouse protocl to use when running on the
              console.  See the '-msproto' option.

       SQUEAK_VTLOCK
              if set then equivalent to specifying the '-vtlock' option on the
              command line.

       SQUEAK_VTSWITCH
              if set then equivalent to specifying the '-vtswitch' option on
              the command line.

       SQUEAK_NOEVENTS
              if set, equivalent to '-noevents'.

       SQUEAK_NOINTL
              equivalent to '-nointl' if set.

       SQUEAK_NOMIXER
              equivalent to '-nomixer' if set.

       SQUEAK_NOTIMER
              equivalent to '-notimer' if set.

       SQUEAK_NOTITLE
              if set, equivalent to '-notitle'.

       SQUEAK_PATHENC
              the name of the character encoding used to construct file and
              directory names.  Equivalent to giving the '-pathenc' command-
              line option if set.

       SQUEAK_PLAYBACK
              see '-playback'.

       SQUEAK_PLUGINS
              see '-plugins'.

       SQUEAK_SWAPBTN
              equivalent to '-swapbtn' if set.

       SQUEAK_TEXTENC
              the name of the character encoding used to copy/paste text
              from/to external applications.  Equivalent to giving the
              '-textenc' command-line option if set.

       SQUEAK_VM
              contains the names of one or more drivers to be loaded during
              initialisation.  See the '-vm' option for details.

       SQUEAK_XICFONT
              if set in the environment then it provides a default name for
              the composition overlay font; see the '-xicfont' flag.

       SQUEAK_XSHM
              equivalent to '-xshm'.

       If an environment variable and a command-line option conflict over a
       particular value then normally the value in the command line takes
       precedence.  The exception to this rule is the '-vm' option.
       Environment variables are processed before command-line arguments and
       '-vm' cannnot be used to unload a driver that was loaded while
       processing the contents of 'SQUEAK_VM'.

       squeak also checks the environment for LC_ALL and LC_CTYPE.  If either
       of these variables is set then support for international keyboards
       (including dead keys for diacritical marks) is enabled.  To prevent
       this support being enabled even when one or both of these variables is
       set, use the '-nointl' option (or set SQUEAK_NOINTL in the
       environment).  For example, to start squeak with support for dead keys
       on Spanish keyboards, with Latin-1 encoding of external characters and
       the default MacRoman internal font encoding, run squeak like this:

              export LC_CTYPE=es_ES
              export SQUEAK_TEXTENC=latin1
              squeak

SCRIPTS
       Squeak can load and execute a 'script' file containing Smalltalk code
       at startup.  The name of the file should be given as the script
       argument to squeak.  For example, assuming that the image 'foo.image'
       contains an open Transcript window, then the following represents the
       'hello world' program for Squeak:

              Transcript cr; show: 'Hello, world'.

       If this script is in a file called 'hello.sq', then it could be run
       like this:

              squeak foo.image hello.sq

       It is also possible to make 'self interpreting' scripts by adding an
       'interpreter line' to the start of the script.  The 'hello.sq' file
       could be changed to

              #!/usr/local/bin/squeak --
              Transcript cr; show: 'Hello, world'.

       and then made executable with

              chmod +x hello.sq

       and then invoked by running the script file directly:

              SQUEAK_IMAGE="foo.image"
              export SQUEAK_IMAGE
              ./hello.sq

       If any arguments are present after the script name then they can be
       retrieved from within the script using the method

              Smalltalk getSystemAttribute: n

       where n is the index of the argument, starting at 3 for the first
       argument.  (See the method comment for

              SystemDictionary>>getSystemAttribute:

       in the image for an explanation of the meanings of the indices.)

       As an example of this, here is the 'echo' program written as a Squeak
       script:

              #!/usr/local/bin/squeak --
              "Echo arguments to the Transcript."
              | i a |
              i := 2.
              [(a := Smalltalk getSystemAttribute: (i := i + 1))
                  notNil]
                whileTrue: [Transcript space; show: a].

       When run as

              ./echo.sq one two three

       this would print 'one two three' in the Transcript window.

DIAGNOSTICS
       inisqueak
              prints several informational messages while doing its stuff.  If
              it encounters a problem it prints an appropriate message before
              bailing out.  The messages should be self-explanatory.

       squeak normally does not print anything at all.  If it prints something
              then there is a problem.  The messages should be self-
              explanatory.

FILES
       /usr/local/lib/squeak/SqueakV4.sources
              Shared system sources file for the Squeak image.  There must be
              a copy of (or link to) this file in the working directory when
              running squeak.

       /usr/local/lib/squeak/Squeak*.image
       /usr/local/lib/squeak/Squeak*.changes
              Distributed image and changes files holding a `shapshot' of a
              live Squeak session.  (The contents of these files change during
              a session, and so private copies should always be made before
              running squeak for the first time.  See inisqueak(1)).

       ./SqueakV4.sources
              A link to the system sources file.

       ./name.image
       ./name.changes
              Private copies of image and changes files.

       /usr/local/lib/squeak/4.10.2-2614/*.so
       /usr/local/lib/squeak/4.10.2-2614/*.la
              Virtual machine 'plugins' (containing primitives that are loaded
              on demand) and drivers (for different types of display and sound
              hardware).

       /usr/local/bin/squeak
       /usr/local/bin/inisqueak
              The Squeak virtual machine and personal image installer script.

       /usr/local/man/man1/squeak.1
              This manual page.

       /usr/local/share/doc/squeak-4.10.2-2614/*
              Miscellaneous documentation.

NOTES
       This manual page documents version 4.10.2-2614 of Unix Squeak.  It may
       not be appropriate for any other version.

       The image and changes files containing a saved Squeak session are
       intimately related.  They should always be used together, never be
       separated, and under no circumstances should an image be run with a
       changes file that has been used with a different image.  Failure to
       adhere to the above could cause the source code for the methods in the
       image to become garbled and impossible to retrieve.

       The Unix Squeak virtual machine fully supports OpenGL in both the X11
       and Quartz display drivers.  Open Croquet will run just fine with
       either of these drivers (and many Mac OS X users will even have the
       choice of which driver to use :).

BUGS
       If a 'binary' option is enabled by an environment variable, there is no
       way to disable it on the command line.

       Similarly, drivers specified in the SQUEAK_VM environment variable
       cannot be overridden by passing options on the command line.

       squeak should never crash.  In the unlikely event that it does crash,
       or prints any kind of message that does not appear to be caused by
       incorrect arguments or illegal operations from within a Squeak program,
       please send a bug report to: <ian.piumarta@squeakland.org>.  (Do not
       send bug reports to the general-purpose 'squeak-dev' mailing list.
       They will not be read.  If you feel you must post a bug report to a
       mailing list, send it to the Squeak 'vm-dev' mailing list in addition
       to the above email address.)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Ian Piumarta.

SEE ALSO
       Dan Ingalls, Ted Kaehler, John Maloney, Scott Wallace and Alan Kay,
       Back to the Future: The Story of Squeak, A Practical Smalltalk Written
       in Itself.  Proc. OOPSLA'97.

       The official Squeak home page:
              http://squeak.org

       The general-purpose 'squeak-dev' mailing list (not for VM-related bug
       reports):
              http://lists.squeakfoundation.org/listinfo/squeak-dev

       The Squeak 'vm-dev' mailing list (amongst others):
              http://discuss.squeakfoundation.org/

       The latest source and binary distributions of Unix Squeak:
              http://squeakvm.org/unix

Squeak Smalltalk System                                              SQUEAK(1)
