SSCALC(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              SSCALC(1)

NAME
     sscalc – calculate time of sunrise and sunset

SYNOPSIS
     sscalc [-rs] [-n reps] [-m month] [-d day] [-f format] [-o longitude]
            [-a latitude]

DESCRIPTION
     sscalc calculates the time of sunrise and sunset for a date and location
     and prints the results.

     In order to calculate the sunrise and sunset, the sscalc program must
     know the latitude and longitude of your location. You can pass this
     information to the program via environment variables or via the command
     line.

     To set the longitude via the command line, use the -o option. Similarly,
     to set the latitude, use the -a option. The number passed must be a
     floating point representation of the degrees of longitude or latitude.
     Locations west of the prime meridian are represented as positive numbers,
     those located east of GMT are negative numbers. North latitudes are
     positive, while south latitudes are negative. For example, the longitude
     of Walnut Creek, California, is 122.06 and its latitude is 37.90.

     The program will also search the environment for the variables LATITUDE
     and LONGITUDE.  The format of these variables is exactly the same as on
     the command line.

     By default, sscalc will print the sunrise and/or sunset for the current
     date. You may change the date being calculated by using the -m and -d
     options to set the month and day. The month must be a number from 1 to
     12, while the day must be from 1 to 31. Times are printed out in the
     default representation for the locale.

     To restrict the output, use the -r or -s flag to print only the sunrise
     or sunset respectively.  To print a series of times, use the -n option to
     pass the number of dates to print out.

EXAMPLES
     To print the sunrise and sunset for Acapulco, Mexico on the first day of
     summer, you'd use
           sscalc -m 6 -d 21 -o 99.77 -a 16.75

BUGS
     The calculations are an approximation and may be wrong by as much as two
     minutes.

     When calculating times for areas above the Arctic or below the Antarctic
     Circles, the program will report the times for the nearest
     (chronologically) sunrise and sunset. The year reported will be incorrect
     sometimes, but the day of year will be correct.

     Sunrise and sunset times are calculated internally to GMT, and displayed
     in the local timezone. If the coordinates given don't match the current
     timezone setting, expect results that are off by a number of hours.

FILES
     Included with the sscalc program is the cities.txt file, which has the
     latitude and longitude for a whole lot of cities around the world. This
     file will normally be installed in
     /usr/local/share/doc/sscalc/cities.txt.

AUTHOR
     Keith Walker ⟨kew@icehouse.net⟩ did the port of a web page that at the
     time of this writing was
     http://www.srrb.noaa.gov/highlights/sunrise/gen.html.  This ported code
     was released with the permission of the author of the original code,
     Chris Cornwall.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           November 28, 2000          FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
