starconvert(1)          FreeBSD General Commands Manual         starconvert(1)

NAME
       starconvert - convert text data files to StarPlot format

SYNOPSIS
       starconvert [ options ] spec-file input-file [ output-file ]

DESCRIPTION
       Although many stellar data files are publicly available on the Internet
       from NASA and other astronomical organizations, there is no set format
       for these files.  The program starconvert acts as a buffer between this
       confusion and the format in which StarPlot requires data files.  To do
       so, it uses a specification file that details how various fields of
       stellar data (name, distance, right ascension, etc.) may be extracted
       from the original data file.

       On the StarPlot web site are available some packages of data that
       include both an original data file from NASA, and also a  specification
       file.  These packages are referred to as "data sets", from which
       starconvert can produce a data file in StarPlot format.  For ease of
       use, this should be done via the starpkg(1) shell script.

       The starconvert command uses the specifications in spec-file to convert
       input-file to StarPlot data format and writes the results to
       output-file if specified, or standard output if not.  The first two
       arguments are required.  Exactly ONE may be replaced with a dash `-'
       for reading from standard input.

OPTIONS
       --     Signals the end of the options.  This allows you to use a
              spec-file whose filename begins with the '-' character.

       --add-sun
              Add an entry for the Sun to the generated StarPlot-format data
              file, if it is not already present in the original raw data
              file.  This is the default behavior, so this flag has an effect
              only if it reverses an earlier --no-add-sun flag.

       --no-add-sun
              Do not add an entry for the Sun to the generated StarPlot-format
              data file, unless it is present in the original raw data file.
              Adding the Sun is otherwise done by default, since most star
              catalogs do not include it.

SPECIFICATION FILES
       For detailed information on how to write a specification file, see the
       example file listed below.  Be aware that I expect to change the
       default format of starconvert spec files after version 1.0, although
       starconvert will remain backwards-compatible.

FILES
       /usr/local/share/doc/starplot/ - Contains documentation
       /usr/local/share/doc/starplot/examples/example.spec - Example
       specification file

SEE ALSO
       starplot(1), starpkg(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright © 2000-2002 under the GNU GPL by Kevin B. McCarty
       <starplot@starplot.org>.  The StarPlot web page is at www.starplot.org.

                                   Nov 2002                     starconvert(1)
