STE(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 STE(4)

NAME
     ste – Sundance Technologies ST201 Fast Ethernet device driver

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device miibus
           device ste

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           if_ste_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The ste driver provides support for PCI Ethernet adapters and embedded
     controllers based on the Sundance Technologies ST201 PCI Fast Ethernet
     controller chip.

     The Sundance ST201 uses bus master DMA and is designed to be a 3Com
     Etherlink XL workalike.  It uses the same DMA descriptor structure and is
     very similar in operation, however its register layout is different.  The
     ST201 has a 64-bit multicast hash filter and a single perfect filter
     entry for the station address.  It supports both 10 and 100Mbps speeds in
     either full or half duplex using an MII transceiver.

     The ste driver supports the following media types:

     autoselect            Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
                           The user can manually override the autoselected
                           mode by adding media options to the /etc/rc.conf
                           file.

     10baseT/UTP           Set 10Mbps operation.  The mediaopt option can also
                           be used to select either full-duplex or half-duplex
                           modes.

     100baseTX             Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.  The
                           mediaopt option can also be used to select either
                           full-duplex or half-duplex modes.

     The ste driver supports the following media options:

     full-duplex           Force full duplex operation.

     half-duplex           Force half duplex operation.

     For more information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

HARDWARE
     The ste driver supports Sundance Technologies ST201 based Fast Ethernet
     adapters and embedded controllers including:

     •   D-Link DFE-530TXS
     •   D-Link DFE-550TX
     •   D-Link DFE-580TX

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     dev.ste.%d.int_rx_mod
             Maximum number of time to delay RX interrupts.  The valid range
             is 0 to 209712 in units of 1us, the default is 150 (150us).  The
             value 0 effectively disables the RX interrupt moderation.  The
             resolution of timer is about 3.2us so finer tuning than 3.2us
             wouldn't be available.  The interface does not need to be brought
             down and up again before a change takes effect.

DIAGNOSTICS
     ste%d: couldn't map ports/memory  A fatal initialization error has
     occurred.

     ste%d: couldn't map interrupt  A fatal initialization error has occurred.

     ste%d: watchdog timeout  The device has stopped responding to the
     network, or there is a problem with the network connection (cable).

     ste%d: no memory for rx list  The driver failed to allocate an mbuf for
     the receiver ring.

     ste%d: no memory for tx list  The driver failed to allocate an mbuf for
     the transmitter ring when allocating a pad buffer or collapsing an mbuf
     chain into a cluster.

     ste%d: chip is in D3 power state -- setting to D0  This message applies
     only to adapters which support power management.  Some operating systems
     place the controller in low power mode when shutting down, and some PCI
     BIOSes fail to bring the chip out of this state before configuring it.
     The controller loses all of its PCI configuration in the D3 state, so if
     the BIOS does not set it back to full power mode in time, it will not be
     able to configure it correctly.  The driver tries to detect this
     condition and bring the adapter back to the D0 (full power) state, but
     this may not be enough to return the driver to a fully operational
     condition.  If you see this message at boot time and the driver fails to
     attach the device as a network interface, you will have to perform a
     second warm boot to have the device properly configured.

     Note that this condition only occurs when warm booting from another
     operating system.  If you power down your system prior to booting
     FreeBSD, the card should be configured correctly.

SEE ALSO
     altq(4), arp(4), miibus(4), netintro(4), ng_ether(4), polling(4),
     vlan(4), ifconfig(8)

     Sundance ST201 data sheet, http://www.sundanceti.com.

HISTORY
     The ste device driver first appeared in FreeBSD 3.0.

AUTHORS
     The ste driver was written by Bill Paul <wpaul@ee.columbia.edu>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        December 24, 2009       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
