STJERM(8)                                                            STJERM(8)

NAME
       stjerm - quake-style terminal emulator

SYNOPSIS
       stjerm [-OPTION] [-OPTION] ... [-OPTION]

DESCRIPTION
       stjerm is a quake-style terminal. It is minimalistic and works well
       with compiz.  stjerm can be configured via commandline or the
       .Xdefaults file.

       The following list of options displays the .Xdefaults option first and
       then the commandline option.  The commandline options have a higher
       priority and thus override the .Xdefaults options.

NOTES
       If you run stjerm with an action it will not parse other commandline
       options and will exit.

       If you specify a hex color on the commandline you have to ommit the #
       char.  Otherwise the option will not get parsed.  This restriction only
       affects the commandline options, not the .Xdefaults options.

ACTIONS
       --help Displays menu with commandline options.

       --info Displays menu with .Xdefaults options.

       --version
              Display the current application version.

       --toggle
              Show/hide the current stjerm instance.

OPTIONS
       key, -k
              Shortcut key which shows and hides stjerm (eg: f12). If you
              don't specify a shortcut key, you can only show/hide stjerm if
              you run stjerm with --toggle.

       mod, -m
              Modifier key, which has to be pressed in combination with the
              shortcut key to show/hide stjerm : shift, control, alt, windows,
              none. Default: none.

       keymod, -km
              Modifier for keyboard shortcuts. Can be a combination (with +)
              of modifiers (eg: control+alt). Default: control+shift.

       autohide, -ah
              Whether or not to hide stjerm when it looses focus. Default:
              true.

       font, -fn
              Terminal font and size (eg: Sans 10). Default: Bitstream Vera
              Sans Mono 10.

       background, -bg
              Background color of the terminal. If the terminal is transparent
              this is the tint color. Default: Black.

       foreground, -fg
              Foreground color of the terminal. This is the font color.
              Default: White.

       allowbold, -ab
              Allow bold fonts or not. Default: true

       border, -b
              Border type: thin, thick, none. Default: none.

       opacity, -o
              Opacity (range: 10 - 100). If compositing is enabled stjerm will
              use real transparency. Otherwise you get pseudo-transparency.

       bgimage, -bgimg
              Background image file. Specify the filename. Default: disabled.

       width, -w
              Window width, either as an integer or a percentage (eg, 50%).
              Default: 800.

       height, -h
              Window height, either as an integer or a percentage (eg, 50%).
              Default: 400.

       position, -p
              Window position: top, bottom, left, right. Default: top.

       scrollbar, -s
              Scrollbar position: left, right, none. Default: none.

       shell, -sh
              Terminal shell. Default: the user's default shell.

       lines, -l
              Scrollback lines. 0 to disable scrollback. Default: 1000.

       showtab, -st
              Tabbar visibility: never, one, always. One means the tabbar is
              visible if more than one tab is opened. Default: one.

       tabpos, -tp
              Tabbar position: top, bottom, left, right. Default: bottom.

       tablabel, -tl
              Label of the tabs. The terminal number gets appended
              automatically. Default: term.

       tabfill, -tf
              Whether tabs fill whole tabbar space. Default: true.

       scroll, -sc
              Whether to scroll the terminal on output. Default: true.

       colorX, -cX
              Specify color X of the terminals color palette. You may specify
              no palette, or a complete one with 16 total colors.  For this
              you have to use -c0, -c1, ..., -c15 or the equivalent color0,
              color1,... color15.

       fixedX, -fX
              Overrides the calculated horizontal position of the window.
              Specifies the location of the left of the window.

       fixedY, -fY
              Overrides the calculated vertical position of the window.
              Specifies the location of the top of the window.

       allowreorder, -ar
              Allows the tabs of the tab bar to be reordered.

       cursorBlink, -ub
              Should the cursor blink? Default: true.

       cursorColor, -uc
              The color of the cursor. Default: white

       cursorShape, -us
              Cursor shape, one of [block,ibeam,underline]. Default: block

EXAMPLES
       To run stjerm with F12 as shortcut key, the opacity of 60 and a green
       foreground color, use:

       stjerm -k f12 -o 60 -fg 66ff11


       To specify the same options in the .Xdefaults file, write this in your
       .Xdefaults file:

       stjerm.key: f12

       stjerm.opacity: 60

       stjerm.foreground: #66ff11

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to https://github.com/stjerm/stjerm/issues.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007-2014 Kristopher Wilson, Stjepan Glavina and Markus
       Gross

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.

stjerm 0.18                Last Change: 12 Jan 2014                  STJERM(8)
