stoken(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              stoken(1)

NAME
       stoken - software token for cryptographic authentication

SYNOPSIS
       stoken [tokencode] [--stdin] [--force] [--next] [opts]

       stoken import {--file=file | --token=token_string} [--force] [opts]

       stoken setpin [opts]

       stoken setpass [opts]

       stoken show [--seed] [opts]

       stoken export [{--blocks | --iphone | --android | --v3 | --sdtid |
       --qr=file.png | --show-qr}] [opts]

       stoken issue [--template=file]

       stoken help

       stoken version

DESCRIPTION
       stoken is a software token compatible with RSA SecurID 128-bit (AES)
       tokens.  The command-line interface provides facilities for importing
       new tokens, displaying the current tokencode, encrypting the seed with
       a user-specified password, storing the user's PIN alongside the token,
       and viewing or exporting the token data.

BASIC USAGE
       Use stoken import to decode a token string and write it into
       ~/.stokenrc.  This may prompt for a device ID and/or password,
       depending on what options your administrator used to create the token.
       The token string can be provided on the command line, or read from a
       text file.

       stoken will autodetect the following types of token strings:

       286510182209303756117707012447003320623006...
       29658-21098-45467-64675-65731-01441-11337...
              Pure numeric (81-digit) "ctf" (compressed token format) strings,
              with or without dashes.  These may have been furnished as-is, or
              they could have been derived from an sdtid file by the RSA
              TokenConverter program.

       com.rsa.securid.iphone://ctf?ctfData=229639330774927764401...
              iPhone-compatible token strings.

       http://127.0.0.1/securid/ctf?ctfData=250494932146245277466...
       http://127.0.0.1/securid/ctf?ctfData=AwAAfBc3QSopPxxjLGnxf...
              Android-compatible token strings.

       <?xml version=...
              RSA sdtid-formatted XML files.  These should be imported from a
              file: stoken import --file=FILE.SDTID.

       Tokens supplied as QR codes can be converted back to standard URIs by
       running zbarimg(1) on the image file.

       The device ID, if used, can be viewed in the "about" menu for the RSA
       soft token app on the phone.  Numeric ctf strings and smartphone tokens
       bound to a device ID contain a seed that is encrypted using the device
       ID, so the ID must be furnished before stoken can successfully import
       the token.  sdtid files can be imported without knowledge of the device
       ID, as long as the password (if any) is known.

       By default, stoken import will refuse to overwrite an existing token in
       ~/.stokenrc.  The --force switch overrides this check.

       stoken import will normally prompt for a new password, which is used to
       encrypt the seed before storing it in ~/.stokenrc.  This can be
       bypassed by entering an empty password, or specifying --new-password=''
       on the command line.  It is recommended to choose a longer, hard-to-
       guess passphrase for this purpose.

       After a token has been imported, running stoken with no arguments will
       prompt for any required password or PIN, then display the current
       tokencode.

       Tokencodes are computed from the raw (decrypted) seed data, the current
       time of day, and the PIN.  If the same seed is installed on multiple
       devices, they should all produce identical tokencodes.  If they do not,
       double-check the timezone setting and consider using NTP to synchronize
       the system time to a known good source.

       stoken setpin can be used to save the PIN in ~/.stokenrc.  Not all
       tokens will require a PIN; this can be configured by the SecurID
       administrator when generating new tokens.  Setting an empty PIN will
       remove the PIN from ~/.stokenrc so that the user will be prompted every
       time it is required.  See the SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS section below for
       additional details.

       stoken setpass encrypts the seed and PIN (if present) in ~/.stokenrc
       with a user-selectable password or passphrase.  If an empty password is
       entered, the password will be removed.  See the SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
       section below for additional details.

VIEWING TOKENS
       stoken show displays information about the current token, typically
       read from ~/.stokenrc.  The --seed option displays the encrypted and
       decrypted seed bytes (which should be treated as sensitive data, as
       they can be used to derive tokencodes).

       stoken export translates the current token into a format suitable for
       importation to another device.

       stoken issue generates a new software token in XML sdtid format.  A
       template file, itself in sdtid format, may be provided to override some
       or all of the human-readable fields.  This would permit appropriate
       serial numbers, expiration dates, usernames, etc. to be specified.  If
       Secret, Seed, or MAC fields are present in the template file, they will
       be ignored.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       --rcfile=file
              Use an alternate .stokenrc configuration file.  This is
              typically used to support multiple tokens on the same user's
              UNIX account.  Note that the .stokenrc file stores additional
              data (such as the PIN), so it cannot be parsed as a "raw" token
              string by stoken --file.

       --password=password, -p password
              Use a password supplied from the command line, instead of
              prompting the user.  See notes in SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS below.

       --pin=pin, -n pin
              Use a PIN supplied from the command line, instead of prompting
              the user.  See notes in SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS below.  If you
              save your PIN in ~/.stokenrc, note that --pin=0000 is often
              required when activating a new soft token for the first time.

       --devid=devid
              Use a device ID supplied from the command line to decrypt the
              token.  A token can be bound to a class GUID device ID (i.e. a
              certain type of device, such as "iPhone" or "Android"), a unique
              device ID (one specific unit), or nothing.  stoken will attempt
              to autodetect matches with a class GUID, but on rare occasions
              this results in false positives due to hash collisions.  In
              these cases, the bound device ID should be specified on the
              command line to override autodetection.

EXPORT OPTIONS
       --new-password=password
              Supply the encryption password from the command line for
              operations that write out a token string or .stokenrc file:
              import, export, setpass, and issue.  See notes in SECURITY
              CONSIDERATIONS below.

       --keep-password
              If the token in the .stokenrc file is protected with a password,
              retain the same password when exporting the token.  By default,
              the export operation will not encrypt the token with a password;
              note that it may not be possible to enter all possible passwords
              on devices with limited text input capabilities (such as feature
              phones).

       --new-pin=pin
              Supply a new PIN from the command line for the setpin operation.
              See notes in SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS below.

       --new-devid=devid
              Used with the export or issue command to encrypt the new token
              with a specific device ID.  This is only used for testing
              purposes.

       --blocks, --iphone, --android, --v3
              Used with the export command to select the output format.  See
              examples in BASIC USAGE.  By default, the export command will
              print an unformatted 81-digit string to standard output.

       --sdtid, --xml
              These options are synonyms.  Both export a token to standard
              output in RSA's sdtid XML format.

       --qr=file.png
              Encode the token as a QR code and write it to file.png.  This
              requires the qrencode program to be installed.

       --show-qr
              Encode the token as a QR code and immediately display it on the
              screen.  This requires the qrencode program to be installed.  If
              the QR_VIEWER environment variable is set, stoken will use that
              program as the preferred viewer.  Otherwise it will try to
              execute a few common Linux image viewers, and give up if none of
              them exist.

       --template=file
              Used with the export or issue commands to override fields in the
              XML output.  The template file should look like any standard
              sdtid file, but all fields are optional and will default to
              reasonably sane values if omitted.  This can be used to force
              the output XML to use a specific serial number, user name,
              expiration date, etc.  Correct MAC checksums will be
              (re)computed on the provided values.  See the examples directory
              in the source distribution for more information.

OTHER OPTIONS
       --use-time={unix_time|+offset|-offset}
              Instead of generating a tokencode based on the current time of
              day, force a specific time, or adjust the current time based on
              a positive or negative offset (specified in seconds).  This is
              only used for testing purposes.

       --next Generate the next tokencode instead of the current tokencode.
              For a 60-second token, this is equivalent to --use-time=+60.

       --stdin, -s
              When generating a tokencode that requires either a password or
              PIN, read the password or PIN as single line from standard
              input.  This is intended to allow external programs to call
              stoken to generate single-use passwords without user
              intervention; see NON-INTERACTIVE USE below.

       --force, -f
              Override token expiration date checks (for tokencode) or token
              overwrite checks (for import).

       --batch, -b
              Abort with an error exit code if any user input is required.
              Intended for automated operation and testing.

       --file=file
              Read a ctf string, an Android/iPhone URI, or an XML sdtid token
              from file instead of the .stokenrc configuration.  Most stoken
              commands accept this flag, but it is expected that the typical
              user will save his token in ~/.stokenrc instead of supplying it
              by hand on every invocation.  Typically --file and --token are
              only used for the import command.

       --token=token_string
              Use a token from the command line instead of the .stokenrc file.
              See above notes on --file.

       --random
              Generate a random token on the fly.  Used for testing or
              demonstrations only.  These tokens should not be used for real
              authentication.

       --help, -h
              Display basic usage information.

       --version, -v
              Display version information.

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
       Software tokens, unlike hardware tokens, are relatively easy to
       replicate.  Systems that store soft token seeds should be carefully
       guarded to prevent unauthorized disclosure.  The use of whole-disk
       encryption, such as TrueCrypt, is strongly recommended for laptops and
       other portable devices that are easily lost or stolen.

       stoken permits users to store their PIN in ~/.stokenrc to allow for
       automated (scriptable) generation of tokencodes, but the risks of this
       approach should be carefully weighed against the benefits.

       Using the setpass command to encrypt the seed and PIN in ~/.stokenrc
       provides some degree of protection against unauthorized access, but
       does not necessarily cover all possible attack vectors.  A host that is
       already compromised (e.g. running a keylogger) will not provide
       adequate protection for any seed(s) stored on it.

       stoken encryption passwords may be up to 40 characters long.  A longer
       passphrase constructed from several random words can provide more
       protection from brute-force attacks than a shorter password.

       Entering a password or PIN on the command line is generally unsafe on
       multiuser systems, as other users may be able to view the command line
       arguments in ps or similar utilities.  The command line could also be
       cached in shell history files.

       Encoding QR tokens may expose the seed data through ps, and the
       --show-qr option writes temporary PNG files in /tmp.

       stoken attempts to lock pages to prevent swapping out to disk, but does
       not scrub secrets from process memory.

NON-INTERACTIVE USE
       Other applications, such as VPN clients, may want to invoke stoken non-
       interactively to generate single-use passwords.  Three usage modes are
       supported, depending on the level of security (and/or convenience) that
       is required:

   No password or PIN
       The user configures stoken to print a tokencode immediately upon
       invocation, with no prompts, by using setpin to store the PIN in
       ~/.stokenrc and using setpass to set an empty password.  The other
       application can then invoke stoken --batch and read the tokencode
       through a pipe from standard output.

       This provides no security for the seed, but may be useful in
       applications where (re-)authentication is frequent or unattended
       operation is required.

   Save the PIN and set a password
       The user configures stoken to encrypt the ~/.stokenrc secrets with a
       password using setpass, then saves the PIN with setpin.  The PIN and
       the seed will both be encrypted with the password.  The other
       application will request the password from the user, then call stoken
       --stdin, write the password to stoken's standard input through a pipe,
       and read back a tokencode from stoken's standard output.

   No password; prompt for the PIN
       Similar to above, but set an empty password using setpass, do not save
       the PIN in ~/.stokenrc, and pass the PIN to stoken --stdin via standard
       input.

BUGS/TODO
       sdtid support is still new and may choke on unexpected input.  As a
       short-term workaround you can try commenting out the sanity checks in
       sdtid_decrypt() to see if the problem goes away.

       Features under development include: hardware token seeds (and the
       stoken split command needed to work with them), and support for
       non-Linux hosts.

       Patches are always welcome.

SEE ALSO
       stoken-gui(1).

FILES
       ~/.stokenrc
              Default configuration file.

AUTHOR
       Kevin Cernekee <cernekee@gmail.com>

                                  2012-09-09                         stoken(1)
