convfont(1)                   Svgalib User Manual                  convfont(1)

NAME
       convfont - convert font files for svgalib

SYNOPSIS
       convfont fontfile fontheight vgafontfile


DESCRIPTION
       convert the standard format binary fontfile name fontfile to the
       codepage format required by restorefont(1).  The converted font is
       written to vgafontfile.

       A binary font file of any number of characters up to 256 can be used,
       although at least defining the first 128 characters is a good idea. The
       fontheight must be in the range 1 - 32.

       The fontfile file consist of fontheight bytes stored sequentially (top
       to bottom) for each character in your font, starting with the character
       with code 0.

       The format of vgafontfile is that required by restorefont(1) and
       described there.

       This utility is part of svgalib and can be found in the utils/
       subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not
       installed by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your
       svgalib was install linux distribution.

       In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from
       the net. You don't need to install it. Just make in the utils/
       subdirecty. As of this writing, svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz is the latest
       version and can be retrieved by ftp from sunsite.unc.edu at
       /pub/Linux/libs/graphics and tsx-11.mit.edu at /pub/linux/sources/libs
       which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.


SEE ALSO
       svgalib(7), vgagl(7), libvga.config(5), dumpreg(1), fix132x43(1),
       restorefont(1), restorepalette(1), restoretextmode(1), runx(1),
       savetextmode(1), setmclk(1), textmode(1).


AUTHOR
       This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-
       essen.de>. The exact source of the referenced utility as well as of the
       original documentation is unknown.

       It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to Harm
       Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

       Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby asked to be excused by the
       original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections to
       this first version of the svgalib manual.

Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)               2 Aug 1997                       convfont(1)
