swapd.conf(5)             FreeBSD File Formats Manual            swapd.conf(5)

NAME
       swapd.conf - swapd configuration file


DESCRIPTION
       The file swapd.conf is read from swapd(8) at startup.  The
       configuration file is in white space delimited format.  An example
       configuration file might look something like this:
            minfree 10m
            maxfree 0
            swapsize 32m
            swapdir /var/tmp
            maxunusedswaps 5
            delay 30
            include_cache yes

       Explanation of configuration elements:

       minfree
              Specify the lower boundary of free memory, below this amount of
              free memory additional swap files are created until atleast
              thismuch memory is free.  This is the same as the -m command
              line option.

       maxfree
              Specify the upper boundary of free memory, above this amount of
              free memory swap files are deactivated and may be deleted to
              reclaim disk space.  A value of zero (0) is the default and
              recommended value.  This is the same as the -M command line
              option.

       swapsize
              Specify the size of each swap file.  This is the same as the -s
              command line option.

       swapdir
              Specify the directory where swap files will be created.  This is
              the same as the -d command line option.

       maxunusedswaps
              Specify the number of unused swaps that can exist before swap
              files start being deleted.  This is the same as the -u command
              line option.

       include_cache
              Specifies whether or not to include memory marked as being
              "Cached" as part of the FREE memory pool.  This is generally
              correct because cached memory is still available for allocation
              if needed.

       delay
              Specifies how often to check the free memory status.  The value
              specified is in seconds.  Checking more frequently means swapd
              can respond to low memory conditions faster, but may also be
              overzealous in activating swap files if the memory allocations
              are short lived.


FILES
       ${prefix}/etc/swapd.conf


SEE ALSO
       swapd(8)


AUTHOR
       Roy Keene <swapd@rkeene.org>

swapd 1.0.5                       16 Oct 2004                    swapd.conf(5)
