SYNTH(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               SYNTH(1)

NAME
     synth – custom package repository builder for FreeBSD and DragonFly

SYNOPSIS
     synth [help | configure | version | status | purge-distfiles]
     synth [rebuild-repository | prepare-system | upgrade-system]
     synth [everything | status-everything]
     synth [status | build | just-build | install | force | test]
           [file | port-origin ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The synth program is an advanced concurrent ports building tool aimed at
     system administrators that prefer or require the building of packages
     from source rather than installing official binary packages.  synth will
     build packages in a clean environment can exactly mirror the system that
     they are built on, it will create local package respositories and install
     pkg(8) repository configuration file that causes locally built packages
     to be used with the highest priority, all while allowing the system to
     fully upgraded with a single command.

   synth version
     When synth is executed with the version command, an unknown command, or
     no command at all, it will display a short block of text containing an
     identification, summary, version number, copyright, usage, and a summary
     of valid commands.

   synth help
     The help command displays lists each valid command with a short synopsis
     of the command's function. It also elaborates the several commands expect
     one or more port origins to be provided, or a path to a file with the
     same information.

   synth configure
     The configure command launches an interactive menu for providing the user
     with a clean method to configure synth.  It works on the concept of
     profiles, and the default profile “LiveSystem” is automatically installed
     with values that are determined by scanning the system. Most of the
     configurable items are directories that are used to construct the build
     environment, but they aren't limited to that.

     Ports directory           If the PORTSDIR environment variable is set
                               when the initial profile is created, it
                               establishes the initial value. Otherwise, synth
                               will extract the value of PORTSDIR from
                               /usr/share/mk and use that.  If neither source
                               points to a valid path, /usr/dports and
                               /usr/ports will be successfully tried.  If
                               those don't exist either, synth will exit with
                               an error message.

     Packages directory        This is the location of the local repository
                               metadata and all the packages that are built by
                               synth.  It clearly must have lots of available
                               disk space. The default value is
                               /var/synth/live_packages but it should be
                               altered if the system has a /var partition with
                               limited space.

     Distfiles directory       This indicates where all the ports source
                               distribution files are stored, and the initial
                               value is determined by scanning the existing
                               configuration. The defaults are defined by
                               ports and are /usr/ports/distfiles for
                               (FreeBSD) and /usr/distfiles for (DragonFly).
                               Most users will want to keep the initial value
                               as that directory should already contain
                               distfiles.

     Port options directory    This is the directory where all the selected
                               options for ports are cached.  The initial
                               value comes from a system scan, so chances are
                               it has the correct value. However, if the user
                               would like a separate configuration area for
                               port options, they would create the new
                               directory and set this value accordingly (but
                               the user would have to ensure the new location
                               is passed to the port when configuring port
                               options later in that case).

     Build logs directory      A log is produced for every port built
                               (subsequent builds of the same port will
                               overwrite previous logs). This item dictates
                               where those logs are stored, which is
                               /var/log/synth by default. If the /var
                               partition is limited, the user will definitely
                               want to change this location as the
                               uncompressed logs can potentially consume
                               gigabyte of space.

     Build base directory      This is the mount point for all the builders.
                               When tmpfs is used, this location requires very
                               little space as it contains empty directories
                               that serve as mount points. If tmpfs is not
                               used, then this location should have access to
                               a lot available diskspace as it will provide
                               the work area and virtual /usr/local for each
                               builder. The default location of
                               /usr/obj/synth-live should be fine for most
                               users (it generally has lots of space and tmpfs
                               is the default build mode).

     System root directory     Most users will use the base system as the
                               basis for the build environment, and thus the
                               default setting of / is correct. Advanced users
                               may use DESTDIR with installworld to create an
                               alternative build base (e.g. i386 cross-build
                               on amd64 architecture or a modified base that
                               serves as a fallout test for an upcoming
                               feature). Those would be the users that would
                               modify this value.

     Compiler cache directory  If ccache is properly installed on the system,
                               set this value to the location of the cache.
                               All the builders will leverage it. It is
                               disabled by default.  It can be disabled again
                               by entering any invalid path as a new value,
                               e.g.  “none”.

     Num. concurrent builders  The represents the number of ports that can be
                               simultaneously built on the system. The
                               selected value is influenced by the number of
                               physical cores and hyperthreads the system has,
                               the amount of memory on the system, the amount
                               of available swap, and if that swap is a solid-
                               state drive or not. Generally memory is the
                               limiting resource when tmpfs is used, so the
                               default value for the number of builders is
                               generally 75% of the number of CPUs of the
                               system.  The user is free to balance jobs
                               versus builders as well.

     Max. jobs per builder     If memory is constrained, it's often a better
                               performance tradeoff to reduce the number of
                               builders and increase the number of jobs per
                               builder. The default value varies depending on
                               the system, but it will never exceed 5.

     Use tmpfs for work area   If the initial scan shows there is at least
                               1.25 Gb per builder, this item will default to
                               “true”.  Building on tmpfs is a big speed spot
                               and it's recommended if the memory resources
                               allow it. This item is directed at the work
                               area for building the port

     Use tmpfs for /usr/local  Before a port can start building, all the build
                               and library dependencies have to be installed
                               into the localbase. Extracting, installing and
                               later deinstalling is a lot of work for a disk,
                               so using tmpfs here is another performance
                               boost. It is recommended that users with
                               adequate memory leave this enabled.

     Display using ncurses     During the concurrent building, the default
                               display is constructed using ncurses. It shows
                               a lot of good information and it should be
                               used. The display will fall back to a text mode
                               if the terminal doesn't support it.  This
                               setting forces text mode unconditionally, but
                               few users will want or need to use this option.

     Fetch prebuilt packages   When active, this option will scan the external
                               repository for suitable prebuilt packages to
                               satisfy build requirements.  To be considered
                               suitable, the ABI, options, and dependencies of
                               the remote package must all match requirements.
                               If a package is located, it will be fetched and
                               placed in the packages directory and later
                               incorporated into the local repository.  This
                               option is not active by default, meaning that
                               synth will normally build everything from
                               source and ignore external repositories.

     To create alternative profiles, press the “>” key at the prompt. A new
     menu will appear that provides options to switch to another existing
     profile or create a new one that can be tailored and named. Any newly
     created profile becomes the new default profile, but this can be easily
     changed by repeating the profile selection process.

     Pressing the Alphabetic key associated with each configuration item
     brings up a prompt to change the value. Directory entries must be valid
     paths except in the case of ccache. The boolean values are modified with
     a single keypress (“T” or “F”) and the numeric items require positive
     integers. After changing the values, the old menu returns and altered
     values are marked with an asterisk.  Simply entering the “Enter” key
     (carriage return) saves the changes while pressing the “Escape” key will
     discard them.

     If more than one profile exists, an option to delete profiles will appear
     on the menu.  By pressing the “<” key, a new menu will appear that lists
     all the inactive profiles.  Entering the number associated with one of
     those profiles will immediately delete the profile.  The deletion cannot
     be undone.

   synth upgrade-system
     The upgrade-system command automates the full upgrade of the system upon
     which synth is installed. It is expected that the ports tree has been
     updated to the latest version before the command is executed. Using the
     ports tree as a reference, synth will query pkg(8) to determine what is
     currently installed and which software has newer versions available. It
     will rebuild those packages and any package that depends libraries they
     contain or that have a runtime dependency on the rebuild packages. In
     addition, any port that has changed with respect to its options,
     dependencies, or ABI will be rebuilt as well. After analysis, the
     concurrent builder will begin building the set of packages that have been
     identified as requiring a rebuild. When that phase is complete, the local
     repository will be rebuilt without waiting for confirmation. Finally,
     synth will command pkg(8) to upgrade the system using the local
     repository, effectively bringing it completely up to date.

   synth prepare-system
     The prepare-system command has the same functionality of the
     upgrade-system command with the exception that the packages will not be
     installed. Once the local repository is fully rebuilt, the command exits.

   synth rebuild-repository
     The rebuild-repository command will perform a full sanity check on all
     packages present in the packages directory and remove the ones which fail
     the check.  The local Synth repository will be created (or recreated)
     using the remaining packages.  This step is also done as part of several
     other commands, so it mainly exists for scripting purposes.

   synth status
     The status command with no arguments performs a dry-run of the
     upgrade-system command. It will not delete obsolete packages, nor rebuild
     the local repository. It will list all the ports that will be rebuild
     along with a total, and it also logs the same information to
     /var/synth/synth_status_results.txt since the full list is often longer
     than the terminal height.

   synth just-build [file | port-origin ...]
     The just-build command takes a list (one or more) of port origins (an
     origin is the combination of a category and the port directory, e.g.
     lang/python27) and it will builds the packages of those ports if
     necessary. If analysis determines the packages are already up to date,
     nothing is done.

     This is the first of several commands that take arguments. The arguments
     are either an unlimited number of port origins, e.g.

            synth just-build editors/joe editors/nano editors/libreoffice

     or they are limited to one, a path to a file, e.g.

            synth just-build /tmp/build.list

     A file that is equivalent to the first example would contain:

            editors/joe
            editors/nano
            editors/libreoffice

     When the building task is complete, synth exits.

   synth build [file | port-origin ...]
     The build command differs from the just-build command by asking the user
     if they wish to rebuild the local repository when the building is
     complete. The answer is usually “N” (for “no”) because rebuilding the
     repository can take a few minutes to complete, and it only makes sense to
     do when all the building is complete. Should the user opt to rebuild the
     repository, synth will then ask if the user wishes to install the
     packages that come from the ports list on the system.

   synth install [file | port-origin ...]
     The install command is similar to the build command except that it will
     not ask permission to rebuild the repository or install the resulting
     packages. It will just do it all in sequence.

   synth force [file | port-origin ...]
     The force command is similar to the build command except that any
     packages related to the ports list will be deleted first, regardless if
     they are up to date or not. This results in that every port on the given
     list will build.  As with the build command, synth will request
     permission to rebuild the repository and possibly install the packages
     when the building phase is complete.

   synth test [file | port-origin ...]
     The test command will pre-delete any existing packages related to the
     ports list before rebuilding them with extra DEVELOPER_MODE tests and
     settings. When the building is complete, it will just exit without
     offering to rebuild the repository.

   synth status [file | port-origin ...]
     This version of the status command provides a dry-run and reports on what
     would happen if the just-build command was executed with the same
     arguments. The output and logging is similar to the solo status command,
     but the build scope is limited to the given ports list.

   synth everything
     The everything command is not meant for most users. It will attempt to
     build every port in the ports tree, which can take several days depending
     on the power and resources of the building machine. Even downloading the
     tens of gigabytes worth of distfiles consumes significant time!

   synth status-everything
     The status-everything command is just a dry-run for the everything
     command. Since synth works through increment building (that is, it will
     not build a port if an up to date package already exists for it and all
     the packages dependencies are also in place) , the resultant build list
     can be much shorter than the full list of ports in the tree. Only those
     rare users that wish to build the entire set of ports would use this
     command.

   synth purge-distfiles
     This is a useful command that will first scan the entire ports tree to
     gather a complete list of distfiles used by the ports tree, and then it
     will scan the contents of the configured distfiles directory. All source
     distribution files that cannot be matched to at least one port in the
     tree will be removed.  This can result in gigabytes of recovered disk
     space if significant time has passed since the distfiles directory was
     last cleaned.

ENVIRONMENT
     PORTSDIR      The PORTSDIR environment variable is only checked on the
                   very first signficant command of synth (meaning everything
                   except help and version) when the default profile is
                   created. It is also checked when adding new profiles. The
                   variable dictates the default location of the ports tree
                   with a higher priority than the standard locations.

     SYNTHPROFILE  When this environment variable is set to name of an
                   existing synth profile, that profile will be loaded when
                   synth is launch rather than the active profile.  It is a
                   temporary override; removing the variable will allow the
                   default profile to load again.

     WHYFAIL       When this environment variable is defined to any value, the
                   sanity check routines will provide more detail on
                   dependency and option check failures on a separate output
                   line.

     ENTERAFTER    This environment variable only applies with the test
                   command, and then only when a single port is specified.  If
                   both of those conditions are satisfied, and the variable
                   has the value of:
                   -  extract
                   -  patch
                   -  configure
                   -  build
                   -  stage
                   -  install
                   -  deinstall
                   then an interactive build will be attempted. First, all the
                   port's prerequisites are built normally and synth will
                   return to text mode. If everything built successfully, the
                   specified port will build up to and including the point
                   specified by ENTERAFTER. At that point, control will be
                   given to the user by providing them with a tcsh shell with
                   the current directory set at the root of the builder.  When
                   the user is done, they should terminate the shell with the
                   exit command to signal synth to clean up and terminate.
                   This is a developer tool to troubleshoot port build
                   problems and it is not intended for the average user.

     LOCK          This environment variable only applies with the test
                   command. When it is defined to any value, the builder's
                   localbase is remounted read-only prior to the configure
                   phase and restored to read/write permissions after building
                   is complete.  This is a diagnostic tool aimed at
                   pinpointing file system violations as a port is not
                   supposed to write to localbase prior to staging.  Note that
                   the localbase tmpfs setting will considered as False in
                   this mode, so building may be noticeably slower than
                   normal.

     SELFTEST      This environment variable only applies with the test
                   command.  When it is defined, the “test” target is executed
                   as part of the build cycle; this target is not executed
                   under any other circumstances.

FILES
     The following files may be used or created:

     synth.ini         This is the configuration file. It is automatically
                       generated and manipulated using the interactive
                       configuration menu. There is no need to touch this file
                       other than to remove unwanted profiles as currently
                       that is not possible from the program itself. It is
                       normally located at /usr/local/etc/synth/synth.ini

     <profile>-make.conf
                       This is an optional, user-provided file. If it exists,
                       the builder's /etc/make.conf will be appended with the
                       contents of this file. For the default profile, the
                       file would normally be located at
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/LiveSystem-make.conf

     <profile>-environment
                       This is an optional, user-provided file. It contains a
                       list of name-value pairs joins with an equals sign
                       (e.g. HTTP_PROXY=http://proxyserver:8888), one pair per
                       line.  If the file exists, these variables will be
                       defined in the builder environment.  For the default
                       profile, the file would normally be located at
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/LiveSystem-environment

     <profile>-private.key
                       This is one of two files required to support the
                       signing of the repository by a local RSA key.  It is
                       the output of the openssl genrsa command; see the
                       EXAMPLE section for how to generate it.  The file
                       permissions are required to be set at 400 as well.  For
                       the default profile, the file is normally located at
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/LiveSystem-private.key

     <profile>-public.key
                       This is the second of two files required to support the
                       signing of the repository by a local RSA key.  synth
                       must confirm the public counterpart of the signing key
                       is available because its path is required for the
                       generated pkg repository configuration file.  For the
                       default profile, the file is normally located at
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/LiveSystem-public.key

     <profile>-signing_command
                       This is one of two files required to support the
                       signing of the repository by an external signing
                       server.  It consists of a single line containing the
                       command; see the EXAMPLE section.  For the default
                       profile, the file is normally located at
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/LiveSystem-signing_command

     <profile>-fingerprint
                       This is the second of two files required to support the
                       signing of the repository by an external signing
                       server.  It consists of a single line containing the
                       SHA 256 hash of the public key that is the counterpart
                       of the key that signed the repository.  For the default
                       profile, the file is normally located at
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/LiveSystem-fingerprint

     <profile>-index   The introduction of flavors within FreeBSD ports
                       destroyed the 1:1 relationship between port directories
                       and packages.  Now any port can generated any number of
                       packages.  This requires scanning every port in the
                       tree to determine the true origin range.  This is a
                       time consuming task, so Synth caches the scan results
                       and reuses it as long as all ports files are older than
                       the generated index.  When Synth detects the index is
                       out-of-date or if it doesn't exist, it is automatically
                       generated.  One index exists for each profile, with the
                       default profile index normally located at
                       /var/cache/synth/LiveSystem-index

     synth_status_results.txt
                       Whenever a status command is run, a list of ports that
                       would build with the actual command is produced at
                       /var/synth/synth_status_results.txt

     synth_prefetch_list.txt
                       Whenever a status command is run, and the option to use
                       suitable prebuilt packages has been selected, a list of
                       packages that will be fetched as a result will be
                       written to /var/synth/synth_prefetch_list.txt

     index.html        For every build run, Synth installs a web summary at
                       the Report subdirectory of the build logs directory.
                       For the default profile, the file would be located at
                       /var/log/synth/Report/index.html.  To remotely view the
                       web report with a browser, a web server must be present
                       and configured to expose the logs directory.  The web
                       report is dynamic and updated 10 times per minute.  The
                       complete history is available and searchable, with
                       quick-filters on "Built", "Failed", "Ignored" and
                       "Skipped" fields as well as on the "No." column which
                       is useful to examine cascaded skips.  The search filter
                       can be quickly cleared by clicking on the "Total"
                       field.

     port logs         Every single attempt at building a port results in a
                       build log. The name of the log is always in the form of
                       [category]___[port].log so that subsequent builds will
                       overwrite previous attempts. They are created in the
                       directory specified by the configuration.

     hook_run_start    If this file exists, and it is executable (or it is a
                       symbolic link that leads to an executable file) then it
                       will be executed by synth at the start of the build.
                       The same requirement exists for all hooks. This hook,
                       and the next five hooks all define the following common
                       environment variables: PROFILE, DIR_PACKAGES,
                       DIR_REPOSITORY, DIR_PORTS, DIR_OPTIONS, DIR_DISTFILES,
                       DIR_LOGS, DIR_BUILDBASE.  Uniquely, this hook also
                       defines PORTS_QUEUED which is the number of ports that
                       synth will attempt to build. This file must be colated
                       with synth.ini, so that would be
                       /usr/local/etc/synth/hook_run_start for most
                       installations.

     hook_run_end      This hook is fired when the build completes. In
                       addition to the common definitions, it defines
                       PORTS_BUILT, PORTS_FAILED, PORTS_IGNORED, and
                       PORTS_SKIPPED in the environment, which represents the
                       results of the build.

     hook_pkg_success  This hook is fired whenever a builder successfully
                       packages a port. In addition to the common definitions,
                       it defines RESULT=success, ORIGIN, and PKGNAME in the
                       environment.

     hook_pkg_failure  This hook is fired whenever a builder fails to package
                       a port. In addition to the common definitions, it
                       defines RESULT=failure, ORIGIN, and PKGNAME in the
                       environment.

     hook_pkg_ignored  This hook is fired prior to the start of a build when
                       synth prescans the queue for ports that are to be
                       ignored according to the ports tree. Once the build has
                       started, this hook is never fired again. In addition to
                       the common definitions, it defines RESULT=ignored,
                       ORIGIN, and PKGNAME in the environment.

     hook_pkg_skipped  This hook is fired whenever a package gets ignored or
                       fails which in turns cascades into a number of ports
                       getting removed from the build queue due to the
                       dependency's failure. This may fire before the build
                       starts due to ignored prescanning, or any time during
                       the build. In addition to the common definitions, it
                       defines RESULT=skipped, ORIGIN, and PKGNAME in the
                       environment.

SEE ALSO
     pkg(8), pkg-repo(8)

NOTES
   Graceful exit
     During development, the interrupt signal (SIGINT) was captured and
     handled. It turns out this handling extended to the builders, so any
     event resulting in a SIGINT in the build would lock up the builder
     permanently. There's no apparent workaround for this given the design, so
     pressing Control-C is no longer handled. It will stop the build, but it
     will leave everything in bad state. The next significant call to synth
     will attempt to clean that up though. If a user wants to stop the build,
     the best approach is to type the Control-Q combination. The program will
     shut down as soon as it can. During the building phase no new builds will
     start after the shutdown begins, but the active builders will continue
     until completion.

   Unprivileged users
     At this time, synth can only be run by the root user.

   Impulse indicator
     A common question is "What does the Impulse indicator on the display
     mean?"  It is the package build rate (packages/hour) over the last 500
     seconds.  For the first roughly ten minutes of a bulk run, the “Impulse”
     rate and the “Pkg/Hour” rate will be identical. After that, the “Impulse”
     build rate will differ from the rate averaged over the entire elapsed
     time, often by a great amount.  It's just a way to gauge the package
     production rate over the previous few minutes.

   Supported architectures
     Synth is written in Ada, and thus an Ada compiler or cross-compiler is
     required to build it. For FreeBSD, that means synth is currently limited
     to amd64 and i386. It is feasible to port GNAT to the ARMv7 architecture
     as this has already been done (See lang/gnatdroid-armv7 port) but it's
     not a trivial task to do it. Other architectures would be challenging,
     although not impossible, to support.

EXAMPLE
     To activate the signing of default profile's repository with a local RSA
     key, generate the two key files:

           % cd /usr/local/etc/synth
           % openssl genrsa -out LiveSystem-private.key 2048
           % chmod 0400 LiveSystem-private.key
           % openssl rsa -in LiveSystem-private.key -out \
             LiveSystem-public.key -pubout

     To activate the signing of default profile's repository with an external
     signing server, two files need to be created.  It's assumed the signing
     server has already been configured as described by the pkg-repo(8) man
     page, and that the keys are located in the repo.pub and repo.key files.
     On the signing server which is 192.168.0.44 in this example:

           % sha256 -q repo.pub > LiveSystem-fingerprint
           % echo "/usr/bin/ssh 192.168.0.44 /usr/local/bin/sign.sh" \
             > LiveSystem-signing_command

     Then move both files to /usr/local/etc/synth directory on the build
     server.  The build server root user needs to have a passphrase-free SSH
     key access to the signing server in order for Synth to sign the
     repository.

HISTORY
     synth was conceived long before coding began in December of 2015. It was
     designed to be system-agnostic from the beginning, and in particular
     support for FreeBSD and DragonFly was added simulaneously. It was hoped
     that it would attract users of the older PortMaster and PortUpgrade ports
     management tools by providing them with a superior and well-maintained
     alternative.

     synth was written entirely by John Marino ⟨marino@FreeBSD.org⟩ and
     released under the Internet Software Consortium license.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           January 27, 2021           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
