SYSTAT(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              SYSTAT(1)

NAME
     systat – display system statistics

SYNOPSIS
     systat [-display] [display-commands] [refresh-interval]

DESCRIPTION
     The systat utility displays various system statistics in a screen
     oriented fashion using the curses screen display library, ncurses(3).

     While systat is running the screen is usually divided into two windows
     (an exception is the vmstat display which uses the entire screen).  The
     upper window depicts the current system load average.  The information
     displayed in the lower window may vary, depending on user commands.  The
     last line on the screen is reserved for user input and error messages.

     By default systat displays the processes getting the largest percentage
     of the processor in the lower window.  Other displays show swap space
     usage, disk I/O statistics (a la iostat(8)), virtual memory statistics (a
     la vmstat(8)), TCP/IP statistics, and network connections (a la
     netstat(1)).

     Input is interpreted at two different levels.  A ``global'' command
     interpreter processes all keyboard input.  If this command interpreter
     fails to recognize a command, the input line is passed to a per-display
     command interpreter.  This allows each display to have certain display-
     specific commands.

     Command line options:

     -display          The - flag expects display to be one of: icmp, icmp6,
                       ifstat, iostat, ip, ip6, netstat, pigs, sctp, swap,
                       tcp, vmstat, or zarc, These displays can also be
                       requested interactively (without the “-”) and are
                       described in full detail below.

     refresh-interval  The refresh-value specifies the screen refresh time
                       interval in seconds.  Time interval can be fractional.

     display-commands  A list of commands specific to this display.  These
                       commands can also be entered interactively and are
                       described for each display separately below.  If the
                       command requires arguments, they can be specified as
                       separate command line arguments.  A command line
                       argument -- will finish display commands.  For example:

                             systat -ifstat -match bge0,em1 -pps

                       This will display statistics of packets per second for
                       network interfaces named as bge0 and em1.

                             systat -iostat -numbers -- 2.1

                       This will display all IO statistics in a numeric format
                       and the information will be refreshed each 2.1 seconds.

     Certain characters cause immediate action by systat.  These are

     ^L          Refresh the screen.

     ^G          Print the name of the current ``display'' being shown in the
                 lower window and the refresh interval.

     :           Move the cursor to the command line and interpret the input
                 line typed as a command.  While entering a command the
                 current character erase, word erase, and line kill characters
                 may be used.

     The following commands are interpreted by the ``global'' command
     interpreter.

     help        Print the names of the available displays on the command
                 line.

     load        Print the load average over the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes on
                 the command line.

     stop        Stop refreshing the screen.

     [start] [number]
                 Start (continue) refreshing the screen.  If a second,
                 numeric, argument is provided it is interpreted as a refresh
                 interval (in seconds).  Supplying only a number will set the
                 refresh interval to this value.

     quit        Exit systat.  (This may be abbreviated to q.)

     The available displays are:

     pigs        Display, in the lower window, those processes resident in
                 main memory and getting the largest portion of the processor
                 (the default display).  When less than 100% of the processor
                 is scheduled to user processes, the remaining time is
                 accounted to the ``idle'' process.

     icmp        Display, in the lower window, statistics about messages
                 received and transmitted by the Internet Control Message
                 Protocol (“ICMP”).  The left half of the screen displays
                 information about received packets, and the right half
                 displays information regarding transmitted packets.

                 The icmp display understands two commands: mode and reset.
                 The mode command is used to select one of four display modes,
                 given as its argument:
                 rate:       show the rate of change of each value in packets
                             (the default) per second
                 delta:      show the rate of change of each value in packets
                             per refresh interval
                 since:      show the total change of each value since the
                             display was last reset
                 absolute:   show the absolute value of each statistic

                 The reset command resets the baseline for since mode.  The
                 mode command with no argument will display the current mode
                 in the command line.

     icmp6       This display is like the icmp display, but displays
                 statistics for IPv6 ICMP.

     ip          Otherwise identical to the icmp display, except that it
                 displays IP and UDP statistics.

     ip6         Like the ip display, except that it displays IPv6 statistics.
                 It does not display UDP statistics.

     sctp        Like icmp, but with SCTP statistics.

     tcp         Like icmp, but with TCP statistics.

     iostat      Display, in the lower window, statistics about processor use
                 and disk throughput.  Statistics on processor use appear as
                 bar graphs of the amount of time executing in user mode
                 (``user''), in user mode running low priority processes
                 (``nice''), in system mode (``system''), in interrupt mode
                 (``interrupt''), and idle (``idle'').  Statistics on disk
                 throughput show, for each drive, megabytes per second,
                 average number of disk transactions per second, and average
                 kilobytes of data per transaction.  This information may be
                 displayed as bar graphs or as rows of numbers which scroll
                 downward.  Bar graphs are shown by default.

                 The following commands are specific to the iostat display;
                 the minimum unambiguous prefix may be supplied.

                 numbers     Show the disk I/O statistics in numeric form.
                             Values are displayed in numeric columns which
                             scroll downward.
                 bars        Show the disk I/O statistics in bar graph form
                             (default).
                 kbpt        Toggle the display of kilobytes per transaction.
                             (the default is to not display kilobytes per
                             transaction).

     swap        Show information about swap space usage on all the swap areas
                 compiled into the kernel.  The first column is the device
                 name of the partition.  The next column is the total space
                 available in the partition.  The Used column indicates the
                 total blocks used so far; the graph shows the percentage of
                 space in use on each partition.  If there are more than one
                 swap partition in use, a total line is also shown.  Areas
                 known to the kernel, but not in use are shown as not
                 available.

     vmstat      Take over the entire display and show a (rather crowded)
                 compendium of statistics related to virtual memory usage,
                 process scheduling, device interrupts, system name
                 translation caching, disk I/O etc.

                 The upper left quadrant of the screen shows the number of
                 users logged in and the load average over the last one, five,
                 and fifteen minute intervals.  Below this line are statistics
                 on memory utilization.  The first row of the table reports
                 memory usage only among active processes, that is processes
                 that have run in the previous twenty seconds.  The second row
                 reports on memory usage of all processes.  The first column
                 reports on the number of kilobytes in physical pages claimed
                 by processes.  The second column reports the number of
                 kilobytes in physical pages that are devoted to read only
                 text pages.  The third and fourth columns report the same two
                 figures for virtual pages, that is the number of kilobytes in
                 pages that would be needed if all processes had all of their
                 pages.  Finally the last column shows the number of kilobytes
                 in physical pages on the free list.

                 Below the memory display is a list of the average number of
                 processes (over the last refresh interval) that are runnable
                 (`r'), in page wait (`p'), in disk wait other than paging
                 (`d'), sleeping (`s'), and swapped out but desiring to run
                 (`w').  The row also shows the average number of context
                 switches (`Csw'), traps (`Trp'; includes page faults), system
                 calls (`Sys'), interrupts (`Int'), network software
                 interrupts (`Sof'), and page faults (`Flt').

                 Below the process queue length listing is a numerical listing
                 and a bar graph showing the amount of system (shown as `='),
                 interrupt (shown as `+'), user (shown as `>'), nice (shown as
                 `-'), and idle time (shown as ` ').

                 Below the process display are statistics on name
                 translations.  It lists the number of names translated in the
                 previous interval, the number and percentage of the
                 translations that were handled by the system wide name
                 translation cache, and the number and percentage of the
                 translations that were handled by the per process name
                 translation cache.

                 To the right of the name translations display are lines
                 showing the number of dirty buffers in the buffer cache
                 (`dtbuf'), desired maximum size of vnode cache (`desvn'),
                 number of vnodes actually allocated (`numvn'), and number of
                 allocated vnodes that are free (`frevn').

                 At the bottom left is the disk usage display.  It reports the
                 number of kilobytes per transaction, transactions per second,
                 megabytes per second and the percentage of the time the disk
                 was busy averaged over the refresh period of the display (by
                 default, five seconds).  The system keeps statistics on most
                 every storage device.  In general, up to seven devices are
                 displayed.  The devices displayed by default are the first
                 devices in the kernel's device list.  See devstat(3) and
                 devstat(9) for details on the devstat system.

                 Under the date in the upper right hand quadrant are
                 statistics on paging and swapping activity.  The first two
                 columns report the average number of pages brought in and out
                 per second over the last refresh interval due to page faults
                 and the paging daemon.  The third and fourth columns report
                 the average number of pages brought in and out per second
                 over the last refresh interval due to swap requests initiated
                 by the scheduler.  The first row of the display shows the
                 average number of disk transfers per second over the last
                 refresh interval; the second row of the display shows the
                 average number of pages transferred per second over the last
                 refresh interval.

                 Below the paging statistics is a column of lines regarding
                 the virtual memory system.  The first few lines describe, in
                 units (except as noted below) of pages per second averaged
                 over the sampling interval, pages copied on write (`cow'),
                 pages zero filled on demand (`zfod'), pages optimally zero
                 filled on demand (`ozfod'), the ratio of the (average) ozfod
                 / zfod as a percentage (`%ozfod'), pages freed by the page
                 daemon (`daefr'), pages freed by exiting processes (`prcfr'),
                 total pages freed (`totfr'), pages reactivated from the free
                 list (`react'), the average number of times per second that
                 the page daemon was awakened (`pdwak'), pages analyzed by the
                 page daemon (`pdpgs'), and in-transit blocking page faults
                 (`intrn').  Note that the units are special for `%ozfod' and
                 `pdwak'.  The next few lines describe, as amounts of memory
                 in kilobytes, pages wired down (`wire'), active pages
                 (`act'), inactive pages (`inact'), dirty pages queued for
                 laundering (`laund'), and free pages (`free').  Note that the
                 values displayed are the current transient ones; they are not
                 averages.

                 At the bottom of this column is a line showing the amount of
                 virtual memory, in kilobytes, mapped into the buffer cache
                 (`buf').  This statistic is not useful.  It exists only as a
                 placeholder for the corresponding useful statistic (the
                 amount of real memory used to cache disks).  The most
                 important component of the latter (the amount of real memory
                 used by the vm system to cache disks) is not available, but
                 can be guessed from the `inact' amount under some system
                 loads.

                 Running down the right hand side of the display is a
                 breakdown of the interrupts being handled by the system.  At
                 the top of the list is the total interrupts per second over
                 the time interval.  The rest of the column breaks down the
                 total on a device by device basis.  Only devices that have
                 interrupted at least once since boot time are shown.

                 The following commands are specific to the vmstat display;
                 the minimum unambiguous prefix may be supplied.

                 boot          Display cumulative statistics since the system
                               was booted.
                 run           Display statistics as a running total from the
                               point this command is given.
                 time          Display statistics averaged over the refresh
                               interval (the default).
                 zero          Reset running statistics to zero.

     zarc        display arc cache usage and hit/miss statistics.

     netstat     Display, in the lower window, network connections.  By
                 default, network servers awaiting requests are not displayed.
                 Each address is displayed in the format ``host.port'', with
                 each shown symbolically, when possible.  It is possible to
                 have addresses displayed numerically, limit the display to a
                 set of ports, hosts, and/or protocols (the minimum
                 unambiguous prefix may be supplied):

                 all           Toggle the displaying of server processes
                               awaiting requests (this is the equivalent of
                               the -a flag to netstat(1)).
                 numbers       Display network addresses numerically.
                 names         Display network addresses symbolically.
                 proto protocol
                               Display only network connections using the
                               indicated protocol.  Supported protocols are
                               ``tcp'', ``udp'', and ``all''.
                 ignore [items]
                               Do not display information about connections
                               associated with the specified hosts or ports.
                               Hosts and ports may be specified by name
                               (``vangogh'', ``ftp''), or numerically.  Host
                               addresses use the Internet dot notation
                               (``128.32.0.9'').  Multiple items may be
                               specified with a single command by separating
                               them with spaces.
                 display [items]
                               Display information about the connections
                               associated with the specified hosts or ports.
                               As for ignore, [items] may be names or numbers.
                 show [ports|hosts]
                               Show, on the command line, the currently
                               selected protocols, hosts, and ports.  Hosts
                               and ports which are being ignored are prefixed
                               with a `!'.  If ports or hosts is supplied as
                               an argument to show, then only the requested
                               information will be displayed.
                 reset         Reset the port, host, and protocol matching
                               mechanisms to the default (any protocol, port,
                               or host).

     ifstat      Display the network traffic going through active interfaces
                 on the system.  Idle interfaces will not be displayed until
                 they receive some traffic.

                 For each interface being displayed, the current, peak and
                 total statistics are displayed for incoming and outgoing
                 traffic.  By default, the ifstat display will automatically
                 scale the units being used so that they are in a human-
                 readable format.  The scaling units used for the current and
                 peak traffic columns can be altered by the scale command.

                 scale [units]          Modify the scale used to display the
                                        current and peak traffic over all
                                        interfaces.  The following units are
                                        recognised: kbit, kbyte, mbit, mbyte,
                                        gbit, gbyte and auto.

                 pps                    Show statistics in packets per second
                                        instead of bytes/bits per second.  A
                                        subsequent call of pps switches this
                                        mode off.

                 match [patterns]       Display only interfaces that match
                                        pattern provided as an argument.
                                        Patterns should be in shell syntax
                                        separated by whitespaces or commas.
                                        If this command is called without
                                        arguments then all interfaces are
                                        displayed.  For example:

                                              match em0, bge1

                                        This will display em0 and bge1
                                        interfaces.

                                              match em*, bge*, lo0

                                        This will display all em interfaces,
                                        all bge interfaces and the loopback
                                        interface.

     Commands to switch between displays may be abbreviated to the minimum
     unambiguous prefix; for example, ``io'' for ``iostat''.  Certain
     information may be discarded when the screen size is insufficient for
     display.  For example, on a machine with 10 drives the iostat bar graph
     displays only 3 drives on a 24 line terminal.  When a bar graph would
     overflow the allotted screen space it is truncated and the actual value
     is printed ``over top'' of the bar.

     The following commands are common to each display which shows information
     about disk drives.  These commands are used to select a set of drives to
     report on, should your system have more drives configured than can
     normally be displayed on the screen.

     ignore [drives]
                   Do not display information about the drives indicated.
                   Multiple drives may be specified, separated by spaces.
     display [drives]
                   Display information about the drives indicated.  Multiple
                   drives may be specified, separated by spaces.
     only [drives]
                   Display only the specified drives.  Multiple drives may be
                   specified, separated by spaces.
     drives        Display a list of available devices.
     match type,if,pass [| ...]
                   Display devices matching the given pattern.  The basic
                   matching expressions are the same as those used in
                   iostat(8) with one difference.  Instead of specifying
                   multiple -t arguments which are then ORed together, the
                   user instead specifies multiple matching expressions joined
                   by the pipe (‘|’) character.  The comma separated arguments
                   within each matching expression are ANDed together, and
                   then the pipe separated matching expressions are ORed
                   together.  Any device matching the combined expression will
                   be displayed, if there is room to display it.  For example:

                         match da,scsi | cd,ide

                   This will display all SCSI Direct Access devices and all
                   IDE CDROM devices.

                         match da | sa | cd,pass

                   This will display all Direct Access devices, all Sequential
                   Access devices, and all passthrough devices that provide
                   access to CDROM drives.

FILES
     /boot/kernel/kernel  For the namelist.
     /dev/kmem            For information in main memory.
     /etc/hosts           For host names.
     /etc/networks        For network names.
     /etc/services        For port names.

SEE ALSO
     netstat(1), kvm(3), icmp(4), icmp6(4), ip(4), ip6(4), tcp(4), udp(4),
     gstat(8), iostat(8), vmstat(8)

HISTORY
     The systat program appeared in 4.3BSD.  The icmp, ip, and tcp displays
     appeared in FreeBSD 3.0; the notion of having different display modes for
     the ICMP, IP, TCP, and UDP statistics was stolen from the -C option to
     netstat(1) in Silicon Graphics' IRIX system.

BUGS
     Certain displays presume a minimum of 80 characters per line.  Ifstat
     does not detect new interfaces.  The vmstat display looks out of place
     because it is (it was added in as a separate display rather than created
     as a new program).

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1        December 5, 2016        FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
