t3d(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 t3d(1)

NAME
       t3d - clock using flying balls to display the time

SYNOPSIS
       t3d [  options ]...

DESCRIPTION
       Time 3D is a clock. It uses flying balls to display the time. This
       balls move and wobble around to give you the impression your graphic
       workstation with its many XStones is doing something.

       t3d uses mouse and keyboard to let you fly through the balls. Hit S to
       speed up, A to slow down, Z to zoom in and X to zoom out.  Use the left
       mouse button to rotate to the left and the right mouse button to rotate
       the view to the right. Use the middle mouse button to change the
       optical axis and the moving direction.  Q will stop you.

OPTIONS
       -display host:dpy
              Specifys the display in the usual way.

       -geometry WxH+X+Y
              Sets the size and location of the t3d window.

       -move factor
              Modifies the direction move of t3d. The clock looks 30 degrees*
              factor to the left and to the right periodically.

       -wobble factor
              Modifies the wobbling (sounds nice :-) of t3d by multiplying the
              default deformation of the clock with factor.

       -nice factor
              Renices t3d by factor because t3d uses your process time. The
              default renice factor is 20, so you can't do anything wrong with
              not renicing t3d. If you want more speed, you should set nice to
              a smaller value.

       -minutes
              Shows one small ball for every minute, instead of one for every
              2.5 minutes.

       -mag factor
              Changes the magnification of t3d. By default, t3d uses a 200x200
              window. A factor of 2 means, it will use a 400x400 window.

       -cycle period
              Sets the moving cycle to period seconds. By default, this value
              is 10 seconds.

       -wait microsec
              Inserts a wait after drawing one view of the clock. By default,
              t3d waits 40 ms after each drawing. This helps you to keep the
              performance loss small.

       -fast precalc_radius
              t3d uses bitmap copy to draw precalculated balls. You can
              specify the radius in pixels up to which t3d should precalculate
              balls. t3d will set a useful range by itself using the
              magnification when it is started.

       -colcycle
              Draws cyclic the color scale used for the balls in the
              background instead of the normal black.

       -rgb red green blue
              Selects the color in RGB color space of the lightning spot on
              the balls.  All the other colors used for balls or -colcycle are
              less intensive colors of the same hue and saturation. All values
              in range of 0 to 1.

       -hsv hue value saturation
              Selects the color in HSV color space.  hue is in degrees from 0
              to 360, all other values in range from 0 to 1. It gives nice but
              rather unpredictable results, if you use a saturation of e.g. 2.
              Try it at your own risk.

       -hsvcycle speed
              Rotates the hue axis every 10 seconds* speed.

       -help  Prints a short usage message.


AUTHOR
       Bernd Paysan

       Email: bernd.paysan@gmx.de


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
       Acknowledgement to Georg Acher, who wrote the initial program
       displaying balls.


COPYING
       Copy, modify, and distribute T3D either under GPL version 2 or newer,
       or under the standard MIT/X license notice.


DISCLAIMER
       T3D is not related to T3D(tm), the massive parallel Alpha--based
       supercomputer from Cray Research. T3D's name was invented in 1991,
       years before the project at Cray Research started. There is no relation
       from T3D to Cray's T3D, even the balls surrounding T3D on some posters
       weren't an inspiration for T3D. I don't know anything about the other
       way round.

       The programming style of T3D isn't intented as example of good style,
       but as example of how a fast prototyped demo may look like. T3D wasn't
       created to be useful, it was created to be nice.


KNOWN BUGS
       There are no known bugs in T3D. Maybe there are bugs in X. Slight
       changes in the T3D sources are known to show these bugs, e.g. if you
       remove the (int) casting at the XFillArc x,y,w,h-coordinates...

Time 3D                           Version 1.1                           t3d(1)
