TBCLOCK(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             TBCLOCK(1)



NAME
       tbclock - binary clock with some fun features


SYNOPSIS
       tbclock [-abdefpvh] [-HMST color] [-m module]


DESCRIPTION
       tbclock is a fullscreen terminal clock that displays time in a binary
       fashion or another. It features a few modules and games to play with
       binary displayed time. By default the lines are horizontal and shows
       hours, minutes and seconds, you can switch to a different behaviour
       with -a, see below.

       The options are as follows:

       -v     Display version information.

       -f     By default, if the terminal is big enough, tbclock draws a frame
              around the terminal with its version in the top-right corner.
              This option disable this behavior.

       -b     By default, if the terminal is big enough, tbclock draws a
              little space between each blocks to ease the reading, use this
              switch to disable this little space.

       -d     Do not display the dots where the bit is NUL on the clock.

       -a     Switch tbclock to display binary times in a different fashion,
              easier for some people, one line per 'decimal digit' and
              vertical.

       -e     Switch tbclock to display decimal helpers. One -H will display
              side help, -HH will display a decimal clock under the binary
              clock, -HHH will display both. You can alternatively use the 'h'
              key to switch between modes.

       -m <module>
              tbclock features games and tools related to binary clock
              reading, each module will have its own keyboard bindings, check
              in the next section for more information.

       -H, -M, -S, -T <color>
              Those options changes the color of blocks. It takes a numeric
              option between 0 and 7, those numbers are directly copied from
              ncurses.h, here are their meaning :
                   0: Black         4: Blue
                   1: Red           5: Magenta
                   2: Green         6: Cyan
                   3: Yellow        7: White

       -p     Force tbclock to use 12 hours display instead of 24, am/pm will
              not be shown.


MODULES
       clock  This is the default module, it displays the current time. The
              'h' key will switch between different decimal hint modes. 'a'
              key will switch between the two different display modes
              'vertical' and 'horizontal'. Any other key will quit.

       chrono This module will run a timer from 0 to whatever you need. You
              can press the Spacebar at any time to pause the timer, and
              BackSpace to reset it. Any other key will quit. This module has
              an extra binary line that shows tenth of seconds, this might
              makes some slow terminal flicker. 'h' key will switch on/off
              different reading helps, 'a' will switch between display modes.

       guessbin
              This game displays a binary time and ask you its decimal
              equivalent. To answer you have to fill the time in this form :
              "HH:MM:SS". The difficulty only changes the answer delay and the
              amount of points you get. This module is not affected by -f, -b
              or -H.


AUTHORS
       tbclock is maintained by Bertrand Janin <tamentis@neopulsar.org>.
       Please visit http://tamentis.com/projects/tbclock/ for more
       information.


THANKS
       Franck who got a binary watch and is at the root of the idea, Olivier
       Regnier for the color options idea and bug reports, Andrew Pantyukhin
       for the FreeBSD port, #debsquad @ irc.oftc.net for the support and
       testing ;)


SEE ALSO
       date(1)

Bertrand Janin                 February 28, 2007                    TBCLOCK(1)
