TCBASIC(1)                       User Commands                      TCBASIC(1)

NAME
       tcbasic - a small BASIC Interpreter written in C

SYNOPSIS
       tcbasic [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       tcbasic implements a small subset of BASIC in portable C. If the user
       specifies a filename on the command line or pipes data to tcbasic, the
       results will be written to standard out. If no file is specified, an
       interactive mode is started where a user can interact with the BASIC
       system directly.

OPTIONS
       -h, -?            --help
              Print a helpful message and exit

       -v                 --version
              Print version information and exit

STATEMENTS
       REM remark
              Remark has no effect on the execution of the program and acts as
              a comment to the developer. The remark can contain any
              character.

       PRINT list
              Prints the contents of 'list' to the console where 'list' is a
              comma separated list of one or more quoted strings, expressions,
              and/or variables.

       IF expression relop expression THEN statement
              Evaluates both 'expression's and compares them using relational
              operator 'relop'. If the relation is true, then the statement
              will be executed. Otherwise, the statement is skipped.

       GOTO expression
              Evaluates 'expression' and jumps to the corresponding line
              number.

       INPUT var_list
              Given a comma separated list of 1 or more variables, this
              command will prompt the user to enter a comma separated list of
              expressions.  The value of each expression will be assigned to
              each corresponding variable.

       GOSUB expression
              Evaluates 'expression' and jumps to the corresponding line
              number after saving the current line number.

       RETURN Returns control to the line after the last 'GOSUB' call.

       LET var = expression
              Assigns the value of expression to variable 'var' where 'var' is
              a single character variable name in the range from A to Z.

       END    Ends the execution of the program.

       STOP   Exits the interpreter.

       BEEP   System beep.

       SHELL cmd
              Executes a shell command.

       RANDOMIZE
              Re-seeds the random number generator, causing RND to return a
              different sequence of random numbers.  CLS Clears the screen.

FUNCTIONS
       RND    Returns a random number in the range [0,1). The same sequence of
              numbers is returned in each program run. Use the RANDOMIZE
              statement to generate different sequences in each program run.

       TIME   Returns the number of seconds since midnight.

       SIN (expression)
              Returns the sine of the given expression (measured in radians).

       COS (expression)
              Returns the cosine of the given expression (measured in
              radians).

       TAN (expression)
              Returns the tangent of the given expression (measured in
              radians).

       COT (expression)
              Returns the cotangent of the given expression (measured in
              radians).

       ATN (expression)
              Returns the arctangent of the given expression (measured in
              radians).

       EXP (expression)
              Returns e to the power of the given expression.

       LOG (expression)
              Returns the natural logarithm of of the given expression.

       ABS (expression)
              Returns the absolute value of the given expression.

       INT (expression)
              Returns the integer portion of the given expression.

       SGN (expression)
              Returns the sign of the given expression. 1, 0, or -1 for
              positive, zero, or negative.

       SQR (expression)
              Returns the square root of the given expression.

COMMANDS
       CLEAR  Clears the program from memory and sets all variables to 0.

       LIST   Prints the current program.

       RENUM  Renumber lines in memory.

       RUN    Executes the current program.

       TROFF  Turns off debug tracing.

       TRON   Turns on debug tracing.

AUTHORS
       See https://github.com/tcort/tcbasic/graphs/contributors

REPORTING BUGS
       See https://github.com/tcort/tcbasic/issues

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2020  Thomas Cort
       <linuxgeek@gmail.com>
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.

tcbasic 2.3.0                      June 2018                        TCBASIC(1)
