TCLCHECK(1L)                                                      TCLCHECK(1L)

NAME
       tclCheck - check bracket nesting for tcl programs.

SYNOPSIS
       tclCheck [-cgijlmqs] [filename]...

DESCRIPTION
       tclCheck does a simple bracket nesting check on tcl programs to help
       you find missing or extra brackets. The program will often detect
       things that are very likely typing errors but which the tcl interpreter
       silently accepts. However, simple bracket matching is not all that
       useful for finding missing brackets and so the program also provides
       various ways of rpinting out the bracket "skeleton" of a program. This
       gives a line numbered listing showing where all the brackets occur in
       the program.  It is should be pretty easy to spot errors from this.

OPTIONS
       -c     By default tclCheck attempts to recognise comments so as to
              permit unmatching brackets in them. This flag turns this
              behaviour off.

       -e     This flag enables checking for lines that have a \ followed by
              spaces or tabs at their end. By default this test is not carried
              out.

       -g     By default tclCheck pops its stack of brackets to a find a match
              with } > ] > ). This flag turns this off.

       -i     This flag stops the printing of error messages beginning "Inside
              a string".

       -j     Generates a compressed skeleton print out where indentation is
              ignored when matching brackets (see -l).

       -l     Generates a compressed skeleton output where nested matching
              lines are paired up and removed. Matching includes any
              indentation.

       -m     Removes from the skeleton print out bracket pairs that match up
              directly on lines.

       -q     Do not generate any output unless exceptions are detected.

       -s     Generate a output of the bracket skeleton of the whole program.

       -t     tiger mode - this will flag any single " that occur in places
              where tcl would not detect the start of a string. By default
              this is turned off, but it can be very useful for tracking down
              some hard to find problems.

BUGS
       Bracket matching in tcl is an inexact science and the program takes a
       very conservative view so valid structures will sometimes be flagged --
       This is a feature not a bug!

                                 June 10 2021                     TCLCHECK(1L)
