TCP(4)                 FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual                 TCP(4)

NAME
     tcp – Internet Transmission Control Protocol

SYNOPSIS
     #include <sys/types.h>
     #include <sys/socket.h>
     #include <netinet/in.h>
     #include <netinet/tcp.h>

     int
     socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM, 0);

DESCRIPTION
     The TCP protocol provides reliable, flow-controlled, two-way transmission
     of data.  It is a byte-stream protocol used to support the SOCK_STREAM
     abstraction.  TCP uses the standard Internet address format and, in
     addition, provides a per-host collection of “port addresses”.  Thus, each
     address is composed of an Internet address specifying the host and
     network, with a specific TCP port on the host identifying the peer
     entity.

     Sockets utilizing the TCP protocol are either “active” or “passive”.
     Active sockets initiate connections to passive sockets.  By default, TCP
     sockets are created active; to create a passive socket, the listen(2)
     system call must be used after binding the socket with the bind(2) system
     call.  Only passive sockets may use the accept(2) call to accept incoming
     connections.  Only active sockets may use the connect(2) call to initiate
     connections.

     Passive sockets may “underspecify” their location to match incoming
     connection requests from multiple networks.  This technique, termed
     “wildcard addressing”, allows a single server to provide service to
     clients on multiple networks.  To create a socket which listens on all
     networks, the Internet address INADDR_ANY must be bound.  The TCP port
     may still be specified at this time; if the port is not specified, the
     system will assign one.  Once a connection has been established, the
     socket's address is fixed by the peer entity's location.  The address
     assigned to the socket is the address associated with the network
     interface through which packets are being transmitted and received.
     Normally, this address corresponds to the peer entity's network.

     TCP supports a number of socket options which can be set with
     setsockopt(2) and tested with getsockopt(2):

     TCP_INFO              Information about a socket's underlying TCP session
                           may be retrieved by passing the read-only option
                           TCP_INFO to getsockopt(2).  It accepts a single
                           argument: a pointer to an instance of struct
                           tcp_info.

                           This API is subject to change; consult the source
                           to determine which fields are currently filled out
                           by this option.  FreeBSD specific additions include
                           send window size, receive window size, and
                           bandwidth-controlled window space.

     TCP_CCALGOOPT         Set or query congestion control algorithm specific
                           parameters.  See mod_cc(4) for details.

     TCP_CONGESTION        Select or query the congestion control algorithm
                           that TCP will use for the connection.  See
                           mod_cc(4) for details.

     TCP_FASTOPEN          Enable or disable TCP Fast Open (TFO).  To use this
                           option, the kernel must be built with the
                           TCP_RFC7413 option.

                           This option can be set on the socket either before
                           or after the listen(2) is invoked.  Clearing this
                           option on a listen socket after it has been set has
                           no effect on existing TFO connections or TFO
                           connections in progress; it only prevents new TFO
                           connections from being established.

                           For passively-created sockets, the TCP_FASTOPEN
                           socket option can be queried to determine whether
                           the connection was established using TFO.  Note
                           that connections that are established via a TFO
                           SYN, but that fall back to using a non-TFO SYN|ACK
                           will have the TCP_FASTOPEN socket option set.

                           In addition to the facilities defined in RFC7413,
                           this implementation supports a pre-shared key (PSK)
                           mode of operation in which the TFO server requires
                           the client to be in posession of a shared secret in
                           order for the client to be able to successfully
                           open TFO connections with the server.  This is
                           useful, for example, in environments where TFO
                           servers are exposed to both internal and external
                           clients and only wish to allow TFO connections from
                           internal clients.

                           In the PSK mode of operation, the server generates
                           and sends TFO cookies to requesting clients as
                           usual.  However, when validating cookies received
                           in TFO SYNs from clients, the server requires the
                           client-supplied cookie to equal

                           SipHash24(key=16-byte-psk, msg=cookie-sent-to-client)

                           Multiple concurrent valid pre-shared keys are
                           supported so that time-based rolling PSK
                           invalidation policies can be implemented in the
                           system.  The default number of concurrent pre-
                           shared keys is 2.

                           This can be adjusted with the TCP_RFC7413_MAX_PSKS
                           kernel option.

     TCP_FUNCTION_BLK      Select or query the set of functions that TCP will
                           use for this connection.  This allows a user to
                           select an alternate TCP stack.  The alternate TCP
                           stack must already be loaded in the kernel.  To
                           list the available TCP stacks, see
                           functions_available in the MIB Variables section
                           further down.  To list the default TCP stack, see
                           functions_default in the MIB Variables section.

     TCP_KEEPINIT          This setsockopt(2) option accepts a per-socket
                           timeout argument of u_int in seconds, for new, non-
                           established TCP connections.  For the global
                           default in milliseconds see keepinit in the MIB
                           Variables section further down.

     TCP_KEEPIDLE          This setsockopt(2) option accepts an argument of
                           u_int for the amount of time, in seconds, that the
                           connection must be idle before keepalive probes (if
                           enabled) are sent for the connection of this
                           socket.  If set on a listening socket, the value is
                           inherited by the newly created socket upon
                           accept(2).  For the global default in milliseconds
                           see keepidle in the MIB Variables section further
                           down.

     TCP_KEEPINTVL         This setsockopt(2) option accepts an argument of
                           u_int to set the per-socket interval, in seconds,
                           between keepalive probes sent to a peer.  If set on
                           a listening socket, the value is inherited by the
                           newly created socket upon accept(2).  For the
                           global default in milliseconds see keepintvl in the
                           MIB Variables section further down.

     TCP_KEEPCNT           This setsockopt(2) option accepts an argument of
                           u_int and allows a per-socket tuning of the number
                           of probes sent, with no response, before the
                           connection will be dropped.  If set on a listening
                           socket, the value is inherited by the newly created
                           socket upon accept(2).  For the global default see
                           the keepcnt in the MIB Variables section further
                           down.

     TCP_NODELAY           Under most circumstances, TCP sends data when it is
                           presented; when outstanding data has not yet been
                           acknowledged, it gathers small amounts of output to
                           be sent in a single packet once an acknowledgement
                           is received.  For a small number of clients, such
                           as window systems that send a stream of mouse
                           events which receive no replies, this packetization
                           may cause significant delays.  The boolean option
                           TCP_NODELAY defeats this algorithm.

     TCP_MAXSEG            By default, a sender- and receiver-TCP will
                           negotiate among themselves to determine the maximum
                           segment size to be used for each connection.  The
                           TCP_MAXSEG option allows the user to determine the
                           result of this negotiation, and to reduce it if
                           desired.

     TCP_NOOPT             TCP usually sends a number of options in each
                           packet, corresponding to various TCP extensions
                           which are provided in this implementation.  The
                           boolean option TCP_NOOPT is provided to disable TCP
                           option use on a per-connection basis.

     TCP_NOPUSH            By convention, the sender-TCP will set the “push”
                           bit, and begin transmission immediately (if
                           permitted) at the end of every user call to
                           write(2) or writev(2).  When this option is set to
                           a non-zero value, TCP will delay sending any data
                           at all until either the socket is closed, or the
                           internal send buffer is filled.

     TCP_MD5SIG            This option enables the use of MD5 digests (also
                           known as TCP-MD5) on writes to the specified
                           socket.  Outgoing traffic is digested; digests on
                           incoming traffic are verified.  When this option is
                           enabled on a socket, all inbound and outgoing TCP
                           segments must be signed with MD5 digests.

                           One common use for this in a FreeBSD router
                           deployment is to enable based routers to interwork
                           with Cisco equipment at peering points.  Support
                           for this feature conforms to RFC 2385.

                           In order for this option to function correctly, it
                           is necessary for the administrator to add a tcp-md5
                           key entry to the system's security associations
                           database (SADB) using the setkey(8) utility.  This
                           entry can only be specified on a per-host basis at
                           this time.

                           If an SADB entry cannot be found for the
                           destination, the system does not send any outgoing
                           segments and drops any inbound segments.  However,
                           during connection negotiation, a non-signed segment
                           will be accepted if an SADB entry does not exist
                           between hosts.  When a non-signed segment is
                           accepted, the established connection is not
                           protected with MD5 digests.

     TCP_STATS             Manage collection of connection level statistics
                           using the stats(3) framework.

                           Each dropped segment is taken into account in the
                           TCP protocol statistics.

     TCP_TXTLS_ENABLE      Enable in-kernel Transport Layer Security (TLS) for
                           data written to this socket.  See ktls(4) for more
                           details.

     TCP_TXTLS_MODE        The integer argument can be used to get or set the
                           current TLS transmit mode of a socket.  See ktls(4)
                           for more details.

     TCP_RXTLS_ENABLE      Enable in-kernel TLS for data read from this
                           socket.  See ktls(4) for more details.

     TCP_REUSPORT_LB_NUMA  Changes NUMA affinity filtering for an established
                           TCP listen socket.  This option takes a single
                           integer argument which specifies the NUMA domain to
                           filter on for this listen socket.  The argument can
                           also have the follwing special values:

                           TCP_REUSPORT_LB_NUMA_NODOM
                                                    Remove NUMA filtering for
                                                    this listen socket.

                           TCP_REUSPORT_LB_NUMA_CURDOM
                                                    Filter traffic associated
                                                    with the domain where the
                                                    calling thread is
                                                    currently executing.  This
                                                    is typically used after a
                                                    process or thread inherits
                                                    a listen socket from its
                                                    parent, and sets its CPU
                                                    affinity to a particular
                                                    core.

     TCP_REMOTE_UDP_ENCAPS_PORT
                           Set and get the remote UDP encapsulation port.  It
                           can only be set on a closed TCP socket.

     The option level for the setsockopt(2) call is the protocol number for
     TCP, available from getprotobyname(3), or IPPROTO_TCP.  All options are
     declared in <netinet/tcp.h>.

     Options at the IP transport level may be used with TCP; see ip(4).
     Incoming connection requests that are source-routed are noted, and the
     reverse source route is used in responding.

     The default congestion control algorithm for TCP is cc_newreno(4).  Other
     congestion control algorithms can be made available using the mod_cc(4)
     framework.

   MIB Variables
     The TCP protocol implements a number of variables in the net.inet.tcp
     branch of the sysctl(3) MIB.

     TCPCTL_DO_RFC1323      (rfc1323) Implement the window scaling and
                            timestamp options of RFC 1323/RFC 7323 (default is
                            true).

     tolerate_missing_ts    Tolerate the missing of timestamps (RFC 1323/RFC
                            7323) for TCP segments belonging to TCP
                            connections for which support of TCP timestamps
                            has been negotiated.  As of June 2021, several TCP
                            stacks are known to violate RFC 7323, including
                            modern widely deployed ones.  Therefore the
                            default is 1, i.e., the missing of timestamps is
                            tolerated.

     TCPCTL_MSSDFLT         (mssdflt) The default value used for the maximum
                            segment size (“MSS”) when no advice to the
                            contrary is received from MSS negotiation.

     TCPCTL_SENDSPACE       (sendspace) Maximum TCP send window.

     TCPCTL_RECVSPACE       (recvspace) Maximum TCP receive window.

     log_in_vain            Log any connection attempts to ports where there
                            is not a socket accepting connections.  The value
                            of 1 limits the logging to SYN (connection
                            establishment) packets only.  That of 2 results in
                            any TCP packets to closed ports being logged.  Any
                            value unlisted above disables the logging (default
                            is 0, i.e., the logging is disabled).

     msl                    The Maximum Segment Lifetime, in milliseconds, for
                            a packet.

     keepinit               Timeout, in milliseconds, for new, non-established
                            TCP connections.  The default is 75000 msec.

     keepidle               Amount of time, in milliseconds, that the
                            connection must be idle before keepalive probes
                            (if enabled) are sent.  The default is 7200000
                            msec (2 hours).

     keepintvl              The interval, in milliseconds, between keepalive
                            probes sent to remote machines, when no response
                            is received on a keepidle probe.  The default is
                            75000 msec.

     keepcnt                Number of probes sent, with no response, before a
                            connection is dropped.  The default is 8 packets.

     always_keepalive       Assume that SO_KEEPALIVE is set on all TCP
                            connections, the kernel will periodically send a
                            packet to the remote host to verify the connection
                            is still up.

     icmp_may_rst           Certain ICMP unreachable messages may abort
                            connections in SYN-SENT state.

     do_tcpdrain            Flush packets in the TCP reassembly queue if the
                            system is low on mbufs.

     blackhole              If enabled, disable sending of RST when a
                            connection is attempted to a port where there is
                            not a socket accepting connections.  See
                            blackhole(4).

     delayed_ack            Delay ACK to try and piggyback it onto a data
                            packet.

     delacktime             Maximum amount of time, in milliseconds, before a
                            delayed ACK is sent.

     path_mtu_discovery     Enable Path MTU Discovery.

     tcbhashsize            Size of the TCP control-block hash table (read-
                            only).  This may be tuned using the kernel option
                            TCBHASHSIZE or by setting net.inet.tcp.tcbhashsize
                            in the loader(8).

     pcbcount               Number of active process control blocks (read-
                            only).

     syncookies             Determines whether or not SYN cookies should be
                            generated for outbound SYN-ACK packets.  SYN
                            cookies are a great help during SYN flood attacks,
                            and are enabled by default.  (See syncookies(4).)

     isn_reseed_interval    The interval (in seconds) specifying how often the
                            secret data used in RFC 1948 initial sequence
                            number calculations should be reseeded.  By
                            default, this variable is set to zero, indicating
                            that no reseeding will occur.  Reseeding should
                            not be necessary, and will break TIME_WAIT
                            recycling for a few minutes.

     reass.cursegments      The current total number of segments present in
                            all reassembly queues.

     reass.maxsegments      The maximum limit on the total number of segments
                            across all reassembly queues.  The limit can be
                            adjusted as a tunable.

     reass.maxqueuelen      The maximum number of segments allowed in each
                            reassembly queue.  By default, the system chooses
                            a limit based on each TCP connection's receive
                            buffer size and maximum segment size (MSS).  The
                            actual limit applied to a session's reassembly
                            queue will be the lower of the system-calculated
                            automatic limit and the user-specified
                            reass.maxqueuelen limit.

     rexmit_initial, rexmit_min, rexmit_slop
                            Adjust the retransmit timer calculation for TCP.
                            The slop is typically added to the raw calculation
                            to take into account occasional variances that the
                            SRTT (smoothed round-trip time) is unable to
                            accommodate, while the minimum specifies an
                            absolute minimum.  While a number of TCP RFCs
                            suggest a 1 second minimum, these RFCs tend to
                            focus on streaming behavior, and fail to deal with
                            the fact that a 1 second minimum has severe
                            detrimental effects over lossy interactive
                            connections, such as a 802.11b wireless link, and
                            over very fast but lossy connections for those
                            cases not covered by the fast retransmit code.
                            For this reason, we use 200ms of slop and a near-0
                            minimum, which gives us an effective minimum of
                            200ms (similar to Linux).  The initial value is
                            used before an RTT measurement has been performed.

     initcwnd_segments      Enable the ability to specify initial congestion
                            window in number of segments.  The default value
                            is 10 as suggested by RFC 6928.  Changing the
                            value on fly would not affect connections using
                            congestion window from the hostcache.  Caution:
                            This regulates the burst of packets allowed to be
                            sent in the first RTT.  The value should be
                            relative to the link capacity.  Start with small
                            values for lower-capacity links.  Large bursts can
                            cause buffer overruns and packet drops if routers
                            have small buffers or the link is experiencing
                            congestion.

     newcwd                 Enable the New Congestion Window Validation
                            mechanism as described in RFC 7661.  This gently
                            reduces the congestion window during periods,
                            where TCP is application limited and the network
                            bandwidth is not utilized completely.  That
                            prevents self-inflicted packet losses once the
                            application starts to transmit data at a higher
                            speed.

     do_prr                 Perform SACK loss recovery using the Proportional
                            Rate Reduction (PRR) algorithm described in
                            RFC6937.  This improves the effectiveness of
                            retransmissions particular in environments with
                            ACK thinning or burst loss events, as chances to
                            run out of the ACK clock are reduced, preventing
                            lengthy and performance reducing RTO based loss
                            recovery (default is true).

     do_prr_conservative    While doing Proportional Rate Reduction, remain
                            strictly in a packet conserving mode, sending only
                            one new packet for each ACK received.  Helpful
                            when a misconfigured token bucket traffic policer
                            causes persistent high losses leading to RTO, but
                            reduces PRR effectiveness in more common settings
                            (default is false).

     rfc6675_pipe           Calculate the bytes in flight using the algorithm
                            described in RFC 6675, and is also an improvement
                            when Proportional Rate Reduction is enabled.  Also
                            enables two other mechanisms from RFC6675.  Rescue
                            Retransmission helps timely loss recovery, when
                            the trailing segments of a transmission are lost,
                            while no additional data is ready to be sent.  In
                            case a partial ACK without a SACK block is
                            received during SACK loss recovery, the trailing
                            segment is immediately resent, rather than waiting
                            for a Retransmission timeout.  SACK loss recovery
                            is also engaged, once two segments plus one byte
                            are SACKed - even if no traditional duplicate ACKs
                            were seen.

     rfc3042                Enable the Limited Transmit algorithm as described
                            in RFC 3042.  It helps avoid timeouts on lossy
                            links and also when the congestion window is
                            small, as happens on short transfers.

     rfc3390                Enable support for RFC 3390, which allows for a
                            variable-sized starting congestion window on new
                            connections, depending on the maximum segment
                            size.  This helps throughput in general, but
                            particularly affects short transfers and high-
                            bandwidth large propagation-delay connections.

     sack.enable            Enable support for RFC 2018, TCP Selective
                            Acknowledgment option, which allows the receiver
                            to inform the sender about all successfully
                            arrived segments, allowing the sender to
                            retransmit the missing segments only.

     sack.maxholes          Maximum number of SACK holes per connection.
                            Defaults to 128.

     sack.globalmaxholes    Maximum number of SACK holes per system, across
                            all connections.  Defaults to 65536.

     maxtcptw               When a TCP connection enters the TIME_WAIT state,
                            its associated socket structure is freed, since it
                            is of negligible size and use, and a new structure
                            is allocated to contain a minimal amount of
                            information necessary for sustaining a connection
                            in this state, called the compressed TCP TIME_WAIT
                            state.  Since this structure is smaller than a
                            socket structure, it can save a significant amount
                            of system memory.  The net.inet.tcp.maxtcptw MIB
                            variable controls the maximum number of these
                            structures allocated.  By default, it is
                            initialized to kern.ipc.maxsockets / 5.

     nolocaltimewait        Suppress creating of compressed TCP TIME_WAIT
                            states for connections in which both endpoints are
                            local.

     fast_finwait2_recycle  Recycle TCP FIN_WAIT_2 connections faster when the
                            socket is marked as SBS_CANTRCVMORE (no user
                            process has the socket open, data received on the
                            socket cannot be read).  The timeout used here is
                            finwait2_timeout.

     finwait2_timeout       Timeout to use for fast recycling of TCP
                            FIN_WAIT_2 connections.  Defaults to 60 seconds.

     ecn.enable             Enable support for TCP Explicit Congestion
                            Notification (ECN).  ECN allows a TCP sender to
                            reduce the transmission rate in order to avoid
                            packet drops.
                            0       Disable ECN.
                            1       Allow incoming connections to request ECN.
                                    Outgoing connections will request ECN.
                            2       Allow incoming connections to request ECN.
                                    Outgoing connections will not request ECN.
                                    (default)

     ecn.maxretries         Number of retries (SYN or SYN/ACK retransmits)
                            before disabling ECN on a specific connection.
                            This is needed to help with connection
                            establishment when a broken firewall is in the
                            network path.

     pmtud_blackhole_detection
                            Enable automatic path MTU blackhole detection.  In
                            case of retransmits of MSS sized segments, the OS
                            will lower the MSS to check if it's an MTU
                            problem.  If the current MSS is greater than the
                            configured value to try
                            (net.inet.tcp.pmtud_blackhole_mss and
                            net.inet.tcp.v6pmtud_blackhole_mss), it will be
                            set to this value, otherwise, the MSS will be set
                            to the default values (net.inet.tcp.mssdflt and
                            net.inet.tcp.v6mssdflt).  Settings:
                            0       Disable path MTU blackhole detection.
                            1       Enable path MTU blackhole detection for
                                    IPv4 and IPv6.
                            2       Enable path MTU blackhole detection only
                                    for IPv4.
                            3       Enable path MTU blackhole detection only
                                    for IPv6.

     pmtud_blackhole_mss    MSS to try for IPv4 if PMTU blackhole detection is
                            turned on.

     v6pmtud_blackhole_mss  MSS to try for IPv6 if PMTU blackhole detection is
                            turned on.

     fastopen.acceptany     When non-zero, all client-supplied TFO cookies
                            will be considered to be valid.  The default is 0.

     fastopen.autokey       When this and net.inet.tcp.fastopen.server_enable
                            are non-zero, a new key will be automatically
                            generated after this specified seconds.  The
                            default is 120.

     fastopen.ccache_bucket_limit
                            The maximum number of entries in a client cookie
                            cache bucket.  The default value can be tuned with
                            the TCP_FASTOPEN_CCACHE_BUCKET_LIMIT_DEFAULT
                            kernel option or by setting
                            net.inet.tcp.fastopen_ccache_bucket_limit in the
                            loader(8).

     fastopen.ccache_buckets
                            The number of client cookie cache buckets.  Read-
                            only.  The value can be tuned with the
                            TCP_FASTOPEN_CCACHE_BUCKETS_DEFAULT kernel option
                            or by setting fastopen.ccache_buckets in the
                            loader(8).

     fastopen.ccache_list   Print the client cookie cache.  Read-only.

     fastopen.client_enable
                            When zero, no new active (i.e., client) TFO
                            connections can be created.  On the transition
                            from enabled to disabled, the client cookie cache
                            is cleared and disabled.  The transition from
                            enabled to disabled does not affect any active TFO
                            connections in progress; it only prevents new ones
                            from being established.  The default is 0.

     fastopen.keylen        The key length in bytes.  Read-only.

     fastopen.maxkeys       The maximum number of keys supported.  Read-only,

     fastopen.maxpsks       The maximum number of pre-shared keys supported.
                            Read-only.

     fastopen.numkeys       The current number of keys installed.  Read-only.

     fastopen.numpsks       The current number of pre-shared keys installed.
                            Read-only.

     fastopen.path_disable_time
                            When a failure occurs while trying to create a new
                            active (i.e., client) TFO connection, new active
                            connections on the same path, as determined by the
                            tuple {client_ip, server_ip, server_port}, will be
                            forced to be non-TFO for this many seconds.  Note
                            that the path disable mechanism relies on state
                            stored in client cookie cache entries, so it is
                            possible for the disable time for a given path to
                            be reduced if the corresponding client cookie
                            cache entry is reused due to resource pressure
                            before the disable period has elapsed.  The
                            default is TCP_FASTOPEN_PATH_DISABLE_TIME_DEFAULT.

     fastopen.psk_enable    When non-zero, pre-shared key (PSK) mode is
                            enabled for all TFO servers.  On the transition
                            from enabled to disabled, all installed pre-shared
                            keys are removed.  The default is 0.

     fastopen.server_enable
                            When zero, no new passive (i.e., server) TFO
                            connections can be created.  On the transition
                            from enabled to disabled, all installed keys and
                            pre-shared keys are removed.  On the transition
                            from disabled to enabled, if fastopen.autokey is
                            non-zero and there are no keys installed, a new
                            key will be generated immediately.  The transition
                            from enabled to disabled does not affect any
                            passive TFO connections in progress; it only
                            prevents new ones from being established.  The
                            default is 0.

     fastopen.setkey        Install a new key by writing
                            net.inet.tcp.fastopen.keylen bytes to this sysctl.

     fastopen.setpsk        Install a new pre-shared key by writing
                            net.inet.tcp.fastopen.keylen bytes to this sysctl.

     hostcache.enable       The TCP host cache is used to cache connection
                            details and metrics to improve future performance
                            of connections between the same hosts.  At the
                            completion of a TCP connection, a host will cache
                            information for the connection for some defined
                            period of time.
                            0       Disable the host cache.
                            1       Enable the host cache. (default)

     hostcache.purgenow     Immediately purge all entries once set to any
                            value.  Setting this to 2 will also reseed the
                            hash salt.

     hostcache.purge        Expire all entires on next pruning of host cache
                            entries.  Any non-zero setting will be reset to
                            zero, once the pruge is running.
                            0       Do not purge all entries when pruning the
                                    host cache. (default)
                            1       Purge all entries when doing the next
                                    pruning.
                            2       Purge all entries, and also reseed the
                                    hash salt.

     hostcache.prune        Time in seconds between pruning expired host cache
                            entries.  Defaults to 300 (5 minutes).

     hostcache.expire       Time in seconds, how long a entry should be kept
                            in the host cache since last accessed.  Defaults
                            to 3600 (1 hour).

     hostcache.count        The current number of entries in the host cache.

     hostcache.bucketlimit  The maximum number of entries for the same hash.
                            Defaults to 30.

     hostcache.hashsize     Size of TCP hostcache hashtable.  This number has
                            to be a power of two, or will be rejected.
                            Defaults to 512.

     hostcache.cachelimit   Overall entry limit for hostcache.  Defaults to
                            hashsize * bucketlimit.

     hostcache.histo        Provide a Histogram of the hostcache hash
                            utilization.

     hostcache.list         Provide a complete list of all current entries in
                            the host cache.

     functions_available    List of available TCP function blocks (TCP
                            stacks).

     functions_default      The default TCP function block (TCP stack).

     functions_inherit_listen_socket_stack
                            Determines whether to inherit listen socket's tcp
                            stack or use the current system default tcp stack,
                            as defined by functions_default.  Default is true.

     insecure_rst           Use criteria defined in RFC793 instead of RFC5961
                            for accepting RST segments.  Default is false.

     insecure_syn           Use criteria defined in RFC793 instead of RFC5961
                            for accepting SYN segments.  Default is false.

     ts_offset_per_conn     When initializing the TCP timestamps, use a per
                            connection offset instead of a per host pair
                            offset.  Default is to use per connection offsets
                            as recommended in RFC 7323.

     perconn_stats_enable   Controls the default collection of statistics for
                            all connections using the stats(3) framework.  0
                            disables, 1 enables, 2 enables random sampling
                            across log id connection groups with all
                            connections in a group receiving the same setting.

     perconn_stats_sample_rates
                            A CSV list of template_spec=percent key-value
                            pairs which controls the per template sampling
                            rates when stats(3) sampling is enabled.

     udp_tunneling_port     The local UDP encapsulation port.  A value of 0
                            indicates that UDP encapsulation is disabled.  The
                            default is 0.

     udp_tunneling_overhead
                            The overhead taken into account when using UDP
                            encapsulation.  Since MSS clamping by middleboxes
                            will most likely not work, values larger than 8
                            (the size of the UDP header) are also supported.
                            Supported values are between 8 and 1024.  The
                            default is 8.

ERRORS
     A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:

     [EISCONN]          when trying to establish a connection on a socket
                        which already has one;

     [ENOBUFS] or [ENOMEM]
                        when the system runs out of memory for an internal
                        data structure;

     [ETIMEDOUT]        when a connection was dropped due to excessive
                        retransmissions;

     [ECONNRESET]       when the remote peer forces the connection to be
                        closed;

     [ECONNREFUSED]     when the remote peer actively refuses connection
                        establishment (usually because no process is listening
                        to the port);

     [EADDRINUSE]       when an attempt is made to create a socket with a port
                        which has already been allocated;

     [EADDRNOTAVAIL]    when an attempt is made to create a socket with a
                        network address for which no network interface exists;

     [EAFNOSUPPORT]     when an attempt is made to bind or connect a socket to
                        a multicast address.

     [EINVAL]           when trying to change TCP function blocks at an
                        invalid point in the session;

     [ENOENT]           when trying to use a TCP function block that is not
                        available;

SEE ALSO
     getsockopt(2), socket(2), stats(3), sysctl(3), blackhole(4), inet(4),
     intro(4), ip(4), ktls(4), mod_cc(4), siftr(4), syncache(4), tcp_bbr(4),
     setkey(8), tcp_functions(9)

     V. Jacobson, B. Braden, and D. Borman, TCP Extensions for High
     Performance, RFC 1323.

     D. Borman, B. Braden, V. Jacobson, and R. Scheffenegger, TCP Extensions
     for High Performance, RFC 7323.

     A. Heffernan, Protection of BGP Sessions via the TCP MD5 Signature
     Option, RFC 2385.

     K. Ramakrishnan, S. Floyd, and D. Black, The Addition of Explicit
     Congestion Notification (ECN) to IP, RFC 3168.

HISTORY
     The TCP protocol appeared in 4.2BSD.  The RFC 1323 extensions for window
     scaling and timestamps were added in 4.4BSD.  The TCP_INFO option was
     introduced in Linux 2.6 and is subject to change.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         January 8, 2022        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
