tdir(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                tdir(1)

NAME
       tdir - Display formatted directory listing

SYNOPSIS:
       tdir [-DRdefhtv] [-cCol Width] [-sSep Character] [-wOutput Width] [dir
       ...]

DESCRIPTION
       tdir displays a formatted listing for the directories you select,
       grouping the file names by "extension".  If you do not name a specific
       directory, it defaults to the current directory.

       For each directory selected, tdir will first display a columnated and
       sorted list of subdirectories delimited by square brackets, followed by
       a columnated list of files sorted by "extension" which appears on the
       left side of the listing delimited by curly braces.

       If either a directory or file name cannot fit in the column width, it
       will be truncated so that it does fit.  In that case, the last
       character of the truncated name will be replaced with a carat (^) to
       let you know what happened.

       The output is written to the standard output.

       Normal exits return an exit status of 0.  Command line errors or
       unreasonable parameters return an exit status of 2.


OPTIONS
       -D     Supress output of "dot" directories and files. i.e., Files and
              directories whose names begin with "."  This option is ignored
              when viewing directory tree output (-t or -Rdf).

       -R     Travel down each directory tree Recursively. Defaults to no
              recursion.

       -d     Suppress display of directories

       -e     Suppress sorting files by extension.  Display full file name in
              alphabetic order beneath the directory display.

       -f     Suppress display of files

       -h     Display Help information about tdir.

       -s c   Set Extension Separator character to c. (default: .) tdir will
              search for the rightmost instance of this character when
              examining file names.  From that position to the end of the name
              is considered the "extension" of the file.  Everything before it
              is considered the "name".

       -t     Tree mode - display directory tree only.  Equivalent to: -Rdf

       -v     Display Version information about tdir.

       -c #   Set Column With to # characters. (default: 19)

       -w #   Set the Output Width to # characters.  On Unix-style systems,
              this defaults to the current terminal width minus 1.  On other
              systems it defaults to 80.

COLUMN ARITHMETIC
       tdir defines its columnar output based on the total output width and
       column width.  Both of these can be changed from the command line.  The
       number of columns is (output-width modulo column- width).  The
       indentation to the first column is (remainder output-width/column-
       width).  The width of the text is always one less than the column width
       to leave room for a trailing space.

SEPARATOR CHARACTER
       tdir sorts and displays file names based on their so-called
       "extensions".  In most cases, the default of '.' should be fine.
       However, there may be times when you want to override the default (with
       the -s command line option).  Say, for example, you have a bunch of
       reports ending in: -001, -002, -003, and so on.  In this case,
       switching the separator character to '-' will probably give you a more
       reasonable output sort order.

OTHER
       You must have a reasonably current copy of 'python' installed for tdir
       to operate.

BUGS AND MISFEATURES
       None known as of this release.  tdir is written in 'python' and has
       been used on FreeBSD, Linux, and Windows 2000/XP installations.  If you
       are using something else that supports 'python', give it a whirl.

       tdir is case-sensitive.  So, files ending in ".EXE" and ".exe" and
       ".eXe" will sort into separate groups.  This is completely appropriate
       for adult operating systems like Unix, but (at the very least) arguable
       for systems like Windows where case is preserved but not observed by
       the OS.

       Paths are displayed using '/' as the path separator.  I can't help it
       that Microsoft departed from The One True Way ;))

COPYRIGHT
       tdir is Copyright(c) 2001-2018 TundraWare Inc.  For terms of use, see
       the tdir-license.txt file in the program distribution.  If you install
       tdir on a FreeBSD system using the 'ports' mechanism, you will also
       find this file in /usr/local/share/doc/tdir.

AUTHOR
       Tim Daneliuk
       tundra@tundraware.com

                                  TundraWare                           tdir(1)
