TEXI2DB(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           TEXI2DB(1)


NAME
       texi2db - convert Texinfo documents into DocBook XML.

SYNOPSIS
       texi2db [OPTION] [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       texi2db converts a Texinfo into DocBook XML.

       By default it reads from STDIN and writes to STDOUT. However, if given
       a filename, it will read that file, and an output filename can also be
       specified as a command-line option.

OPTIONS
       -i, --include HTML|INFO|TEX include the specified text.

       -f, --file FILE read from file rather than STDIN.

       -o, --output-to FILE write to file rather than STDOUT.

       -l, --log-to FILE write status messages to file rather than STDOUT.

       -L, --runon set runon line limit (default=20)

       -v, --verbose show diagnostic output. Use twice for lots of detail. Use
       thrice for insane amounts of detail.

       -e, --max-errors MAX abort after this many errors. Default is 1. use
       '--max-errors 0' to disable.

       -h, --help show this usage message and exit.

       -V, --version show the program version and exit.

BUGS
       Bugs are tracked in the SourceForge project page at:

       http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/linuxdoc

       If you report a bug in texi2db, specify texi2db as the category so it
       will be routed the appropriate person.

NOTES
       texi2db was developed as a project of the Linux Documentation Project.
       While it is useful on its own, it is part of Lampadas, the LDP's
       document production system.

SEE ALSO
       See the home page of the Linux Documentation Project,
       http://www.tldp.org for updates and more information.

AUTHOR
       This man page was written by David Merrill <david@lupercalia.net>.

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
       under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
       any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
       Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.

perl v5.40.2                      2002-06-26                        TEXI2DB(1)
