TkCVS(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               TkCVS(1)

NAME
       TkCVS - a Tk/Tcl Graphical Interface to CVS and Subversion

SYNOPSIS
       tkcvs [-dir directory] [-root cvsroot] [-win workdir|module|merge]
       [-log file]

DESCRIPTION
       TkCVS is a Tcl/Tk-based graphical interface to the CVS and Subversion
       configuration management systems. It displays the status of the files
       in the current working directory, and provides buttons and menus to
       execute configuration-management commands on the selected files.
       Limited RCS functionality is also present. Git functionality is new in
       version 9.

       TkDiff is bundled in for browsing and merging your changes.

       TkCVS also aids in browsing the repository. For Subversion, the
       repository tree is browsed like an ordinary file tree.  For CVS, the
       CVSROOT/modules file is read.  TkCVS extends CVS with a method to
       produce a browsable, "user friendly" listing of modules. This requires
       special comments in the CVSROOT/modules file. See "CVS Modules File"
       for more guidance.

OPTIONS
       TkCVS accepts the following options.

       -dir directory
              Start TkCVS in the specified directory.

       -help  Print a usage message.

       -log file
              Invoke a log browser for the specified file. -log and -win are
              mutually exclusive.

       -root cvsroot
              Set $CVSROOT to the specified repository.

       -win workdir|module|merge
              Start by displaying the directory browser (the default), the
              module browser, or the directory-merge tool. -win and -log are
              mutually exclusive.

Examples
              % tkcvs -win module -root /jaz/repository
       Browse the modules located in CVSROOT /jaz/repository
              % tkcvs -log tstheap.c
       View the log of the file tstheap.c

Working Directory Browser
       The working directory browser shows the files in your local working
       copy, or "sandbox."  It shows the status of the files at a glance and
       provides tools to help with most of the common CVS, SVN, and RCS
       operations you might do.

       At the top of the browser you will find:

       *  The name of the current directory. You can change directories by
       typing in this field. Recently visited directories are saved in the
       picklist.

       *  The relative path of the current directory in the repository. If it
       is not contained in the repository you may import it using the menu or
       toolbar button.

       *  A Directory Tag name, if the directory is contained in the
       repository and it has been checked out against a particular branch or
       tag.  In Subversion, the branch or tag is inferred from the URL based
       on the conventional trunk-branches-tags repository organization.

       *  The CVSROOT of the current directory if it's under CVS control, or
       the URL of the Subversion repository if it's under Subversion control.
       If neither is true, it may default to the value of the $CVSROOT
       environment variable.

       The main part of the working directory browser is a list of the files
       in the current directory with an icon next to each showing its status.
       You select a file by clicking on its name or icon once with the left
       mouse button. Holding the Control key while clicking will add the file
       to the group of those already selected. You can select a contiguous
       group of files by holding the Shift key while clicking. You can also
       select a group of files by dragging the mouse with the middle or right
       button pressed to select an area. Selecting an item that's already
       selected de-selects that item. To unselect all files, click the left
       mouse button in an empty area of the file list.

       *  The Date column (can be hidden) shows the modification time of the
       file is shown. The format of the date column may be specified with
       cvscfg(dateformat). The default format was chosen because it sorts the
       same way alphabetically as chronologically.

       If the directory belongs to a revision system, other columns are
       present.

       * The revision column shows which revision of the file is checked out,
       and whether it's on the trunk or on a branch.

       *  The status column (can be hidden) shows the revision of the file
       spelled out in text.  This information is mostly redundant to the icon
       in the file column.

       *  The Editor/Author/Locker column (can be hidden) varies according to
       revision system. In Subversion, the author of the most recent checkin
       is shown.  In CVS, it shows a list of people editing the files if your
       site uses "cvs watch" and/or "cvs edit". Otherwise, it will be empty.
       In RCS, it shows who, if anyone, has the file locked.

       The optional columns can be displayed or hidden using the Options menu.

       You can move into a directory by double-clicking on it.

       Double clicking on a file will load the file into a suitable editor so
       you can change it. A different editor can be used for different file
       types (see Configuration Files).

   File Status
       When you are in a directory that is under CVS, Subversion, or Git
       control, the file status will be shown by an icon next to each file.
       Checking the "Status Column" option causes the status to be displayed
       in text in its own column. Some possible statuses are:

       Up-to-date
              The file is up to date with respect to the repository.

       Locally Modified
              The file has been modified in the current directory since being
              checked out of the repository.

       Locally Added
              The file has been added to the repository. This file will become
              permanent in the repository once a commit is made.

       Locally Removed
              You have removed the file with remove, and not yet committed
              your changes.

       Needs Checkout
              Someone else has committed a newer revision to the repository.
              The name is slightly misleading; you will ordinarily use update
              rather than checkout to get that newer revision.

       Needs Patch
              Like Needs Checkout, but the CVS server will send a patch rather
              than the entire file. Sending a patch or sending an entire file
              accomplishes the same thing.

       Needs Merge
              Someone else has committed a newer revision to the repository,
              and you have also made modifications to the file.

       Unresolved Conflict
              This is like Locally Modified, except that a previous update
              command gave a conflict. You need to resolve the conflict before
              checking in.

       ?      The file is not contained in the repository. You may need to add
              the file to the repository by pressing the "Add" button.

       [directory:CVS]
              A directory which has been checked out from a CVS repository.

       [directory:SVN]
              A directory which has been checked out from a Subversion
              repository.  In Subversion, directories are themselves versioned
              objects.

       [directory:RCS]
              A directory which contains an RCS sub-directory or some files
              with the ,v suffix, presumably containing some files that are
              under RCS revision control.

       [directory:GIT]
              A directory which has been cloned from a Git repository.

       [directory]
              A directory not controlled by one of the supported revision
              control systems

   File Filters
       You can specify file matching patterns to instruct TkCVS which files
       you wish to see. You can also specify patterns telling it which files
       to remove when you press the "Clean" button or select the File->Cleanup
       menu item.

       "Hide" works exactly the way a .cvsignore file works. That is, it
       causes non-CVS files with the pattern to be ignored. It's meant for
       hiding .o files and such. Any file under CVS control will be listed
       anyway.

       "Show" is the inverse. It hides non-CVS files except for those with the
       pattern.

   Buttons
       Module Browser:
              The big button at the upper right opens the module browser.
              Opens a module browser window which will enable you to explore
              items in the repository even if they're not checked out.  In
              CVS, this requires that there be entries in the CVSROOT/modules
              file.  Browsing can be improved by using TkCVS-specific comments
              in CVSROOT/modules.

       Go Up: The button to the left of the entry that shows the current
              directory. Press it and you go up one level.

       There are a number of buttons at the bottom of the window. Pressing on
       one of these causes the following actions:

       Delete:
              Press this button to delete the selected files. The files will
              not be removed from the repository. To remove the files from the
              repository as well as delete them, press the "Remove" button
              instead.

       Edit:  Press this button to load the selected files in to an
              appropriate editor.

       View:  Press this button to view the selected files in a Tk text
              window. This can be a lot faster then Edit, in case your
              preferred editor is xemacs or something of that magnitude.

       Refresh:
              Press this button to re-read the current directory, in case the
              status of some files may have changed.

       Status Check:
              Shows, in a searchable text window, the status of all the files.
              By default, it is recursive and lists unknown (?) files. These
              can be changed in the Options menu.

       Directory Branch Browse:
              For merging the entire directory. In Subversion, it opens the
              Branch Browser for "."  In CVS, it chooses a "representative"
              file in the current directory and opens a graphical tool for
              directory merges.

       Log (Branch) Browse:
              This button will bring up the log browser window for each of the
              selected files in the window. See the Log Browser section.

       Annotate:
              This displays a window in which the selected file is shown with
              the lines highlighted according to when and by whom they were
              last revised.  In Subversion, it's also called "blame."

       Diff:  This compares the selected files with the equivalent files in
              the repository. A separate program called "TkDiff" (also
              supplied with TkCVS) is used to do this. For more information on
              TkDiff, see TkDiff's help menu.

       Merge Conflict:
              If a file's status says "Needs Merge", "Conflict", or is marked
              with a "C" in CVS Check, there was a difference which CVS needs
              help to reconcile. This button invokes TkDiff with the -conflict
              option, opening a merge window to help you merge the
              differences.

       Check In:
              This button commits your changes to the repository. This
              includes adding new files and removing deleted files. When you
              press this button, a dialog will appear asking you for the
              version number of the files you want to commit, and a comment.
              You need only enter a version number if you want to bring the
              files in the repository up to the next major version number. For
              example, if a file is version 1.10, and you do not enter a
              version number, it will be checked in as version 1.11. If you
              enter the version number 3, then it will be checked in as
              version 3.0 instead.  It is usually better to use symbolic tags
              for that purpose.  If you use rcsinfo to supply a template for
              the comment, you must use an external editor.  Set
              cvscfg(use_cvseditor) to do this. For checking in to RCS, an
              externel editor is always used.

       Update:
              This updates your sandbox directory with any changes committed
              to the repository by other developers.

       Update with Options:
              Allows you to update from a different branch, with a tag, with
              empty directories, and so on.

       Add Files:
              Press this button when you want to add new files to the
              repository. You must create the file before adding it to the
              repository. To add some files, select them and press the Add
              Files button. The files that you have added to the repository
              will be committed next time you press the Check In button. It is
              not recursive. Use the menu CVS -> Add Recursively for that.

       Remove Files:
              This button will remove files. To remove files, select them and
              press the Remove button. The files will disappear from the
              directory, and will be removed from the repository next time you
              press the Check In button. It is not recursive. Use the menu CVS
              -> Remove Recursively for that.

       Tag:   This button will tag the selected files. In CVS, the -F (force)
              option will move the tag if it already exists on the file.

       Branch Tag:
              This button will tag the selected files, creating a branch. In
              CVS, the -F (force) option will move the tag if it already
              exists on the file.

       Lock (CVS and RCS):
              Lock an RCS file for editing.  If cvscfg(cvslock) is set, lock a
              CVS file.  Use of locking is philosophically discouraged in CVS
              since it's against the "concurrent" part of Concurrent
              Versioning System, but locking policy is nevertheless used at
              some sites.  One size doesn't fit all.

       Unlock (CVS and RCS):
              Unlock an RCS file.  If cvscfg(cvslock) is set, unlock a CVS
              file.

       Set Edit Flag (CVS):
              This button sets the edit flag on the selected files, enabling
              other developers to see that you are currently editing those
              files (See "cvs edit" in the CVS documentation).

       Reset Edit Flag (CVS):
              This button resets the edit flag on the selected files, enabling
              other developers to see that you are no longer editing those
              files (See "cvs edit" in the CVS documentation). As the current
              version of cvs waits on a prompt for "cvs unedit" if changes
              have been made to the file in question (to ask if you want to
              revert the changes to the current revision), the current action
              of tkcvs is to abort the unedit (by piping in nothing to stdin).
              Therefore, to lose the changes and revert to the current
              revision, it is necessary to delete the file and do an update
              (this will also clear the edit flag). To keep the changes, make
              a copy of the file, delete the original, update, and then move
              the saved copy back to the original filename.

       Close: Press this button to close the Working Directory Browser. If no
              other windows are open, TkCVS exits.

Log (Branch) Browser
       The TkCVS Log Browser window enables you to view a graphical display of
       the revision log of a file, including all previous versions and any
       branched versions.

       You can get to the log browser window in three ways, either by invoking
       it directly with "tkcvs [-log] <filename>", by selecting a file within
       the main window of TkCVS and pressing the Log Browse button, or by
       selecting a file in a list invoked from the module browser and pressing
       the Log Browse button.

       If the Log Browser is examining a checked-out file, the buttons for
       performing merge operations are enabled.

   Log Browser Window
       The log browser window has three components. These are the file name
       and version information section at the top, the log display in the
       middle, and a row of buttons along the bottom.

   Log Display
       The main log display is fairly self explanatory. It shows a group of
       boxes connected by lines indicating the main trunk of the file
       development (on the left hand side) and any branches that the file has
       (which spread out to the right of the main trunk).

       Each box contains the version number, author of the version, and other
       information determined by the menu View -> Revision Layout.

       Constructing the branch diagram from Subversion is inefficient, so the
       Log Browser counts the tags when doing a Subversion diagram and pops up
       a dialog giving you a chance to skip the tag step if there are too many
       tags (where "many" arbitrarily equals 10.)

   Version Numbers
       Once a file is loaded into the log browser, one or two version numbers
       may be selected. The primary version (Selection A) is selected by
       clicking the left mouse button on a version box in the main log
       display.

       The secondary version (Selection B) is selected by clicking the right
       mouse button on a version box in the main log display.

       Operations such as "View" and "Annotate" operate only on the primary
       version selected.

       Operations such as "Diff" and "Merge Changes to Current" require two
       versions to be selected.

   Searching the Diagram
       You can search the canvas for tags, revisions, authors, and dates.

       The following special characters are used in the search pattern:

         *      Matches any sequence of characters in string, including a null
       string.

         ?      Matches any single character in string.

         [chars] Matches any character in the set given by chars. If a
       sequence of the form x-y appears in chars, then any character between x
       and y, inclusive, will match.

              Matches the single character x. This provides a way of avoiding
       the special interpretation of the characters *?[] in pattern.

       If you only enter "FOO" (without the

   Log Browser Buttons
       The log browser contains the following buttons:

       Refresh:
              Re-reads the revision history of the file.

       View:  Pressing this button displays a Tk text window containing the
              version of the file at Selection A.

       Annotate:
              This displays a window in which the file is shown with its lines
              highlighted according to when and by whom they were last
              revised.  In Subversion, it's also called "blame."

       Diff:  Pressing this button runs the "tkdiff" program to display the
              differences between version A and version B.

       Merge: To use this button, select a branch version of the file, other
              than the branch you are currently on, as the primary version
              (Selection A). The changes made along the branch up to that
              version will be merged into the current version, and stored in
              the current directory. Optionally, select another version
              (Selection B) and the changes will be from that point rather
              than from the base of the branch.  The version of the file in
              the current directory will be merged, but no commit will occur.
              Then you inspect the merged files, correct any conflicts which
              may occur, and commit when you are satisfied.  Optionally, TkCVS
              will tag the version that the merge is from.  It suggests a tag
              of the form "mergefrom_<rev>_date."  If you use this auto-
              tagging function, another dialog containing a suggested tag for
              the merged-to version will appear.  It's suggested to leave the
              dialog up until you are finished, then copy-and-paste the
              suggested tag into the "Tag" dialog.  It is always a good
              practice to tag when doing merges, and if you use tags of the
              suggested form, the Branch Browser can diagram them. (Auto-
              tagging is not implemented in Subversion because, despite the
              fact that tags are "cheap," it's somewhat impractical to auto-
              tag single files.  You can do the tagging manually, however.)

       View Tags:
              This button lists all the tags applied to the file in a
              searchable text window.

       Close: This button closes the Log Browser. If no other windows are
              open, TkCVS exits.

   The View Options Menu
       The View Menu allows you to control what you see in the branch diagram.
       You can choose how much information to show in the boxes, whether to
       show empty revisions, and whether to show tags.  You can even control
       the size of the boxes.  If you are using Subversion, you may wish to
       turn the display of tags off.  If they aren't asked for they won't be
       read from the repository, which can save a lot of time.

Merge Tool for CVS
       The Merge Tool chooses a "representative" file in the current directory
       and diagrams the branch tags. It tries to pick the "bushiest" file, or
       failing that, the most-revised file. If you disagree with its choice,
       you can type the name of another file in the top entry and press Return
       to diagram that file instead.

       The main purpose of this tool is to do merges (cvs update -j rev [-j
       rev]) on the whole directory. For merging one file at a time, you
       should use the Log Browser. You can only merge to the line (trunk or
       branch) that you are currently on. Select a branch to merge from by
       clicking on it. Then press either the "Merge" or "Merge Changes"
       button. The version of the file in the current directory will be over-
       written, but it will not be committed to the repository. You do that
       after you've reconciled conflicts and decided if it's what you really
       want.

       Merge Branch to Current:
              The changes made on the branch since its beginning will be
              merged into the current version.

       Merge Changes to Current:
              Instead of merging from the base of the branch, this button
              merges the changes that were made since a particular version on
              the branch. It pops up a dialog in which you fill in the
              version. It should usually be the version that was last merged.

Module Browser
       Operations that are performed on the repository instead of in a
       checked-out working directory are done with the Module Browser.  The
       most common of these operations is checking out or exporting from the
       repository.  The Module Browser can be started from the command line
       (tkcvs -win module) or started from the main window by pressing the big
       button.

       Subversion repositories can be browsed like a file tree, and that is
       what you will see in the Module Browser.  CVS repositories aren't
       directly browsable, but if the CVSROOT/modules file is maintained
       appropriately, TkCVS can display the modules and infer tree structures
       if they are present. See the "CVS Modules File" section.

       Using the module browser window, you can select a module to check out.
       When you check out a module, a new directory is created in the current
       working directory with the same name as the module.

   Tagging and Branching (cvs rtag)
       You can tag particular versions of a module or file in the repository,
       with plain or branch tags, without having the module checked out.

   Exporting
       Once a software release has been tagged, you can use a special type of
       checkout called an export. This allows you to cleanly check out files
       from the repository,  without all of the administrivia that CVS needs
       to have while working on the files. It is useful for delivery of a
       software release to a customer.

   Importing
       TkCVS contains a special dialog to allow users to import new files into
       the repository. In CVS, new modules can be assigned places within the
       repository, as well as descriptive names (so that other people know
       what they are for).

       When the Module Browser displays a CVS repository, the first column is
       a tree showing the module codes and directory names of all of the items
       in the repository. The icon shows whether the item is a directory
       (which may contain other directories or modules), or whether it is a
       module (which may be checked out from TkCVS). It is possible for an
       item to be both a module and a directory. If it has a red ball on it,
       you can check it out. If it shows a plain folder icon, you have to open
       the folder to get to the items that you can check out.

       To select a module, click on it with the left mouse button. The right
       mouse button will perform a secondary selection, which is used only for
       Subversion diff and patch. To clear the selection, click on the item
       again or click in an empty area of the module column. There can only be
       one primary and one secondary selection.

   Repository Browser Buttons
       The module browser contains the following buttons:

       Who:   Shows which modules are checked out by whom.

       Import:
              This item will import the contents of the current directory (the
              one shown in the Working Directory Display) into the repository
              as a module. See the section titled Importing for more
              information.

       File Browse:
              Displays a list of the selected module's files. From the file
              list, you can view the file, browse its revision history, or see
              a list of its tags.

       Check Out:
              Checks out the current version of a module. A dialog allows you
              to specify a tag, change the destination, and so on.

       Export:
              Exports the current version of a module. A dialog allows you to
              specify a tag, change the destination, and so on. Export is
              similar to check-out, except exported directories do not contain
              the CVS or administrative directories, and are therefore cleaner
              (but cannot be used for checking files back in to the
              repository). You must supply a tag name when you are exporting a
              module to make sure you can reproduce the exported files at a
              later date.

       Tag:   This button tags an entire module.

       Branch Tag:
              This creates a branch of a module by giving it a branch tag.

       Patch Summary:
              This item displays a short summary of the differences between
              two versions of a module.

       Create Patch File:
              This item creates a Larry Wall format patch(1) file of the
              module selected.

       Close: This button closes the Repository Browser. If no other windows
              are open, TkCVS exits.

Importing New Modules
       Before importing a new module, first check to make sure that you have
       write permission to the repository. Also you'll have to make sure the
       module name is not already in use.

       To import a module you first need a directory where the module is
       located. Make sure that there is nothing in this directory except the
       files that you want to import.

       Press the big "Repository Browser" button in the top part of the tkcvs
       UI, or use CVS -> Import WD into Repository from the menu bar.

       In the module browser, press the Import button on the bottom, the one
       that shows a folder and an up arrow.

       In the dialog that pops up, fill in a descriptive title for the module.
       This will be what you see in the right side of the module browser.

       OK the dialog.  Several things happen now.  The directory is imported,
       the CVSROOT/module file is updated, your original directory is saved as
       directory.orig, and the newly created module is checked out.

       When it finishes, you should find the original Working Directory
       Browser showing the files in the newly created, checked out module.

       Here is a more detailed description of the fields in the Import Dialog.

       Module Name:
              A name for the module.  This name must not already exist in the
              repository. Your organization could settle on a single
              unambiguous code for modules. One possibility is something like:

                  [project code]-[subsystem code]-[module code]

       Module Path:
              The location in the repository tree where your new module will
              go.

       Descriptive Title:
              A one-line descriptive title for your module.  This will be
              displayed in the right-hand column of the browser.

       Version Number:
              The current version number of the module. This should be a
              number of the form X.Y.Z where .Y and .Z are optional. You can
              leave this blank, in which case 1 will be used as the first
              version number.

       Importing a directory into Subversion is similar but not so
       complicated.  You use the SVN -> Import CWD into Repository menu.  You
       need supply only the path in the repository where you want the
       directory to go.  The repository must be prepared and the path must
       exist, however.

Importing to an Existing Module (CVS)
       Before importing to an existing module, first check to make sure that
       you have write permission to the repository.

       To import to an existing module you first need a directory where the
       code is located. Make sure that there is nothing in this directory
       (including no CVS directory) except the files that you want to import.

       Open up the Repository Browser by selecting File/Browse Modules from
       the menu bar.

       In the Repository Browser, select File/Import To An Existing Module
       from the menu bar.

       In the dialog that pops up, press the Browse button and select the name
       of an existing module. Press the OK to close this dialog box. Enter the
       version number of the code to be imported.

       OK the dialog.  Several things happen now.  The directory is imported,
       your original directory is saved as directory.orig, and the newly
       created module is checked out.

       When it finishes, you will find the original Working Directory Browser
       showing the original code. If you press the "Re-read the current
       directory" button you will see the results of the checked out code.

       Here is a more detailed description of the fields in the Import Dialog.

       Module Name:
              A name for the existing module. Filled in by the use of the the
              Browse button

       Module Path:
              The location in the repository tree where the existing module
              is. Filled in by the use of the Browse button.

       Version Number:
              The current version number of the module to be imported. This
              should be a number of the form X.Y.Z where .Y and .Z are
              optional. You can leave this blank, in which case 1 will be used
              as the first version number.

Vendor Merge (CVS)
       Software development is sometimes based on source distribution from a
       vendor or third-party distributor. After building a local version of
       this distribution, merging or tracking the vendor's future release into
       the local version of the distribution can be done with the vendor merge
       command.

       The vendor merge command assumes that a separate module has already
       been defined for the vendor or third-party distribution with the use of
       the "Import To A New Module" and "Import To An Existing Module"
       commands. It also assumes that a separate module has already been
       defined for the local code for which the vendor merge operation is to
       be applied to.

       Start from an empty directory and invoke tkcvs. Open up the Repository
       Browser by selecting File/Browse Modules from the menu bar.

       Checkout the module of the local code to be merged with changes from
       the vendor module. (Use the red icon with the down arrow)

       In the Repository Browser, after verifying that the Module entry box
       still has the name the module of the local code to which the vendor
       code is to be merged into, select File/Vendor Merge from the menu bar.

       In the Module Level Merge With Vendor Code window, press the Browse
       button to select the module to be used as the vendor module.

       OK the dialog. All revisions from the vendor module will be shown in
       the two scroll lists. Fill in the From and To entry boxes by clicking
       in the appropriate scroll lists.  Ok the dialog. Several things happens
       now. Several screens will appear showing the output from cvs commands
       for (1)checking out temp files, (2)cvs merge, and (3)cvs rdiff.
       Information in these screens will tell you what routines will have
       merge conflicts and what files are new or deleted. After perusing the
       files, close each screen. .TP (In the preceeding dialog box, there was
       an option to save outputs from the merge and rdiff operations to files
       CVSmerge.out and CVSrdiff.out.)

       The checked out local code will now contain changes from a merge
       between two revisions of the vendor modules. This code will not be
       checked into the repository. You can do that after you've reconciled
       conflicts and decide if that is what you really want.

       A detailed example on how to use the vendor merge operation is provided
       in the PDF file vendor5readme.pdf.

Configuration Files
       There are two configuration files for TkCVS. The first is stored in the
       directory in which the *.tcl files for TkCVS are installed. This is
       called tkcvs_def.tcl. You can put a file called site_def in that
       directory, too. That's a good place for site-specific things like
       tagcolours. Unlike tkcvs_def.tcl, it will not be overwritten when you
       install a newer version of TkCVS.

       Values in the site configuration files can be over-ridden at the user
       level by placing a .tkcvs file in your home directory. Commands in
       either of these files should use Tcl syntax. In other words, to set a
       variable name, you should have the following command in your .tkcvs
       file:

                  set variablename value

       for example:

                  set cvscfg(editor) "gvim"

       The following variables are supported by TkCVS:

   Startup
       cvscfg(startwindow)
              Which window you want to see on startup. (workdir or module)

   CVS
       cvscfg(cvsroot)
              If set, it overrides the CVSROOT environment variable.

   Subversion
       If your SVN repository has a structure similar to trunk, branches, and
       tags but with different names, you can tell TkCVS about it by setting
       variables in tkcvs_def.tcl:
           set cvscfg(svn_trunkdir) "elephants"
           set cvscfg(svn_branchdir) "dogs"
           set cvscfg(svn_tagdir) "ducklings" The branch browser depends on
       the convention of having a trunk, branches, and tags structure to draw
       the diagram.  These variables may give you a little more flexibility.

   GIT
       cvscfg(gitdetail)
              Set to true or false. If it's false (off) an individual git log
              call to each file will be suppressed to save time. You won't see
              the hashtag or committer in that case.

       cvscfg(gitmaxhist)
              For the branch visualizer. Tells how far back into the history
              to go. Default is 250 commits.

   GUI
       Most colors and fonts can be customized by using the options database.
       For example, you can add lines like these to your .tkcvs file:

                 option add *Canvas.background #c3c3c3
                 option add *Menu.background #c3c3c3
                 option add *selectColor #ffec8b
                 option add *Text.background gray92
                 option add *Entry.background gray92
                 option add *Listbox.background gray92
                 option add *ToolTip.background LightGoldenrod1
                 option add *ToolTip.foreground black

       cvscfg(picklist_items)
              Maximum number of visited directories and repositories to save
              in the picklist history

   Log browser
       cvscfg(colourA) cvscfg(colourB)
              Hilight colours for revision-log boxes

       cvscfg(tagdepth)
              Number of tags you want to see for each revision on the
              branching diagram before it says "more..." and offers a pop-up
              to show the rest

       cvscfg(toomany_tags)
              Number of tags in a Subversion repository that's "too many", ie.
              will take longer to proecess for the branch diagram than you're
              willing to wait.  (Building a branch diagram for Subversion is
              very inefficient.) If there are more than that number and
              cvscfg(confirm_prompt) is true, a dialog will appear asking
              whether to process the tags or to draw the diagram without them.

       cvscfg(tagcolour,tagstring)
              Colors for marking tags. For example:
                  set cvscfg(tagcolour,tkcvs_r6) Purple

   Module browser
       cvscfg(aliasfolder)
              In the CVS module browser, if true this will cause the alias
              modules to be grouped in one folder. Cleans up clutter if there
              are a lot of aliases.

   User preferences
       cvscfg(allfiles)
              Set this to false to see normal files only in the directory
              browser. Set it to true to see all files including hidden files.

       cvscfg(auto_status)
              Set the default for automatic status-refresh of a CVS controlled
              directory. Automatic updates are done when a directory is
              entered and after some operations.

       cvscfg(auto_tag)
              Whether to tag the merged-from revision when using TkCVS to
              merge different revisions of files by default.  A dialog still
              lets you change your mind, regardless of the default.

       cvscfg(confirm_prompt)
              Ask for confirmation before performing an operation(true or
              false)

       cvscfg(dateformat)
              Format for the date string shown in the "Date" column, for
              example "%Y/%m/%d %H:%M"

       cvscfg(cvslock)
              Set to true to turn on the ability to use cvs-admin locking from
              the GUI.

       cvscfg(econtrol)
              Set this to true to turn on the ability to use CVS Edit and
              Unedit, if your site is configured to allow the feature.

       cvscfg(editor)
              Preferred default editor

       cvscfg(editors)
              String pairs giving the editor-command and string-match-pattern,
              for deciding which editor to use

       cvscfg(editorargs)
              Command-line arguments to send to the default editing program.

       cvscfg(mergetoformat)

       cvscfg(mergefromformat)
              Format for mergeto- and mergefrom- tags.  The _BRANCH_ part must
              be left as-is, but you can change the prefix and the date
              format, for example "mergeto_BRANCH_%d%b%y".  The date format
              must be the same for both.  CVS rule: a tag must not contain the
              characters `$,.:;@'

       cvscfg(recurse)
              Whether reports are recursive (true or false)

       cvscfg(savelines)
              How many lines to keep in the trace window

       cvscfg(status_filter)
              Filter out unknown files (status "?") from CVS Check and CVS
              Update reports.

       cvscfg(use_cvseditor)
              Let CVS invoke an editor for commit log messages rather than
              having tkcvs use its own input box.  By doing this, your site's
              commit template (rcsinfo) can be used.

   File filters
       cvscfg(show_file_filter)
              Pattern for which files to list. Empty string is equivalent to
              the entire directory (minus hidden files)

       cvscfg(ignore_file_filter)
              Pattern used in the workdir filter for files to be ignored

       cvscfg(clean_these)
              Pattern to be used for cleaning a directory (removing unwanted
              files)

   System
       cvscfg(print_cmd)
              System command used for printing. lpr, enscript -Ghr, etc)

       cvscfg(shell)
              What you want to happen when you ask for a shell

       cvscfg(terminal)
              Command prefix to use to run something in a terminal window

   Portability
       cvscfg(aster)
              File mask for all files (* for Unix, *.* for windows)

       cvscfg(null)
              The null device. /dev/null for Unix, nul for windows

       cvscfg(tkdiff)
              How to start tkdiff. Example sh /usr/local/bin/tkdiff

       cvscfg(tmpdir)
              Directory in which to do behind-the-scenes checkouts. Usually
              /tmp or /var/tmp)

   Debugging
       cvscfg(log_classes)
              For debugging: C=CVS commands, E=CVS stderr output, F=File
              creation/deletion, T=Function entry/exit tracing, D=Debugging

       cvscfg(logging)
              Logging (debugging) on or off

Environment Variables
       You should have the CVSROOT environment variable pointing to the
       location of your CVS repository before you run TkCVS. It will still
       allow you to work with different repositories within the same session.

       If you wish TkCVS to point to a Subversion repository by default, you
       can set the environment variable SVNROOT.  This has no meaning to
       Subversion itself, but it will clue TkCVS if it's started in an un-
       versioned directory.

User Configurable Menu Extensions
       It is possible to extend the TkCVS menu by inserting additional
       commands into the .tkcvs or tkcvs_def.tcl files. These extensions
       appear on an extra menu to the right of the TkCVS Options menu.

       To create new menu entries on the user-defined menu, set the following
       variables:

   cvsmenu(command)
       Setting a variable with this name to a value like "commandname" causes
       the CVS command "cvs commandname" to be run when this menu option is
       selected. For example, the following line:

                  set cvsmenu(update_A) "update -A"

       Causes a new menu option titled "update_A" to be added to the user
       defined menu that will run the command "cvs update -A" on the selected
       files when it is activated.

       (This example command, for versions of CVS later than 1.3, will force
       an update to the head version of a file, ignoring any sticky tags or
       versions attached to the file).

   usermenu(command)
       Setting a variable with this name to a value like "commandname" causes
       the command "commandname" to be run when this menu option is selected.
       For example, the following line:

                  set usermenu(view) "cat"

       Causes a new menu option titled "view" to be added to the User defined
       menu that will run the command "cat" on the selected files when it is
       activated.

       Any user-defined commands will be passed a list of file names
       corresponding to the files selected on the directory listing on the
       main menu as arguments.

       The output of the user defined commands will be displayed in a window
       when the command is finished.

CVS Modules File
       If you haven't put anything in your CVSROOT/modules file, please do so.
       See the "Administrative Files" section of the CVS manual. Then, you can
       add comments which TkCVS can use to title the modules and to display
       them in a tree structure.

       The simplest use of TkCVS's "#D" directive is to display a meaningful
       title for the module:

              #D      softproj        Software Development Projects
              softproj softproj

       A fancier use is to organize the modules into a tree which will mimic
       their directory nesting in the repository when they appear in the
       module browser. For example, suppose we have a directory called
       "chocolate" which is organized like this:

              chocolate/
                  truffle/
                      cocoa3/
                          biter/
                          sniffer/
                          snuffler/

       To display its hierarchy, as well as make the deepest directories more
       accessible by giving them module names, we could put this in the
       modules file:

              #D   chocolate Top Chocolate
              #D   chocolate/truffle   Cocoa Level 2
              #D   chocolate/truffle/cocoa3 Cocoa Level 3
              #D   sniffer   Chocolate Sniffer
              sniffer   chocolate/truffle/cocoa3/sniffer
              #D   snuff     Chocolate Snuffler
              snuff     chocolate/truffle/cocoa3/snuffler
              #D   biter     Chocolate Biter
              biter     chocolate/truffle/cocoa3/biter

       When you are installing TkCVS, you may like to add these additional
       lines to the modules file (remember to check out the modules module
       from the repository, and then commit it again when you have finished
       the edits).

       These extension lines commence with a "#" character, so CVS interprets
       them as comments. They can be safely left in the file whether you are
       using TkCVS or not.

       "#M" is equivalent to "#D". The two had different functions in previous
       versions of TkCVS, but now both are parsed the same way.

SEE ALSO
       cvs(1), svn(1)

AUTHOR
       Del (del@babel.babel.com.au): Maintenance and Subversion support:
       Dorothy Robinson

9.3.3                               Release                           TkCVS(1)
