tkhylafax(n)                                                      tkhylafax(n)



NAME
       tkhylafax v3.2 - A Tcl/Tk graphical interface to Hylafax

SYNOPSIS
       tkhylafax [-faxResolution high|low] [-notifyOnCompletion yes|no]
       [-notifyOnRetry yes|no] [-initiatePoll yes|no] [-coverPage yes|no]
       [-editorCmd command] [-coverPageDirs paths] [autoFrom yes|no] [-file
       path]

DESCRIPTION
       tkhylafax is a simple graphical interface to HylaFax.  By using
       tkhylafax, you have the ability to send a fax with selected options,
       and remove fax jobs. Currently not all functionality is supported. In
       addition, a simple rolodex feature is supported to add, modify, and
       delete fax numbers from your personal fax database. Also, a batch
       feature allows the same files to be faxed to multiple destinations.

       To use tkhylafax first make sure that HylaFax is in your path. Also,
       tkhylafax looks for the environment variable FAXNUMBERS for the rolodex
       database file.  YOU MUST HAVE THIS DEFINED TO USE THIS FEATURE.
       tkhylafax looks for the environment variable FAXALIASES for the batch
       alias database file. YOU MUST HAVE THIS DEFINED TO USE THIS FEATURE.
       tkhylafax should then start and be fully functional. To add phone
       numbers to the rolodex database file, type in the name, company and fax
       number in the cover sheet section, then select "Add Current" under the
       phone pulldown menu. To list all numbers select "Rolodex" and a new
       window with the numbers should appear. Clicking the left mouse button
       over any entry in this window will highlight that entry, you may then
       select one of three opertions at the bottom of the window: "Add to
       Batch", "Load Cover Sheet" and "Remove from Rolodex". "Load Cover
       Sheet" will enter values for Recipient, Company and Fax Number as
       indicated in the cover sheet section. This information can now be used
       to send a fax.  "Remove from Rolodex" will remove that entry from the
       fax number database.  You'll have to re-enter it if you want it back.
       You can also delete an entry from the rolodex by selecting "Delete
       Current" from the phone plulldown menu.  This will delete the entry in
       the rolodex that is currenlty showing in the cover sheet information
       section.  To modify a number, select the entry in the fax numbers
       window to be modified, modify it in the cover sheet information section
       and select "Add Current". Currently, hitting the tab key will move you
       to the next entry field. Hitting the shift-tab keys will move you to
       the previous field.

       There is now a search feature for fax numbers. On the fax numbers
       window, press the search button. A dialog will pop up and ask for a
       regular expression to use as the search criteria. If you don't know
       what a regular expression is, just enter the character string you're
       looking for. Pressing "Next" button will move you forwards in the
       search. The search always starts from the last highlighted entry. If no
       entry is highlighted, then the search begins at the start or end
       depending on the direction you choose.  Note: the search does not wrap.
       It will go to either end then stop until the opposite direction search
       is requested.

       To browse for files to fax, select "Browser" under the "File" pulldown
       menu. This will popup a window with the current directory contents.
       Double clicking the left mouse button on a directory will move you
       there. Double clicking the left mouse button on a non-directory entry
       will load the file into the "Documents to Fax" section.  To remove a
       selected file to fax, click the left mouse button on it to highlight
       it. Then select "Remove Document" button.  If you need to edit the
       file, select "Edit Document". This will execute the edit command
       specified in the tkhylafax resource database file or on the command
       line. The edit command MUST always take a complete file name as its
       LAST argument. A sample editor command is given in the
       tkhylafax-default file in this distribution.

       To select a specific file for faxing, select "Enter file to Fax" under
       the "File" pulldown menu. This will popup an entry dialog box that will
       allow you to enter a pathname to any file that you want to fax. Press
       "Ok" to enter this file into the "Documents to Fax" list.

       To generate a batch job to fax, select "Add to Batch" in the popup menu
       when choosing a destination from the fax numbers window (see above).
       This entry will be entered into the "Batch Recipients" window if it
       exists. You can bring this window up by selecting "View Batch" under
       the "File" pulldown menu. It is not necessary for this window to exist
       to create a batch job. Its just convenient to see what you've selected.
       Once you have selected all the destinations for a batch, select "Send
       Batch" under the "File" pulldown menu. Each destination should be
       loaded into the cover sheet information section as it is processed.
       Additionally, if the "Batch Recipients" window exists, it should be
       updated after each destination is processed. If there are destinations
       you don't want to send a fax to, click the left mouse button over the
       entry in the "Batch Recipients" window to highlight that destination.
       Then push the remove button. The entry will be removed from the list.
       To remove all the entries from the "Batch Recipients" window, push the
       clear button. Do this to start with a fresh batch of recipients. The
       alias button is used to tag a list of recipients and save them as a
       group. Once you are satisfied with your batch list, push alias to get a
       dialog box that requests a name for this batch. Once saved, a batch can
       be recalled at anytime by selecting the "Select Batch" choice under the
       "Phone" pulldown menu. Note: if a batch is selected it is added to the
       existing batch destinations, it does NOT replace them. If you want only
       the destinations in the batch, clear the current entries first (via the
       clear button or from the choice "Clear Current Batch" under the "Phone"
       phone pulldown menu.)

       To view the server status select "Fax Server Status" under the "File"
       pulldown menu. This will popup a window with the current HylaFax server
       status. If there are any jobs pending that you wish to remove from the
       queue, simply click the left mouse button over the entry you desire to
       remove.

       If you wish to preview the cover page, select "Preview Cover Page"
       under the "File" pulldown menu. This will start a ghostview program to
       view the cover page.

       A new feature is the row of buttons along the bottom of the main
       window. These buttons are for quick access to important functions. The
       send button, initiates a fax transmission. It will determine if the
       transmission type is a batch or a single destination.  If there is a
       batch defined and there is cover sheet information filled in, a dialog
       box will ask you which destination to use. You may select either one or
       both.  The browser button starts the directory browser to select files
       to fax. The rolodex button will show the current fax numbers in the
       rolodex database. The add current button will insert the current values
       in the cover sheet information section into the rolodex database. The
       select batch button, allows the user to choose previously defined
       batches.  Another new feature, is the automatic detection of a cover
       sheet only fax transmission. If tkhylafax does not find any files to
       fax in the "Documents to Fax" section, then a dialog box will pop up
       asking the user to confirm that only the cover sheet be sent.

NEW
       A new option has been added to tkhylafax called file.  This option
       allows users that start tkhylafax from a command line to specify a
       single file to fax. The file specified in this option will appear in
       the "Documents to Fax" window.  It is important to note that a fully
       qualified pathname must be used.

       Another new option has been added to tkhylafax called coverPageDirs.
       This option specifies a colon separated list of directories to search
       for alternate cover pages. Only valid Postscript files are considered.
       The list of alternates found by tkhylafax will be listed under the
       Options pulldown menu. Note that No Cover Page is also a choice.
       However, tkhylafax/hylafax will use the environment variable FAXCOVER
       whenever more than just a cover page is sent. So, cover sheet choices
       are only valid for cover sheet only transmissions.

       The scheduling section of the main window has been modified to present
       a (hopefully) better "look and feel". As before, buttons are used to
       adjust the parameter values, but there is no "reset" buttons. The
       Maximum Retries is just a simple up/down counter. If you really want to
       attempt a fax more than a few times, I suggest checking: your
       equipment, the destination equipment, or the fax phone number. The
       Transmit Delay field has auto-repeat buttons that increment/decrement
       in 5 minute intervals.  Is very easy (and quick) to reset these values
       back to zero (no delay).

OPTIONS
       -faxResolution.  Can be either high or low.  High tells hylafax to use
       196 lines/inch. Low says use 98 lines/inch

       -notifyOnCompletion.  Can be either yes or no.  Indicates user wants e-
       mail when fax transmission is complete.

       -notifyOnRetry.  Can be either yes or no.  Indicates user wants e-mail
       when fax transmission is retried.

       -initiatePoll.  Can be either yes or no.  Indicates user wants to
       initiate a poll upon submtting a fax job. See hylafax documentation for
       more details.

       -coverPage.  Can be either yes or no.  A "yes" means create and send a
       cover page. "No" means a cover page is ALREADY included with the files
       to fax.

       -editorCmd.  See restrictions mentioned above. An example, "xterm -e
       vi" would start an xterm, and pop the user into vi to edit the selected
       file.

       -coverPageDirs.  See the section above.

       -file.  See the section above.

FILES
       The file associated with the fax number database given by the
       environment variable FAXNUMBERS.

       The file associated with the batch alias database given by the
       environment variable FAXALIASES.  Note: The batch alias database looks
       at the fax number database to translate batch aliases into real fax
       destinations. Therefore, two unrelated alias and fax databases WILL NOT
       WORK together.

       $HOME/.tkhylafax-defaults.  This is the user's default X resource
       database for tkhylafax.  The currently recognized tkhylafax-specific
       options are those options described in the OPTIONS section of this man
       page and the ones at the end of this section.  A legal line in this
       file, for example, would be ``*faxResolution: high''. A ``!'' in the
       first column of any line is treated as a comment. A sample .tkhylafax-
       default file is included in this distribution.  If no such file in the
       user's home directory is found, the system-wide resource file
       '/usr/local/lib/tkhylafax-<version>/tkhylafax-defaults is used.

       I'm thinking of adding a few extra X preferences to this file that can
       be set from tkhylafax.  Of course, then it would make sense to rescan
       the resource database file from tkhylafax without restarting the
       application. Some things I would like to see is: a resource for the
       Entry class background (*Entry.background:   white), a resource for
       Listbox class background (*Listbox.background:    white). I'm taking
       requests now so let me know.

       commentLines.  The total number of comment lines to create in the cover
       sheet section. Each line is 40 characters. The default is 4 comment
       lines.

       autoFrom.  A ``no'' value for this option allows the user to request a
       ``From'' field in the cover sheet information section. It is useful
       when someone else is sending a fax on your behalf. The default value is
       ``yes''.

SEE ALSO
       sendfax(1), faxstat(1), and faxrm(1)

BUGS
       If there are any bugs, report them to abm@ftel.net Comments and patches
       are also accepted.  If you send a patch, please, send a context diff
       patch.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       mike@cs.UMD.EDU (Mike Steele), rich@id.slip.bcm.tmc.edu (Rich Murphey),
       Adam-Stauffer@deshaw.com (Adam Stauffer), Pekka.Kytolaakso@csc.fi,
       raymond@es.ele.tue.nl (Raymond Nijssen), rbsmith@sandia.gov (Randall
       Smith), joe@morton.rain.com (Joe V. Moss), todorov@cui.unige.ch
       (Krassimir Todorov), kevinc@mdhost.cse.tek.com (Kevin Cosgrove),
       michaelk@digex.NET (Michael Katzmann) and others whose names I
       forgot...



                                                                  tkhylafax(n)
