TRN(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 TRN(1)


NAME
       trn - threaded read news program

SYNOPSIS
       trn [options] [newsgroups]

DESCRIPTION
       Trn is a threaded version of rn, which is a replacement for the
       readnews(1) program.  Being "threaded" means that the articles are
       interconnected in reply order.  Each discussion thread is a tree of
       articles where all the reply (child) articles branch off from their
       respective originating (parent) articles.  A representation of this
       tree (or a portion of it) is displayed in the article header as you are
       reading news.  This gives you a better feel for how all the articles
       are related, and even lets you see at a glance when an article has
       replies -- a good thing to check before posting.  In addition, trn has
       a thread selector that allows you to quickly browse through a list of
       subjects and choose the ones you find interesting.  This thread
       selector sorts articles according to various criteria and can be
       switched into various display modes that allows you to pick all the
       subjects separately (threads can have multiple subjects) or even pick
       individual articles.  Any items you don't select can be saved for
       reading later or marked as read with a single keystroke.

       If you are already familiar with trn you may just want to read the
       WHAT'S NEW section.  People upgrading from rn will probably want to pay
       attention to the sections on The Selector, The Tree Display, and the
       aforementioned WHAT'S NEW.  If you're impatient, just dive in and get
       started.  All the regular commands will be familiar to an rn or trn
       user, and the on-line help will give you a quick run-down of what
       commands are available (just type 'h' from any prompt).  I'd also
       suggest using the command:

           trn -x -X

       to make sure some of the best features are turned on.

       Starting Trn

       If no newsgroups are specified, all the newsgroups which have unread
       news will be presented to the user in the order in which they occur in
       the .newsrc file.  At the prompt for each group you can choose to read
       it, skip it, move it, etc.  If a list of newsgroups is provided on the
       command line, trn will start up in "add" mode, using the list as a set
       of patterns to add new newsgroups and restrict which newsgroups are
       displayed (see also the discussion of the 'a' command on the newsgroup-
       selection level).

       Trn operates on four levels: the newsgroup-selection level, the thread
       selector, the article-reading level, and the paging level.  Each level
       has its own set of commands, and its own help menu.  At the paging
       level (the bottom level) trn behaves much like the more(1) program.  At
       the article-reading level articles are presented to you in the order of
       their replies, with the subjects being ordered by the date of the
       oldest unread article (though there are commands for changing the
       default display order).  In the thread selector you are presented with
       the subjects and (usually) authors associated with each discussion
       thread, and given a chance to choose which ones you wish to read now,
       save for later, or manipulate in some way.  At the newsgroup-selection
       level (the top level), you may specify which newsgroup you want next,
       or read them in the default order, which is the order that the
       newsgroups occur in your .newsrc file.  (You will therefore want to
       rearrange your .newsrc file to put the most interesting newsgroups
       first.  This can be done with the 'm' command on the Newsgroup
       Selection level.  WARNING: invoking readnews/vnews (the old user
       interface) in any way (including as a news checker in your login
       sequence!) will cause your .newsrc to be disarranged again.)

       On any level, at ANY prompt, help is available by typing an 'h'.  This
       gives you a summary of available commands and what they do.  Remember
       this command, you'll need it.

       Typing space to any question means to do the normal thing.  You will
       know what that is because every prompt has a list of several plausible
       commands enclosed in square brackets.  The first command in the list is
       the one which will be done if you type a space.  (All input is done in
       cbreak mode, so carriage returns should not be typed to terminate
       anything except certain multi-character commands.  Those commands will
       be obvious in the discussion below because they take an argument.)

       Upon startup, trn will do several things:

       1.  It will look for your .newsrc file, which is your list of
           subscribed-to newsgroups.  If trn doesn't find a .newsrc, it will
           create one.  If it does find one, it will back it up under the name
           ".oldnewsrc".

       2.  It will input your .newsrc file, listing out the first several
           newsgroups with unread news.

       3.  It will perform certain consistency checks on your .newsrc.  If
           your .newsrc is out of date in any of several ways, trn will warn
           you and patch it up for you, but you may have to wait a little
           longer for it to start up.

       4.  Trn will next check to see if any new newsgroups have been created,
           and give you the opportunity to add them to your .newsrc.

       5.  Trn goes into the top prompt level -- the newsgroup-selection
           level.

       Newsgroup Selection Level

       In this section the words "next" and "previous" refer to the ordering
       of the newsgroups in your .newsrc file.  On the newsgroup-selection
       level, the prompt looks like this:

       ====== 17 unread articles in talk.blurfl -- read now? [ynq]

       unless the group is set for unthreaded reading, in which case the first
       six characters are "******".  The following commands may be given at
       this level:

       +       Enter this newsgroup through the selector.

       y       Begin reading this newsgroup now.

       SP      Enter the newsgroup by executing the default command listed in
               []'s.

       .command
               Do this newsgroup now, but execute command before displaying
               anything.  The command will be interpreted as if typed on the
               article selection level.

       =       Start this newsgroup, but list subjects before displaying
               articles.

       U       Enter this newsgroup through the "Set unread" prompt.

       t       Toggle the newsgroup between threaded and unthreaded reading.
               The default is threaded, and the current setting is stored in
               your .newsrc.

       n       Go to the next newsgroup with unread news.

       N       Go to the next newsgroup.

       p       Go to the previous newsgroup with unread news.  If there is
               none, stay at the current newsgroup.

       P       Go to the previous newsgroup.

       -       Go to the previously displayed newsgroup (regardless of whether
               it is before or after the current one in the list).

       1       Go to the first newsgroup.

       ^       Go to the first newsgroup with unread news.

       $       Go to the end of the newsgroups list.

       g newsgroup
               Go to newsgroup, which can be the group's name or a zero-
               relative number of the groups in your .newsrc (see the 'L'
               command to list your .newsrc).  If it isn't currently
               subscribed to, you will be asked if you want to subscribe.

       /pattern
               Scan forward for a newsgroup matching pattern.  Patterns do
               globbing like filenames, i.e., use * to match any sequence of
               characters, and [] to specify a list of characters to match.
               Use . to match a single character.  Unlike normal filename
               globbing, newsgroup-searching is not anchored to the front and
               back of the filename, i.e. "/ski" will find rec.skiing.  You
               may use ^ or $ to anchor the front or back of the search:
               "/^test$" will find newsgroup test and nothing else If you want
               to include newsgroups with 0 unread articles, append /r.  If
               the newsgroup is not found between the current newsgroup and
               the last newsgroup, the search will wrap around to the
               beginning.

       ?pattern
               Same as /, but search backwards.

       u       Unsubscribe from the current newsgroup.

       l string
               List newsgroups not subscribed to which contain the string
               specified.

       L       Lists the current state of the .newsrc, along with status
               information.

                    Status         Meaning
                    <number>       Count of unread articles in newsgroup.
                    READ           No unread articles in newsgroup.
                    UNSUB          Unsubscribed newsgroup.
                    BOGUS          Bogus newsgroup.
                    JUNK           Ignored line in .newsrc
                                   (e.g. readnews "options" line).

               (A bogus newsgroup is one that is not in the list of active
               newsgroups in the active file, which on most systems is
               /usr/lib/news/active unless you use NNTP.)

       m {name}
               Move the named newsgroup somewhere else in the .newsrc.  If no
               name is given, the current newsgroup is moved.  There are a
               number of ways to specify where you want the newsgroup -- type
               h for help when it asks where you want to put it.

       c       Catch up -- mark all unread articles in this newsgroup as read.

       A       Abandon the changes made to the current newsgroup since trn was
               started.  Useful when you accidentally mark a group as read.

       o {pattern}

       O {pattern}
               Only display those newsgroups whose name matches pattern.
               Patterns are the same as for the '/' command.  Multiple
               patterns may be separated by spaces, just as on the command
               line.  The restriction will remain in effect either until there
               are no articles left in the restricted set of newsgroups, or
               another restriction command is given.  Since pattern is
               optional, 'o' by itself will remove the restriction.  Using 'O'
               will omit empty groups from the cycle.

       a pattern
               Add unsubscribed newsgroups matching pattern.  If any matching
               newsgroups are found, you will be asked for each one whether
               you would like to add it.  If you want to add all the
               newsgroups, you can type 'Y' and they will be added the the end
               of the .newsrc file.  If you don't want to subscribe, all the
               remaining groups can be ignored by typing 'N'.  After any new
               newsgroups have been added, the 'a' command also restricts the
               current set of newsgroups just like the 'O' command does.

       &       Print out the current status of command-line switches and any
               newsgroup restrictions.

       &switch {switch}
               Set additional command-line switches.

       &&      Print out the current macro definitions.

       &&keys commands
               Define additional macros.

       !command
               Escape to a subshell.  One exclamation mark (!) leaves you in
               your own news directory.  A double exclamation mark (!!) leaves
               you in the spool directory for news, which is usually
               /usr/spool/news unless you're using NNTP to read news.  The
               environment variable SHELL will be used if defined.  If command
               is null, an interactive shell is started.

       v       Print the current version number and information on where to
               send bug reports.

       q       Quit.

       x       Quit, restoring .newsrc to its state at startup of trn.  The
               .newsrc you would have had if you had exited with 'q' will be
               called .newnewsrc, in case you didn't really want to type 'x'.

       ^K      Edit the global list of memorized commands (in the global KILL
               file) that you wish to be performed in every newsgroup as it is
               started up (that is, when it is selected at the newsgroup-
               selection level).  This file contains commands (one per line)
               such as /subject/:j or /author/f:+ to kill or select articles
               based on the indicated search criteria.  There is also a local
               list of commands for each newsgroup that can contain
               kill/selection commands tailored for each specific group.
               Because of the overhead involved in searching for articles to
               kill, it is better if possible to use a local list rather than
               the global one.  Local memorized commands are usually
               maintained by using the 'A' or 'T' commands from the
               article/pager level or in the selector.  There is also a K
               search modifier that appends any search command you desire to
               add.  It is also possible to manually edit the file with the
               '^K' command from anywhere inside a newsgroup.  If either of
               the environment variables VISUAL or EDITOR is set, the
               specified editor will be invoked; otherwise a default editor is
               invoked on the KILL file.

       The Selector

       Most people who don't have all day to read news will want to enter a
       newsgroup by way of the selector.  This is accomplished by using the
       '+' command at the newsgroup-selection or article/pager levels.  In
       fact, this may be the default command for entering a newsgroup,
       depending on how your version of trn was configured and your use of the
       -X option.

       The selector displays a list of articles by their subjects and
       (usually) authors.  The articles are grouped into threads by default
       (which may list multiple subjects per selectable item if the subject
       has changed during the discussion) and ordered by the date of their
       oldest unread article.  Thread or subject groups are also shown with a
       count of the number of articles in each group.  Each selectable item is
       preceded by a letter or number that can be typed to toggle its
       selection.  Items that are selected are flagged with a '+' after their
       letter.  Groups that have only some of their articles selected are
       flagged with a '*'.  You can change the selector's mode (to pick each
       subject separately or pick individual articles), order the list by a
       variety of sort criteria, and switch the author display between its
       long, medium and short styles using the commands detailed below.

       The following commands are available in the selector:

       a-z,0-9,A-Z
               Select/deselect the indicated item by its letter or number.
               There are quite a few letters omitted from the alpha characters
               to be typed as commands -- see below.  Also, the variable
               SELECTCHARS is available to customize which characters you want
               to be used as selection letters, overriding their command
               function.

       SP      Perform the default command.  This is usually > for most pages,
               and Z on the last page (although D and X are also quite
               popular).

       CR      Begin reading.  If no articles are selected, the current item
               is selected (unless you've marked it as killed).

       Z,TAB   Begin reading.  If no articles are selected, read all unread
               articles.

       '.'     Toggle the current item's selection (the one under the cursor).

       *       Same as '.' except that it affects all articles with the same
               subject (useful in the article selector).

       #       Make an overriding selection that reads the current item only,
               temporarily ignoring all other selections.

       k, ','  Mark the current item as killed.

       m, \    Unmark the current item.

       -       Set a range, as in a - k.  Repeats the last marking action:
               selection, deselection, killing, or unmarking.

       @       Toggle all visible selections.

       M       Mark the current item's article(s) to return on newsgroup exit
               and kill the item.

       Y       Yank back and select the marked-to-return articles, clearing
               their to-return status.

       E       Exclude all unselected items from the selection list (narrow
               the display).  Press it again to pick from all available items.

       n, ]    Move down to the next item (try the down-arrow keypad key
               also).

       p, [    Move up to the previous item (try the up-arrow keypad key
               also).

       <       Go to previous page (try the left-arrow keypad key also).

       >       Go to next page (try the right-arrow keypad key also).

       ^       Go to the first page.

       $       Go to the last page.

       S       Set the items the selector displays: threads, subjects or
               articles.  If the group is unthreaded setting this to threads
               will thread the group.

       =       Switch between the article selector and the subject/thread
               selector.

       O       Pick the order for the items: date, subject, author, item count
               (for thread/subject groups), and a subject-date grouping of
               individual articles.  Typing the selection in lower-case will
               sort the articles in the default direction, while using upper-
               case will reverse the sort.  There is a separate default sort
               order for the subject/thread selector and the article selector.
               See the -O option to set your favorite selector mode and sort
               order as the default.

       R       Reverse the current sort order.

       L       Switch the selector's display between the long, medium and
               short display styles.  See the -x option to set your favorite
               style as the default.

       U       Switch between selecting unread/read articles.

       X       Mark all unselected articles as read and start reading.

       D       Mark unselected articles on the current page as read and begin
               reading if articles are selected, otherwise go to the next
               page.

       J       Mark all selected articles as read (useful after performing
               some action on them with the ':' command).

       c       Catch up -- marks ALL articles as read without affecting their
               cross-posted counterparts.

       A       Add a subject-search command to the memorized list (a.k.a. a
               KILL file) for this group.  You are prompted to choose
               selection (+), junking (j), selection including all replies (.)
               or junking including all replies (,).  If the thread has more
               than one subject the first subject is the one chosen for the
               memorized command.

       T       Add a thread-oriented command to the memorized list for this
               group.  You are prompted to choose selecting the thread (+),
               junking the thread (j), or clearing the auto-selection/junking
               for the thread (c).  (Note: there are three other options ('.',
               ',', and 'C') on the article-reading level -- look there for an
               explanation of their use.)

       ^K      Edit the local list of memorized commands (a.k.a. a KILL file)
               for this newsgroup.  A detailed description of memorized
               commands is found in the Article Selection section.

       :command
               Apply a command to all the selected threads or their selected
               articles.  You can also use ":E" to end a binary extraction or
               ":p" to post a new article.  Use "::command" to apply it to all
               non-selected threads/articles.

               Applicable commands include '+'/'-' (select/deselect an
               article), "++"/"--" (select/deselect a thread), "T+" (auto-
               select the entire thread), "Tj" (auto-junk the entire thread),
               't' (display article tree), "s dest" (save article to a
               destination), "e dir" (extract to directory), 'E' (end partial
               uudecode), as well as: S, ⎪, w, W, m, M, j, = and ','.

       :.command
               Apply a command to the current thread or the selected articles
               in the current thread.  Use "::.command" to apply a command to
               the unselected articles in the current thread.

       /pattern
               Scan all articles for a subject containing pattern and select
               it.

       /pattern/modifiers:command{:command}
               Apply the commands listed to articles matching the search
               command (possibly with h, a, b, r, or K modifiers).  The
               default action, if no command is specified, is to select the
               article's item in the selector (e.g. the entire thread ("++")
               in the thread selector).  See the section on Regular
               Expressions and the description of pattern searching in the
               Article Selection section.

               One example: to scan all the unread articles looking for
               "topic" anywhere in the article and then select its group and
               save the articles to the files topic.1, topic.2, etc. use
               "/topic/a:++:s topic.%#".

       N       Go to the next newsgroup with unread news.

       P       Go to the previous newsgroup with unread news.

       &       Display or set the current status of command-line switches.

       &&      Display or set the current macro definitions.

       !command
               Escape to a subshell.

       q       Quit this group.

       ESC,+   Quit the selector to the article level.  Note: ESC won't work
               if trn has mapped your arrow keys with default macros and the
               first character that your arrow keys send is an ESC.

       Q       Quit the current newsgroup and return to the newsgroup-
               selection prompt for this group.

       Article-Reading Level

       On the article-reading level, trn displays unread articles in thread
       sequence (reading each article and its replies before going on to
       another topic) unless threads are disabled for a particular group, in
       which case the default order is the order they arrived at your site
       (numeric sequence).  In either case if you use the subject-search
       command (^N) you will switch to reading the articles in date order
       within each matching subject.  (Making selections in the subject
       selector or using the -S switch will automatically turn subject search
       mode on in an unthreaded group.)

       On the article-reading level you are not asked whether you want to read
       an article before the article is displayed; rather, trn simply displays
       the first page (or portion of a page, at low baud rates) of an article
       and asks if you want to continue.  The normal article-reading prompt
       comes at the END of an article (although article-reading commands can
       also be given from within the middle of an article in addition to the
       pager level commands).  The prompt at the end of an article looks like
       this:

       End of article 248 (of 257) -- what next? [npq]

       The following are the options at this point:

       n,SP    Scan forward for next unread article.  (Note: the 'n' (next)
               command when typed at the end of an article does not mark the
               article as read, since an article is automatically marked as
               read after the last line of it is printed.  It is therefore
               possible to type a sequence such as 'mn' and leave the article
               marked as unread.  The fact that an article is marked as read
               by typing n, N, ^N, e, s, S, ⎪, w, or W within the MIDDLE of
               the article is in fact a special case.)

       N       Go to the next article.

       ^N      Find the next article with the same subject in date order.
               This also makes subject search mode (^N) the default command at
               the end of an article.

       p       Scan backward for previous unread article.  If there is none,
               stay at the current article.

       P       Go to the previous article.

       -       Go to the previously displayed article (regardless of whether
               that article is before or after this article in the normal
               sequence).

       ^P      Find the previous article with the same subject in date order.
               Makes subject search mode (^N) the default.

       _N      Go to the next article in numeric sequence.

       _P      Go to the previous article in numeric sequence.

       <, >    Browse the previous/next selected thread/subject.  If no
               selections have been made, all the threads that had unread news
               when you entered the newsgroup (or last left the selector) are
               treated as selected.  Entering an empty newsgroup makes all the
               already-read threads available for browsing.

       [, ]    Proceed to the left/right in the article tree.  Visits already-
               read articles as well as empty nodes.  Try using the
               left-/right-arrow keys also.

       {, }    Go to the root/leaf of the article tree, even if the node is
               already read or empty.  Proceeds to the very first/last node if
               you're already at a root/leaf in a multi-root thread.

       (, )    Go to the previous/next sibling in the thread, including
               "cousin" siblings.  Try using the up-/down-arrow keys also.

       t       Display the entire article tree and all its associated
               subjects.  If the group is not currently threaded, it will
               become threaded to process this command.

       ^R      Restart the current article.

       v       Restart the current article verbosely, displaying the entire
               header.

       ^L      Refresh the screen.

       ^X      Restart the current article, and decrypt as a rot13 message.

       X       Refresh the screen, and decrypt as a rot13 message.

       b       Back up one page.

       ^E      Display the last page of the article.

       q       Quit this newsgroup and go back to the newsgroup-selection
               level.

       ^       Go to the first unread article.

       $       Go to the last article (actually, one past the last article).

       number  Go to the numbered article.

       _C      Switch to next available charset conversion.

       range{,range}:command{:command}
               Apply a set of commands to a set of articles.  A range consists
               of either <article number> or
               <article number>-<article number>.  A dot '.' represents the
               current article, and a dollar sign '$' represents the last
               article.

               Applicable commands include 'm' (mark as unread), 'M' (mark as
               read-until-exit), 'j' (mark as read), "s dest" (save to a
               destination), "e dir" (extract to directory), "!command" (shell
               escape), "=" (print the subject), '+'/'-' (select/deselect the
               article), 'T+' (auto-select the entire thread), 'Tj' (auto-junk
               the entire thread), "++"/"--" (select/deselect the associated
               thread), 'C' (cancel), as well as S, ⎪, w, W, and t.

       :command
               Apply a command to all the selected threads or their selected
               articles.  Use "::command" to apply it to all non-selected
               threads/articles.  For applicable commands, see the discussion
               above for the range command.

       :.command
               Apply a command to the current thread or the selected articles
               in the current thread.  Use "::.command" to apply a command to
               the unselected articles in the current thread.

       j       Junk the current article (i.e. mark it as read).  If this
               command is used from within an article, you are left at the end
               of the article, unlike 'n', which looks for the next article.

       m       Mark the current article as still unread.  (If you don't want
               to see this article for a while you're probably better off
               using M instead of m, otherwise this article might get picked
               again as the first available article sooner than you'd like.)

       M       Mark the current article to return on newsgroup exit.  Until
               then, the current article will be marked as read.  This is
               useful for returning to an article in another session.

       Y       Yank back the marked-to-return articles, clearing their to-
               return status.  If you are reading selected articles, the
               yanked articles come back selected.

       /pattern
               Scan forward for article containing pattern in the subject.
               See the Regular Expressions section.  Together with the escape
               substitution facility described later, it becomes easy to
               search for various attributes of the current article, such as
               subject, article ID, author name, etc.  The previous pattern
               can be recalled with ESC.  If pattern is omitted, the previous
               pattern is assumed.

       /pattern/f
               Scan forward for article containing pattern in the from line.
               If you are using thread files the article data you are matching
               against MAY contain only the real name of the user.  If you
               want to always match the full from line, see the following
               header-matching option that will read in the full from-line
               data if it is not already available.

       /pattern/Hheader
               Scan forward for article containing pattern in the indicated
               header.  Because we scan the entire string up to the end of the
               modifiers, this modifier must be the last one.  For example,
               "/jsmoe@somesite.com/rHfrom:m+" will mark all articles from
               "jsmoe@somesite.com" as unread and select them.  Note that if
               the header line isn't one that trn recognizes in its header
               parser, you'll have to use the following full-header matching.

       /pattern/h
               Scan forward for an article containing pattern in the header.

       /pattern/a
               Scan forward for an article containing pattern anywhere in the
               article.

       /pattern/b
               Scan forward for an article containing pattern in the body of
               the article, but not the signature.  (The signature must be
               properly delimited to be ignored, however.)

       /pattern/B
               Scan forward for an article containing pattern anywhere in the
               body of the article.

       /pattern/r
               Scan read articles also.

       /pattern/c
               Make search case sensitive.  Ordinarily upper- and lower-case
               are considered the same.

       /pattern/t
               Force the search to start at the top of the group (useful while
               reading the group, since the default is to start at the current
               article).

       /pattern/I
               Force the search to ignore the THRU line when executed as a
               memorized command.  If the command portion is a selection
               command (i.e. it starts with a '+' or a '.') this is the
               default behavior.

       /pattern/N
               Force the search to NOT ignore the THRU line when executed as a
               memorized command (useful on selection commands -- see also
               -k).

       /pattern/modifiers:command{:command}
               Apply the commands listed to articles matching the search
               command (possibly with h, a, b, or r modifiers).  Applicable
               commands include 'm' (mark as UNread), 'M' (mark as read-until-
               exit), 'j' (junk -- mark as read in all groups), 'x' (mark as
               read in this group), "s dest" (save to a dest), "e dir"
               (extract to dir), "!command" (shell escape), "=" (print the
               subject), '+' (select the article), '-' deselect the article,
               'T+' (auto-select the entire thread), 'Tj' (auto-junk the
               entire thread), "++" (select the associated thread), "--"
               deselect the associated thread), and 'C' (cancel).  If the
               first command is 'm' or 'M', modifier r is assumed.  A K may be
               included in the modifiers (not the commands) to cause the
               entire command (sans K) to be saved to the local KILL file,
               where it will be applied to every article that shows up in the
               newsgroup.

               For example, to save all articles in a given newsgroup to the
               line printer and mark them read, use "/^/⎪lpr:j".  If you type
               "/^/K⎪lpr:j", this will happen every time you enter the
               newsgroup.

       ?pattern
               Scan backward for article containing pattern in the subject.
               May be modified as the forward search is:
               ?pattern?modifiers[:commands].  It is likely that you will want
               an r modifier when scanning backward.

       k       Mark as read all articles with the same subject as the current
               article.  (Note: there is no single character command to
               temporarily mark as read (M command) articles matching the
               current subject.  That can be done with "/<ESC>s/M", however.)

               Mark the current article and all its replies as read.

       J       Junk all the articles in the current thread, even if it
               contains multiple subjects.

       A       Add a subject-search command to the memorized list for this
               group (in the KILL file).  You are prompted to choose selection
               (+), junking (j), selection including all replies (.) or
               junking including all replies (,).

       K       This is a synonym for the command "Aj" which adds a command to
               junk the current subject to the memorized commands for the
               group.  See also the K modifier on searches above.

       T       Add a thread-oriented command to the memorized list for this
               group.  You are prompted to choose selection of entire thread
               (+), junking of entire thread (j), selection of an article and
               its replies (.), junking of an article and its replies (,),
               clearing the auto-selection/junking for this thread (c), or
               clearing the auto-selection/junking for an article and its
               replies (C).

       ^K      Edit the local list of memorized commands (a.k.a. a KILL file)
               for this newsgroup.  Each line of the KILL file is either a
               subject-affecting command of the form /pattern/x or a thread-
               affecting command of the form <message-id> Tx.  The first line
               in the KILL file has the form "THRU <number>", which tells trn
               the maximum article number that the KILL file has been applied
               to.  The THRU value is usually only used to keep header or
               article searches from happening multiple times.  Subject and
               from-line searches are quite fast if the group has cached data
               around (e.g. a .thread or .overview file).  If it doesn't, the
               THRU line is used to set a lower boundary on the search to keep
               the startup time as short as possible.  If trn skipped some
               selections (or you're not sure), wait for the group to finish
               being cached (e.g. visiting the selector forces the caching of
               all unread articles), quit the group, and re-enter.

               To see only newgroup articles in the control newsgroup, for
               instance, you might include the line

               /newgroup/:+

               which selects all subjects containing "newgroup".  You can add
               lines automatically via the A and T commands as well as the K
               search modifier, but editing is the only way to remove subject
               commands (thread commands die automatically as the thread
               dies).  If either of the environment variables VISUAL or EDITOR
               is set, the specified editor will be invoked; otherwise a
               default editor (normally vi) is invoked on the KILL file.

               The KILL file may also contain switch-setting lines beginning
               with '&' (see the section on "Options") and special commands
               beginning with '*'.  There are two such commands at the moment:
               "*j" (junk all articles from THRU to the end of the group) and
               "*X" (junk all unselected articles from THRU to the end of the
               group).  Additionally, any line beginning with 'X' is executed
               on exit from the newsgroup rather than on entrance.  This can
               be used to set switches back to a default value.  One use for
               this capability is to set your save directory to a custom value
               upon entry to a newsgroup and set it back on exit using the
               -ESAVEDIR option.  See also the -/ option for another solution
               to multiple save directories without using KILL files.

       r       Reply through net mail.  The environment variables MAILPOSTER
               and MAILHEADER may be used to modify the mailing behavior of
               trn (see the environment section).  If the current article does
               not exist (such as the "End of newsgroup" pseudo-article you
               can get to with a '$' command), invokes the mailer to nobody in
               particular.

       R       Reply, including the current article in the header file
               generated.  (See 'F' command below).  The YOUSAID environment
               variable controls the format of the attribution line.

       ^F      Forward the current article.

       f       Submit a follow-up article.  If the current article does not
               exist (such as the "End of newsgroup" pseudo-article you can
               get to with a '$' command), posts an original (root) article.

       F       Submit a follow-up article, and include the old article, with
               lines prefixed either by ">" or by the argument to the -F
               switch.  Trn will attempt to provide an attribution line in
               front of the quoted article, generated from the From: line of
               the article.  Unfortunately, the From: line doesn't always
               contain the right name; you should double check it against the
               signature and change it if necessary, or you may have to
               apologize for quoting the wrong person.  The environment
               variables NEWSPOSTER, NEWSHEADER and ATTRIBUTION may be used to
               modify the posting behavior of trn (see environment section).

       C       Cancel the current article, but only if you are the contributor
               or superuser.

       z       Supersede the current article, but only if you are the
               contributor.

       Z       Same as the 'z' command, but you start with a copy of the
               original article to work with.

       c       Catch up in this newsgroup; i.e., mark all articles as read.

       U       Mark some or all articles as unread.  You can choose to mark
               the current thread, sub-thread (the current article and its
               replies), all the articles, or start up the selector to choose
               specific articles to set unread.

       u       Unsubscribe from this newsgroup.

       s destination
               Save to a filename or pipe using sh.  If the first character of
               the destination is a vertical bar, the rest of the command is
               considered a shell command to which the article is passed
               through standard input.  The command is subject to filename
               expansion.  (See also the environment variable PIPESAVER.)  If
               the destination does not begin with a vertical bar, the rest of
               the command is assumed to be a filename of some sort.  An
               initial tilde '~' will be translated to the name of the home
               directory, and an initial environment variable substitution is
               also allowed.  If only a directory name is specified, the
               environment variable SAVENAME is used to generate the actual
               name.  If a non-absolute filename is specified, the environment
               variable SAVEDIR will be used to generate the actual directory.
               If nothing is specified, then obviously both variables will be
               used.  Since the current directory for trn while doing a save
               command is your private news directory, typing "s ./filename"
               will force the file to your news directory.  Save commands are
               also run through % interpretation, so that you can enter "s
               %O/filename" to save to the directory you were in when you ran
               trn, and "s %t" to save to a filename consisting of the
               Internet address of the sender.

               After generating the full pathname of the file to save to, trn
               determines if the file exists already, and if so, appends to
               it.  trn will attempt to determine if an existing file is a
               mailbox or a normal file, and save the article in the same
               format.  If the output file does not yet exist, trn will by
               default ask you which format you want, or you can make it skip
               the question with either the -M or -N switch.  If the article
               is to be saved in mailbox format, the command to do so is
               generated from the environment variable MBOXSAVER.  Otherwise,
               NORMSAVER is used.

       S destination
               Save to a filename or pipe using a preferred shell, such as
               csh.  Which shell is used depends first on what you have the
               environment variable SHELL set to, and in the absence of that,
               on what your news administrator set for the preferred shell
               when he or she installed trn.

       ⎪ command
               Shorthand for "s ⎪ command".

       w destination
               The same as "s destination", but saves without the header.

       W destination
               The same as "S destination", but saves without the header.

       e directory
               Extract a shell archive or uuencoded binary to the designated
               directory.  The article is first scanned to try discover what
               type of data is encapsulated.  If a "cut here" line is found,
               the first non-blank line after it must be either the start of a
               shar header, or the "begin" or "table" line of a uuencoded
               binary.  The default for extracting shars is to send the data
               portion of the file to /bin/sh, but that can be overridden with
               the UNSHAR variable (see the ENVIRONMENT section).  Uudecoding
               is done internally by a decoder that can handle the data being
               split up over multiple articles, and extracted one piece at a
               time.  To decode a multi-article file, either execute the 'e'
               command in each article in sequence, use an article range to
               execute the command, or use the ":e" command to repeat the
               command for each of the currently selected articles.  When the
               'e' command is not followed by any arguments, it will repeat
               the arguments from the last extraction.  All directory
               specifications are relative to the value of SAVEDIR, so you can
               use the command "e ." to force an extraction to SAVEDIR itself.
               If a uudecoding is in progress (i.e. the last piece wasn't
               extracted yet) and you exit the group, the partial file will be
               removed.  This also occurs if you start to extract a new
               uuencoded file before the previous one was finished.  See also
               the 'E' command for ending a multi-part uudecoding manually.

               There is one special case that is handled differently: if the
               first file in a recognizable shar file is a uuencoded binary
               that was packed with lines starting with an 'X', we will not
               unshar the file but instead uudecode it.  If this causes
               problems, you can override the default extraction method by
               following the directory with an explicit command to execute, as
               described below.

       e directory⎪command
               This form of the 'e' command allows you to extract other data
               formats than shar or uuencoded files or to override the
               decisions made by the automatic extraction selection described
               above.  In normal operation, all data following what we
               recognize as a "cut here" line will be sent to the specified
               command.  Additionally, the distinctive beginning of a shell
               archive is also recognized without a preceding cut line.  When
               the command is run, the default directory will be set to the
               specified directory, or the value of SAVEDIR if unspecified.
               Entering the 'e' command without arguments will repeat your
               previous extract command.  You can use the command "e dir⎪" to
               extract to a new directory using the previously-specified
               command.

       E       This command ends any multi-part uuencoded file extraction that
               you began, but are unable (or unwilling) to complete.  The
               partially extracted file is removed.

       &       Print out the current status of command-line switches.

       &switch {switch}
               Set additional command-line switches.

       &&      Print out current macro definitions.

       &&keys commands
               Define an additional macro.

       !command
               Escape to a subshell.  One exclamation mark (!) leaves you in
               your own news directory.  A double exclamation mark (!!) leaves
               you in the spool directory of the current newsgroup.  The
               environment variable SHELL will be used if defined.  If command
               is null, an interactive shell is started.

               You can use escape key substitutions described later to get to
               many run-time values.  The command is also run through %
               interpretation, in case it is being called from a range or
               search command.

       +       Start the selector in the last-used mode.  If the newsgroup is
               unthreaded and the default selector mode is threads, we
               temporarily switch to subject selection unless manually
               overridden.

       _a      Start the selector in article mode.

       _s      Start the selector in subject mode.

       _t      Start the selector in thread mode.

       _T      Start the selector in thread mode unless the group isn't
               threaded, in which case we settle for the subject selector.

       =       List subjects of unread articles.

       #       Print last article number.

       _+      Select the entire thread associated with the current article.

       _-      Deselect the entire thread associated with the current article.

       Pager Level

       At the pager level (within an article), the prompt looks like this:

       --MORE--(17%)

       and a number of commands may be given:

       SP      Display next page.

       x       Display next page and decrypt as a rot13 message.

       d       Display half a page more.

       CR      Display one more line.

       q       Go to the end of the current article (don't mark it either read
               or unread).  Leaves you at the "What next?" prompt.

       j       Junk the current article.  Mark it read and go to the end of
               the article.

       ^L      Refresh the screen.

       X       Refresh the screen and decrypt as a rot13 message.

       b       Back up one page.

       ^E      Display the last page of the article.

       _C      Switch to next available charset conversion.

       t       Display the entire article tree, including its associated
               subjects, and continue reading.  If the group is not currently
               threaded, it will be threaded first.

       gpattern
               Goto (search forward for) pattern within current article.  Note
               that there is no space between the command and the pattern.  If
               the pattern is found, the page containing the pattern will be
               displayed.  Where on the page the line matching the pattern
               goes depends on the value of the -g switch.  By default the
               matched line goes at the top of the screen.

       G       Search for g pattern again.

       ^G      This is a special version of the 'g' command that is for
               skipping articles in a digest.  It is equivalent to setting
               "-g4" and then executing the command "g^Subject:".

       TAB     This is another special version of the 'g' command that is for
               skipping inclusions of older articles.  It is equivalent to
               setting "-g4" and then executing the command "g^[^c]", where c
               is the first character of the last line on the screen.  It
               searches for the first line that doesn't begin with the same
               character as the last line on the screen.

       !command
               Escape to a subshell.

       The following commands skip the rest of the current article, then
       behave just as if typed to the "What next?" prompt at the end of the
       article.  See the documentation at the article selection level for
       these commands.

           # $ & / = ? A c C f F k K T ^K J , m M r R ^R u U v Y ^
           p P ^P - < > [ ] { } number
           range{,range} command{:command}

       The following commands also skip to the end of the article, but have
       the additional effect of marking the current article as read:

           n N ^N e s S ⎪ w W


       Miscellaneous facts about commands

       An 'n' typed at either the "Last newsgroup" prompt or a "Last article"
       prompt will cycle back to the top of the newsgroup or article list,
       whereas a 'q' will quit the level.  (Note that 'n' does not mean "no",
       but rather "next".)  A space will of course do whatever is shown as the
       default, which will vary depending on whether trn thinks you have more
       articles or newsgroups to read.

       The 'b' (backup page) command may be repeated until the beginning of
       the article is reached.  If trn is suspended (via a ^Z), then when the
       job is resumed, a refresh (^L) will automatically be done (Berkeley-
       type systems only).  If you type a command such as '!' or 's' which
       takes you from the middle of the article to the end, you can always get
       back into the middle by typing '^L'.

       In multi-character commands such as '!', 's', '/', etc, you can
       interpolate various run-time values by typing escape and a character.
       To find out what you can interpolate, type escape and 'h', or check out
       the single character % substitutions for environment variables in the
       Interpretation and Interpolation section, which are the same.
       Additionally, typing a double escape will cause any % substitutions in
       the string already typed in to be expanded.

       The Tree Display

       When reading a threaded newsgroup, trn displays a character
       representation of the article tree in the upper right corner of the
       header.  For example, consider the following display:

           (1)+-(1)--(2)--[2]
              ⎪-(1)+-<3>
              ⎪    \-[1]
              \-(1)+-[1]--[1]
                   \-[1]

       This tree represents an initial article that has three direct replies
       (the second column with three (1)'s).  Each reply has further replies
       branching off from them.  In two cases the subject line was altered in
       the reply, as indicated by the increasing numbers.

       The third subject is not selected for reading, as indicated by the
       <>'s.  Note you can always forcefully visit an unselected article with
       'N' and 'P' as well as the thread-navagation commands (which are
       typically macro'ed to the arrow keys on your keypad).

       When there is only one subject associated with a thread, all the nodes
       are marked with the number 1.  When the first subject change arrives,
       it is marked with the number 2, and so on.  If you were to look at this
       thread in the thread selector, the three subjects associated with it
       would be listed in the same order as the ascending digits.  In those
       rare cases where more than 9 subjects are associated with each thread,
       the nodes are marked with the letters A-Z, and then by a-z.

       The articles that have already been read are enclosed in ()'s, Unread
       articles are displayed in []'s, and unread-but-unselected articles are
       displayed in <>'s.  The currently displayed article has its entire node
       highlighted in the display.  The previously displayed article has only
       its number highlighted.  If the group has not been completely threaded
       yet, some articles will appear as (?) until trn can determine if the
       referenced article truly exists or not.  If you visit such an article
       and wait for trn to finish threading the group, the screen will refresh
       as soon as the presence or absence of the article is determined.

       Options

       Trn has a nice set of options to allow you to tailor the interaction to
       your liking.  (You might like to know that the author swears by "-x6ms
       +e -mu -S -XX -N -B -p".)  These options may be set on the command
       line, via the TRNINIT environment variable, via a file pointed to by
       the TRNINIT variable, or from within trn via the & command.  Options
       may generally be unset by typing "+switch".  Options include:

       -a   causes trn to always thread the unread articles on entry to a
            group.  Without this option trn may enter a group in a partially-
            threaded state and process the unthreaded articles in the
            background.  The down side of this is that the tree display may
            not be complete when it is first displayed and you may start out
            at an odd position in the first thread's article tree.

       -A   tells trn to attempt to create some default macros that will map
            your arrow keys to useful trn functions (this is the default).
            Use +A to turn this behavior off.

       -b   will force trn to read each thread in a breadth-first order,
            rather than depth-first.

       -B   will turn on a spinner that twirls when trn is doing background
            article-processing.  A gizmo for those interested in what's going
            on behind the scenes.

       -c   checks for news without reading news.  If a list of newsgroups is
            given on the command line, only those newsgroups will be checked;
            otherwise all subscribed-to newsgroups are checked.  Whenever the
            -c switch is specified, a non-zero exit status from trn means that
            there is unread news in one of the checked newsgroups.  The -c
            switch does not disable the printing of newsgroups with unread
            news; this is controlled by the -s switch.  (The -c switch is not
            meaningful when given via the & command.)

       -C<number>
            tells trn how often to checkpoint the .newsrc, in articles read.
            Actually, this number says when to start thinking about doing a
            checkpoint if the situation is right.  If a reasonable check-
            pointing situation doesn't arise within 10 more articles, the
            .newsrc is check-pointed willy-nilly.

       -d<directory name>
            sets your private news directory to something other than ~/News.
            The directory name will be globbed (via csh) if necessary (and if
            possible).  The value of SAVEDIR (where articles are saved) is
            initially set to this directory, but is often manipulated via the
            -/ option or by manipulating SAVEDIR directly (perhaps via the
            memorized commands (the KILL file) for a group.  Any KILL files
            (see the K command in the Article Selection section) also reside
            in this directory and its subdirectories, by default.  In
            addition, shell escapes leave you in this directory.

       -D<flags>
            enables debugging output.  See common.h for flag values.  Warning:
            normally trn attempts to restore your .newsrc when an unexpected
            signal or internal error occurs.  This is disabled when any
            debugging flags are set.

       -e   causes each page within an article to be started at the top of the
            screen, not just the first page.  (It is similar to the -c switch
            of more(1).)  You never have to read scrolling text with this
            switch.  This is helpful especially at certain baud rates because
            you can start reading the top of the next page without waiting for
            the whole page to be printed.  It works nicely in conjunction with
            the -m switch, especially if you use half-intensity for your
            highlight mode.  See also the -L switch.

       -E<name>=<val>
            sets the environment variable <name> to the value specified.
            Within trn, "&-ESAVENAME=%t" is similar to "setenv SAVENAME '%t'"
            in csh, or "SAVENAME='%t'; export SAVENAME" in sh.  Any
            environment variables set with -E will be inherited by
            subprocesses of trn.

       -f   will make trn avoid various sleep calls and the prompt after the
            processing of the memorized commands that are intended to allow
            you time to read a message before the screen clears.  This allows
            the advanced user to cruise along a little faster at the expense
            of readability.  The -t (terse) option turns on -f by default, but
            you can override this by specifying +f after the -t option.

       -F<string>
            sets the prefix string for the 'F' follow-up command to use in
            prefixing each line of the quoted article.  For example, "-F<tab>"
            inserts a tab on the front of each line (which will cause long
            lines to wrap around, unfortunately), "-F>>>>" inserts ">>>>" on
            every line, and "-F" by itself causes nothing to be inserted, in
            case you want to reformat the text, for instance.  The initial
            default prefix is ">".

       -g<line>
            tells trn which line of the screen you want searched-for strings
            to show up on when you search with the 'g' command within an
            article.  The lines are numbered starting with 1.  The initial
            default is "-g1", meaning the first line of the screen.  Setting
            the line to less than 1 or more than the number of lines on the
            screen will set it to the last line of the screen.

       -G   selects the "fuzzy" processing on the go command when you don't
            type in a valid group name.  With this option on trn will attempt
            to find the group you probably meant to type, but it can be a
            little slow about it, so it's not on by default.

       -h<string>
            hides (disables the printing of) all header lines beginning with
            string that trn recognizes.  For instance, -hexp will disable the
            printing of the "Expires:" line.  Case is insignificant.  Headers
            unknown to trn cannot be disabled except by turning them all off
            (-h without a string will disable all headers except the Subject)
            and then using +h to select those lines you want to see.  You may
            wish to use the baud-rate switch modifier below to hide more lines
            at lower baud rates.

       -H<string>
            works just like -h except that instead of setting the hiding flag
            for a header line, it sets the magic flag for that header line.
            Certain header lines have magic behavior that can be controlled
            this way.  At present, the following actions are caused by the
            flag for the particular line: the Date line prints the date in
            local time if the group is threaded; the From line will only print
            the commented portion of the user name; the Newsgroups line will
            only print when there are multiple newsgroups; the Subject line
            will be underlined and (when threaded) the keyword 'Subject:' is
            replaced by its subject number (e.g. [1]); and the Expires line
            will always be suppressed if there is nothing on it.  In fact, all
            of these actions are the default, and you must use +H to undo
            them.

       -i=<number>
            specifies how long (in lines) to consider the initial page of an
            article -- normally this is determined automatically depending on
            baud rate.  (Note that an entire article header will always be
            printed regardless of the specified initial page length.  If you
            are working at low baud rate and wish to reduce the size of the
            headers, you may hide certain header lines with the h switch.)

       -I   tells trn to append all new, unsubscribed groups to the end of the
            .newsrc.

       -j   forces trn to leave control characters unmolested in messages.

       -J{<number>}
            causes trn to join similar subjects into a common thread if they
            are the same up to the indicated number of characters (the default
            is 30).  You can turn this on and off for specific groups by
            putting the following lines into your kill file for the group(s):

            &-J30
            X&+J

       -k   tells trn to ignore the THRU line when processing selection
            searches (i.e. searches with a command portion that starts with a
            '+' or a '.') in the memorized commands (aka kill files).  This is
            turned on by default, so use +k if you want to turn it off.

       -K   is used to keep a trn from checking for new news while you're in
            the group.  Use this when your kill-file processing is so slow
            that you don't want the group to expand while you're reading.  If
            you only want specific groups to be affected, put these lines into
            your kill file for the group(s):

            &-K
            X&+K

       -l   disables the clearing of the screen at the beginning of each
            article, in case you have a bizarre terminal.

       -L   tells trn to leave information on the screen as long as possible
            by not blanking the screen between pages, and by using clear to
            end-of-line.  (The more(1) program does this.)  This feature works
            only if you have the requisite termcap capabilities.  The switch
            has no effect unless the -e switch is set.

       -m=<mode>
            enables the marking of the last line of the previous page printed,
            to help the user see where to continue reading.  This is most
            helpful when less than a full page is going to be displayed.  It
            may also be used in conjunction with the -e switch, in which case
            the page is erased, and the first line (which is the last line of
            the previous page) is highlighted.  If -m=s is specified, the
            standout mode will be used, but if -m=u is specified, underlining
            will be used.  If neither =s or =u is specified, standout is the
            default.  Use +m to disable highlighting.

       -M   forces mailbox format in creating new save files.  Ordinarily you
            are asked which format you want.

       -N   forces normal (non-mailbox) format in creating new save files.
            Ordinarily you are asked which format you want.

       -o   will act like old versions of trn and not junk cross-referenced
            articles when using thread commands to junk articles in the
            current group (such as the selector's 'X' command).

       -O<mode>{<order>}
            specifies the selector's mode and (optionally) the sort order.
            The modes are 'a'rticle, 's'ubject, or 't'hread.  The orders are
            'd'ate, 's'ubject, 'a'uthor, article 'c'ount per group, 'n'umeric,
            or subject-date 'g'roups.  The order can be capitalized to reverse
            the indicated order.  For example, to choose the article selector
            in subject order specify "-Oas".

       -p{opt}
            tells trn to auto-select your postings and their replies as it
            encounters them in the various groups you read.  The optional
            parameter is either a '.', 'p', or '+' (it defaults to '.' if
            omitted) and affects what command trn should execute when it
            encounters your postings.  The default is to execute the command
            "T." on each of your postings which tells trn to memorize the
            auto-selection of this article and all its replies.  Using -pp
            tells trn to use the same command, but start the selection with
            the parent article, so that you see any other replies to the same
            article.  Using -p+ tells trn to select the whole thread that
            contains your reply.

       -q   bypasses the automatic check for new newsgroups when starting trn.

       -Q<set>
            defines the set of available charset conversions. This can be
            useful to restrict the available conversions to those your
            terminal can handle and/or to specify an alternate default. The
            first element of this set is taken as default for each article.

       -r   causes trn to restart in the last newsgroup read during a previous
            session with trn.  It is equivalent to starting up normally and
            then getting to the newsgroup with a g command.

       -s   with no argument suppresses the initial listing of newsgroups with
            unread news, whether -c is specified or not.  Thus -c and -s can
            be used together to test "silently" the status of news from within
            your .login file.  If -s is followed by a number, the initial
            listing is suppressed after that many lines have been listed.
            Presuming that you have your .newsrc sorted into order of
            interest, -s5 will tell you the 5 most interesting newsgroups that
            have unread news.  This is also a nice feature to use in your
            .login file, since it not only tells you whether there is unread
            news, but also how important the unread news is, without having to
            wade through the entire list of unread newsgroups.  If no -s
            switch is given -s5 is assumed, so just putting "rn -c" into your
            .login file is fine.

       -S<number>
            causes trn to enter subject search mode (^N) automatically
            whenever an unthreaded newsgroup is started up with <number>
            unread articles or more.  Additionally, it causes any 'n' typed
            while in subject search mode to be interpreted as '^N' instead.
            (To get back out of subject search mode, the best command is
            probably '^'.) If <number> is omitted, 3 is assumed.

       -t   puts trn into terse mode.  This is more cryptic but useful for low
            baud rates.  (Note that your system administrator may have
            compiled trn with either verbose or terse messages only to save
            memory.)  You may wish to use the baud-rate switch modifier below
            to enable terse mode only at lower baud rates.

       -T   allows you to type ahead of trn.  Ordinarily trn will eat
            typeahead to prevent your autorepeating space bar from doing a
            very frustrating thing when you accidentally hold it down.  If you
            don't have a repeating space bar, or you are working at low baud
            rate, you can set this switch to prevent this behavior.  You may
            wish to use the baud-rate switch modifier below to disable
            typeahead only at lower baud rates.

       -u   sets the unbroken-subject-line mode in the selector, which simply
            truncates subjects that are too long instead of dumping the middle
            portion prior to the last two words of the subject.

       -U   tells trn to not write the .newsrc file out after visiting each
            group.  While this is "unsafe" it can be faster if you have a
            really huge .newsrc.

       -v   sets verification mode for commands.  When set, the command being
            executed is displayed to give some feedback that the key has
            actually been typed.  Useful when the system is heavily loaded and
            you give a command that takes a while to start up.

       -V   will output trn's version number and quit.

       -x{<number>}{<list>}
            Enable the extended (threaded) features of trn beyond the rn
            compatibility mode (this may be the default on your system, use +x
            if you yearn for the good ol' days).  The <number> is the maximum
            number of article-tree lines (from 0 to 11) you want displayed in
            your header.  Use the <list> to choose which thread selector
            styles you like ('s'hort, 'm'edium, or 'l'ong), and in what order
            they are selected with the 'L' command.  For example, use -xms to
            start with the medium display mode and only switch between it and
            the short mode.  You can omit either or both of the parameters, in
            which case a default of -x6lms is assumed.

       -X{<number>}{<commands>}
            If you like using the selector, you'll probably want to use this
            option to make the selector command (+) the default when a
            newsgroup is started up with at least <number> unread articles.
            (Your installer may have chosen to make -X1 the default on your
            system.)  It is also used to select which commands you want to be
            the defaults while using the thread selector.  For example, -X2XD
            will make the thread selector the default command for entering a
            newsgroup with at least 2 unread articles, and set the default
            command for the LAST page of the thread selector to be the X
            command and the default command for all other pages to be the D
            command.  Either or both parameters can be omitted, as well as the
            second default command (e.g.  -XX would change the default
            newsgroup entry to use the selector and the default command for
            the last page of the selector to be 'X').  The default is -X1Z> if
            just -X is specified.  To set the default selector commands
            without having '+' be the default entry into a newsgroup, specify
            a high number, like 9999.

       -z   sets the minimum number of minutes that must elapse before the
            active file is refetched to look for new articles.  A value of 0
            or using +z turns this off.

       -Z   is used to select what style of database you want trn to access.
            Use -Zt for thread files, -Zo for overview files, and +Z for none.
            The default is whatever your newsadmin compiled into trn, and can
            be -Zot to try to access either one.

       -/   sets SAVEDIR to "%p/%c" and SAVENAME to "%a", which means that by
            default articles are saved in a subdirectory of your private news
            directory corresponding to the name of the the current newsgroup,
            with the filename being the article number.  +/ sets SAVEDIR to
            "%p" and SAVENAME to "%^C", which by default saves articles
            directly to your private news directory, with the filename being
            the name of the current newsgroup, first letter capitalized.
            (Either +/ or -/ may be default on your system, depending on the
            feelings of your news administrator when he, she or it installed
            trn.) You may, of course, explicitly set SAVEDIR and SAVENAME to
            other values -- see discussion in the environment section.

       Any switch may be selectively applied according to the current baud-
       rate.  Simply prefix the switch with +speed to apply the switch at that
       speed or greater, and -speed to apply the switch at that speed or less.
       Examples: -1200-hposted suppresses the Posted line at 1200 baud or
       less; +9600-m enables marking at 9600 baud or more.  You can apply the
       modifier recursively to itself also: +300-1200-t sets terse mode from
       300 to 1200 baud.

       Similarly, switches may be selected based on terminal type:

            -=vt100+T      set +T on vt100
            -=tvi920-ETERM=mytvi     get a special termcap entry
            -=tvi920-ERNMACRO=%./.rnmac.tvi
                           set up special key-mappings
            +=paper-v      set verify mode if not hardcopy

       Some switch arguments, such as environment variable values, may require
       spaces in them.  Such spaces should be quoted via ", ', or \ in the
       conventional fashion, even when passed via TRNINIT or the & command.

       Regular Expressions

       The patterns used in article searching are regular expressions such as
       those used by ed(1).  In addition, \w matches an alphanumeric character
       and \W a non-alphanumeric.  Word boundaries may be matched by \b, and
       non-boundaries by \B.  The bracketing construct \( ... \) may also be
       used, and \digit matches the digit'th substring, where digit can range
       from 1 to 9.  \0 matches whatever the last bracket match matched.  Up
       to 10 alternatives may given in a pattern, separated by \⎪, with the
       caveat that \( ... \⎪ ... \) is illegal.

       Characterset conversions

       trn can use character set conversions when displaying articles. This
       helps users in non-English-speaking countries to display special
       characters on 7-bit displays.  trn assumes that articles use the
       ISO-8859-1 character set and converts the special characters (e.g.,
       "umlauts") to a string of ASCII characters.  Currently the following
       conversions are supported (see the -Q option):

       p    Plain. No change. This is the default.

       a    ISO->ASCII. Special characters are mapped to ASCII, e.g. the
            umlaut-o character becomes oe.

       m    ISO->ASCII monospaced. Special characters are mapped to exactly
            one similar-looking ASCII character, e.g. umlaut-o becomes o. Used
            where correct spacing is more important than accuracy.

       t    TeX->ISO. Assuming your display can handle the ISO-8859-1 charset,
            trn transforms umlauts in the TeX notation, which is commonly used
            in Germany, to real ISO characters, e.g. "a becomes umlaut-a.

       The selected conversion, if different from p, will be displayed in the
       article level and pager prompt. The conversion is also used when
       including original articles in a reply or followup. It is not used when
       saving articles to files.

       Interpretation and Interpolation

       Many of the strings that trn handles are subject to interpretations of
       several types.  Under filename expansion, an initial "~/" is translated
       to the name of your home directory, and "~name" is translated to the
       login directory for the user specified.  Filename expansion will also
       expand an initial environment variable, and also does the backslash,
       caret and percent expansion mentioned below.

       All interpreted strings go through backslash, caret and percent
       interpretation.  The backslash escapes are the normal ones (such as \n,
       \t, \033, etc.).  The caret escapes indicate control codes (such as ^i,
       ^l, etc.).  If you wish to pass through a backslash or a caret it must
       be escaped with a backslash.  The special percent escapes are similar
       to printf percent escapes.  These cause the substitution of various
       run-time values into the string.  The following are currently
       recognized:

       %a      Current article number.

       %A      Full name of current article (%P/%c/%a).

       %b      Destination of last save command, often a mailbox.

       %B      The byte offset to the beginning of the part of the article to
               be saved, set by the save command.  The 's' and 'S' commands
               set it to 0, and the 'w' and 'W' commands set it to the byte
               offset of the body of the article.

       %c      Current newsgroup, directory form.

       %C      Current newsgroup, dot form.

       %d      Full name of newsgroup directory (%P/%c).

       %D      "Distribution:" line from the current article.

       %e      The last command executed to extract data from an article.

       %E      The last directory where an extracted file went.

       %f      "From:" line from the current article, or the "Reply-To:" line
               if there is one.  This differs from %t in that comments (such
               as the full name) are not stripped out with %f.

       %F      "Newsgroups:" line for a new article, constructed from
               "Newsgroups:" and "Followup-To:" lines of current article.

       %h      Name of the header file to pass to the mail or news poster,
               containing all the information that the poster program needs in
               the form of a message header.  It may also contain a copy of
               the current article.  The format of the header file is
               controlled by the MAILHEADER and NEWSHEADER environment
               variables.

       %H      Host name (your machine's name).

       %i      "Message-I.D.:" line from the current article, with <>
               guaranteed.

       %I      The reference indication mark (see the -F switch.)

       %l      The news administrator's login name, if any.

       %L      Login name (yours).

       %m      The current mode of trn, for use in conditional macros.

                    i    Initializing.
                    n    Newsgroup-selection level.
                    f    end (Finis) of newsgroup-selection level.
                    t    the Thread/subject/article selector.
                    a    Article level (What next?).
                    e    End of the article level.
                    p    Pager level (MORE prompt).
                    u    Set-unread prompt.
                    d    selector moDe prompt.
                    o    selector Order prompt.
                    m    Memorize thread command prompt.
                    r    memoRize subject command prompt.
                    k    processing memorized (KILL file) commands.
                    A    Add this newsgroup?
                    B    aBandon confirmation.
                    C    Catchup confirmation.
                    D    Delete bogus newsgroups?
                    F    Is follow-up a new topic?
                    M    Use mailbox format?
                    R    Resubscribe to this newsgroup?

               Note that yes/no questions are all upper-case modes.  If, for
               example, you wanted to disallow defaults on all yes/no
               questions, you could define the following macro:

               \040 %(%m=[A-Z]?h: )

       %M      The number of articles marked to return via the 'M' command.
               If the same article is Marked multiple times, "%M" counts it
               multiple times in the current implementation.

       %n      "Newsgroups:" line from the current article.

       %N      Full name (yours).

       %o      Organization (yours).

       %O      Original working directory (where you ran trn from).

       %p      Your private news directory, normally ~/News.

       %P      Public news spool directory, normally /usr/spool/news on
               systems that don't use NNTP.

       %q      The value of the last "quoted" input string (see the %"
               interp).

       %r      Last reference on references line of current article (parent
               article id).

       %R      References list for a new article, constructed from the
               references and article ID of the current article.

       %s      Subject, with all Re's and (nf)'s stripped off.

       %S      Subject, with one "Re:" stripped off.

       %t      "To:" line derived from the "From:" and "Reply-To:" lines of
               the current article.  This always returns an Internet format
               address.

       %T      "To:" line derived from the "Path:" line of the current article
               to produce a uucp path.

       %u      The number of unread articles in the current newsgroup.

       %U      The number of unread articles in the current newsgroup, not
               counting the the current article.  When threads are selected,
               this count reflects only selected articles.

       %v      The number of unselected articles, not counting the current
               article if it is unselected.

       %w      The directory where mthreads keeps its tmp files.

       %W      The directory where thread files are placed.

       %x      The news library directory.

       %X      The trn library directory.

       %z      The length of the current article in bytes.

       %Z      The number of selected threads.

       %~      Your home directory.

       %.      The directory containing your dot files, which is your home
               directory unless the environment variable DOTDIR is defined
               when trn is invoked.

       %#      The current count for a multi-file save, starting with 1.  This
               value is incremented by one for each file saved or extracted
               within a single command.

       %$      Current process number.

       %/      Last search string.

       %?      A space unless the current interp string is > 79 characters, at
               which point it turns into a newline.

       %%      A percent sign.

       %{name} or %{name-default}
               The environment variable "name".

       %[name] The value of header line "Name:" from the current article.  The
               "Name: " is not included.  For example "%D" and
               "%[distribution]" are equivalent.  The name must be spelled out
               in full.

       %`command`
               Inserts the output of the command, with any embedded newlines
               translated to space.

       %""prompt""
               Prints prompt on the terminal, then inputs one string, and
               inserts it.

       %(test_text=pattern?then_text:else_text)
               If test_text matches pattern, has the value then_text,
               otherwise else_text.  The ":else_text" is optional, and if
               absent, interpolates the null string.  The = may be replaced
               with != to negate the test.  To quote any of the meta-
               characters ('=', '?', ':', or ')'), precede with a backslash.

       %digit  The digits 1 through 9 interpolate the string matched by the
               nth bracket in the last pattern match that had brackets.  If
               the last pattern had alternatives, you may not know the number
               of the bracket you want -- %0 will give you the last bracket
               matched.

       Modifiers: to capitalize the first letter, insert '^': "%^C" produces
       something like "Rec.humor".  Inserting '_' causes the first letter
       following the last '/' to be capitalized: "%_c" produces "rec/Humor".

       Inserting '\' will insert a backslash before any characters that would
       be magic in a regular expression, including '%': "%\C" produces
       "rec\.humor".

       Inserting "'" will insert a backslash before any single-quotes in the
       result, suitable for enclosing in single-quotes and sending to a shell:
       "'%'s'" might produce "'I'\''m a subject'".

       Inserting "''" will insert a backslash before any double-quotes in the
       result, suitable for enclosing in double-quotes and sending to a shell.

       Inserting ">" will strip out just the address portion of an address
       string such as the From line.

       Inserting ")" will strip out just the comment (real name) portion of an
       address string such as the From line.

       Inserting ":FMT" will format the result according to the printf-style
       FMT string: "%:-50.50s" left-justifies the subject into a 50 character
       field.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables are paid attention to by trn.  In
       general the default values assumed for these variables by trn are
       reasonable, so if you are using trn for the first time, you can safely
       ignore this section.  Note that the defaults below may not correspond
       precisely to the defaults on your system.  To find the actual defaults
       you would need to look in config.h and common.h in the trn source
       directory, and the file INIT in the trn library directory.

       Those variables marked (%) are subject to % interpolation, and those
       marked (~) are subject to both % interpolation and ~ interpretation.

       ATTRIBUTION (%)
               Gives the format of the attribution line in front of the quoted
               article included by an F command.

               Default: In article %i,%?%)f <%>f> wrote:

       AUTOSUBSCRIBE
               When trn is checking for new newsgroups and finds one matching
               one of the patterns in AUTOSUBSCRIBE, the new group is
               automatically added to the end of the .newsrc, subscribed.
               Newsgroups not matching this or AUTOUNSUBSCRIBE, below, are
               offered to the user.

               AUTOSUBSCRIBE is a comma separated list of newsgroup patterns
               ala 'o', '/', etc.  It can also include "but not" entries
               preceded by '!'.  "a,b,!c,d" is read as "matching a or b,
               unless it also matches c; matching d regardless".  Another way
               to look at it is "(((a or b) and not c) or d)".  To
               automatically subscribe to all local groups but be choosy about
               non-local groups, one might say "*,!*.*".

               Default: (none)

       AUTOUNSUBSCRIBE
               AUTOUNSUBSCRIBE is very similar to AUTOSUBSCRIBE, above, but
               new newsgroups matching it are automatically added to the end
               of the .newsrc file, unsubscribed.  If a newsgroup matches
               AUTOSUBSCRIBE, AUTOUNSUBSCRIBE is not consulted.

               Default: (none)

       CANCEL (~)
               The shell command used to cancel an article.

               Default: inews -h < %h

       CANCELHEADER (%)
               The format of the file to pass to the CANCEL command in order
               to cancel an article.

               Default:
               Newsgroups: %n
               Subject: cmsg cancel %i
               References: %R
               Reply-To: %L@%H (%N)
               Distribution: %D
               Organization: %o

               %i cancelled from trn.

       DOTDIR  Where to find your dot files, if they aren't in your home
               directory.  Can be interpolated using "%.".

               Default: $HOME

       EDITOR (~)
               The name of your editor, if VISUAL is undefined.

               Default: whatever your news administrator compiled in, usually
               vi.

       EXSAVER (%)
               The shell command to execute in order to extract data to either
               /bin/sh or a user-specified command.

               Default: tail +%Bc %A ⎪ %e

       FIRSTLINE (%)
               Controls the format of the line displayed at the top of an
               article.  Warning: this may go away.

               The default (ignoring the Marked to return display in
               unthreaded groups) is approximately:

               %C #%a%(%Z=^0$?%(%U!=^0$? (%U more\)): (%U + %v more\))

       FORWARDHEADER (%)
               The format of the header file for forwarding messages.  See
               also FORWARDPOSTER.

               Default:

               To:
               Subject: %(%i=^$?:[subject] (fwd\\)
               %(%{REPLYTO}=^$?:Reply-To: %{REPLYTO}
               )Newsgroups: %n
               In-Reply-To: %i)
               %(%[references]=^$?:References: %[references]
               )Organization: %o
               Cc:
               Bcc: \n\n

       FORWARDPOSTER (~)
               The shell command to be used by the forward command (^F) in
               order to allow you to edit and deliver the file.  trn will not
               itself call upon an editor for replies -- this is a function of
               the program referenced by FORWARDPOSTER.  See also
               FORWARDHEADER and MAILPOSTER.

               Default: QUOTECHARS=%I Rnmail -h %h

       HIDELINE
               If defined, contains a regular expression which matches article
               lines to be hidden, in order, for instance, to suppress quoted
               material.  A recommended string for this purpose is "^>...",
               which doesn't hide lines with only '>', to give some indication
               that quoted material is being skipped.  If you want to hide
               more than one pattern, you can use "⎪" to separate the
               alternatives.  You can view the hidden lines by restarting the
               article with the 'v' command.

               There is some overhead involved in matching each line of the
               article against a regular expression.  You might wish to use a
               baud-rate modifier to enable this feature only at low baud
               rates.

               Default: undefined

       HOME    Your home directory.  Affects ~ interpretation, and the
               location of your dot files if DOTDIR is not defined.

               Default: $LOGDIR

       KILLGLOBAL (~)
               Where to find the KILL file to apply to every newsgroup.  See
               the '^K' command at the newsgroup-selection level.

               Default: %p/KILL

       KILLLOCAL (~)
               Where to find the KILL file for the current newsgroup.  See the
               commands 'K' and '^K' at the article selection level, and the
               search modifier 'K'.

               Default: %p/%c/KILL

       LOGDIR  Your home directory if HOME is undefined.  Affects ~
               interpretation, and the location of your dot files if DOTDIR is
               not defined.

               Default: none.

               Explanation: you must have either $HOME or $LOGDIR.

       LOGNAME Your login name, if USER is undefined.  May be interpolated
               using "%L".

               Default: value of getlogin().

       LOCALTIMEFMT
               The format used by strftime() to print the local time.  The
               Date line is only displayed in local time if the group is
               threaded (see the -H option for more information on Date).

               Default: %a %b %e %X %Z %Y

               which is the same format as the date(1) command.

       MAILCALL (~)
               What to say when there is new mail.

               Default: (Mail)

       MAILFILE (~)
               Where to check for mail.

               Default: /usr/spool/mail/%L

       MAILHEADER (%)
               The format of the header file for replies.  See also
               MAILPOSTER.

               Default:

               To: %t
               Subject: %(%i=^$?:Re: %S
               %(%{REPLYTO}=^$?:Reply-To: %{REPLYTO}
               )Newsgroups: %n
               In-Reply-To: %i)
               %(%[references]=^$?:References: %[references]
               )Organization: %o
               Cc:
               Bcc: \n\n

       MAILPOSTER (~)
               The shell command to be used by the reply commands (r and R) in
               order to allow you to enter and deliver the response.  trn will
               not itself call upon an editor for replies -- this is a
               function of the program referenced by MAILPOSTER.  See also
               MAILHEADER.

               Default: QUOTECHARS=%I Rnmail -h %h

       MBOXSAVER (~)
               The shell command to save an article in mailbox format.

               Default: %X/mbox.saver %A %P %c %a %B %C "%b" \
               "From %t %`date`"

               Explanation: the first seven arguments are the same as for
               NORMSAVER.  The eighth argument to the shell script is the new
               From line for the article, including the posting date, derived
               either directly from the Posted: line, or not-so-directly from
               the Date: line.  Header munging at its finest.

       MODSTRING
               The string to insert in the group summary line, which heads
               each article, for a moderated group.  See also NOPOSTRING.

               Default: " (moderated)"

       NAME    Your full name.  May be interpolated using "%N".

               Default: name from /etc/passwd, or ~/.fullname.

       NEWSHEADER (%)
               The format of the header file for follow-ups.  See also
               NEWSPOSTER.

               Default:

               %(%[followup-to]=^$?:%(%[followup-to]=^%n$?:X-ORIGINAL-
               NEWSGROUPS: %n
               ))Newsgroups: %(%F=^$?%C:%F)
               Subject: %(%S=^$?%"\n\nSubject: ":Re: %S)
               Summary:
               Expires:
               %(%R=^$?:References: %R
               )Sender:
               Followup-To:
               %(%{REPLYTO}=^$?:Reply-To: %{REPLYTO}
               )Distribution: %(%i=^$?%"Distribution: ":%D)
               Organization: %o
               Keywords: %[keywords]
               Cc: \n\n

       NEWSORG Either the name of your organization, or the name of a file
               containing the name of your organization.  (For use at sites
               where the ORGANIZATION environmental variable is already in
               use.  NEWSORG will override ORGANIZATION if both are present.)
               May be interpolated using "%o".

               Default: whatever your news administrator compiled in.

       NEWSPOSTER (~)
               The shell command to be used by the follow-up commands (f and
               F) in order to allow you to enter and post a follow-up news
               article.  trn will not itself call upon an editor for follow-
               ups -- this is a function of the program called by trn.  See
               also NEWSHEADER.

               Default: QUOTECHARS=%I Pnews -h %h

       NNTPSERVER
               The hostname of your NNTPSERVER.  [This does not apply unless
               you are running the NNTP version of trn.]

               Default: the hostname listed in the server file, usually
               /usr/local/lib/rn/server.

       NOPOSTRING
               The string to insert in the group summary line, which heads
               each article, for a group to which local posting is not
               allowed.  See also MODSTRING.

               Default: " (no posting)"

       NORMSAVER (~)
               The shell command to save an article in the normal (non-
               mailbox) format.

               Default: %X/norm.saver %A %P %c %a %B %C "%b"

       ORGANIZATION
               Either the name of your organization, or the name of a file
               containing the name of your organization.  (If NEWSORG is set,
               it will override ORGANIZATION.)  May be interpolated using
               "%o".

               Default: whatever your news administrator compiled in.

       PAGESTOP
               If defined, contains a regular expression which matches article
               lines to be treated as form-feeds.  There are at least two
               things you might want to do with this.  To cause page breaks
               between articles in a digest, you might define it as
               "^--------".  To force a page break before a signature, you
               could define it as "^-- $".  (Then, when you see "--" at the
               bottom of the page, you can skip the signature if you so desire
               by typing 'n' instead of space.)  To do both, you could use
               "^--".  If you want to break on more than one pattern, you can
               use "⎪" to separate the alternatives.

               There is some overhead involved in matching each line of the
               article against a regular expression.  You might wish to use a
               baud-rate modifier to enable this feature only at low baud
               rates.

               Default: undefined

       PIPESAVER (%)
               The shell command to execute in order to accomplish a save to a
               pipe ("s ⎪ command" or "w ⎪ command").  The command typed by
               the user is substituted in as %b.

               Default: %(%B=^0$?<%A:tail +%Bc %A ⎪) %b

               Explanation: if %B is 0, the command is "<%A %b", otherwise the
               command is "tail +%Bc %A ⎪ %b".

       REPLYTO The value of the "Reply-To:" header, if needed.


       RNINIT  This variable is used when initializing trn in rn-compatibility
               mode (see the -x switch) or when the TRNINIT variable isn't
               defined.  See the TRNINIT variable for a description.

       RNMACRO (~)
               The name of the file containing macros and key mappings when
               running trn as rn.  See also the TRNMACRO variable and the
               CUSTOM MACROS section.

               Default: %./.rnmac

       SAVEDIR (~)
               The name of the directory to save to, if the save command does
               not specify a directory name.

               Default:
                  If -/ is set: %p/%c
                  If +/ is set: %p

       SAVENAME (%)
               The name of the file to save to, if the save command contains
               only a directory name.

               Default:
                  If -/ is set: %a
                  If +/ is set: %^C

       SELECTCHARS
               The characters used by the thread selector to select the
               associated thread of discussion.  You can specify up to 64
               visible characters, including upper- and lower-case letters,
               numbers, and many punctuation characters.  Selection characters
               override command characters in the selector, but are not
               excluded from macro expansion, so be careful.
               Default: abdefgijlorstuvwxyz1234567890BCFGHIKMVW
               (You'll notice various characters are omitted to allow them to
               be typed as commands in the selector.)

       SHELL   The name of your preferred shell.  It will be used by the '!',
               'S' and 'W' commands.

               Default: whatever your news administrator compiled in.

       SUBJLINE (%)
               Controls the format of the lines displayed by the '=' command
               at the article selection level.

               Default: %s

       SUPERSEDEHEADER (%)
               The format of the header file for a supersede article.

               Default:

               From: %L@%H (%N)
               Newsgroups: %n
               Subject: %S
               Distribution: %D
               Organization: %o
               Supersedes: %i

       TERM    Determines which termcap entry to use, unless TERMCAP contains
               the entry.

       TERMCAP Holds either the name of your termcap file, or a termcap entry.

               Default: /etc/termcap, normally.

       TRNINIT Default values for switches may be passed to trn by placing
               them in the TRNINIT variable (or RNINIT if you're starting trn
               in rn-compatibility mode).  Any switch that is set in this way
               may be overruled on the command line, or via the '&' command
               from within trn.  Binary-valued switches that are set with
               "-switch" may be unset using "+switch".

               If TRNINIT begins with a '/' it is assumed to be the name of a
               file containing switches.  You can put comments in this file by
               preceding them with a '#' as long as this is the first
               character on a line or it follows some white-space (which
               delimits the switches in the file).  If you want to set many
               environment variables but don't want to keep them all in your
               environment, or if the use of any of these variables conflicts
               with other programs, you can use this feature along with the -E
               switch to set the environment variables upon startup.

               Default: " ".

       TRNMACRO (~)
               The name of the file containing macros and key mappings.  If
               the file is not found, the RNMACRO variable is used to look for
               your rn macros.  For information on what to put into this file,
               see the CUSTOM MACROS section.

               Default: %./.trnmac

       UNSHAR (~)
               The shell command to execute in order to accomplish the
               unshar'ing of a shell archive.

               Default: /bin/sh

       USER    Your login name.  May be interpolated using "%L".

               Default: $LOGNAME

       VISUAL (~)
               The name of your editor.

               Default: $EDITOR

       XTERMMOUSE
               If you set this variable to 'y' (yes), trn will enable the use
               of the xterm mouse in the selector if you are using an xterm.
               If you set it to 'a' (always), trn will assume you have an
               xterm.  Once enabled left-clicking on an item selects it while
               middle-clicking an item will move to that item.  If you click
               the top (header) line of the selector it moves up a page.  If
               you click the bottom (footer) line of the selector it executes
               the default command for the page (left click) or goes down a
               page (middle click).  You can also use the right mouse button
               to move up or down a page by clicking in the upper-half or
               lower-half of the screen, respectively.

       YOUSAID (%)
               Gives the format of the attribution line in front of the quoted
               article included by an R command.

               Default: In article %i you write:

AUTOMATIC MACROS
       On startup trn attempts to build a set of macros that map your keypad
       arrow keys to useful functions.  These default actions are mentioned in
       the prior description of each level's commands.  If you don't like this
       (or trn gets it wrong), you can disable the automatic macros by using
       the -A option.

CUSTOM MACROS
       When trn starts up it looks for a file containing macro definitions
       (see environment variables TRNMACRO and RNMACRO).  Any sequence of
       commands may be bound to any sequence of keys, so you could re-map your
       entire keyboard if you desire.  Blank lines or lines beginning with #
       in the macro file are considered comments; otherwise trn looks for two
       fields separated by white space.  The first field gives the sequence of
       keystrokes that trigger the macro, and the second field gives the
       sequence of commands to execute.  Both fields are subject to %
       interpolation, which will also translate backslash and caret sequences.
       (The keystroke field is interpreted at startup time, but the command
       field is interpreted at macro execution time so that you may refer to %
       values in a macro.)  For example, if you want to reverse the roles of
       carriage return and space in trn

       ^J   \040
       ^M   \040
       \040 ^J

       will do just that.  By default, all characters in the command field are
       interpreted as the canonical trn characters, i.e. no macro expansion is
       done.  Otherwise the above pair of macros would cause an infinite loop.
       To force macro expansion in the command field, enclose the macro call
       with ^( ... ^) thusly:

       @s   ⎪mysavescript
       @w   w^(@s^)

       You can use the %() conditional construct to construct macros that work
       differently under different circumstances.  In particular, the current
       mode (%m) of trn could be used to make a command that only works at a
       particular level.  This is particularly vital for the selector which
       uses most of the lower-case letters to select the associated item in
       its display.  For example,

       a    %(%m=t?a:s art.hold\n)

       will return the original letter (a) in the selector, and the command "s
       art.hold\n" everywhere else.

       %(%{TERM}=vt100?^[[O)    /^J

       will do the binding only if the terminal type is vt100, though if you
       have many of these it would be better to have separate files for each
       terminal.

       If you want to bind a macro to a function key that puts a common
       garbage character after the sequence (such as the carriage return on
       the end of Televideo 920 function sequences), DO NOT put the carriage
       return into all the sequences or you will waste a CONSIDERABLE amount
       of internal storage.  Instead of "^AF^M", put "^AF+1", which indicates
       to trn that it should gobble up one character after the F.

WHAT'S NEW
       Here's a quick run-down of trn's features and commands aimed at the
       knowledgeable rn or trn user.

       The addition of true reference-line threading is one of the biggest
       improvements over rn.  This threading allows you to read a discussion
       in reply order with an article's replies being attached to the article
       that inspired them.  Threads will encompass multiple subjects whenever
       a reply to an article in the thread arrives with a different subject.
       This is usually done to better indicate the topic in the reply when it
       diverges from the original subject.

       Another big improvement is the selector, which is bound to the '+' key.
       The selector displays a list of threads, subjects, or individual
       articles to allow you to select the topics that interest you by typing
       their associated letter.  The difference between the thread and the
       subject selector is that the subject selector displays all subjects
       with a separate selection letter, even those tied together via their
       references.  This can be quite useful if you select some threads and
       desire to weed out some extraneous discussions: you could switch the
       selector into exclusive mode ('E' shows only selected threads) and then
       into subject mode ('Ss') to separate the threads into their component
       subjects and deselect or kill the subjects you don't care about.  You
       don't have to go to all this trouble using the selector if you prefer
       to just hit the 'k' key when you start reading a subject you're not
       interested in.  The selector can also switch between showing unread
       articles and articles that have already been read, allowing you to
       selectively re-read discussions (this is the 'U' command in the
       selector).

       Another threaded addition is the article-tree display in the upper-
       right corner of the header.  Looking at the tree gives you a feel for
       how the articles you are reading relate to each other, allowing you to
       see at a glance when there are lots of replies and decide if you want
       to junk an uninteresting set of replies or perhaps tough it out.

       The header display has also been modified to hide a few more lines by
       default (e.g. References), but, as always, you can override these with
       -h.  There is also some more "magic" in the header: the From header can
       be trimmed to be just the comment portion (if available), and the Date
       header is displayed in local time (by default).  Use -H and +H to turn
       header magic on and off.

       Once you begin reading articles, use the regular movement commands (n,
       N, p, P, etc.) as you normally would.  You'll find that these commands
       track the reply order shown in the tree display.  Then try using ^N and
       ^P, which follow a subject in the order the articles were posted.
       Finally, check out the [, ], (, ), {, and } commands to move around in
       the article tree a bit more directly.  The first four commands should
       also be bound to your keypad's arrow keys, making them easier to type.
       For example, typing '[' (left) takes you to your parent article, even
       if it was already read, which is very useful for tracking down the
       cited portion of the article in its original context.

       There are additional kill commands for the entire thread (J) and the
       current article and all its replies (,).

       The KILL files have been extended and the commands inside them are now
       referred to memorized commands, since they are often used for selection
       rather than killing of articles.  There are new, easier ways to add
       memorized commands using the 'A'dd and 'T'hread commands.  The 'A'
       command is subject-oriented, while the 'T' command is article-oriented
       (meaning they affect a specific set of articles rather than any article
       that happens to have a matching subject).  They both prompt you for
       what kind of command you want to add, making both auto-killing and
       auto-selecting just as easy.

       There is also an easy way to skip around among the various threads with
       the < and > commands.  Use them if you want to skip a set of article
       and read them later instead of junking them.

       Note: your news administrator has the option of turning thread
       processing off for individual groups, and thus it is possible for some
       groups to not have any pre-processed thread information available for
       use.  When trn encounters such a group, it generates the thread
       information on the fly while entering the group.  For really large
       groups (or really slow systems), this can take an appreciable amount of
       time.  If you can't talk your news administrator into pre-threading the
       group, you can turn off the threading on a group-by-group basis using
       the 't' command at the newsgroup-selection level.  Groups turned off in
       this way are read in the rn style -- articles arranged in arrival order
       unless you specify the -S option, which reads the articles in date
       order by subject.

       Take note of the "e dir" command, which is used to extract a shell
       archive or uuencoded file into the specified directory.  It is even
       possible to extract other data formats if you specify the appropriate
       filter command (e.g. "e dir⎪cmd".

       Also, if you plan to use macro definitions, it is good to keep in mind
       that the selector uses most of the lower-case letters for selection,
       and thus it is a good idea to explicitly set the mode(s) in which a
       macro applies.  For example, if you want to press 'f' from the article
       pager/selector to forward the current article to the user "smith", you
       could define:

            f    %(%m=[pa]?⎪mail smith\n:f)

       This checks the current mode (%m) and if it is 'p' or 'a' it expands it
       to the string "⎪mail smith\n", otherwise it returns the letter 'f'.  In
       some cases, you may simply wish to exclude the selector from a macro
       with the conditional "%m!=t".

       Finally, you'll probably want to use the new options, -x and -X to
       ensure that all the newest features are available for use.  These
       options might be on by default, depending on how your administrator
       decided to install trn.

AUTHORS
       Rn was created by Larry Wall <lwall@jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov>
       and is now under the direction of Stan Barber <sob@bcm.tmc.edu>.
       Threaded version by Wayne Davison <davison@borland.com>
       (Mail all bug reports for trn to Wayne.)
       Regular expression routines are borrowed from emacs, by James Gosling.
       Hashing routines are modified versions from Geoffrey Collyer.

FILES
       %./.newsrc  status of your news reading

       %./.oldnewsrc
                   backup copy of your .newsrc from start of session

       %./.rnlock  lock file so you don't screw up your .newsrc

       %./.rnlast  info from last run of trn

       %./.rnsoft  soft pointers into /usr/lib/news/active to speed startup,
                   synchronous with .newsrc

       %./.rnhead  temporary header file to pass to a mailer or news poster

       %./.[t]rnmac
                   macro and keymap definitions

       %p          your news save directory, usually ~/News

       %x/active   the list of active newsgroups, usually /usr/lib/news/active
                   on systems that don't use NNTP

       %P          the public news spool directory, usually /usr/spool/news on
                   systems that don't use NNTP

       %X/INIT     system-wide default switches

SEE ALSO
       newsrc(5), more(1), readnews(1), Pnews(1), Rnmail(1)

DIAGNOSTICS
       Generally self-documenting, as they say.

BUGS
       The -h switch can only hide header lines that trn knows about.

       The '-' command doesn't cross newsgroup boundaries, and only undoes the
       last article selection.

       If you edit your .newsrc while trn is running, trn will happily wipe
       out your changes when it decides to write out the .newsrc file.

       Marking of duplicate articles as read in cross-referenced newsgroups
       will not work unless the Xref patch is installed in inews.

       If you get carried away with % or escape substitutions, you can
       overflow buffers.

4.3 Berkeley Distribution            LOCAL                              TRN(1)
