TQSL(5)                   FreeBSD File Formats Manual                  TQSL(5)

NAME
       TQSL - digitally sign amateur radio contact logs

SYNOPSIS
       tqsl -i [certificate-file]...
       tqsl -s [stationlocation]...

       tqsl [OPTIONS] [log-file]...

DESCRIPTION
       TrustedQSL is a file format and set of procedures that is used to send
       digitally signed QSL information (logs of contacts between amateur
       radio operators).  One notable service that makes use of TrustedQSL is
       ARRL's Logbook of the World.

       The tqsl program is used to digitally sign contact log files using a
       digital certificate. It is also used to generate requests for digital
       certificates and to store the resulting received digital certificates.
       (Certificates used to be handled by a separate program, tqslcert, but
       all functions are now handled by tqsl).

       This manual page briefly documents the tqsl program.  Complete
       documentation is also available:

         tqsl: file:///usr/share/TrustedQSL/help/tqslapp/main.htm

OPTIONS
       tqsl accepts these command line options:


       -a, --action= action [abort, all, compliant, or ask ]
              Specify a default dialog action when non-compliant QSOs are
              detected (these are cases with invalid callsigns, QSOs already
              uploaded, for examples. The option value abort causes TQSL to
              abort signing when an invalid QSO is processed. all causes all
              QSOs to be signed, ignoring errors.  compliant indicates that
              invalid QSOs should be skipped, and ask asks the user how to
              proceed.


       -b, --begindate= begin_date and -e, --enddate= end_date
              Supply a start date and end date for QSOs to be signed. If
              present, any QSOs before the begin date will be ignored, and any
              after the end date will be ignored. If either begin or end are
              omitted, then the corresponding limit is ignored. You should
              specify -d with this option to suppress the normal date range
              dialog as these options will override the user-specified dates
              if given.


       -c, --callsign= callsign
              Specify the default callsign for log signing.


       -d, --nodate
              Suppress date-range dialog. If present, the QSO date-range
              dialog will not be shown for files that follow this option on
              the command line.


       -f,--verify=option [ignore, reportl, or update ]
              Specify QSO verification action for QTH details. This option
              controls how location information in an ADIF file is handled.
              Using ignore indicates that TQSL should ignore location data.
              Using report causes TQSL to report any discrepancies between the
              currently selected Station Location and the ADIF location
              information.  Using updaate causes the new location details from
              the ADIF file to be used, overriding the Station Location
              details.


       -h, --help
              Displays command line usage summary.


       -i, --import= filename
              Import a certificate - either a signed response (.tq6) or a
              certificate stored with a private key in PKCS#12 format (.p12).


       -l, --location= location_name
              Selects an existing station location. This location will be used
              for the commands that follow. If the station location doesn't
              exist, tqsl will just exit.


       -n, --updates
              Check for updates to TQSL, the configuration file, and for
              certificate expiration.


       -o, --outut= output_file
              Writes the resulting signed log file to output_file instead of a
              default name based on the input log-file name.


       -p, --password= password
              Specify the pasphrase for the callsign certificate being used to
              sign a log.


       -s, --editlocation location-name
              Add or edit station location. If there is a preceding -l option
              the specified location will be edited. If there is no preceding
              -l option, a new station location is being added.


       -t, --diagnose= filename
              Open a diagnostic trace file at startup. This file will log
              internal TQSL function calls for debugging purposes.


       -u, --upload
              Upload log file. If this argument is used, the input files will
              be signed then automatically uploaded to the Logbook of the
              World web site for processing.


       -v, --version
              Display the version number of tqsl and exit.


       -w, --wipe
              Delete the contact upload database. This should be used only for
              cases where that database has become corrupted, typically due to
              Oracle BerkeleyDB misbehavior.


       -x,--batch (or) -q,--quiet
              Exit tqsl. If this argument is used it should be the last one on
              the command line. If this argument is not present, tqsl will
              begin normal operation after successfully processing all
              command-line arguments.


       log-files
              Any command-line parameter that is not an option or an option's
              argument will be treated as the name of a log file (ADIF or
              Cabrillo) to be signed. The resulting signed file (.tq8) will be
              placed in the same directory as the log file, overwriting any
              existing .tq8 file of the same name. (Note: If this option is
              not preceded by a -l option that selects the station location to
              be used for signing, the Select Station Location for Signing
              dialog will be presented.) File names that contain spaces or
              other shell-special characters should be quoted in a manner
              suitable for the operating system and shell that's being used.
              If -u is used, the signed log is not saved to disk but is
              instead uploaded and submitted to Logbook of the World.

              N.B.: If the private key needed to sign a log is protected by a
              password, the user will be prompted to supply that password for
              each file being signed.


AUTHOR
       trustedqsl was written by "American Radio Relay League, Inc." and the
       TrustedQSL authors. Please see the AUTHORS.txt file in the source
       distribution for a list of contributors.

       This manual page was originally prepared by Kamal Mostafa
       <kamal@whence.com>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                               February 3, 2025                        TQSL(5)
