tsito(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               tsito(1)

NAME
       tsito - XiangQi (Chinese Chess)

SYNOPSIS
       tsito [-cxboard] [-red] [-blue] [-nobook] [-depth search-depth] [-ts
       hash-table-bits]

DESCRIPTION
       Tsito plays XiangQi against the user or it referees two players.  It
       can be used on the console (or an xterm) or can communicate through
       pipes to a GUI frontend.  If used in a console it uses ASCII characters
       to display the board on the screen.

COMMAND OPTIONS
       -cxboard
              Tells tsito that it is communicating to a GUI, not a user.
              Output is less user friendly and more pragmatically useful.

       -red   Tells tsito to play red.

       -blue  Tells tsito to play blue; the default.

       -nobook
              Tells tsito not to use an opening book.

       -depth search-depth
              Tells tsito the maximum depth to use for searching the game
              tree.  More means better play but slower responce.

       -ts hash-table-bits
              Tells tsito how many bits to use for indexing in the
              transposition table.  The size of the table will be 2^hash-
              table-bits elements wide.

COMMANDS
       MOVE_TEXT
              Moves can be entered at the prompt in place of commands.  These
              moves are interpreted as the user's move and are made up of
              exactly 2 sets of 2 characters without any spaces.  Each set of
              characters represent a square on the board, with the first set
              being the origin and the second being the destination.  Ranks
              are labeled by numbers from 0-9 and files are letters from a-i;
              character sets are composed of file followed by rank.  Moves are
              not case sensitive.

              Example: h2e2 - This is the common opening move of red's right
              cannon moving to the center of the board.

       cxboard
              Tell tsito to start talking to a GUI.

       console
              Tell tsito to start talking to a human.

       red    Tell tsito that the human player is red, tsito will play blue.

       blue   Tell tsito that the human player is blue, tsito will play red.

       force  Enter force mode; computer plays niether color and only checks
              entered moves for legality.

       sd depth
              Use max depth of 'depth' for search tree.

       post   Display thinking.

       nopost Stop displaying thinking.

       vomit  Prints the starting position, the current position, and entire
              move history for the current game to stderr.

       go     Tell the engine to start playing the side to move.

       force  Place the engine into 'force' mode.  Engine plays neither side
              but acts as a referee.

       undo   Take back the last move.  This command is only available in
              force mode.

       remove Take back the last two moves - in other words take back YOUR
              last move.  This command can be used in any mode.

       ?      If the engine is thinking about its next move this command
              forces it to make a move right now.

       st seconds
              Sets the count in seconds available for each side to make a
              single move.  Counter is reset each time a legal move is made.
              If either side runs out of time during their move then the game
              is lost.

       time   Shows the time available.

       t      Shorthand for the 'time' command.

       new    Resets the board to the default starting position and starts a
              new game.

       setboard cfen
              Sets the board based on the supplied 'cfen' notation position
              description and starts a new game.  The supplied argument must
              match the 'CFEN' description below.

       set option value
              Sets engine specific option to value.

ENGINE SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       search value
              Sets the search method to use for finding computer moves.
              Available values are: mtd - Very fast but not particularly
              stable (as in sometimes makes questionable moves).  alphabeta
              (default)- Slow but very stable.  negascout - Medium speed,
              questionable stability.

       nullmove on/off
              If this option is on (default) then the engine will use null
              moves to speed up the search.

       verifynull on/off
              If this option is on (default) then tsito will increase the null
              move reduction factor and verify all null move cutoffs.  This
              increases search stability at some cost to the speed gained by
              the null move.

       hash on/off
              If this option is on (default) then tsito will use a
              transposition table to greately reduce the amount of search
              nodes that must be evaluated by saving calculations already made
              and using those values if the same position is found again.

       hashadjust
              If this option is on (off by default) then when tsito finds a
              position that it has seen before but has not search to the depth
              it wants to now it will adjust the alpha-beta window to try and
              increase cutoffs.  This can cause some conflicts with null moves
              and is considered an unstable option.  This option has no effect
              if the search method is mtd.

       iterative
              If this option is on (default) then tsito will search depths
              incrimentaly so that moves are ordered better.  It is actually
              faster to search to each depth up to max depth instead of just
              searching to max depth the first time.

CFEN
       CFEN is my own version of the standard FEN notation altered to
       represent a chinese chess position.  Like FEN it consists first of a
       string of characters representing the layout of the board.  This string
       starts at a9 and stops at i0 (blue to red, left to right from red's
       side).  Emty spaces are represented by integers that count how many
       consecutive spaces are empty.  Pieces are represented by their
       respective character, blue is lower case whereas red is uppercase.
       Each rank is separated by a '/' character and space counts do not span
       multiple ranks.  Folowing this layout description is a space followed
       by a 'b' or 'r' representing the side to move.  Since there are no
       castling or en-pasant rights in chinese chess, these are not
       implemented.  The half move count is also ommited.

       Example: r2Rka1hr/4a4/e3e3c/p1p1C1p1p/9/6P2/P1P1P3P/2H3H1E/3RA4/1cEK1A3
       r

       Pieces:
        Pp - soldier (pawn)
        Cc - canon
        Rr - cart (rook)
        Hh - horse
        Ee - elephant
        Aa - guard (advisor)
        Kk - general (king)


SEE ALSO
       The command set used in tsito is modeled after the xboard protocol by
       Tim Mann, which can be viewed at http://www.tim-mann.org/xboard/engine-
       intf.html

BUGS
       When using null window search methods like mtd and negascout then
       sometimes a null move can end up in the primary line.  This happens
       rather often and on not so rare occasions it effects the search poorly.
       The only way to get rid of the bug is to either not use these search
       methods or turn off null move heuristics.  I decided to leave that up
       to you, the user.  If you find that it is often making stupid moves and
       you are beating it regularly because of this, try turning null moves
       off or using alphabeta as the search method.  You may need to lower the
       search depth if you do this.  Using null move verification does help
       quite a bit but does not get rid of the problem all together.

AUTHORS
       This man page writen by Noah Roberts

       The origional tsito XiangQi engine was written by Noah Roberts as part
       of his senior project while enroled in the Computer Science department
       at St. Martin's College and Abby.  The other members of the team, Scott
       Christian and Anthony Czyk, contributed related works including a Win32
       GUI and documentation.

                                                                      tsito(1)
