ttyload(1)                                                          ttyload(1)

NAME
       ttyload - a tty-based xload equivalent

SYNOPSIS
       ttyload [options]

DESCRIPTION
       ttyload is a "tty" based load monitoring tool.  Not entirely unlike
       xload, it plots a graph of a system's "load average" data.  Unlike
       xload, it uses 3 line graphs to plot things, instead of a single fill
       graph, so that it can show you not only the 1-minute load average, but
       also the 5-minute and 15-minute averages.  Also unlike xload, it uses a
       basic terminal (tty) to display the information, instead of an X
       window.  ANSI escape sequences are used (optionally) for colorization
       and screen manipulation.

       A few of the main features of ttyload are:

       o      graphs load averages (all 3 numbers) over time

       o      uses ANSI escape sequences to colorize graphs

       o      works without requiring X11 libraries, in a Terminal window

       o      automatically determines screen size by default





USAGE
       The easiest way to use ttyload is just to invoke the command, with no
       additional options.

       Additional options are described below.

       To quit ttyload, enter the terminal's interrupt character (typically
       control-C).







OPTIONS
       ttyload uses standard getopt() style options processing.  Available
       options are:



       -h     Display a brief usage statement ("help").

       -v     show version info, then exit

       -m     monochrome mode (no ANSI escapes)

       -c <cols>
              Sets the number of columns wide to make the display

       -r <rows>
              Sets the number of rows high to make the display (these two
              options combine to override the default behavior of auto-
              determining screen size)

       -i <seconds>
              Alter the number of seconds in the interval between refreshes.
              The default is 4, and the minimum is 1, which is silently
              clamped.



SEE ALSO
       getopt(3)

VERSION
       This man page is current for version 0.5 of ttyload

THANKS
       Thanks to several my friends for testing things out on various
       platforms, or lending me accounts on their machines upon which to do
       porting.

AUTHOR
       ttyload was written by David Lindes.  Please send any feedback,
       including bug reports and patches, to me.  My contact information (as
       well as updates and other information) can be found on the ttyload web
       page at: http://www.daveltd.com/src/util/ttyload/

                                  2001-08-24                        ttyload(1)
