TUNING(7)          FreeBSD Miscellaneous Information Manual          TUNING(7)

NAME
     tuning – performance tuning under FreeBSD

SYSTEM SETUP - DISKLABEL, NEWFS, TUNEFS, SWAP
     The swap partition should typically be approximately 2x the size of main
     memory for systems with less than 4GB of RAM, or approximately equal to
     the size of main memory if you have more.  Keep in mind future memory
     expansion when sizing the swap partition.  Configuring too little swap
     can lead to inefficiencies in the VM page scanning code as well as create
     issues later on if you add more memory to your machine.  On larger
     systems with multiple disks, configure swap on each drive.  The swap
     partitions on the drives should be approximately the same size.  The
     kernel can handle arbitrary sizes but internal data structures scale to 4
     times the largest swap partition.  Keeping the swap partitions near the
     same size will allow the kernel to optimally stripe swap space across the
     N disks.  Do not worry about overdoing it a little, swap space is the
     saving grace of UNIX and even if you do not normally use much swap, it
     can give you more time to recover from a runaway program before being
     forced to reboot.

     It is not a good idea to make one large partition.  First, each partition
     has different operational characteristics and separating them allows the
     file system to tune itself to those characteristics.  For example, the
     root and /usr partitions are read-mostly, with very little writing, while
     a lot of reading and writing could occur in /var/tmp.  By properly
     partitioning your system fragmentation introduced in the smaller more
     heavily write-loaded partitions will not bleed over into the mostly-read
     partitions.

     Properly partitioning your system also allows you to tune newfs(8), and
     tunefs(8) parameters.  The only tunefs(8) option worthwhile turning on is
     softupdates with “tunefs -n enable /filesystem”.  Softupdates drastically
     improves meta-data performance, mainly file creation and deletion.  We
     recommend enabling softupdates on most file systems; however, there are
     two limitations to softupdates that you should be aware of when
     determining whether to use it on a file system.  First, softupdates
     guarantees file system consistency in the case of a crash but could very
     easily be several seconds (even a minute!) behind on pending write to the
     physical disk.  If you crash you may lose more work than otherwise.
     Secondly, softupdates delays the freeing of file system blocks.  If you
     have a file system (such as the root file system) which is close to full,
     doing a major update of it, e.g., “make installworld”, can run it out of
     space and cause the update to fail.  For this reason, softupdates will
     not be enabled on the root file system during a typical install.  There
     is no loss of performance since the root file system is rarely written
     to.

     A number of run-time mount(8) options exist that can help you tune the
     system.  The most obvious and most dangerous one is async.  Only use this
     option in conjunction with gjournal(8), as it is far too dangerous on a
     normal file system.  A less dangerous and more useful mount(8) option is
     called noatime.  UNIX file systems normally update the last-accessed time
     of a file or directory whenever it is accessed.  This operation is
     handled in FreeBSD with a delayed write and normally does not create a
     burden on the system.  However, if your system is accessing a huge number
     of files on a continuing basis the buffer cache can wind up getting
     polluted with atime updates, creating a burden on the system.  For
     example, if you are running a heavily loaded web site, or a news server
     with lots of readers, you might want to consider turning off atime
     updates on your larger partitions with this mount(8) option.  However,
     you should not gratuitously turn off atime updates everywhere.  For
     example, the /var file system customarily holds mailboxes, and atime (in
     combination with mtime) is used to determine whether a mailbox has new
     mail.  You might as well leave atime turned on for mostly read-only
     partitions such as / and /usr as well.  This is especially useful for /
     since some system utilities use the atime field for reporting.

STRIPING DISKS
     In larger systems you can stripe partitions from several drives together
     to create a much larger overall partition.  Striping can also improve the
     performance of a file system by splitting I/O operations across two or
     more disks.  The gstripe(8), gvinum(8), and ccdconfig(8) utilities may be
     used to create simple striped file systems.  Generally speaking, striping
     smaller partitions such as the root and /var/tmp, or essentially read-
     only partitions such as /usr is a complete waste of time.  You should
     only stripe partitions that require serious I/O performance, typically
     /var, /home, or custom partitions used to hold databases and web pages.
     Choosing the proper stripe size is also important.  File systems tend to
     store meta-data on power-of-2 boundaries and you usually want to reduce
     seeking rather than increase seeking.  This means you want to use a large
     off-center stripe size such as 1152 sectors so sequential I/O does not
     seek both disks and so meta-data is distributed across both disks rather
     than concentrated on a single disk.

SYSCTL TUNING
     sysctl(8) variables permit system behavior to be monitored and controlled
     at run-time.  Some sysctls simply report on the behavior of the system;
     others allow the system behavior to be modified; some may be set at boot
     time using rc.conf(5), but most will be set via sysctl.conf(5).  There
     are several hundred sysctls in the system, including many that appear to
     be candidates for tuning but actually are not.  In this document we will
     only cover the ones that have the greatest effect on the system.

     The vm.overcommit sysctl defines the overcommit behaviour of the vm
     subsystem.  The virtual memory system always does accounting of the swap
     space reservation, both total for system and per-user.  Corresponding
     values are available through sysctl vm.swap_total, that gives the total
     bytes available for swapping, and vm.swap_reserved, that gives number of
     bytes that may be needed to back all currently allocated anonymous
     memory.

     Setting bit 0 of the vm.overcommit sysctl causes the virtual memory
     system to return failure to the process when allocation of memory causes
     vm.swap_reserved to exceed vm.swap_total.  Bit 1 of the sysctl enforces
     RLIMIT_SWAP limit (see getrlimit(2)).  Root is exempt from this limit.
     Bit 2 allows to count most of the physical memory as allocatable, except
     wired and free reserved pages (accounted by vm.stats.vm.v_free_target and
     vm.stats.vm.v_wire_count sysctls, respectively).

     The kern.ipc.maxpipekva loader tunable is used to set a hard limit on the
     amount of kernel address space allocated to mapping of pipe buffers.  Use
     of the mapping allows the kernel to eliminate a copy of the data from
     writer address space into the kernel, directly copying the content of
     mapped buffer to the reader.  Increasing this value to a higher setting,
     such as `25165824' might improve performance on systems where space for
     mapping pipe buffers is quickly exhausted.  This exhaustion is not fatal;
     however, and it will only cause pipes to fall back to using double-copy.

     The kern.ipc.shm_use_phys sysctl defaults to 0 (off) and may be set to 0
     (off) or 1 (on).  Setting this parameter to 1 will cause all System V
     shared memory segments to be mapped to unpageable physical RAM.  This
     feature only has an effect if you are either (A) mapping small amounts of
     shared memory across many (hundreds) of processes, or (B) mapping large
     amounts of shared memory across any number of processes.  This feature
     allows the kernel to remove a great deal of internal memory management
     page-tracking overhead at the cost of wiring the shared memory into core,
     making it unswappable.

     The vfs.vmiodirenable sysctl defaults to 1 (on).  This parameter controls
     how directories are cached by the system.  Most directories are small and
     use but a single fragment (typically 2K) in the file system and even less
     (typically 512 bytes) in the buffer cache.  However, when operating in
     the default mode the buffer cache will only cache a fixed number of
     directories even if you have a huge amount of memory.  Turning on this
     sysctl allows the buffer cache to use the VM Page Cache to cache the
     directories.  The advantage is that all of memory is now available for
     caching directories.  The disadvantage is that the minimum in-core memory
     used to cache a directory is the physical page size (typically 4K) rather
     than 512 bytes.  We recommend turning this option off in memory-
     constrained environments; however, when on, it will substantially improve
     the performance of services that manipulate a large number of files.
     Such services can include web caches, large mail systems, and news
     systems.  Turning on this option will generally not reduce performance
     even with the wasted memory but you should experiment to find out.

     The vfs.write_behind sysctl defaults to 1 (on).  This tells the file
     system to issue media writes as full clusters are collected, which
     typically occurs when writing large sequential files.  The idea is to
     avoid saturating the buffer cache with dirty buffers when it would not
     benefit I/O performance.  However, this may stall processes and under
     certain circumstances you may wish to turn it off.

     The vfs.hirunningspace sysctl determines how much outstanding write I/O
     may be queued to disk controllers system-wide at any given time.  It is
     used by the UFS file system.  The default is self-tuned and usually
     sufficient but on machines with advanced controllers and lots of disks
     this may be tuned up to match what the controllers buffer.  Configuring
     this setting to match tagged queuing capabilities of controllers or
     drives with average IO size used in production works best (for example:
     16 MiB will use 128 tags with IO requests of 128 KiB).  Note that setting
     too high a value (exceeding the buffer cache's write threshold) can lead
     to extremely bad clustering performance.  Do not set this value
     arbitrarily high!  Higher write queuing values may also add latency to
     reads occurring at the same time.

     The vfs.read_max sysctl governs VFS read-ahead and is expressed as the
     number of blocks to pre-read if the heuristics algorithm decides that the
     reads are issued sequentially.  It is used by the UFS, ext2fs and msdosfs
     file systems.  With the default UFS block size of 32 KiB, a setting of 64
     will allow speculatively reading up to 2 MiB.  This setting may be
     increased to get around disk I/O latencies, especially where these
     latencies are large such as in virtual machine emulated environments.  It
     may be tuned down in specific cases where the I/O load is such that read-
     ahead adversely affects performance or where system memory is really low.

     The vfs.ncsizefactor sysctl defines how large VFS namecache may grow.
     The number of currently allocated entries in namecache is provided by
     debug.numcache sysctl and the condition debug.numcache < kern.maxvnodes *
     vfs.ncsizefactor is adhered to.

     The vfs.ncnegfactor sysctl defines how many negative entries VFS
     namecache is allowed to create.  The number of currently allocated
     negative entries is provided by debug.numneg sysctl and the condition
     vfs.ncnegfactor * debug.numneg < debug.numcache is adhered to.

     There are various other buffer-cache and VM page cache related sysctls.
     We do not recommend modifying these values.

     The net.inet.tcp.sendspace and net.inet.tcp.recvspace sysctls are of
     particular interest if you are running network intensive applications.
     They control the amount of send and receive buffer space allowed for any
     given TCP connection.  The default sending buffer is 32K; the default
     receiving buffer is 64K.  You can often improve bandwidth utilization by
     increasing the default at the cost of eating up more kernel memory for
     each connection.  We do not recommend increasing the defaults if you are
     serving hundreds or thousands of simultaneous connections because it is
     possible to quickly run the system out of memory due to stalled
     connections building up.  But if you need high bandwidth over a fewer
     number of connections, especially if you have gigabit Ethernet,
     increasing these defaults can make a huge difference.  You can adjust the
     buffer size for incoming and outgoing data separately.  For example, if
     your machine is primarily doing web serving you may want to decrease the
     recvspace in order to be able to increase the sendspace without eating
     too much kernel memory.  Note that the routing table (see route(8)) can
     be used to introduce route-specific send and receive buffer size
     defaults.

     As an additional management tool you can use pipes in your firewall rules
     (see ipfw(8)) to limit the bandwidth going to or from particular IP
     blocks or ports.  For example, if you have a T1 you might want to limit
     your web traffic to 70% of the T1's bandwidth in order to leave the
     remainder available for mail and interactive use.  Normally a heavily
     loaded web server will not introduce significant latencies into other
     services even if the network link is maxed out, but enforcing a limit can
     smooth things out and lead to longer term stability.  Many people also
     enforce artificial bandwidth limitations in order to ensure that they are
     not charged for using too much bandwidth.

     Setting the send or receive TCP buffer to values larger than 65535 will
     result in a marginal performance improvement unless both hosts support
     the window scaling extension of the TCP protocol, which is controlled by
     the net.inet.tcp.rfc1323 sysctl.  These extensions should be enabled and
     the TCP buffer size should be set to a value larger than 65536 in order
     to obtain good performance from certain types of network links;
     specifically, gigabit WAN links and high-latency satellite links.
     RFC1323 support is enabled by default.

     The net.inet.tcp.always_keepalive sysctl determines whether or not the
     TCP implementation should attempt to detect dead TCP connections by
     intermittently delivering “keepalives” on the connection.  By default,
     this is enabled for all applications; by setting this sysctl to 0, only
     applications that specifically request keepalives will use them.  In most
     environments, TCP keepalives will improve the management of system state
     by expiring dead TCP connections, particularly for systems serving dialup
     users who may not always terminate individual TCP connections before
     disconnecting from the network.  However, in some environments, temporary
     network outages may be incorrectly identified as dead sessions, resulting
     in unexpectedly terminated TCP connections.  In such environments,
     setting the sysctl to 0 may reduce the occurrence of TCP session
     disconnections.

     The net.inet.tcp.delayed_ack TCP feature is largely misunderstood.
     Historically speaking, this feature was designed to allow the
     acknowledgement to transmitted data to be returned along with the
     response.  For example, when you type over a remote shell, the
     acknowledgement to the character you send can be returned along with the
     data representing the echo of the character.  With delayed acks turned
     off, the acknowledgement may be sent in its own packet, before the remote
     service has a chance to echo the data it just received.  This same
     concept also applies to any interactive protocol (e.g., SMTP, WWW, POP3),
     and can cut the number of tiny packets flowing across the network in
     half.  The FreeBSD delayed ACK implementation also follows the TCP
     protocol rule that at least every other packet be acknowledged even if
     the standard 40ms timeout has not yet passed.  Normally the worst a
     delayed ACK can do is slightly delay the teardown of a connection, or
     slightly delay the ramp-up of a slow-start TCP connection.  While we are
     not sure we believe that the several FAQs related to packages such as
     SAMBA and SQUID which advise turning off delayed acks may be referring to
     the slow-start issue.

     The net.inet.ip.portrange.* sysctls control the port number ranges
     automatically bound to TCP and UDP sockets.  There are three ranges: a
     low range, a default range, and a high range, selectable via the
     IP_PORTRANGE setsockopt(2) call.  Most network programs use the default
     range which is controlled by net.inet.ip.portrange.first and
     net.inet.ip.portrange.last, which default to 49152 and 65535,
     respectively.  Bound port ranges are used for outgoing connections, and
     it is possible to run the system out of ports under certain
     circumstances.  This most commonly occurs when you are running a heavily
     loaded web proxy.  The port range is not an issue when running a server
     which handles mainly incoming connections, such as a normal web server,
     or has a limited number of outgoing connections, such as a mail relay.
     For situations where you may run out of ports, we recommend decreasing
     net.inet.ip.portrange.first modestly.  A range of 10000 to 30000 ports
     may be reasonable.  You should also consider firewall effects when
     changing the port range.  Some firewalls may block large ranges of ports
     (usually low-numbered ports) and expect systems to use higher ranges of
     ports for outgoing connections.  By default net.inet.ip.portrange.last is
     set at the maximum allowable port number.

     The kern.ipc.somaxconn sysctl limits the size of the listen queue for
     accepting new TCP connections.  The default value of 128 is typically too
     low for robust handling of new connections in a heavily loaded web server
     environment.  For such environments, we recommend increasing this value
     to 1024 or higher.  The service daemon may itself limit the listen queue
     size (e.g., sendmail(8), apache) but will often have a directive in its
     configuration file to adjust the queue size up.  Larger listen queues
     also do a better job of fending off denial of service attacks.

     The kern.maxfiles sysctl determines how many open files the system
     supports.  The default is typically a few thousand but you may need to
     bump this up to ten or twenty thousand if you are running databases or
     large descriptor-heavy daemons.  The read-only kern.openfiles sysctl may
     be interrogated to determine the current number of open files on the
     system.

     The vm.swap_idle_enabled sysctl is useful in large multi-user systems
     where you have lots of users entering and leaving the system and lots of
     idle processes.  Such systems tend to generate a great deal of continuous
     pressure on free memory reserves.  Turning this feature on and adjusting
     the swapout hysteresis (in idle seconds) via vm.swap_idle_threshold1 and
     vm.swap_idle_threshold2 allows you to depress the priority of pages
     associated with idle processes more quickly then the normal pageout
     algorithm.  This gives a helping hand to the pageout daemon.  Do not turn
     this option on unless you need it, because the tradeoff you are making is
     to essentially pre-page memory sooner rather than later, eating more swap
     and disk bandwidth.  In a small system this option will have a
     detrimental effect but in a large system that is already doing moderate
     paging this option allows the VM system to stage whole processes into and
     out of memory more easily.

LOADER TUNABLES
     Some aspects of the system behavior may not be tunable at runtime because
     memory allocations they perform must occur early in the boot process.  To
     change loader tunables, you must set their values in loader.conf(5) and
     reboot the system.

     kern.maxusers controls the scaling of a number of static system tables,
     including defaults for the maximum number of open files, sizing of
     network memory resources, etc.  kern.maxusers is automatically sized at
     boot based on the amount of memory available in the system, and may be
     determined at run-time by inspecting the value of the read-only
     kern.maxusers sysctl.

     The kern.dfldsiz and kern.dflssiz tunables set the default soft limits
     for process data and stack size respectively.  Processes may increase
     these up to the hard limits by calling setrlimit(2).  The kern.maxdsiz,
     kern.maxssiz, and kern.maxtsiz tunables set the hard limits for process
     data, stack, and text size respectively; processes may not exceed these
     limits.  The kern.sgrowsiz tunable controls how much the stack segment
     will grow when a process needs to allocate more stack.

     kern.ipc.nmbclusters may be adjusted to increase the number of network
     mbufs the system is willing to allocate.  Each cluster represents
     approximately 2K of memory, so a value of 1024 represents 2M of kernel
     memory reserved for network buffers.  You can do a simple calculation to
     figure out how many you need.  If you have a web server which maxes out
     at 1000 simultaneous connections, and each connection eats a 16K receive
     and 16K send buffer, you need approximately 32MB worth of network buffers
     to deal with it.  A good rule of thumb is to multiply by 2, so 32MBx2 =
     64MB/2K = 32768.  So for this case you would want to set
     kern.ipc.nmbclusters to 32768.  We recommend values between 1024 and 4096
     for machines with moderates amount of memory, and between 4096 and 32768
     for machines with greater amounts of memory.  Under no circumstances
     should you specify an arbitrarily high value for this parameter, it could
     lead to a boot-time crash.  The -m option to netstat(1) may be used to
     observe network cluster use.

     More and more programs are using the sendfile(2) system call to transmit
     files over the network.  The kern.ipc.nsfbufs sysctl controls the number
     of file system buffers sendfile(2) is allowed to use to perform its work.
     This parameter nominally scales with kern.maxusers so you should not need
     to modify this parameter except under extreme circumstances.  See the
     TUNING section in the sendfile(2) manual page for details.

KERNEL CONFIG TUNING
     There are a number of kernel options that you may have to fiddle with in
     a large-scale system.  In order to change these options you need to be
     able to compile a new kernel from source.  The config(8) manual page and
     the handbook are good starting points for learning how to do this.
     Generally the first thing you do when creating your own custom kernel is
     to strip out all the drivers and services you do not use.  Removing
     things like INET6 and drivers you do not have will reduce the size of
     your kernel, sometimes by a megabyte or more, leaving more memory
     available for applications.

     SCSI_DELAY may be used to reduce system boot times.  The defaults are
     fairly high and can be responsible for 5+ seconds of delay in the boot
     process.  Reducing SCSI_DELAY to something below 5 seconds could work
     (especially with modern drives).

     There are a number of *_CPU options that can be commented out.  If you
     only want the kernel to run on a Pentium class CPU, you can easily remove
     I486_CPU, but only remove I586_CPU if you are sure your CPU is being
     recognized as a Pentium II or better.  Some clones may be recognized as a
     Pentium or even a 486 and not be able to boot without those options.  If
     it works, great!  The operating system will be able to better use higher-
     end CPU features for MMU, task switching, timebase, and even device
     operations.  Additionally, higher-end CPUs support 4MB MMU pages, which
     the kernel uses to map the kernel itself into memory, increasing its
     efficiency under heavy syscall loads.

CPU, MEMORY, DISK, NETWORK
     The type of tuning you do depends heavily on where your system begins to
     bottleneck as load increases.  If your system runs out of CPU (idle times
     are perpetually 0%) then you need to consider upgrading the CPU or
     perhaps you need to revisit the programs that are causing the load and
     try to optimize them.  If your system is paging to swap a lot you need to
     consider adding more memory.  If your system is saturating the disk you
     typically see high CPU idle times and total disk saturation.  systat(1)
     can be used to monitor this.  There are many solutions to saturated
     disks: increasing memory for caching, mirroring disks, distributing
     operations across several machines, and so forth.

     Finally, you might run out of network suds.  Optimize the network path as
     much as possible.  For example, in firewall(7) we describe a firewall
     protecting internal hosts with a topology where the externally visible
     hosts are not routed through it.  Most bottlenecks occur at the WAN link.
     If expanding the link is not an option it may be possible to use the
     dummynet(4) feature to implement peak shaving or other forms of traffic
     shaping to prevent the overloaded service (such as web services) from
     affecting other services (such as email), or vice versa.  In home
     installations this could be used to give interactive traffic (your
     browser, ssh(1) logins) priority over services you export from your box
     (web services, email).

SEE ALSO
     netstat(1), systat(1), sendfile(2), ata(4), dummynet(4), eventtimers(4),
     login.conf(5), rc.conf(5), sysctl.conf(5), firewall(7), hier(7),
     ports(7), boot(8), bsdinstall(8), ccdconfig(8), config(8), fsck(8),
     gjournal(8), gpart(8), gstripe(8), gvinum(8), ifconfig(8), ipfw(8),
     loader(8), mount(8), newfs(8), route(8), sysctl(8), tunefs(8)

HISTORY
     The tuning manual page was originally written by Matthew Dillon and first
     appeared in FreeBSD 4.3, May 2001.  The manual page was greatly modified
     by Eitan Adler <eadler@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         April 16, 2020         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
