tvheadend(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           tvheadend(1)

NAME
       Tvheadend  - Advanced TV streaming server/relay and personal video
       recorder.

SYNOPSIS
       tvheadend [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Tvheadend is a streaming server/relay supporting a variety of sources
       and multiple output formats. It can be used as a standalone PVR or in
       conjunction with media players such as Movian (Showtime), Kodi (XBMC),
       VLC and others.

OPTIONS
       All arguments are optional.

       Generic Options

       -v, --version
              Show version information.

       -h, --help
              Show built-in help information (may be more up to date).

       Service Configuration Options

       -c, --config
              Specify an alternative config path; the default is
              ${HOME}/.hts/tvheadend

       -B, --nobackup
              Don't backup configuration tree at upgrade.

       -f     Fork and become a background process (daemon). Default is no.

       -u username, --user username
              Run as user username. Only applicable if daemonizing. Default is
              to use the uid of 1 ('daemon' on most systems).

       -g groupname, --group groupname
              Run as group groupname. Only applicable if daemonizing. Default
              is to use the 'video' group. If the 'video' group does not
              exist, gid 1 ('daemon') will be used.

       -p pidpath, --pid pidpath
              Specify alternative PID path file (default
              /var/run/tvheadend.pid).

       -C, --firstrun
              If no user account exist then create one with no username and no
              password. Use with care as it will allow world-wide
              administrative access to your Tvheadend installation until you
              edit the access-control from within the Tvheadend UI.

       -U, --dbus
              Enable DBus.

       -e, --dbus_session
              DBus - use the session message bus instead of the system one.

       -a, --adapters
              Only use specified DVB adapters (comma separated, -1 == none).

       --satip_rtsp
              SAT>IP RTSP port number for server (default: -1 = disable, 0 =
              webconfig, standard port is 554).

       --nosatip
              Disable SAT>IP client.

       --satip_xml
              URL with the SAT>IP server XML location.

       Server Connectivity

       -6, --ipv6
              Listen on IPv6.

       -b address, --bindaddr address
              Specify an interface IP address on which incoming HTTP and HTSP
              connections will be accepted. By default, connections are
              accepted on all interfaces.

       --http_port
              Specify alternative http port (default 9881).

       --http_root
              Specify alternative http webroot.

       --htsp_port
              Specify alternative HTSP port (default 9882).

       --htsp_port2
              Specify extra HTSP port.

       --useragent
              Specify User-Agent header for the http client.

       --xspf Use XSPF playlist instead of M3U.

       Debug options

       -d, --stderr
              Enable debug on stderr.

       -n, --nostderr
              Disable debug on stderr.

       -s, --syslog
              Enable debug to syslog.

       -S, --nosyslog
              Disable syslog (all messages).

       -l, --logfile
              Enable debug to file.

       --debug
              Enable debug subsystems.

       --trace
              Enable trace subsystems.

       --fileline
              Add file and line numbers to debug.

       --threadid
              Add the thread ID to debug.

       --libav
              More verbose libav log.

       --uidebug
              Enable web UI debug (non-minified JavaScript).

       -A, --abort
              Immediately abort on startup (for debug).

       -D, --dump
              Enable coredumps for daemon.

       --noacl
              Do not perform any access control checking.

       --nobat
              Disable DVB bouquets.

       -j, --join
              Subscribe to a service permanently.

       Testing Options

       --tsfile_tuners
              Specify number of tsfile tuners.

       --tsfile
              Use ts file (mux file) as input.

LOGGING
       All activity inside tvheadend is logged to syslog using log facility
       LOG_DAEMON.

SETUP
   Access to video adapters
       In order for Tvheadend to control the video adapters on the system it
       must be granted access to those devices. Most systems have a 'video'
       group with write access to the video adapter devices. When Tvheadend is
       started as a daemon it will automatically change its primary group to
       'video' in order to access these groups.

       If your system is configured in a different way you can either change
       the group membership of the video adapters (/dev/dvb, etc) or
       reconfigure the Tvheadend startup parameters. This is most likely the
       behavior if you have installed Tvheadend from a distribution package.

       If Tvheadend is started without the '-f' argument it will neither
       daemonize nor change its primary userid/groupid. Instead, it will run
       with the permissions granted to the user executing the binary. If
       that's the case then you must make sure that the current user is
       granted access to the video devices.

   Configuration
       All configuration in Tvheadend is maintained via its embedded web
       server running on port 9981. Just point your browser to:

          http://hostname:9981/

       By default everyone (also from remote hosts) is allowed full access to
       all features / settings in the web user interface. If this is the first
       time you're setting up Tvheadend, you are strongly encouraged to enter
       the web user interface, selected the 'Configuration' + 'Access Control'
       tab and make reasonable changes. Further help and documentation can be
       obtained inside the web interface.

   Settings
       Settings are stored in the current user's home directory. Thus, if
       Tvheadend is run as a system daemon a dedicated user needs to be
       created and Tvheadend should be launched with the '-u' argument. Also
       notice that XMLTV will read/ store cache and configuration from the
       same user home directory.

       If daemonizing, tvheadend will writes its pid in /var/run/tvheadend.pid

AUTHOR
       Tvheadend and this man page is maintained by the Tvheadend team. Please
       see the application for credits.

       You may also visit #hts at irc.freenode.net

COPYRIGHT
       2006 - 2016 Andreas Öman, et al.

       Licensed under GPLv3 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>.  This
       is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it subject to
       the provisions of the license above.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the
       extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       https://tvheadend.org

                                                                  tvheadend(1)
