ubench(8)                Linux System Manager's Manual               ubench(8)



NAME
       ubench - Unix Benchmark Utility


SYNOPSIS
       ubench [-cmhs]

DESCRIPTION
       ubench is an attempt to introduce a single measure of perfomance among
       machines running various flavors of Unix.

       Ubench is executing rather senseless mathematical integer and floating-
       point calculations for 3 mins concurrently using several processes, and
       the result is Ubench CPU benchmark. The ratio of floating-point
       calculations to integer is about 1:3.  Ubench will spawn about 2
       concurrent processes for each CPU available on the system. This ensures
       all available raw CPU horsepower is used.

       Ubench is executing rather senseless memory allocation and memory to
       memory copying operations for another 3 mins concurrently using several
       processes, and the result is Ubench MEM benchmark.

       Ubench will take an average of CPU and MEM benchmarks and calculate
       Ubench AVG benchmark which is supposed to represent the true computing
       power of the system.


OPTIONS
       -c     With this flag ubench will only execute CPU benchmark.

       -m     With this flag ubench will only execute MEM benchmark.

       -s     Prevents ubench from spawning multiple processes. This will
              force ubench to use only 1 CPU on the system and the result will
              be Ubench Single CPU and Ubench Single MEM benchmarks.

       -h     Prints usage information.


FILES
       The documentation on ubench and current list of ubench benchmarks are
       available at
       http://www.phystech.com/download/ubench.html

BUGS
       The ratio which CPU and MEM scores contribute to the CPU and MEM
       benchmarks, and to the final AVG benchmark has been calculated so that
       CPU and MEM scores averaged over several widely different computer
       systems are equal to each other and make equal contribution to average
       AVG score. As more and more benchmarks are available, the ratio will be
       calculated more precisely.

AUTHORS
       Sergei Viznyuk <sv@phystech.com>

ubench 0.3                     21 February 2000                      ubench(8)
