UCOREDEV(4)            FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual            UCOREDEV(4)

NAME
     ucoredev – user coredump extraction interface

SYNOPSIS
     To load the driver as a module at boot time, place the following line in
     loader.conf(5):

           ucoredev_load="YES"

     Note that ucored(8) will attempt to autoload
     ucoredev when it starts, if it has not been loaded.

DESCRIPTION
     The ucoredev device is used to extract user coredumps from the kernel.
     When ucoredev is loaded, it uses the coredumper_register(9) interface to
     claim all coredump collection.  When a user process subsequently dumps
     core, ucoredev processes it and writes that into a shared memory object
     for later extraction.

     A read(2) from ucoredev will then materialize that coredump into a shmfd,
     as if the process reading had called shm_open(2) itself to create an
     anonymous shared memory object.  ucoredev does not retain any references
     to the coredump after it has been read(2) from the device, so a
     subsequent close(2) will discard the coredump entirely if it has not been
     persisted to disk by the reader.

     Note that ucoredev will create and return as many file descriptors as
     will fit into the buffer provided.  If it fails to create a file
     descriptor, ucoredev will retain the core until a subsequent read(2) in
     case the failure was a transient condition.

   PROTOCOL
     The ucoredev device will frame coredumps with its own header for various
     metadata that it collects about the process that was dumped.  The data
     structures in <ucoredev.h> should be used to process the coredump.  It is
     expected that a process would mmap(2) the shm fd that is returned and map
     out the header, data segments, and coredump data there.

     Each shm object will begin with a struct ucore, which records all of the
     numeric properties that are necessary for every coredump.  The
     ucore_datasegs member describes how many struct ucore_data segments will
     follow.  The size of the coredump is encoded in ucore_size for
     convenience, so that one need not parse through all of the data segments
     to get to the data.

     Data segments are mostly used for string properties of the jail.  Each
     segment begins with a struct ucore_data_hdr that describes the type of
     data, and the size of the data that will follow.  The uhdr_size does not
     include the size of the header itself.

     Note that the header may be padded more than expected to align the
     ud_data element sufficiently for any data that we may want to extract and
     ud_data is a VLA, so sizeof(struct ucore_data) describes the position of
     the data relative to the struct before it more accurately than
     sizeof(struct ucore_data_hdr) would.

     Metadata ends at the last data segment, only the coredump itself follows.

SEE ALSO
     shm_open(2), coredumper_register(9)

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4          July 27, 2025                     UCOREDEV(4)
