UFOMA(4)               FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual               UFOMA(4)

NAME
     ufoma – USB mobile phone support

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device usb
           device ucom
           device ufoma

     Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
     following line in loader.conf(5):

           ufoma_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The ufoma driver provides support for USB mobile phone terminals in the
     subset of the Mobile Computing Promotion Consortium USB Implementation
     Guideline, which is adopted by FOMA, the NTT DoCoMo 3G system, terminal.
     These are partly like CDC ACM model based modems, which are supported by
     umodem(4), but the ufoma driver recognizes a specific USB descriptor that
     describes its role and interface structure, and it will negotiate its
     role when the device is open.  They support a regular AT command set and
     the commands can either be multiplexed with the data stream or handled
     through separate pipes.  In the latter case the AT commands have to be
     given on a device separate from the data device.

     The device is accessed through the ucom(4) driver which makes it behave
     like a tty(4).

SYSCTLS
     These devices often have a few interface sets and these interfaces have
     their role, sometimes multiplexed.  These roles are identified with the
     following sysctl MIBs:

     dev.ucom.%d.supportmode
             The modes which are supported by the interface.

     dev.ucom.%d.currentmode
             Current mode of the interface.

     dev.ucom.%d.openmode
             Mode to transit when the device is open next.
     The modes are as follows:

     modem   Accepts AT commands and go and pass packet communication data.

     handsfree
             Accepts AT commands but it does not pass data.

     obex    Accepts OBEX frame which is used to exchange telephone book, etc.

     vendor1, vendor2
             Vendor specific data may be passed.

     deactivated
             When an interface is recognized by the system but not used, the
             interface will be set to this mode.

     unlinked
             When an interface is not yet negotiated, the interface is in this
             mode.

HARDWARE
     Devices supported by the ufoma driver include:

     •   SHARP FOMA SH902i
     •   KYOCERA PHS AH-K3001V (a.k.a Kyopon)
     •   SANYO Vodafone3G V801SA

SEE ALSO
     Specification can be found at:

     http://www.nttdocomo.co.jp/corporate/technology/document/foma/index.html
     http://www.mcpc-jp.org/doclist.htm

     tty(4), ucom(4), umodem(4), usb(4)

HISTORY
     The ufoma driver appeared in FreeBSD 7.0, partly derived from the
     umodem(4) code.

BUGS
     Interfaces with multiplexed commands and data and interfaces with
     commands only are supported.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        November 20, 2011       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
