UMODPLAYER(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          UMODPLAYER(1)



NAME
       umodplayer - play and convert module files


SYNOPSIS
       umodplayer [ module ] [-N,-R,-B,-S] [+N,+R,+B,+S] [-o output ] [
       options ]


DESCRIPTION
       umodplayer is a module file player and converter. It uses the
       LibModPlug library to render the module files. It can export the raw
       audio to an external file such as WAV or AIFF, or play it directly
       using LibAo.


       umodplayer has two modes of operation: the interactive mode and the
       command line mode. In the interactive mode, UModPlayer is operated by
       commands and arguments. In the command line mode, UModPlayer is given a
       list of command options and a operation to do. After doing this
       operation, UModPlayer will exit.


       umodplayer allows the configuration of various options, including
       audio-related ModPlug settings such as reverb, noise reduction, etc.


       Such configuration can be saved to a file in the home directory. The
       first time umodplayer is started, it's recommended to use the config,
       setadvanced and saveconfig commands to configure umodplayer and save
       such configuration.


       In interactive mode, umodplayer supports playlists. Playlists are a
       list of modules collected by the user (or imported from a directory)
       which will be played in order without requiring user intervention to
       move to the next module. Of course, the playlist can be stopped or
       paused at any moment. Also, there is a 2-second gap between modules in
       which a key can be pressed to immediately stop the playlist.


       If umodplayer is started without giving a module file, it will default
       to interactive mode. If a module file is given in the command line, it
       will enter command line mode and play the file with the specified
       options unless the -i option is given. If the -i option is given,
       umodplayer will load the file but enter interactive mode instead.


OPTIONS
        -h or --help
              display a brief option summary and exit.


        -V    print the UModPlayer version and build date, and exit
              immediately.


        -q    quiet. disable notices and information messages. do not print
              the status bar while playing.


        -i    interactive mode. This will force interactive mode even if a
              module file is given in the command line.


        -o file
              output file name to export the module. UModPlayer will try to
              guess the export export format using its extension, such as .wav
              or .aiff. If a format is not recognized, you must specify it
              with the -f option.


        -f format
              format to export the module. This option must be given after the
              -o option. Available formats are: wav (WAVE Audio File), aiff16
              (16-bit AIFF), aiff24 (24-bit AIFF), s16se (raw 16-bit PCM),
              s16le (little-endian PCM), s16be (big-endian PCM) and it
              (Impulse Tracker, only if ModPlug has been compiled with save
              support).


        -a order
              start the exporting in the order order, not in the beginning.


        -z order
              finish the exporting when the order order is reached.


        -d    load the default options, overriding any saved configuration.


        -m file
              save the module built-in message to the given file.


        -s file
              save the list of sample names present in the module to the given
              file. Many authors use the sample names to store aditional
              information, such as date, copyright, etc.


        -I file
              same as above, but save instruments instead of samples. These
              options are not exclusive.


        -v volume
              volume to play or export. Must be an integer between 1 and 768.
              The default value is 128.


        -c channels
              channels for playing or exporting. Must be 1 for mono, or 2 for
              stereo.


        -r rate
              sampling rate for playing or exporting. The default value is
              44100 Hz. NOTE: This option is currently broken.


        -M resampling
              resampling mode for the module rendering in LibModPlug. Possible
              values, ordered by quality from low to high: NO_INTERPOLATE,
              LINEAR, SPLINE and FIR_FILTER. Note that some modules might
              sound better with the LINEAR resampling. The default value is
              SPLINE.


        +N    enable noise reduction. If it's already enabled in the
              configuration, keep it enabled.


        -N    disable noise reduction. If it's already disabled, keep it
              disabled.


        +S    enable surround.


        -S    disable surround.


        +B    enable megabass.


        -B    disable megabass.


        +R    enable reverb.


        -R    disable reverb.


        -d    use the default configuration values, overriding any saved
              settings.


        -w    save the configuration options specified in the command line.


        -O driver
              driver for use with LibAo. In example alsa09, alsa, oss, sun,
              macosx, arts, esd, irix, null and possibly others in your LibAo
              version. Note that a default driver may be specified in the
              libao.conf(5) file.


EXAMPLES
       Entering interactive mode
              $ umodplayer


       Playing a module directly from command line
              $ umodplayer MyModule.xm


       Playling a module with surround and without reverb
              $ umodplayer +S -R MyModule.xm


       Playing a module quietly, without status bar
              $ umodplayer -q MyModule.xm


       Exporting a module using volume 224 to a 24-bit AIFF file
              $ umodplayer -v 224 MyModule.xm -o test.aiff -f aiff24


       Exporting a module to raw little-endian 16-bit PCM
              $ umodplayer MyModule.xm -o audio.raw -f s16le


FILES
       ~/.umodplayerb
              The umodplayer configuration file


BUGS
       The -r command line option may not work due to some oddness in the
       option management between UModPlayer and LibModPlug.


SEE ALSO
       libao.conf(5)




                                September, 2006                  UMODPLAYER(1)
