UNISON(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual (urm)           UNISON(1)

NAME
     unison – a multi-platform bi-directional file synchronization tool

SYNOPSIS
     unison [options]
     unison root1 root2 [options]
     unison profilename [options]

DESCRIPTION
     Unison is a file-synchronization tool for POSIX-compliant systems (e.g.
     *BSD and GNU/Linux, macOS) and Windows. It allows two replicas of a
     collection of files and directories to be stored on different hosts (or
     different disks on the same host), modified separately, and then brought
     up to date by propagating the changes in each replica to the other.

     Unison has been in use for over 20 years and many people use it to
     synchronize data they care about.

     Unison shares a number of features with other tools. Some of the
     distinguishing features are:
     •   Unlike simple mirroring or backup utilities, Unison can deal with
         updates to both replicas of a distributed directory structure.
     •   Unison works across platforms, allowing you to synchronize a Windows
         laptop with a Unix server, for example.
     •   Unlike most distributed filesystems, Unison is a user-level program
         that simply uses normal systems calls: there is no need to modify the
         kernel, to have superuser privileges on either host, or to have a
         FUSE implementation.
     •   Unison works between any pair of machines connected to the internet,
         typically communicating over ssh(1), but also directly over TCP. It
         is careful with network bandwidth, and runs well over slow links.
         Transfers of small updates to large files are optimized using a
         compression protocol similar to rsync(1).
     •   Unison is resilient to failure. It is careful to leave the replicas
         and its own private structures in a sensible state at all times, even
         in case of abnormal termination or communication failures.

OPTION SUMMARY
     Basic options:

       General:
        -doc xxx            show documentation ('-doc topics' lists topics)
        -version            print version and exit

       What to sync:
        -group              synchronize group attributes
        -ignore xxx         add a pattern to the ignore list
        -ignorenot xxx      add a pattern to the ignorenot list
        -nocreation xxx     prevent file creations on one replica
        -nodeletion xxx     prevent file deletions on one replica
        -noupdate xxx       prevent file updates and deletions on one replica
        -owner              synchronize owner
        -path xxx           path to synchronize
        -perms n            part of the permissions which is synchronized
        -root xxx           root of a replica (should be used exactly twice)
        -times              synchronize modification times

       How to sync:
        -batch              batch mode: ask no questions at all

       How to sync (text interface (CLI) only):
        -auto               automatically accept default (nonconflicting) actions
        -silent             print nothing except error messages
        -terse              suppress status messages

       Text interface (CLI):
        -i                  interactive profile mode (text UI); command-line only

     Advanced options:

       Fine-tune sync:
        -acl                synchronize ACLs
        -atomic xxx         add a pattern to the atomic list
        -follow xxx         add a pattern to the follow list
        -force xxx          force changes from this replica to the other
        -forcepartial xxx   add a pattern to the forcepartial list
        -ignorecase xxx     identify upper/lowercase filenames (true/false/default)
        -immutable xxx      add a pattern to the immutable list
        -immutablenot xxx   add a pattern to the immutablenot list
        -links xxx          allow the synchronization of symbolic links
                            (true/false/default)
        -merge xxx          add a pattern to the merge list
        -nocreationpartial xxx add a pattern to the nocreationpartial list
        -nodeletionpartial xxx add a pattern to the nodeletionpartial list
        -noupdatepartial xxx add a pattern to the noupdatepartial list
        -prefer xxx         choose this replica's version for conflicting changes
        -preferpartial xxx  add a pattern to the preferpartial list
        -rsrc xxx           synchronize resource forks (true/false/default)
        -xattrignore xxx    add a pattern to the xattrignore list
        -xattrignorenot xxx add a pattern to the xattrignorenot list
        -xattrs             synchronize extended attributes (xattrs)

       How to sync:
        -backup xxx         add a pattern to the backup list
        -backupcurr xxx     add a pattern to the backupcurr list
        -backupcurrnot xxx  add a pattern to the backupcurrnot list
        -backupdir xxx      directory for storing centralized backups
        -backuploc xxx      where backups are stored ('local' or 'central')
        -backupnot xxx      add a pattern to the backupnot list
        -backupprefix xxx   prefix for the names of backup files
        -backups            (deprecated) keep backup copies of all files (see also
                            'backup')
        -backupsuffix xxx   a suffix to be added to names of backup files
        -confirmbigdel      ask about whole-replica (or path) deletes (default true)
        -confirmmerge       ask for confirmation before committing results of a merge
        -copyonconflict     keep copies of conflicting files
        -dontchmod          when set, never use the chmod system call
        -fastcheck xxx      do fast update detection (true/false/default)
        -fat                use appropriate options for FAT filesystems
        -ignoreinodenumbers ignore inode number changes when detecting updates
        -maxbackups n       number of backed up versions of a file
        -numericids         don't map uid/gid values by user/group names
        -sortbysize         list changed files by size, not name
        -sortfirst xxx      add a pattern to the sortfirst list
        -sortlast xxx       add a pattern to the sortlast list
        -sortnewfirst       list new before changed files

       How to sync (text interface (CLI) only):
        -repeat xxx         synchronize repeatedly (text interface only)
        -retry n            re-try failed synchronizations N times (text ui only)

       Text interface (CLI):
        -color xxx          use color output for text UI (true/false/default)
        -dumbtty            do not change terminal settings in text UI

       Graphical interface (GUI):
        -height n           height (in lines) of main window in graphical interface

       Remote connections:
        -addversionno       add version number to name of unison on server
        -clientHostName xxx set host name of client
        -halfduplex         (deprecated) force half-duplex communication with the
                            server
        -killserver         kill server when done (even when using sockets)
        -listen xxx         listen on this name or addr in server socket mode (can
                            repeat)
        -rsync              activate the rsync transfer mode (default true)
        -servercmd xxx      name of unison executable on remote server
        -socket xxx         act as a server on a socket
        -sshargs xxx        other arguments (if any) for remote shell command
        -sshcmd xxx         path to the ssh executable
        -stream             (deprecated) use a streaming protocol for transferring
                            file contents (default true)
        -testserver         exit immediately after the connection to the server
        -xferbycopying      optimize transfers using local copies (default true)

       Archive management:
        -ignorearchives     ignore existing archive files

       Other:
        -addprefsto xxx     file to add new prefs to
        -contactquietly     suppress the 'contacting server' message during startup
        -copymax n          (deprecated) maximum number of simultaneous copyprog
                            transfers
        -copyprog xxx       (deprecated) external program for copying large files
        -copyprogrest xxx   (deprecated) variant of copyprog for resuming partial
                            transfers
        -copythreshold n    (deprecated) use copyprog on files bigger than this (if
                            >=0, in Kb)
        -diff xxx           set command for showing differences between files
        -ignorelocks        ignore locks left over from previous run (dangerous!)
        -include xxx        include a profile's preferences
        -key xxx            define a keyboard shortcut for this profile (in some UIs)
        -label xxx          provide a descriptive string label for this profile
        -log                record actions in logfile (default true)
        -logfile xxx        logfile name
        -maxerrors n        maximum number of errors before a directory transfer is
                            aborted
        -maxsizethreshold n prevent transfer of files bigger than this (if >=0, in
                            Kb)
        -maxthreads n       maximum number of simultaneous file transfers
        -mountpoint xxx     abort if this path does not exist
        -rootalias xxx      register alias for canonical root names
        -showarchive        show 'true names' (for rootalias) of roots and archive
        -source xxx         include a file's preferences
        -ui xxx             select UI ('text' or 'graphic'); command-line only
        -unicode xxx        assume Unicode encoding in case insensitive mode
        -watch              when set, use a file watcher process to detect changes

     Expert options:
        -debug xxx          debug module xxx ('all' -> everything, 'verbose' -> more)
        -dumparchives       dump contents of archives just after loading
        -fastercheckUNSAFE  skip computing fingerprints for new files (experts only!)
        -selftest           run internal tests and exit

OPTIONS
     Most of the options can be given as command line arguments or in a
     profile. On command line, but not in a profile, the options are specified
     with a leading dash. Like this: -option.

     acl     When this flag is set to true, the ACLs of files and directories
             are synchronized. The type of ACLs depends on the platform and
             filesystem support. On Unix-like platforms it can be NFSv4 ACLs,
             for example.

     addprefsto xxx
             By default, new preferences added by Unison (e.g., new ignore
             clauses) will be appended to whatever preference file Unison was
             told to load at the beginning of the run. Setting the preference
             addprefsto filename makes Unison add new preferences to the file
             named filename instead.

     addversionno
             When this flag is set to true, Unison will use
             unison-currentmajorversionnumber instead of just unison as the
             remote server command (note that the minor version number is
             dropped -- e.g., unison-2.51). This allows multiple binaries for
             different versions of unison to coexist conveniently on the same
             server: whichever version is run on the client, the same version
             will be selected on the server.

     atomic xxx
             This preference specifies paths for directories whose contents
             will be considered as a group rather than individually when they
             are both modified. The backups are also made atomically in this
             case. The option backupcurr however has no effect on atomic
             directories.

     auto    When set to true, this flag causes the user interface to skip
             asking for confirmations on non-conflicting changes. (More
             precisely, when the user interface is done setting the
             propagation direction for one entry and is about to move to the
             next, it will skip over all non-conflicting entries and go
             directly to the next conflict.)

     backup xxx
             Including the preference -backup pathspec causes Unison to keep
             backup files for each path that matches pathspec; directories
             (nor their permissions or any other metadata) are not backed up.
             These backup files are kept in the directory specified by the
             backuplocation preference. The backups are named according to the
             backupprefix and backupsuffix preferences. The number of versions
             that are kept is determined by the maxbackups preference. The
             syntax of pathspec is described in Section “Path Specification”
             in the manual.

     backupcurr xxx
             Including the preference -backupcurr pathspec causes Unison to
             keep a backup of the current version of every file matching
             pathspec.  This file will be saved as a backup with version
             number 000. Such backups can be used as inputs to external
             merging programs, for instance. See the documentation for the
             merge preference. For more details, see Section “Merging
             Conflicting Versions” in the manual. The syntax of pathspec is
             described in Section “Path Specification” in the manual.

     backupcurrnot xxx
             Exceptions to backupcurr, like the ignorenot preference.

     backupdir xxx
             If this preference is set, Unison will use it as the name of the
             directory used to store backup files specified by the backup
             preference, when backuplocation is set to central.  It is checked
             after the UNISONBACKUPDIR environment variable.

     backuploc xxx
             This preference determines whether backups should be kept
             locally, near the original files, or in a central directory
             specified by the backupdir preference. If set to local, backups
             will be kept in the same directory as the original files, and if
             set to central, backupdir will be used instead.

     backupnot xxx
             The values of this preference specify paths or individual files
             or regular expressions that should not be backed up, even if the
             backup preference selects them—i.e., it selectively overrides
             backup.

     backupprefix xxx
             When a backup for a file NAME is created, it is stored in a
             directory specified by backuplocation, in a file called
             backupprefixNAMEbackupsuffix.  backupprefix can include a
             directory name (causing Unison to keep all backup files for a
             given directory in a subdirectory with this name), and both
             backupprefix and backupsuffix can contain the string $VERSION,
             which will be replaced by the age of the backup (1 for the most
             recent, 2 for the second most recent, and so on...). This keyword
             is ignored if it appears in a directory name in the prefix; if it
             does not appear anywhere in the prefix or the suffix, it will be
             automatically placed at the beginning of the suffix. One thing to
             be careful of: If the backuploc preference is set to local,
             Unison will automatically ignore all files whose prefix and
             suffix match backupprefix and backupsuffix.  So be careful to
             choose values for these preferences that are sufficiently
             different from the names of your real files.

     backups
             (Deprecated) Setting this flag to true is equivalent to setting
             backuplocation to local and backup to Name *.

     backupsuffix xxx
             See backupprefix for full documentation.

     batch   When this is set to true, the user interface will ask no
             questions at all. Non-conflicting changes will be propagated;
             conflicts will be skipped.

     clientHostName xxx
             When specified, the host name of the client will not be guessed
             and the provided host name will be used to find the archive.

     color xxx
             When set to true, this flag enables color output in text mode
             user interface. When set to false, all color output is disabled.
             Default is to enable color if the NO_COLOR environment variable
             is not set.

     confirmbigdel
             When this is set to true, Unison will request an extra
             confirmation if it appears that the entire replica has been
             deleted, before propagating the change. If the batch flag is also
             set, synchronization will be aborted. When the path preference is
             used, the same confirmation will be requested for top-level
             paths. (At the moment, this flag only affects the text user
             interface.) See also the mountpoint preference.

     confirmmerge
             Setting this preference causes both the text and graphical
             interfaces to ask the user if the results of a merge command may
             be committed to the replica or not. Since the merge command works
             on temporary files, the user can then cancel all the effects of
             applying the merge if it turns out that the result is not
             satisfactory. In batch-mode, this preference has no effect.
             Default is false.

     contactquietly
             If this flag is set, Unison will skip displaying the `Contacting
             server' message (which some users find annoying) during startup.

     copymax n
             (Deprecated) A number indicating how many instances of the
             external copying utility Unison is allowed to run simultaneously
             (default to 1).

     copyonconflict
             When this flag is set, Unison will make a copy of files that
             would otherwise be overwritten or deleted in case of conflicting
             changes, and more generally whenever the default behavior is
             overridden. This makes it possible to automatically resolve
             conflicts in a fairly safe way when synchronizing continuously,
             in combination with the -repeat watch and -prefer newer
             preferences.

     copyprog xxx
             (Deprecated) A string giving the name of an external program that
             can be used to copy large files efficiently (plus command-line
             switches telling it to copy files in-place). The default setting
             invokes rsync with appropriate options—most users should not need
             to change it.

     copyprogrest xxx
             (Deprecated) A variant of copyprog that names an external program
             that should be used to continue the transfer of a large file that
             has already been partially transferred. Typically, copyprogrest
             will just be copyprog with one extra option (e.g., --partial, for
             rsync). The default setting invokes rsync with appropriate
             options—most users should not need to change it.

     copythreshold n
             (Deprecated) A number indicating above what filesize (in
             kilobytes) Unison should use the external copying utility
             specified by copyprog.  Specifying 0 will cause all copies to use
             the external program; a negative number will prevent any files
             from using it. The default is -1. See Section “Making Unison
             Faster on Large Files” in the manual for more information.

     debug xxx
             This preference is used to make Unison print various sorts of
             information about what it is doing internally on the standard
             error stream. It can be used many times, each time with the name
             of a module for which debugging information should be printed.
             Possible arguments for debug can be found by looking for calls to
             Util.debug in the sources (using, e.g., grep). Setting -debug all
             causes information from all modules to be printed (this mode of
             usage is the first one to try, if you are trying to understand
             something that Unison seems to be doing wrong); -debug verbose
             turns on some additional debugging output from some modules
             (e.g., it will show exactly what bytes are being sent across the
             network).

     diff xxx
             This preference can be used to control the name and command-line
             arguments of the system utility used to generate displays of file
             differences. The default is `diff -u OLDER NEWER'. If the value
             of this preference contains the substrings CURRENT1 and CURRENT2,
             these will be replaced by the names of the files to be diffed. If
             the value of this preference contains the substrings NEWER and
             OLDER, these will be replaced by the names of files to be diffed,
             NEWER being the most recently modified file of the two. Without
             any of these substrings, the two filenames will be appended to
             the command. In all cases, the filenames are suitably quoted.

     doc xxx
             The command-line argument -doc secname causes unison to display
             section secname of the manual on the standard output and then
             exit. Use -doc all to display the whole manual, which includes
             exactly the same information as the printed and HTML manuals,
             modulo formatting. Use -doc topics to obtain a list of the names
             of the various sections that can be printed.

     dontchmod
             By default, Unison uses the 'chmod' system call to set the
             permission bits of files after it has copied them. But in some
             circumstances (and under some operating systems), the chmod call
             always fails. Setting this preference completely prevents Unison
             from ever calling chmod.

     dumbtty
             When set to true, this flag makes the text mode user interface
             avoid trying to change any of the terminal settings. (Normally,
             Unison puts the terminal in `raw mode', so that it can do things
             like overwriting the current line.) This is useful, for example,
             when Unison runs in a shell inside of Emacs. When dumbtty is set,
             commands to the user interface need to be followed by a carriage
             return before Unison will execute them. (When it is off, Unison
             recognizes keystrokes as soon as they are typed.) This preference
             has no effect on the graphical user interface.

     dumparchives
             When this preference is set, Unison will create a file
             unison.dump on each host, containing a text summary of the
             archive, immediately after loading it.

     fastcheck xxx
             When this preference is set to true, Unison will use the
             modification time and length of a file as a `pseudo inode number'
             when scanning replicas for updates, instead of reading the full
             contents of every file. (This does not apply to the very first
             run, when Unison will always scan all files regardless of this
             switch). Under Windows, this may cause Unison to miss propagating
             an update if the modification time and length of the file are
             both unchanged by the update. However, Unison will never
             overwrite such an update with a change from the other replica,
             since it always does a safe check for updates just before
             propagating a change. Thus, it is reasonable to use this switch
             under Windows most of the time and occasionally run Unison once
             with fastcheck set to false, if you are worried that Unison may
             have overlooked an update. For backward compatibility, yes, no,
             and default can be used in place of true, false, and auto.  See
             Section “Fast Update Detection” in the manual for more
             information.

     fastercheckUNSAFE
             THIS FEATURE IS STILL EXPERIMENTAL AND SHOULD BE USED WITH
             EXTREME CAUTION. When this flag is set to true, Unison will
             compute a 'pseudo-fingerprint' the first time it sees a file
             (either because the file is new or because Unison is running for
             the first time). This enormously speeds update detection, but it
             must be used with care, as it can cause Unison to miss conflicts:
             If a given path in the filesystem contains files on both sides
             that Unison has not yet seen, and if those files have the same
             length but different contents, then Unison will not notice the
             presence of a conflict. If, later, one of the files is changed,
             the changed file will be propagated, overwriting the other.
             Moreover, even when the files are initially identical, setting
             this flag can lead to potentially confusing behavior: if a newly
             created file is later touched without being modified, Unison will
             treat this conservatively as a potential change (since it has no
             record of the earlier contents) and show it as needing to be
             propagated to the other replica. Most users should leave this
             flag off -- the small time savings of not fingerprinting new
             files is not worth the cost in terms of safety. However, it can
             be very useful for power users with huge replicas that are known
             to be already synchronized (e.g., because one replica is a newly
             created duplicate of the other, or because they have previously
             been synchronized with Unison but Unison's archives need to be
             rebuilt). In such situations, it is recommended that this flag be
             set only for the initial run of Unison, so that new archives can
             be created quickly, and then turned off for normal use.

     fat     When this is set to true, Unison will use appropriate options to
             synchronize efficiently and without error a replica located on a
             FAT filesystem on a non-Windows machine: do not synchronize
             permissions (perms = 0); never use chmod (dontchmod = true);
             treat filenames as case insensitive (ignorecase = true); do not
             attempt to synchronize symbolic links (links = false); ignore
             inode number changes when detecting updates (ignoreinodenumbers =
             true). Any of these change can be overridden by explicitly
             setting the corresponding preference in the profile.

     follow xxx
             Including the preference -follow pathspec causes Unison to treat
             symbolic links matching pathspec as `invisible' and behave as if
             the object pointed to by the link had appeared literally at this
             position in the replica. See Section “Symbolic Links” in the
             manual for more details. The syntax of pathspec is described in
             Section “Path Specification” in the manual.

     force xxx
             Including the preference -force root causes Unison to resolve all
             differences (even non-conflicting changes) in favor of root.
             This effectively changes Unison from a synchronizer into a
             mirroring utility. You can also specify a unique prefix or suffix
             of the path of one of the roots or a unique prefix of the
             hostname of a remote root. You can also specify -force newer (or
             -force older) to force Unison to choose the file with the later
             (earlier) modtime. In this case, the -times preference must also
             be enabled. If modtimes are equal in both replicas when using
             newer or older then this preference will have no effect (changes
             will be synced as if without this preference or remain unsynced
             in case of a conflict). This preference is overridden by the
             forcepartial preference. This preference should be used only if
             you are sure you know what you are doing!

     forcepartial xxx
             Including the preference forcepartial = PATHSPEC -> root causes
             Unison to resolve all differences (even non-conflicting changes)
             in favor of root for the files in PATHSPEC (see Section “Path
             Specification” in the manual for more information). This
             effectively changes Unison from a synchronizer into a mirroring
             utility. You can also specify a unique prefix or suffix of the
             path of one of the roots or a unique prefix of the hostname of a
             remote root. You can also specify forcepartial PATHSPEC -> newer
             (or forcepartial PATHSPEC -> older) to force Unison to choose the
             file with the later (earlier) modtime. In this case, the -times
             preference must also be enabled. If modtimes are equal in both
             replicas when using newer or older then this preference will have
             no effect (changes will be synced as if without this preference
             or remain unsynced in case of a conflict). This preference should
             be used only if you are sure you know what you are doing!

     group   When this flag is set to true, the group attributes of the files
             are synchronized. Whether the group names or the group
             identifiers are synchronized depends on the preference numerids.

     halfduplex
             (Deprecated) When this flag is set to true, Unison network
             communication is forced to be half duplex (the client and the
             server never simultaneously emit data). If you experience
             unstabilities with your network link, this may help.

     height n
             Used to set the height (in lines) of the main window in the
             graphical user interface.

     i       Provide this preference in the command line arguments to enable
             interactive profile manager in the text user interface. Currently
             only profile listing and interactive selection are available.
             Preferences like batch and silent remain applicable to
             synchronization functionality.

     ignore xxx
             Including the preference -ignore pathspec causes Unison to
             completely ignore paths that match pathspec (as well as their
             children). This is useful for avoiding synchronizing temporary
             files, object files, etc. The syntax of pathspec is described in
             Section “Path Specification” in the manual, and further details
             on ignoring paths is found in Section “Ignoring Paths” in the
             manual.

     ignorearchives
             When this preference is set, Unison will ignore any existing
             archive files and behave as though it were being run for the
             first time on these replicas. It is not a good idea to set this
             option in a profile: it is intended for command-line use.

     ignorecase xxx
             When set to true, this flag causes Unison to treat filenames as
             case insensitive—i.e., files in the two replicas whose names
             differ in (upper- and lower-case) `spelling' are treated as the
             same file. When the flag is set to false, Unison will treat all
             filenames as case sensitive. Ordinarily, when the flag is set to
             default, filenames are automatically taken to be case-insensitive
             if either host is running Windows or OSX. In rare circumstances
             it may be useful to set the flag manually.

     ignoreinodenumbers
             When set to true, this preference makes Unison not take advantage
             of inode numbers during fast update detection. This switch should
             be used with care, as it is less safe than the standard update
             detection method, but it can be useful with filesystems which do
             not support inode numbers.

     ignorelocks
             When this preference is set, Unison will ignore any lock files
             that may have been left over from a previous run of Unison that
             was interrupted while reading or writing archive files; by
             default, when Unison sees these lock files it will stop and
             request manual intervention. This option should be set only if
             you are positive that no other instance of Unison might be
             concurrently accessing the same archive files (e.g., because
             there was only one instance of unison running and it has just
             crashed or you have just killed it). It is probably not a good
             idea to set this option in a profile: it is intended for
             command-line use.

     ignorenot xxx
             This preference overrides the preference ignore.  It gives a list
             of patterns (in the same format as ignore) for paths that should
             definitely not be ignored, whether or not they happen to match
             one of the ignore patterns. Note that the semantics of ignore and
             ignorenot is a little counter-intuitive. When detecting updates,
             Unison examines paths in depth-first order, starting from the
             roots of the replicas and working downwards. Before examining
             each path, it checks whether it matches ignore and does not match
             ignorenot; in this case it skips this path and all its
             descendants.  This means that, if some parent of a given path
             matches an ignore pattern, then it will be skipped even if the
             path itself matches an ignorenotpattern. In particular, putting
             ignore = Path * in your profile and then using ignorenot to
             select particular paths to be synchronized will not work.
             Instead, you should use the pathpreference to choose particular
             paths to synchronize.

     immutable xxx
             This preference specifies paths for directories whose immediate
             children are all immutable files — i.e., once a file has been
             created, its contents never changes. When scanning for updates,
             Unison does not check whether these files have been modified;
             this can speed update detection significantly (in particular, for
             mail directories).

     immutablenot xxx
             This preference overrides immutable.

     include xxx
             Include preferences from a profile. include name reads the
             profile “name” (or file “name” in the .unison directory if
             profile “name” does not exist) and includes its contents as if it
             was part of a profile or given directly on command line.

     key xxx
             Used in a profile to define a numeric key (0-9) that can be used
             in the user interface to switch immediately to this profile.

     killserver
             When set to true, this flag causes Unison to kill the remote
             server process when the synchronization is finished. This
             behavior is the default for ssh connections, so this preference
             is not normally needed when running over ssh; it is provided so
             that socket-mode servers can be killed off after a single run of
             Unison, rather than waiting to accept future connections. (Some
             users prefer to start a remote socket server for each run of
             Unison, rather than leaving one running all the time.)

     label xxx
             Used in a profile to provide a descriptive string documenting its
             settings. (This is useful for users that switch between several
             profiles, especially using the `fast switch' feature of the
             graphical user interface.)

     links xxx
             When set to true, this flag causes Unison to synchronize symbolic
             links. When the flag is set to false, symbolic links will be
             ignored during update detection. Ordinarily, when the flag is set
             to default, symbolic links are synchronized except when one of
             the hosts is running Windows. On a Windows client, Unison makes
             an attempt to detect if symbolic links are supported and allowed
             by user privileges. You may have to get elevated privileges to
             create symbolic links. When the flag is set to default and
             symbolic links can't be synchronized then an error is produced
             during update detection.

     listen xxx
             When acting as a server on a TCP socket, Unison will by default
             listen on "any" address (0.0.0.0 and [::]). This command-line
             argument allows to specify a different listening address and can
             be repeated to listen on multiple addresses. Listening address
             can be specified as a host name or an IP address.

     log     When this flag is set, Unison will log all changes to the
             filesystems on a file.

     logfile xxx
             By default, logging messages will be appended to the file
             unison.log in your .unison directory. Set this preference if you
             prefer another file. It can be a path relative to your .unison
             directory. Sending SIGUSR1 will close the logfile; the logfile
             will be re-opened (and created, if needed) automatically, to
             allow for log rotation.

     maxbackups n
             This preference specifies the number of backup versions that will
             be kept by unison, for each path that matches the predicate
             backup.  The default is 2.

     maxerrors n
             This preference controls after how many errors Unison aborts a
             directory transfer. Setting it to a large number allows Unison to
             transfer most of a directory even when some files fail to be
             copied. The default is 1. If the preference is set too high,
             Unison may take a long time to abort in case of repeated failures
             (for instance, when the disk is full).

     maxsizethreshold n
             A number indicating above what filesize (in kilobytes) Unison
             should flag a conflict instead of transferring the file. This
             conflict remains even in the presence of force or prefer options.
             A negative number will allow every transfer independently of the
             size. The default is -1.

     maxthreads n
             This preference controls how much concurrency is allowed during
             the transport phase. Normally, it should be set reasonably high
             to maximize performance, but when Unison is used over a
             low-bandwidth link it may be helpful to set it lower (e.g. to 1)
             so that Unison doesn't soak up all the available bandwidth. The
             default is the special value 0, which mean 20 threads when file
             content streaming is deactivated and 1000 threads when it is
             activated.

     merge xxx
             This preference can be used to run a merge program which will
             create a new version for each of the files and the backup, with
             the last backup and both replicas. The syntax of pathspec -> cmd
             is described in Section “Path Specification” in the manual, and
             further details on Merging functions are present in Section
             “Merging Conflicting Versions” in the manual.

     mountpoint xxx
             Including the preference -mountpoint PATH causes Unison to
             double-check, at the end of update detection, that PATH exists
             and abort if it does not. This is useful when Unison is used to
             synchronize removable media. This preference can be given more
             than once. See Section “Mount Points and Removable Media” in the
             manual.

     nocreation xxx
             Including the preference -nocreation root prevents Unison from
             performing any file creation on root root.  You can also specify
             a unique prefix or suffix of the path of one of the roots or a
             unique prefix of the hostname of a remote root. This preference
             can be included twice, once for each root, if you want to prevent
             any creation.

     nocreationpartial xxx
             Including the preference nocreationpartial = PATHSPEC -> root
             prevents Unison from performing any file creation in PATHSPEC on
             root root (see Section “Path Specification” in the manual for
             more information). It is recommended to use BelowPath patterns
             when selecting a directory and all its contents.

     nodeletion xxx
             Including the preference -nodeletion root prevents Unison from
             performing any file deletion on root root.  You can also specify
             a unique prefix or suffix of the path of one of the roots or a
             unique prefix of the hostname of a remote root. This preference
             can be included twice, once for each root, if you want to prevent
             any deletion.

     nodeletionpartial xxx
             Including the preference nodeletionpartial = PATHSPEC -> root
             prevents Unison from performing any file deletion in PATHSPEC on
             root root (see Section “Path Specification” in the manual for
             more information). It is recommended to use BelowPath patterns
             when selecting a directory and all its contents.

     noupdate xxx
             Including the preference -noupdate root prevents Unison from
             performing any file update or deletion on root root.  You can
             also specify a unique prefix or suffix of the path of one of the
             roots or a unique prefix of the hostname of a remote root. This
             preference can be included twice, once for each root, if you want
             to prevent any update.

     noupdatepartial xxx
             Including the preference noupdatepartial = PATHSPEC -> root
             prevents Unison from performing any file update or deletion in
             PATHSPEC on root root (see Section “Path Specification” in the
             manual for more information). It is recommended to use BelowPath
             patterns when selecting a directory and all its contents.

     numericids
             When this flag is set to true, groups and users are synchronized
             numerically, rather than by name. The special uid 0 and the
             special group 0 are never mapped via user/group names even if
             this preference is not set.

     owner   When this flag is set to true, the owner attributes of the files
             are synchronized. Whether the owner names or the owner
             identifiers are synchronizeddepends on the preference numerids.

     path xxx
             When no path preference is given, Unison will simply synchronize
             the two entire replicas, beginning from the given pair of roots.
             If one or more path preferences are given, then Unison will
             synchronize only these paths and their children. (This is useful
             for doing a fast sync of just one directory, for example.) Note
             that path preferences are interpreted literally—they are not
             regular expressions.

     perms n
             The integer value of this preference is a mask indicating which
             permission bits should be synchronized. It is set by default to
             $0o1777$: all bits but the set-uid and set-gid bits are
             synchronised (synchronizing these latter bits can be a security
             hazard). If you want to synchronize all bits, you can set the
             value of this preference to $-1$. If one of the replica is on a
             FAT [Windows] filesystem, you should consider using the fat
             preference instead of this preference. If you need Unison not to
             set permissions at all, set the value of this preference to $0$
             and set the preference dontchmod to true.

     prefer xxx
             Including the preference -prefer root causes Unison always to
             resolve conflicts in favor of root, rather than asking for
             guidance from the user, except for paths marked by the preference
             merge.  (The syntax of root is the same as for the root
             preference, plus the special values newer and older.) You can
             also specify a unique prefix or suffix of the path of one of the
             roots or a unique prefix of the hostname of a remote root. This
             preference is overridden by the preferpartial preference. This
             preference should be used only if you are sure you know what you
             are doing!

     preferpartial xxx
             Including the preference preferpartial = PATHSPEC -> root causes
             Unison always to resolve conflicts in favor of root, rather than
             asking for guidance from the user, for the files in PATHSPEC (see
             Section “Path Specification” in the manual for more information).
             (The syntax of root is the same as for the root preference, plus
             the special values newer and older.) You can also specify a
             unique prefix or suffix of the path of one of the roots or a
             unique prefix of the hostname of a remote root. This preference
             should be used only if you are sure you know what you are doing!

     repeat xxx
             Setting this preference causes the text-mode interface to
             synchronize repeatedly, rather than doing it just once and
             stopping. If the argument is a number, Unison will pause for that
             many seconds before beginning again. When the argument is watch,
             Unison relies on an external file monitoring process to
             synchronize whenever a change happens. You can combine the two
             with a + character to use file monitoring and also do a full scan
             every specified number of seconds. For example, watch+3600 will
             react to changes immediately and additionally do a full scan
             every hour.

     retry n
             Setting this preference causes the text-mode interface to try
             again to synchronize updated paths where synchronization fails.
             Each such path will be tried N times.

     root xxx
             Each use of this preference names the root of one of the replicas
             for Unison to synchronize. Exactly two roots are needed, so
             normal modes of usage are either to give two values for root in
             the profile, or to give no values in the profile and provide two
             on the command line. Details of the syntax of roots can be found
             in Section “Roots” in the manual. The two roots can be given in
             either order; Unison will sort them into a canonical order before
             doing anything else. It also tries to `canonize' the machine
             names and paths that appear in the roots, so that, if Unison is
             invoked later with a slightly different name for the same root,
             it will be able to locate the correct archives.

     rootalias xxx
             When calculating the name of the archive files for a given pair
             of roots, Unison replaces any roots matching the left-hand side
             of any rootalias rule by the corresponding right-hand side.

     rsrc xxx
             When set to true, this flag causes Unison to synchronize resource
             forks and HFS meta-data. On filesystems that do not natively
             support resource forks, this data is stored in Carbon-compatible
             ._AppleDouble files. When the flag is set to false, Unison will
             not synchronize these data. Ordinarily, the flag is set to
             default, and these data are automatically synchronized if either
             host is running OSX. In rare circumstances it is useful to set
             the flag manually.

     rsync   Unison uses the 'rsync algorithm' for 'diffs-only' transfer of
             updates to large files. Setting this flag to false makes Unison
             use whole-file transfers instead. Under normal circumstances,
             there is no reason to do this, but if you are having trouble with
             repeated 'rsync failure' errors, setting it to false should
             permit you to synchronize the offending files.

     selftest
             Run internal tests and exit. This option is mostly for developers
             and must be used carefully: in particular, it will delete the
             contents of both roots, so that it can install its own files for
             testing. This flag only makes sense on the command line. When it
             is provided, no preference file is read: all preferences must be
             specified on thecommand line. Also, since the self-test procedure
             involves overwriting the roots and backup directory, the names of
             the roots and of the backupdir preference must include the string
             "test" or else the tests will be aborted. (If these are not given
             on the command line, dummy subdirectories in the current
             directory will be created automatically.)

     servercmd xxx
             This preference can be used to explicitly set the name of the
             Unison executable on the remote server (e.g., giving a full path
             name), if necessary.

     showarchive
             When this preference is set, Unison will print out the 'true
             names'of the roots, in the same form as is expected by the
             rootalias preference.

     silent  When this preference is set to true, the textual user interface
             will print nothing at all, except in the case of errors. Setting
             silent to true automatically sets the batch preference to true.

     socket xxx
             Start unison as a server listening on a TCP socket (with TCP port
             number as argument) or a local socket (aka Unix domain socket)
             (with socket path as argument).

     sortbysize
             When this flag is set, the user interface will list changed files
             by size (smallest first) rather than by name. This is useful, for
             example, for synchronizing over slow links, since it puts very
             large files at the end of the list where they will not prevent
             smaller files from being transferred quickly. This preference (as
             well as the other sorting flags, but not the sorting preferences
             that require patterns as arguments) can be set interactively and
             temporarily using the 'Sort' menu in the graphical and text user
             interfaces.

     sortfirst xxx
             Each argument to sortfirst is a pattern pathspec, which describes
             a set of paths. Files matching any of these patterns will be
             listed first in the user interface. The syntax of pathspec is
             described in Section “Path Specification” in the manual.

     sortlast xxx
             Similar to sortfirst, except that files matching one of these
             patterns will be listed at the very end.

     sortnewfirst
             When this flag is set, the user interface will list newly created
             files before all others. This is useful, for example, for
             checking that newly created files are not `junk', i.e., ones that
             should be ignored or deleted rather than synchronized.

     source xxx
             Include preferences from a file. source name reads the file
             “name” in the .unison directory and includes its contents as if
             it was part of a profile or given directly on command line.

     sshargs xxx
             The string value of this preference will be passed as additional
             arguments (besides the host name and the name of the Unison
             executable on the remote system) to the ssh command used to
             invoke the remote server. The backslash is an escape character.

     sshcmd xxx
             This preference can be used to explicitly set the name of the ssh
             executable (e.g., giving a full path name), if necessary.

     stream  (Deprecated) When this preference is set, Unison will use an
             experimental streaming protocol for transferring file contents
             more efficiently. The default value is true.

     terse   When this preference is set to true, the user interface will not
             print status messages.

     testserver
             Setting this flag on the command line causes Unison to attempt to
             connect to the remote server and, if successful, print a message
             and immediately exit. Useful for debugging installation problems.
             Should not be set in preference files.

     times   When this flag is set to true, file modification times (but not
             directory modtimes) are propagated.

     ui xxx  This preference selects either the graphical or the textual user
             interface. Legal values are graphic or text.  Because this option
             is processed specially during Unison's start-up sequence, it can
             only be used on the command line. In preference files it has no
             effect. If the Unison executable was compiled with only a textual
             interface, this option has no effect. (The pre-compiled binaries
             are all compiled with both interfaces available.)

     unicode xxx
             When set to true, this flag causes Unison to perform case
             insensitive file comparisons assuming Unicode encoding. This is
             the default. When the flag is set to false, Latin 1 encoding is
             assumed (this means that all bytes that are not letters in Latin
             1 encoding will be compared byte-for-byte, even if they may be
             valid characters in some other encoding). When Unison runs in
             case sensitive mode, this flag only makes a difference if one
             host is running Mac OS X. Under Mac OS X, it selects whether
             comparing the filenames up to decomposition, or byte-for-byte.

     version
             Print the current version number and exit. (This option only
             makes sense on the command line.)

     watch   Unison uses a file watcher process, when available, to detect
             filesystem changes; this is used to speed up update detection.
             Setting this flag to false disables the use of this process.

     xattrignore xxx
             Preference -xattrignore namespec causes Unison to ignore extended
             attributes with names that match namespec.  This can be used to
             exclude extended attributes that would fail synchronization due
             to lack of permissions or technical differences at replicas. The
             syntax of namespec is the same as used for path specification
             (described in Section “Path Specification” in the manual); prefer
             the Path and Regex forms over the Name form. The pattern is
             applied to the name of extended attribute, not to path. On Linux,
             attributes in the security and trusted namespaces are ignored by
             default (this is achieved by pattern Regex
             !(security|trusted)[.].*); also attributes used to store POSIX
             ACL are ignored by default (this is achieved by pattern Path
             !system.posix_acl_*). To sync attributes in one or both of these
             namespaces, see the xattrignorenot preference. Note that the
             namespace name must be prefixed with a "!" (applies on Linux
             only). All names not prefixed with a "!" are taken as strictly
             belonging to the user namespace and therefore the "!user." prefix
             is never used.

     xattrignorenot xxx
             This preference overrides the preference xattrignore.  It gives a
             list of patterns (in the same format as xattrignore) for extended
             attributes that should not be ignored, whether or not they happen
             to match one of the xattrignore patterns. It is possible to
             synchronize only desired attributes by ignoring all attributes
             (for example, by setting xattrignore to Path * and then adding
             xattrignorenot for extended attributes that should be
             synchronized. On Linux, attributes in the security and trusted
             namespaces are ignored by default. To sync attributes in one or
             both of these namespaces, you may add an xattrignorenot pattern
             like Path !security.* to sync all attributes in the security
             namespace, or Path !security.selinux to sync a specific attribute
             in an otherwise ignored namespace. A pattern like Path
             !system.posix_acl_* can be used to sync POSIX ACLs on Linux. Note
             that the namespace name must be prefixed with a "!" (applies on
             Linux only). All names not prefixed with a "!" are taken as
             strictly belonging to the user namespace and therefore the
             "!user." prefix is never used.

     xattrs  When this flag is set to true, the extended attributes of files
             and directories are synchronized. System extended attributes are
             not synchronized.

     xferbycopying
             When this preference is set, Unison will try to avoid
             transferring file contents across the network by recognizing when
             a file with the required contents already exists in the target
             replica. This usually allows file moves to be propagated very
             quickly. The default value is true.

ROOTS
     A replica’s root tells Unison where to find a set of files to be
     synchronized, either on the local machine or on a remote host. For
     example,

           relative/path/of/root

     specifies a local root relative to the directory where Unison is started,
     while

           /absolute/path/of/root

     specifies a root relative to the top of the local filesystem, independent
     of where Unison is running. Remote roots can begin with ssh:// to
     indicate that the remote server should be started with ssh(1):

           ssh://remotehost//absolute/path/of/root
           ssh://user@remotehost/relative/path/of/root

     If the remote server is already running (in the socket mode), then the
     syntax

           socket://remotehost:portnum//absolute/path/of/root
           socket://remotehost:portnum/relative/path/of/root
           socket://[IPv6literal]:portnum/path

     is used to specify the hostname and the port that the client Unison
     should use to contact it. Syntax

           socket://{path/of/socket}//absolute/path/of/root
           socket://{path/of/socket}/relative/path/of/root

     is used to specify the Unix domain socket the client Unison should use to
     contact the server.

     The syntax for roots is based on that of URIs (described in RFC 2396).
     The full grammar is:

       replica ::= [protocol:]//[user@][host][:port][/path]
                |  path

       protocol ::= file
                 |  socket
                 |  ssh

       user ::= [-_a-zA-Z0-9%@]+

       host ::= [-_a-zA-Z0-9.]+
             |  \[ [a-f0-9:.]+ zone? \]     IPv6 literals (no future format).
             |  { [^}]+ }                   For Unix domain sockets only.

       zone ::= %[-_a-zA-Z0-9~%.]+

       port ::= [0-9]+

     When path is given without any protocol prefix, the protocol is assumed
     to be file:.  Under Windows, it is possible to synchronize with a remote
     directory using the file: protocol over the Windows Network Neighborhood.
     For example,

           unison foo //host/drive/bar

     synchronizes the local directory foo with the directory drive:\bar on the
     machine host, provided that host is accessible via Network Neighborhood.
     When the file: protocol is used in this way, there is no need for a
     Unison server to be running on the remote host. However, running Unison
     this way is only a good idea if the remote host is reached by a very fast
     network connection, since the full contents of every file in the remote
     replica will have to be transferred to the local machine to detect
     updates.

PATHS
     A path refers to a point within a set of files being synchronized; it is
     specified relative to the root of the replica. Formally, a path is just a
     sequence of names, separated by /. Note that the path separator character
     is always a forward slash, no matter what operating system Unison is
     running on.  The empty path (i.e., the empty sequence of names) denotes
     the whole replica.

PATH SPECIFICATION
     Several Unison preferences (e.g., ignore/ignorenot, follow,
     sortfirst/sortlast, backup, merge, etc.) specify individual paths or sets
     of paths. These preferences share a common syntax based on regular
     expressions. Each preference is associated with a list of path patterns;
     the paths specified are those that match any one of the path pattern.

     Each pattern can have one of three forms. The most general form is a
     Posix extended regular expression introduced by the keyword Regex.  (The
     collating sequences and character classes of full Posix regexps are not
     currently supported.)

           Regex regexp

     For convenience, three other styles of pattern are also recognized:

           Name name

     matches any path in which the last component matches name,

           Path path

     matches exactly the path path, and

           BelowPath path

     matches the path path and any path below. The name and path arguments of
     the latter forms of patterns are not regular expressions. Instead,
     standard “globbing” conventions can be used in name and path:

     -   a * matches any sequence of characters not including / (and not
         beginning with ., when used at the beginning of a name)

     -   a ? matches any single character except / (and leading .)

     -   [xyz] matches any character from the set {x, y, z}

     -   {a,bb,ccc} matches any one of a, bb, or ccc. (Be careful not to put
         extra spaces after the commas: these will be interpreted literally as
         part of the strings to be matched!)

     The path separator in path patterns is always the forward-slash character
     “/” — even when the client or server is running under Windows, where the
     normal separator character is a backslash. This makes it possible to use
     the same set of path patterns for both Unix and Windows file systems.

     A path specification may be followed by the separator “ -> ” itself
     followed by a string which will be associated to the matching paths:

           Path path -> associated string

     Not all pathspec preferences use these associated strings but all
     pathspec preferences are parsed identically and the strings may be
     ignored. Only the last match of the separator string on the line is used
     as a delimiter. Thus to allow a path specification to contain the
     separator string, append an associated string to it, even if it is not
     used. The associated string cannot contain the separator string.

PROFILES
     A profile is a text file that specifies permanent settings for roots,
     paths, ignore patterns, and other preferences, so that they do not need
     to be typed at the command line every time Unison is run. Profiles should
     reside in the .unison directory on the client machine. If Unison is
     started with just one argument name on the command line, it looks for a
     profile called name.prf in the .unison directory. If it is started with
     no arguments, it scans the .unison directory for files whose names end in
     .prf and offers a menu (when using the graphical user interface; for the
     text interface, you have to use the -i option). If a file named
     default.prf is found, its settings will be used as the default
     preferences.

     To set the value of a preference p permanently, add to the appropriate
     profile a line of the form

           p = true

     for a boolean flag or

           p = <value>

     for a preference of any other type.  Whitespaces around p and the value
     are ignored. A profile may also include blank lines and lines beginning
     with #; both are ignored.

     When Unison starts, it first reads the profile and then the command line,
     so command-line options will override settings from the profile.

TERMINATION
     When not synchronizing continuously, the text interface terminates when
     synchronization is finished normally or due to a fatal error occurring.

     In the text interface, to interrupt synchronization before it is
     finished, press Ctrl-C (or send signal SIGINT or SIGTERM).  This will
     interrupt update propagation as quickly as possible but still complete
     proper cleanup. If the process does not stop even after pressing Ctrl-C
     then keep doing it repeatedly. This will bypass cleanup procedures and
     terminates the process forcibly (similar to SIGKILL).  Doing so may leave
     the archives or replicas in an inconsistent state or locked.

     When synchronizing continuously (time interval repeat or with filesystem
     monitoring), interrupting with Ctrl-C or with signal SIGINT or SIGTERM
     works the same way as described above and will additionally stop the
     continuous process. To stop only the continuous process and let the last
     synchronization complete normally, send signal SIGUSR2 instead.

ENVIRONMENT
     UNISON  Unison stores a variety of information in a private directory on
             each host. If the environment variable UNISON is defined, then
             its value will be used as the path for this directory. This can
             be just a name, or a path. If UNISON is not defined, then the
             directory depends on which operating system you are using. In
             Unix, the default is to use $HOME/.unison.  In Windows, if the
             environment variable USERPROFILE is defined, then the directory
             will be $USERPROFILE\.unison; otherwise, it will be c:\.unison.
             On macOS, $HOME/.unison will be used if it is present, but
             $HOME/Library/Application Support/Unison will be created and used
             by default.

     UNISONLOCALHOSTNAME
             The function that finds the canonical hostname of the local host
             (which is used, for example, in calculating the name of the
             archive file used to remember which files have been synchronized)
             normally uses the gethostname operating system call. However, if
             the environment variable UNISONLOCALHOSTNAME is set, its value
             will be used instead. This makes it easier to use Unison in
             situations where a machine’s name changes frequently (e.g.,
             because it is a laptop and gets moved around a lot).

     UNISONBACKUPDIR
             When backups are stored centrally, the directory used to hold
             them is controlled by the preference backupdir and the
             environment variable UNISONBACKUPDIR.  If both are specified then
             the environment variable overrides the preference.  If neither of
             these are set, then the directory $UNISON/backup is used (see
             environment variable UNISON above).

     PAGER   Used by the text interface as the pager when displaying the
             differences between changed files.

     NO_COLOR
             If the environment variable NO_COLOR is set then Unison's text
             interface will not produce any color output by default. The color
             preference overrides this environment variable.

FILES
     ~/.unison
             Unison stores a variety of information in a private directory on
             each host.  This is the default path of this private directory.
             This path may be changed by the UNISON environment variable.

     ~/.unison/*.prf
             Profile files. Each profile is stored in a file named
             profilename.prf.

     ~/.unison/ar*
     ~/.unison/tm*
     ~/.unison/sc*
             Main and temporary archive files. These files may be deleted if
             you know what you are doing. Deleting an archive file is
             equivalent to using the -ignorearchives option.

     ~/.unison/fp*
             Fingerprint cache files. These files may be safely deleted. Keep
             in mind that deleting a fingerprint cache file means that any
             unsynchronized changes must be scanned again. Depending on your
             replicas, this may mean scanning gigabytes of file contents.

     ~/.unison/lk*
             Lock files indicating a running Unison process. These files may
             be deleted if you are careful and know that there is no Unison
             process currently running.  Deleting a lock file is equivalent to
             using the -ignorelocks option.

EXAMPLES
     Synchronize two local directories

             unison path/to/dir1 /dir2

       This command synchronizes two local directories using the default
       options.  Default options are defined by Unison and can be overridden
       by user in a profile called “default”, which is by default stored in
       file ~/.unison/default.prf

     Synchronize a local and a remote directory

             unison local/dir ssh://user@host//absolute/path

       This command synchronizes a local directory (here specified by a
       relative path) and a remote directory (here specified by an absolute
       path) using ssh(1) and the default options (see example above).

     Synchronize with all options specified in a profile

             unison profilename

       This command reads all the options from the profile named “profilename”
       and synchronizes according to those options.

     Synchronize with options specified in a profile and roots on command line

             unison profilename /path/to/dir ssh://host/path/on/server

       This command reads all options from the profile named “profilename”
       with only the roots specified on the command line. Roots must not be
       specified in the profile as the roots from command line will not
       override roots in the profile, rather append to the list of roots.

     Synchronize automatically

             unison -batch /path/to/dir ssh://host/path/on/server

       This command synchronizes all non-conflicting changes automatically,
       once.

     Synchronize continuously

             unison -repeat watch /path/to/dir ssh://host/path/on/server

       This command first fully synchronizes the roots and then remains
       dormant, waiting for any file changes within either root and then
       automatically synchronizes these changes. This also works in a profile
       (repeat = watch).  If the filesystem monitoring helper program is not
       available or not desired for other reasons, it is possible to make
       Unison synchronize repeatedly with a defined time interval:

             unison -repeat 60 /path/to/dir ssh://host/path/on/server

       This command synchronizes every 60 seconds. Using -repeat implies
       -batch.

       Currently, continuous synchronization is not possible when using the
       GUI.

DIAGNOSTICS
     When running in the textual mode, Unison returns an exit status, which
     describes whether, and at which level, the synchronization was
     successful. The exit status could be useful when Unison is invoked from a
     script. Currently, there are four possible values for the exit status:

     0  successful synchronization; everything is up-to-date now.

     1  some files were skipped, but all file transfers were successful.

     2  non-fatal failures occurred during file transfer.

     3  a fatal error occurred, or the execution was interrupted.

     The graphical interface does not return any useful information through
     the exit status.

COMPATIBILITY
     If you are using Unison versions ≥ 2.52 on all machines, you do not have
     to do anything extra for compatibility.

     Historically (versions < 2.52), Unison versions had to be matched
     relatively exactly for them to work together. Additionally, the version
     of compiler used to build Unison also had significant relevance for
     compatibility.

     As of version 2.52, Unison has a degree of backward and forward
     compatibility.  This means three things. First, it is possible for local
     and remote machines to run a different version of Unison. Second, it is
     possible for local and remote machines to run a version (same or
     different) of Unison built with a different version of compiler. Lastly,
     it is possible to upgrade Unison on the local machine and keep the
     existing archive.

     For more information on co-existence of versions < 2.52 and ≥ 2.52, see
     https://github.com/bcpierce00/unison/wiki/2.52-Migration-Guide

SEE ALSO
     There is a full user manual (pdf, html and txt) included with Unison and
     available online. Depending on your operating system, this manual may
     have been installed at /usr/share/doc/unison/ or a similar location. The
     manual can also be read in the GUI (look in the Help menu) or on the
     command line by unison -doc all (you probably want to pipe the output to
     a pager).

     https://github.com/bcpierce00/unison

unison                          March 17, 2022                          unison
