UNQUOTE(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             UNQUOTE(1)

NAME
     unquote – execute a program with safely quoted arguments

SYNOPSIS
     unquote [-f fields] [-0 | -N] [-hnpqRVv] fields command [args ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The unquote utility executes command with the specified arguments after
     unquoting the specified fields.  The fields argument, which may be
     specified in various ways, is a colon-delimited list of numbers,
     following the Unix/C convention that command is argument 0, args starting
     from 1.  Each argument in the list is interpreted as a hex-encoded
     string, with two hex digits for each character.

     The list of arguments to be quoted is constructed in the following way:
           •   The environment variable UNQUOTE_ARGS is examined, and if it is
               set, the string it contains is parsed as a fields list.
           •   Any -f arguments are parsed and added to the (possibly empty)
               list, not replacing any of its contents.
           •   The first non-option argument, fields, is examined, and also
               added to the (possibly empty) list, not replacing any of its
               contents.

     The following options are available:

     -0      If -n is also specified, separate arguments in the output with
             ASCII NUL characters (character code 0).  This option cannot be
             used at the same time as -N.

     -f fields
             Specify a list of args to unquote before executing command.

     -h      Display a short help message and exit.

     -N      If -n is also specified, separate arguments in the output with a
             newline.  This option cannot be used at the same time as -0.

     -n      Do not actually execute command, just print out its expanded
             form.

     -p      Do not search the environment variable PATH for the specified
             command.  If this flag is specified, unquote uses execv(3)
             instead of execvp(3) to execute the command.  In other words,
             command should be a full path to an executable program; PATH is
             not searched.

     -q      Quiet operation; even more quiet when more than one -q flag is
             specified.

     -R      Do the exact opposite of normal operation: quote the arguments
             instead of unquoting them.  Useful when one needs to test a
             program with a long quoted argument.

     -V      Display version information and exit.  When combined with one or
             more -v switches, unquote also attempts to display information
             about its build environment.

     -v      Verbose operation; even more verbose when more than one -v flag
             is specified.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables affect the execution of unquote:

     UNQUOTE_ARGS  Specify a list of args to unquote before executing command.

FILES
     None relevant in the present version.

EXAMPLES
           unquote 1 /bin/echo 54657374

     Display ‘Test’.

           unquote 2 /usr/local/vpopmail/bin/vadduser testuser 255465737424

     Add a vpopmail user ‘testuser’ with a password ‘%Test$’.

BUGS
     Should command-line fields and -f arguments override UNQUOTE_ARGS?

HISTORY
     Written by Peter Pentchev in 2001.

AUTHORS
     Peter Pentchev ⟨roam@ringlet.net⟩.

FreeBSD                          July 7, 2003                          FreeBSD
