curs_touch(3X)                                                  curs_touch(3X)



NAME
       touchwin, touchline, untouchwin, wtouchln, is_linetouched,
       is_wintouched - curses refresh control routines

SYNOPSIS
       #include <curses.h>
       int touchwin(WINDOW *win);
       int touchline(WINDOW *win, int start, int count);
       int untouchwin(WINDOW *win);
       int wtouchln(WINDOW *win, int y, int n, int changed);
       bool is_linetouched(WINDOW *win, int line);
       bool is_wintouched(WINDOW *win);

DESCRIPTION
       The touchwin and touchline routines throw away all optimization
       information about which parts of the window have been touched, by
       pretending that the entire window has been drawn on.  This is sometimes
       necessary when using overlapping windows, since a change to one window
       affects the other window, but the records of which lines have been
       changed in the other window do not reflect the change.  The routine
       touchline only pretends that count lines have been changed, beginning
       with line start.

       The untouchwin routine marks all lines in the window as unchanged since
       the last call to wrefresh.

       The wtouchln routine makes n lines in the window, starting at line y,
       look as if they have (changed=1) or have not (changed=0) been changed
       since the last call to wrefresh.

       The is_linetouched and is_wintouched routines return TRUE if the
       specified line/window was modified since the last call to wrefresh;
       otherwise they return FALSE.  In addition, is_linetouched returns ERR
       if line is not valid for the given window.

RETURN VALUE
       All routines return the integer ERR upon failure and an integer value
       other than ERR upon successful completion, unless otherwise noted in
       the preceding routine descriptions.

       X/Open does not define any error conditions.  In this implementation

          is_linetouched
               returns an error if the window pointer is null, or if the line
               number is outside the window.

               The constant ERR is distinct from TRUE and FALSE, which are the
               normal return values of this function.  Because the function
               returns a bool, returning ERR (which is neither TRUE nor FALSE)
               may not be supported by the compiler.

               To provide error-checking and also match the X/Open function
               prototype, the ERR is provided by a macro named is_linetouched.
               The actual function returns FALSE when it detects an error.

          wtouchln
               returns an error if the window pointer is null, or if the line
               number is outside the window.

PORTABILITY
       These functions were introduced by SVr4.  The Solaris curses header
       file, for instance, defines both an actual function and macro for each.
       The macros give the same result as the actual functions.  SVr4 curses
       does not check the window parameter win to ensure that it is not NULL;
       otherwise this implementation behaves the same as SVr4.

       The XSI Curses standard, Issue 4 describes these functions, but defines
       no error conditions.

NOTES
       All of these routines except wtouchln may be macros.

SEE ALSO
       curses(3X), curs_refresh(3X), curs_variables(3X).



                                                                curs_touch(3X)
