UQM(6)                       FreeBSD Games Manual                       UQM(6)

NAME
     uqm – The Ur‐Quan Masters – space exploration game

SYNOPSIS
     uqm [-bcCfghklMnopqsSTuwx] [-i style] [-m soundtrack] [-r resolution]
         [--addon addon] [--cscan style] [--font font] [--menu style] [--safe]
         [--scroll style] [--shield style] [--sound] [--stereosfx]

DESCRIPTION
     uqm is a port of the epic space game The Ur‐Quan Masters.

     The default settings for an uqm install are 3DO music, 640×480 windowed
     mode, and pure SDL graphics drivers.  You may pass various command line
     options to customize your experience.

     The options are as follows:

     -b, --meleezoom mode
             Melee zooming mode (pc or 3do); step is an alias for pc and
             smooth is an alias for 3do.  Default is 3do.  Slower machine
             owners can set it to pc to get better performance in melee.

     -C dir, --configdir dir
             Sets the directory where the game will store the config data.

     -c mode, --scale mode
             Graphics scaling mode (bilinear, biadapt, biadv, triscan, hq or
             none).  Default is none.  Try these to get smoother graphics, at
             a performance cost.

     -f, --fullscreen
             Uses full screen mode.  The opposite of -w.

     -g val, --gamma val
             Sets gamma correction.  1.0 causes no change (unless your
             graphics card is originally set to a different value).  Higher
             than 1.0 makes the image brighter, lower than 1.0 makes it
             darker.

     -h, --help
             Display a help message.

     -i style, --intro style
             With 3do, use the 3DO intro and ending movies (if you have them).
             With pc, use the PC intro and ending sequences and slide shows.
             Defaults to 3do.  Regardless of which option is selected, the PC
             sequences will be used if you do not have the 3DO movies.

     -k, --keepaspectratio
             Keep 4:3 aspect ratio when using custom resolutions.

     -l file, --logfile file
             Set a file to receive the diagnostic information that would
             otherwise go to the console.

     -M volume, --musicvol volume
             Set music volume (0–100).

     -m soundtrack, --music soundtrack
             Select either the 3DO remixed soundtrack with 3do or the
             .MOD‐based PC soundtrack with pc.  Defaults to 3do for songs that
             were in fact remixed.

     -n dir, --contentdir dir
             Set the directory where the game will seek its data.

     -o, --opengl
             Use OpenGL drivers.  This produces higher‐quality graphics, and
             may be faster as well – but it also may not work on older cards.
             It also permits use of any screen resolution.  The opposite of
             -x.

     -p, --fps
             Print fps information in the status window.

     -q setting, --audioquality setting
             Can be high, medium, or low.  Specifies how nice the audio
             sounds.  Slower machines should lower the audio quality.

     -r resolution, --res resolution
             Sets the screen resolution.  Unless --opengl is set, the only
             valid values are “640x480” and “320x240”.

     -S volume, --sfxvol volume
             Set sound effects volume (0–100).

     -s, --scanlines
             Simulates interlaced displays.

     -T volume, --speechvol volume
             Set speech volume (0–100).  If set to 0, the game runs in ‘no
             speech’ mode and the oscilloscope reacts to the music.

     -u, --nosubtitles
             Disables subtitles.

     -w, --windowed
             Displays the game in a window.  The opposite of -f.

     -x, --nogl
             Do not use OpenGL drivers.  This is more likely to run on systems
             with poor or no 3D acceleration, and is often faster, especially
             on older or less well supported cards.  Only the 320×240 and
             640×480 resolutions are available when not using OpenGL.  The
             opposite of -o.

     --addon name
             Enable the named add‐on in the game.  See the ADD‐ONS section for
             details.

     --cscan style
             When scanning planets, display information using text (with pc)
             or pictograms (with 3do).  Defaults to pc.

     --font style
             Use PC‐style fonts and colors (with pc) or 3DO‐style (with 3do).
             Defaults to pc.

     --menu style
             In menus, display options as text (with pc) or pictograms (with
             3do).  Defaults to pc.

     --safe  Start the game in safe mode.  Safe mode will ignore stored user
             settings, like resolution, fullscreen mode, sound driver, etc.
             This is useful if you have somehow wrecked your configuration
             files and cannot get to the in‐game setup menu to change the
             settings.

     --scroll style
             Using the left/right arrow keys, scroll voiceovers and subtitles
             one page at a time (with pc) or smoothly (with 3do).  Defaults to
             pc.

     --shield style
             Use the CPU‐intensive, 3DO‐style throbbing slave shield graphic
             (with 3do) or the PC‐style static slave shield graphic (with pc).
             Defaults to pc.

     --sound driver
             Specifies which sound driver/mixer to use.  Can be openal,
             mixsdl, or none.  openal is only available when it has been
             compiled in.  It may produce higher‐quality sound and will
             probably be faster, but it is not very stable on Linux platforms,
             and may not work well with some sound cards.  Use none as a last
             resort if you cannot get other drivers to work, or if you have no
             sound card.

     --stereosfx
             Enables positional sound effects in melee.  Currently works only
             when using openal.

STARTING THE GAME
     Simply invoke the uqm program to run the game.  After a splash screen,
     you will see the main menu, which has five options:

     New Game      Begins a new Full Game.  This is a galaxy‐spanning space
                   adventure full of diplomacy, exploration, combat, high
                   treason, and low cunning.  The introductory cutscenes will
                   set the scene; the below section THE STORY SO FAR provides
                   more extensive backstory for the curious.

     Load Game     Restores a Full Game session that was saved earlier.

     Super Melee!  Puts the game in Super Melee mode, where you may hone your
                   space combat skills or challenge your friends to fleet
                   battles.  See the SUPER MELEE section below for details on
                   this game mode.

     Setup         Lets you configure many options to customize your play
                   experience.  Most options will take effect once you exit
                   the setup menu; a few specially marked options require you
                   to restart uqm.  Setup options are preserved across
                   sessions.

     Quit          Exits the program.

CONTROLS SUMMARY
   General Game Controls
     F1 or Pause  Pause game
     F10          Exit game
     F11          Toggle between fullscreen and windowed mode

   Full Game Controls
     Space flight:
     Up                    Thrust
     Left and Right        Steer
     Space or Right Shift  Main Menu

     Menus:
     Arrow keys                      Scroll through selections
     Enter or Right Ctrl             Make selection
     Space or Right Shift or Escape  Up one level

     Conversations:
     Left and Right        Rewind/Forward
     Up and Down           Scroll through selections
     Enter or Right Ctrl   Make selection
     Space or Right Shift  Skip, Show/Hide summary

     Star Map:
     Arrow Keys            Move the crosshair
     Enter or Right Ctrl   Select destination
     Space or Right Shift  Main menu
     Keypad +              Zoom in
     Keypad -              Zoom out
     /                     Begin search.  (Type star or constellation name to
                           find matches)
     Tab                   Jump to next match

     Space Combat:
     Up                   Thrust
     Left and Right       Steer
     Right Ctrl or Enter  Fire Primary Weapon
     Right Shift          Fire Secondary Weapon
     Escape               Emergency Warp Escape

     Planet Exploration:
     Up                     Forward
     Left and Right         Steer
     Right Ctrl or Enter    Fire stun bolt
     Right Shift or Escape  Blast off

   Melee Controls
     Top Player:
     W        Thrust
     A and D  Steer
     V        Fire Primary Weapon
     B        Fire Secondary Weapon

     Bottom Player:
     Up or Enter          Thrust
     Left and Right       Steer
     Right Ctrl or Enter  Fire Primary Weapon
     Right Shift          Fire Secondary Weapon

     These controls are configurable from the Setup Menu.  You may define up
     to six “Input Templates” and assign a template to either or both players.
     Some commonly used key configurations are pre‐defined, as well as popular
     variants.  To change key bindings, select the binding you wish to change
     and press Enter.  At the dialog box, press the key (or joystick gesture)
     that you wish to assign to this action.

SAVED GAMES
     The saved games are kept in your personal directory for uqm data.  This
     directory is automatically created the first time you start the game.  On
     Unix systems this personal uqm data is stored in ~/.uqm.

     You will generally only need to know this if you intend to transfer
     savegames to another computer.

INTERPLANETARY EXPLORATION
     When in a Solar system, use the thrust and steering controls to move
     about the system.  Intersecting a planet will move you to the planetary
     system; flying over a planet or moon will then put you into orbit.  From
     there you can talk to the inhabitants, or, if the planet is uninhabited,
     send a lander down to gather minerals, investigate energy readings, or
     capture life forms.

PLANET LANDING
     To land on a planet, you need to achieve orbit, then fill a planet lander
     with crew and send them down.  You will usually want to scan the planet
     first.  Mineral scans will indicate easily harvestable mineral ores and
     other resources.  Energy scans will indicate unusual installations, which
     will effectively always be worth investigating.  Biological scans will
     show where life forms are on the surface.

     Minerals are necessary for building up and maintaining your flagship, so
     harvest them wherever you can.  There are nine varieties, each color
     coded:

     •   Common elements (carbon, nitrogen) are cyan.  Worth 1 resource unit
         (RU) per unit.

     •   Corrosives (chlorine, iodine) are red.  2 RU per unit.

     •   Base metals (iron, tin) are grey.  These are common, and usually
         worth harvesting, but not terribly valuable.  3 RU per unit.

     •   Noble gases (argon, xenon) are blue.  4 RU per unit.

     •   Rare earths (lanthanum, ytterbium) are green.  5 RU per unit.

     •   Precious elements (gold, silver) are yellow.  6 RU per unit.

     •   Radioactives (uranium, astatine) are orange.  8 RU per unit.

     •   Exotics (antimatter, magnetic monopoles) are purple, and a princely
         25 RU per cargo unit.

     Minerals may be unloaded at Earth Starbase by talking to Commander Hayes,
     which will give you RU that you may spend to upgrade your flagship.

     However, there are many hazards on planetary surfaces.  Life forms are
     often hostile, and need to be subdued with your stunner or evaded.
     Earthquakes (expanding circles) can hurt your crew, lightning may crisp
     them, or lava flows and hotspots can fry them.  Be careful, especially on
     hotter or more seismically and atmospherically active worlds.  If your
     crew level starts dropping dramatically, flee quickly with the Escape
     key!

     Stunned life forms may be captured and analyzed by your planet landers.
     The information you gain from this may not be immediately useful, but it
     will eventually come in handy.

     Landing on a planet costs fuel, and the heavier the planet, the more fuel
     it requires.  Make sure you don’t spend so much fuel exploring planets
     that you can’t get back to Sol!

INTERSTELLAR TRAVEL
     When you leave a solar system, you will push up into HyperSpace.  In
     HyperSpace you can travel great distances quickly, but you must
     continuously thrust to move.  Otherwise, you will gradually slow to a
     stop.

     While you can fly about in HyperSpace just like you do in a star system,
     the Galaxy is Large, and you will usually want to use the Auto-Pilot.  To
     use the Auto-Pilot, select “Starmap” on the menu.  This will show you a
     map of the quadrant (the galactic Core is in the upper right corner).  To
     fly to a location, move the cursor there and press Enter.  Then press
     Space to engage the Auto-Pilot.

DIPLOMACY
     When you encounter an alien starship, you will usually get a picture of
     their task force and a chance to choose between conversation and
     fighting.  If you choose to fight, you will transition immediately to
     space combat (below).  Otherwise, you will talk first.  If talks go
     poorly, space combat will likely ensue.

     If the task force shows ships streaming off in all directions, you have
     reached a fortified world, and there are an unlimited number of starships
     facing you.  You cannot win such a fight – if combat ensues, you will
     need to warp out.

SPACE COMBAT
     When combat begins, you are prompted to select a ship from your task
     force.  A one-on-one space combat then begins, and continues until either
     the enemy fleet is destroyed (in which case you salvage the wrecks and
     continue the game), your flagship is destroyed (ending the game), or your
     flagship warps out of combat (consuming 5 fuel units but ending the
     encounter).

     Each ship has two major stats: Crew and Combat Battery.  Crew are
     effectively hit points.  Getting hit by weapons kills crew, and if all
     crew are eliminated, the craft is destroyed.  Firing weapons typically
     requires energy from the combat batteries, which is replaced over time.
     The precise speed of energy regeneration and cost of weapons fire varies
     by ship.

     Space flight is mostly inertial (you’ll drift if you stop thrusting), but
     each ship has a maximum velocity that can only be exceeding by “gravity
     whipping” around the planet.  Don’t hit the planet unless you want to
     take lots of damage.

     Each ship has a primary and secondary weapon mode, unique to that race’s
     craft.  The descriptions of those follow.

   Ship Descriptions
     Androsynth Guardian
     Primary weapon: Fires homing acid bubble clouds.
     Secondary weapon: Transforms into the ‘Blazer’, a comet that does
     considerable damage by ramming its opponents.

     Ariloulaleelay Skiff
     Primary weapon: Auto‐aiming, short‐range laser.
     Secondary weapon: Random teleport.
     Note: The Skiff is inertia-less, and stops instantly when thrust is
     removed.

     Chenjesu Broodhome
     Primary weapon: Crystal Shard.  Travels until the fire button is
     released, then shatters.
     Secondary weapon: De‐energizing Offensive Guided Interceptor.  Launches
     an autonomous DOGI that rams the opponent to drain their combat
     batteries.

     Chmmr Avatar
     Primary weapon: Immensely powerful short-range laser.
     Secondary weapon: Tractor beam.
     Note: Has three orbiting “ZapSats” that attack anything that gets in
     range.

     Druuge Mauler
     Primary weapon: Long range, high‐recoil cannon.
     Secondary weapon: Sets one crew on fire to gain combat energy.

     Earthling Cruiser
     Primary weapon: Homing nuclear missile.
     Secondary weapon: Point-defense laser.

     Ilwrath Avenger
     Primary weapon: Short‐range flamethrower.
     Secondary weapon: Cloaking device.

     Kohr‐Ah Marauder
     Primary weapon: Spinning blades that stop and home when the fire button
     is released.
     Secondary weapon: Fiery Ring of Inevitable and Eternal Destruction
     (F.R.I.E.D.), a short‐range corona of energy that blocks shots and
     inflicts lots of damage.

     Melnorme Trader
     Primary weapon: Charged shot.  The longer the fire button is held, the
     stronger the shot.
     Secondary weapon: Confusion beam that scrambles enemy controls.

     Mmrnmhrm X‐Form
     Primary weapon: Lasers (X-form) or homing missiles (Y-form).
     Secondary weapon: Switch between X-Form and Y-Form.

     Mycon Podship
     Primary weapon: Homing Plasmoid.
     Secondary weapon: Regenerate 4 crew.

     Orz Nemesis
     Primary weapon: Howitzer cannon.
     Secondary weapon: Secondary with left and right arrows rotates the
     primary cannon.  Secondary with Primary launches space marines that
     invade the enemy ship and kill their crew.

     Pkunk Fury
     Primary weapon: Three‐way cannon.
     Secondary weapon: Fling insults at opponent.  This is the only way the
     Pkunk can regenerate combat energy.
     Note: On occasion, a destroyed Fury will be resurrected with full fuel
     and power.

     Shofixti Scout
     Primary weapon: Energy Dart.
     Secondary weapon: Glory Device.  When pressed three times, the ship will
     self‐destruct, inflicting vast damage on nearby vessels.

     Slylandro Probe
     Primary weapon: Lighting weapon.
     Secondary weapon: Absorb a nearby asteroid and convert to combat power.
     This is the only way the Probe can recharge.
     Note: The Probe is inertia‐less and always in motion.  Pressing thrust
     will reverse its direction.

     Spathi Eluder
     Primary weapon: Simple forward cannon.
     Secondary weapon: Backward Utilized Tracking Torpedo (B.U.T.T.), a homing
     missile fired from the rear of the vessel.

     Supox Blade
     Primary weapon: Forward firing glob weapon.
     Secondary weapon: Secondary + left or right will cause you to drift
     laterally, while Secondary + thrust will make you fly backwards.  This
     cancels your current velocity, so be careful!

     Syreen Penetrator
     Primary weapon: Particle Beam Stiletto.
     Secondary weapon: “Syreen Call” – psychic attack that induces enemy crew
     to jump ship, where you (or your opponent) may capture them to add to
     your complement.

     Thraddash Torch
     Primary weapon: Straightforward blaster cannon.
     Secondary weapon: Afterburner.  The afterburner exhaust does more damage
     then the blaster, so use it as a weapon!

     Umgah Drone
     Primary weapon: Anti‐Matter cone.  Does not require combat batteries to
     use.
     Secondary weapon: Fly backwards suddenly and at high speed.
     Note: The Drone only recharges batteries if you do not fire for a long
     time, and then the energy all returns in one lump.

     Ur‐Quan Dreadnought
     Primary weapon: Fusion Blast.
     Secondary weapon: Launches autonomous fighters to harass the enemy.  When
     they run low on fuel, they will fly back to the Dreadnought.  Catch them
     before they expire.  Each fighter requires one crew to pilot it, so take
     care not to weaken the core ship.

     Utwig Jugger
     Primary weapon: Six‐shot cannon.  Requires no combat battery energy to
     fire.
     Secondary weapon: Force shield.  Absorbing hits re‐energizes your
     batteries.  When the batteries are exhausted, the shield is permanently
     disabled until combat ends.

     VUX Intruder
     Primary weapon: Gigawatt laser.
     Secondary weapon: Limpet mines that track enemy ships and slow them down
     dramatically if they hit.

     Yehat Terminator
     Primary weapon: Twin autocannons.
     Secondary weapon: Force shield.

     Zoq‐Fot‐Pik Stinger
     Primary weapon: Anti‐matter spray gun.
     Secondary weapon: “Tongue attack”, a point‐blank range attack that does
     grievous damage.

SUPER MELEE
     Super Melee mode is pure combat.  It’s designed to let you hone your
     skills for the full game, or to challenge your friends to fleet matches.
     Selecting “Super Melee!” from the main menu will bring you to the super
     melee main screen.

     This screen is dominated by the fleet design screen.  Move the cursor
     over a ship slot and press Enter to change the ship assignment, or press
     Delete to remove the ship.  You may select the fleet name and press Enter
     to edit the fleet name to something of your choice.  The number next to
     the fleet name lists the fleet strength; this is simply the sum of the
     point values of all ships in the fleet.

     The right hand side of the screen has buttons for managing the battle.
     Each side has four buttons associated with it: LOAD, SAVE, CONTROL, and
     NET.  The LOAD and SAVE buttons let you load and save fleets.  A variety
     of fleets of various strengths are pre‐defined, and you may add your own
     by saving fleets you design.

     The Control button has one of five settings.  Human Control puts the
     fleet under the control of a human player.  (The precise controls for
     that player are set in the Setup menu, but the bottom player’s controls
     are always the same as the full game’s controls.)  Then there are three
     levels of computer control:

     •   Weak Cyborg is not a particularly good shot, and will only use
         special weapons if the ship absolutely requires the special weapon to
         function at all (Pkunk, Slylandro).  This difficulty level only
         appears in the full game when fighting crippled ships.

     •   Good Cyborg will actually use its special weapon, but it’s still not
         much of a threat.  The Good cyborg provides a gentle introduction to
         Star Control combat if you are unfamiliar with the gameplay.
         However, you will soon wish to switch to...

     •   Awesome Cyborg.  The AI will fully exploit each ship’s abilities, and
         is also a tolerably good shot, compensating for inertia and choosing
         its shots.  Enemies you meet in the full game are almost always
         piloted at this level.  If a battle is giving you trouble in the full
         game, this is the setting you want.

     The last control option is Network Control, which will be set if that
     side is controlled by a non‐local opponent.  To set up a network game,
     push the Net button on the side you wish to be under your opponent‐s
     control.

     In order to connect, you must agree on a port (the default is 21837,
     which should not require any change) and set a net delay in frames.  To
     compensate for network lag, a keypress or keyrelease will only take
     effect after this many frames.  While higher values make your ship seem
     to respond more sluggishly, they give the keypress information more time
     to reach the remote party.  If the game stutters, this is because it is
     waiting for this keypress information to arrive, which is an indication
     that the input delay is too low.  Super Melee runs at 24 frames per
     second, each frame delayed will delay the input by about 42 ms.  The
     delay used is the maximum of the desired value for both parties.  The
     default is 2.  Values lower than 4 are typically acceptable in terms of
     responsiveness.  Future versions may automatically decide on the best
     value to use.

     Once the port and delay are set, one player must select the first option
     (Wait for incoming connection), while the other enters his opponent‐s
     hostname or IP address into the Host field and then pushes “Connect”.
     Once the connection is established, the control scheme for the remote
     player will flip to Network Control to register the connection.  To
     disconnect, change it away back to one of the Human or Cyborg options.
     Once connected, you are both free to edit your fleets to provide a
     properly balanced battle.

     Once all fleets are in readiness, press the Battle button in the center
     right.  (In a network game, both players must select it with no
     intervening fleet edits.  Moving away from Battle or having your opponent
     change their fleet will cancel your readiness state, and you will need to
     reselect the Battle button.)  When all players are ready, the battle
     begins.

     The ship selection screen is much as it would be in the full game, with
     two notable exceptions: a question mark in the upper right allows you to
     select a new ship randomly from those remaining, and a red X allows you
     to exit the combat entirely.  (It is also possible to exit the melee at
     any time by pressing F10, just as one can exit anything.)  If nobody
     quits, the combat will continue until one side has been completely
     destroyed.  At this point, both fleets are shown so that one may compare
     initial and remaining fleet strengths.  Press a key to return to the
     melee menu.

     To return to the main menu after finishing with Super Melee mode, push
     the Quit button in the lower right.

THE STORY SO FAR
     For the past decade, Earth and the rest of the Alliance of Free Stars has
     fought the Ur‐Quan and their Hierarchy of Battle Thralls.  In the course
     of the War, the Earthlings discovered a factory world by the ‘Precursors’
     – an impossibly advanced that disappeared tens of thousands of years ago.
     This colony, Unzervalt (aka Vela I), lost all contact with Earth shortly
     after landfall.

     You are Captain Zelnick, a human who was born on Unzervalt and who
     possesses a remarkable knack for Precursor technology.  You were the one
     who worked out how to activate the Precursor installation.

     It was a factory for building starships.  However, Unzervalt is
     mineral‐poor, and there were not enough materials available to construct
     a complete vessel.  Your task is to command this craft, the Vindicator,
     and return to Earth to tell them of the abandoned colony.  Also, if the
     War with the Ur‐Quan continues, you must fight for Earth and the Alliance
     as best you can.

     There is a great deal more to this story.  Asking Starbase Commander
     Hayes for background information will give you most of it.

ADD‐ONS
     uqm has basic support for add‐on packages.  Though it is not very
     elaborate yet, you can install some content add‐ons.  Add‐ons created for
     UQM releases prior to v0.7 are not compatible with this release.

     Inside the directory where the content is installed, in the content/
     directory, there is a directory addons/.  In this directory, you can
     place add‐on packages, like 3domusic, 3dovoice, remix and others, or
     create new directories with .zip files to be used in addition te the
     standard content .zip files.  Each add‐on must contain at least one .rmp
     file to tell the game which resources the add‐on provides.  When you
     specify the command‐ line option --addon addon, the .zip files inside the
     directory content/addons/addon will be included in the game.  --addon may
     be specified more than once to enable multiple add‐ons.

     3domusic, 3dovoice, and remix are intended to be used as add‐ons, and can
     be turned on and off from the in‐game setup menu.

BUGS
     After several years of enthusiastic testing, uqm has dramatically
     improved its stability, but it is still beta software, and bugs certainly
     still lurk.  Upon finding a problem, we’d like you to report it, but
     before you do, please do the following:

     •   Try to isolate what causes it: “Crashes with a null dereference about
         half the time when firing and taunting with a Pkunk” is better than
         “Melee doesn’t work”.  If the game crashes, notice what error is
         produced; if the game hangs, check to see if the game‐exit key (F12)
         works.

     •   Go to the bug database: http://bugs.uqm.stack.nl/ and post a report
         of the problem there.  Search the database first to see if it has
         been already posted; if we get many duplicate reports, processing
         them eats our time from actual development.  If it’s been reported,
         and you have more information, feel free to confirm that you’ve
         reproduced it by adding a comment to the report.  If ten people have
         already confirmed it, though, it’s probably best to treat it as duly
         reported.

     •   Whenever possible, for bugs that only occur under certain conditions,
         include a save game with your bug report that duplicates the bug.  In
         the case of a crash, a stack trace can be very helpful for us too.
         If you don’t know what a stack trace is, don’t worry about it.

     •   If your issue is more like “support request” than bug report and you
         want help from other users, then it might be more appropriate to post
         it to our forum: http://uqm.stack.nl/forum/.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 28, 2014           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
