URBACKUPSRV(1)          FreeBSD General Commands Manual         URBACKUPSRV(1)

NAME
       urbackupsrv - Network file and image backup server

SYNOPSIS
       This binary starts the UrBackup server and some other tools.  UrBackup
       is a server for backing up clients via a network. Only few settings can
       be modified via command line arguments to the binary - mainly logging
       options and ports for the web interface.  For all other settings please
       use the web interface.

DESCRIPTION
       Following actions are available. Get specific command help with
       urbackupsrv <command> --help


       run    Run UrBackup server

       verify-hashes
              Verify file backup hashes

       remove-unknown
              Remove unknown files and directories from backup storage and fix
              symbolic links in backup storage

       reset-pw
              Reset web interface administrator password

       cleanup
              Cleanup file/image backups from backup storage

       repair-database
              Try to repair UrBackup database

       defrag-database
              Rebuild UrBackup database

       export-auth-log
              Export authentication log to csv file

       decompress-file
              Decompress UrBackup compressed file

       mount-vhd
              Mount VHD file

       assemble
              Assemble VHD(Z) volumes into one disk VHD file


EXAMPLES
       urbackupsrv run --http-port 80 --loglevel debug --daemon


ENVIRONMENT
       UrBackup server uses the temporary directory quite heavily, if
       configured to do so.  If you do not have enough space in the default
       location (/tmp) you should modify the temporary directory location
       before running urbackupsrv. E.g. by export TMPDIR=/media/BIGDRIVE/tmp


FILES
       /var/urbackup/ Database and web interface files location


CEVEATS
       UrBackup server starts as user "urbackup" per default and as such has
       limited rights.  Please assure that urbackup has read/write rights on
       above locations, the specified backup folder and the temporary
       directory.

                                                                URBACKUPSRV(1)
