URELAY(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              URELAY(1)

NAME
     urelay – a UCSPI-based relay

SYNOPSIS
     urelay [-hqVv] [-M msgsrc] [-m msgdst] [-S ignsrc] [-s igndst]

DESCRIPTION
     The urelay tool is a simple relay client, based on Prof. Daniel J.
     Bernstein's UCSPI input/output framework.  It expects to be executed by a
     UCSPI client application, and relays all data received on the standard
     input to the UCSPI output channel, and all data received on the UCSPI
     input channel to the standard output.

     The following options are available:

     -h      Display a short help message and exit.

     -M msgsrc
             Send the specified string to the incoming connection as soon as
             the forwarding tunnel has been established.

     -m msgdst
             Send the specified string to the outgoing connection as soon as
             the forwarding tunnel has been established.

     -S ignsrc
             If the incoming connection's data stream starts with the
             specified string, ignore it - do not send it to the outgoing
             connection.

     -s igndst
             If the outgoing connection's data stream starts with the
             specified string, ignore it - do not send it to the incoming
             connection.

     -q      Quiet operation.  urelay is even more quiet when more than one -q
             flag is specified.

     -V      Display version information and exit.  When combined with one or
             more -v switches,

     -v      Verbose operation.  urelay is even more verbose when more than
             one -v flag is specified.  urelay also attempts to display
             information about its build environment.

ENVIRONMENT
     Not taken in consideration in the present version.

FILES
     None relevant in the present version.

BUGS
     There should be a way to specify non-socket-specific behavior, e.g. skip
     fcntl(2) and shutdown(2) calls.

HISTORY
     The urelay utility and this manual page was written by Peter Pentchev in
     2002.

AUTHORS
     Peter Pentchev ⟨roam@ringlet.net⟩.

FreeBSD                          July 16, 2003                         FreeBSD
