USB_TEMPLATE(4)        FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual        USB_TEMPLATE(4)

NAME
     usb_template – USB device side templates

SYNOPSIS
     To compile this module into the kernel, place the following line in your
     kernel configuration file:

           device usb_template

     To load the module at boot time, place the following line in
     loader.conf(5):

           usb_template_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION
     The usb_template module implements various USB templates that are needed
     when programming an USB device side driver.  A USB template consists of
     an USB device descriptor, one or more USB configuration descriptors, one
     or more USB interface descriptors, one or more USB endpoint descriptors,
     USB strings and additional USB descriptors.  USB templates are selected
     using the hw.usb.template sysctl and tunable, or by using the
     usbconfig(8) set_template subcommand.  Changing the hw.usb.template
     sysctl triggers reenumeration by the USB host; changes to other sysctls
     may not be visible to the host until reenumeration is performed.

     Available templates are:

        Value    Description
        0        USB Mass Storage, see cfumass(4)
        1        CDC Ethernet, see cdce(4)
        2        Media Transfer Protocol (MTP)
        3        USB serial port, see umodem(4)
        4        USB audio
        5        USB keyboard
        6        USB mouse
        7        USB phone
        8        CDC Ethernet and serial port
        9        USB MIDI
        10       CDC Ethernet, serial port, and storage
        11       CDC Ethernet Emulation Model, see cdceem(4)

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following variables are available as both sysctl(8) variables and
     loader(8) tunables:

     hw.usb.template
             Currently selected template.  Set to -1 to make the device
             disappear from the USB host point of view.

     hw.usb.template_power
             USB bus power consumption in mA at 5V.  Must be between 0 and
             500.  Setting to 0 marks the device as self-powered.  Defaults to
             500mA.

     hw.usb.templates.N
             Configuration for template number N.

     hw.usb.templates.N.vendor_id
             16-bit vendor identifier (VID), usually assigned by USB-IF.

     hw.usb.templates.N.product_id
             16-bit product identifier (PID).

     hw.usb.templates.N.manufacturer
             String containing human-readable manufacturer name.

     hw.usb.templates.N.product
             String containing human-readable product name.

SEE ALSO
     cfumass(4), usb(4), usfs(4), usbconfig(8)

STANDARDS
     The usb_template module complies to the USB 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 standard.

HISTORY
     The usb_template module was written by Hans Petter Selasky
     <hselasky@FreeBSD.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         August 7, 2019         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
