utftp(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               utftp(1)

NAME
       utftp - a simple TFTP client

SYNOPSIS
       utftp [options] SERVER[:PORT] remote-file-name [local-file-name]

DESCRIPTION
       utftp sends and receives files with the TFTP protocol.

       The default is to receive files. To change that use the --put option,
       or rename the program so that it's name contains the three characters
       put (or create a link: ln utftp utftp-put).


OPTIONS
       -b SIZE, --blocksize SIZE
              try to use blocks of SIZE size instead of 512. Size may be
              between 512 and 65464, but i don't believe something larger then
              32768 will work (aside from that it wouldn't be that useful).
              Depending on you system you may not be able do get anything
              transfered with blocksizes as low a 4096.

              Common UNIX tftp servers ignore all options. In that case 512
              will be used, regardless of your wishes.

              Note: this client is not intended for real use now. It logs all
              errors through syslogd, and it's interface is rather ugly. But
              you might find it useful anyway: it knows about the blocksize
              option.


       -g, --get
              get a file from the server.


       -n, --netascii
              Use netascii conversion (this doesn't hurt, except for
              performance, and is not really useful).


       -p, --put
              put a file on the server.


       -t TIMEOUT, --timeout TIMEOUT
              use a timeout (for retries) of TIMEOUT seconds instead of 5.
              TIMEOUT must be between 1 and 255 inclusively.

              utftp will send an timeout option to the server (to make it use
              the same timeout value), but common UNIX tftp servers ignore all
              options, in which case the server will still use a timeout of 5
              seconds (usually).


       In case i screwed something up: short options use the same arguments as
       the long ones


EXITCODES
       utftp will exit using one of the following exit codes:

       0      OK, action completed as requested.

       1      local error (out of memory, can't create/read file, and so on)

       2      usage error.

       3      timed out.

       4      communication problem (TFTP protocol error).

       5      network problem.

       6      received some kind of error (like access denied).

       7      undefined.


SEE ALSO
       RFC 1350, RFC 2349, RFC 2348.

                                                                      utftp(1)
