UZAP(LOCAL)                                                        UZAP(LOCAL)

uzap - unix zap, a visual binary file editor.

SYNOPSIS
       uzap [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       Uzap is a general purpose interactive binary file editor.  Using this
       program, you can modify text and instructions in an otherwise
       inaccessible file.  This is a full screen program that is compatable
       with VT100 series terminals.  When a file is loaded, you will see both
       a hex, and an ascii representation of it.  Non-printable ascii
       characters will appear as a '-'.  Actual hyphens will appear in bold.
       When you load a file, the filesize will appear, and you will be
       presented with a menu of commands.  You may now browse through the file
       with the cursor keys.  Down-arrow will move you one 240 character page
       ahead, up-arrow will move you back.  Right-arrow will jump you to the
       end of the file, left will go to the beginning.  This program was
       designed to take no time to learn how to use with minimal loss of
       function.  Any comments and bug reports will be appretiated.  If you
       have ideas for additional features (except inserting data), please send
       them to me.

COMMANDS
       Load will read the binary image, a file could also have been specified
       as a command line argument.  You must give the full path name to the
       file, ~username/file will not do (yet).

       Save will write the file back to disk.  If you just hit return, the
       original filename will be used, and the original file will be
       overwitten.

       Quit will exit the program.  If the file was modified, it will ask you
       to verify the quit.  On an unmodified file, it will just exit.  This is
       the only way to exit, as Control-C has been disabled (the program will
       enter a Control-C into the binary if you hit it while in ascii editing
       mode).

       Hex edit will edit the file in the hex window.  In this window, you may
       only enter hex digits.  Use the cursor keys to move around.  If you do
       this to fast, as with auto-repeat, an escape character or two may
       appear on the screen.  Control-L will refresh the display.  Hit ESC
       twice to exit this mode.

       Asc edit for ascii editing mode.  You may type most characters,
       including control characters.  Control-L will refresh the screen, so if
       you want to enter one of those, you must put a 0C in the hex window.
       Control-S and Control-Q are also not enterable in the ascii window.
       Backspace will not back you up, it will enter a backspace character
       into the data, use the left-arrow key if you make a mistake.  Hit ESC
       twice to return to command mode.

       Undo!  will remove any modifications from the last edit session.  It is
       only a single level undo, that is, you cannot undo the undo.

       Goto sector will prompt you for a sector.  Sectors are 240 characters
       in size.

       Jump to byte allows you to jump to any byte in the file.  It prompts
       you for an offset.  Unlike sectors which start with 1, the byte offset
       begins with 0.  If you enter an editing mode, your cursor will appear
       at the specified byte.

       Table will draw an ascii/hex chart.  This is helpful for finding the
       hex number of an ascii character.

       >Forward search: Hit the greater-than key to do a forward search.  This
       search begins at your current position in the file, not at the
       beginning.  This is a case-sensitive search.  It was easier to program
       that way.  You may have spaces in the string.  Hex searches are also
       possible.  To find A7C02F, enter $a7c02f.  The case of the letters is
       not important.  You must begin with a dollar sign, or else it will
       search for the ascii string "a7c02f".  If the string is found, it will
       be highlighted.  If you enter an editing mode, your position will be at
       the beginning of this string.

       <Backward search: This is the same as a forward search, but works from
       your current byte offset to the beginning of the file.

       Continue search will continue the last search, in the same direction,
       with the same string.

BUGS
       You must hit ESC twice to exit the editing mode.  This is because the
       arrow keys send ESC chars.  You need to hit it twice so that the
       program knows that you want to leave, and not just move.  I hope to
       find a way around this some time.

AUTHOR
       Robert Silvers, University of Lowell. (rsilvers@hawk.ulowell.edu)

RS                                                                 UZAP(LOCAL)
