vdr(1)                        Video Disk Recorder                       vdr(1)



NAME
       vdr - the Video Disk Recorder

SYNOPSIS
       vdr [options]

DESCRIPTION
       vdr implements a complete digital Set-Top Box and Video Recorder.  It
       can work with signals received from satellites (DVB-S) as well as cable
       (DVB-C) and terrestrial (DVB-T) signals.

       At least one DVB card is required to run vdr. With it you can watch
       live TV while recording one or more other broadcasts from the same
       transponder.  It is also possible to start watching a recorded
       programme before the live broadcast has ended (time shifting). In order
       to record from different transponders simultaneously two or more DVB
       cards are necessary.  By default vdr can support up to four DVB cards.
       The primary DVB card (the one your TV set is connected to) has to be a
       "full featured" card, which means it must contain an MPEG decoder and
       provide audio and video signal outputs.

       vdr uses the On Screen Display of the DVB card to display its menus.
       It can be controlled by the PC keyboard or the "Linux Infrared Remote
       Control" (LIRC).

       Remote access is possible via the "Simple Video Disk Recorder Protocol"
       (SVDRP), which can be accessed on port 6419, for instance by telnet.

OPTIONS
       -a cmd, --audio=cmd
              Send Dolby Digital audio to stdin of command cmd.

       -c dir, --config=dir
              Read config files from directory dir (default is to read them
              from /usr/local/etc/vdr on this installation.)

       -d, --daemon
              Run in daemon mode (implies --no-kbd).

       -D num, --device=num
              Use only the given DVB device (num = 0, 1, 2...).  There may be
              several -D options (by default all DVB devices will be used).

       --edit=rec
              Edit the given recording.  rec must be the full path name of an
              existing recording.  The program will return immediately after
              editing the recording.

       -E file, --epgfile=file
              Write the EPG data into the given file (default is
              /video/epg.data).  Use -E- to disable this.  If file is a
              directory, the file epg.data will be created in that directory.

       --filesize=size
              Limit video files to size bytes (default is 2000M).  This option
              is only useful in conjunction with --edit, and must precede that
              option to have an effect.  size is an integer number and may be
              followed by one of the letters K, M, G or T to abbreviate Kilo-,
              Mega-, Giga- or Terabyte, respectively.  The given value is
              silently limited to the program's internal minimum and maximum
              values.

       --genindex=rec
              Generate the index file for the given recording.  rec must be
              the full path name of an existing recording.  The recording must
              be in TS format.  If the recording already has an index file, it
              will be deleted before creating the new one.  The program will
              return immediately after generating the index.  Note that using
              this option while another instance of VDR is currently replaying
              the given recording, or if the recording has not been finished
              yet, may lead to unexpected results.

       -g, --grab=dir
              Write images from the SVDRP command GRAB into the given
              directory dir. dir must be the full path name of an existing
              directory, without any "..", double '/' or symlinks. By default,
              or if -g- is given, grabbing images to disk is disabled.

       -h, --help
              Print a help message and exit.

       -i instance, --instance=instance
              Use instance as the id of this VDR instance (default is 0).  In
              an environment where several instances of VDR use the same video
              directory, this parameter can be set to a positive integer value
              that's unique for each instance, so that they won't interfere
              with each other in case they record exactly the same broadcast.
              The number given here will be part of the directory name in
              which the recordings will be stored.

       -l level, --log=level
              Set logging to level.  0 = no logging, 1 = errors only,
              2 = errors and info, 3 = errors, info and debug.  The default
              logging level is 3.  If logging should be done to LOG_LOCALn
              instead of LOG_USER, add '.n' to LEVEL, as in 3.7 (n=0..7).

       -L dir, --lib=dir
              Search for plugins in directory dir (default is ./PLUGINS/lib).
              There can be several -L options with different dir values.  Each
              of them will apply to the -P options following it.

       --lirc[=path]
              Use a LIRC remote control device.  If path is omitted, vdr uses
              /var/run/lirc/lircd.

       --localedir=dir
              Search for locale files in dir (default is ./locale).

       -m, --mute
              Mute audio of the primary DVB device at startup.

       --no-kbd
              Don't use the keyboard as an input device.

       -p port, --port=port
              Use port for SVDRP. A value of 0 turns off SVDRP.  The default
              SVDRP port is 6419.  You need to edit the file svdrphosts.conf
              in order to enable access to the SVDRP port.

       -P options, --plugin=options
              Load a plugin, defined by the given options.  The first word in
              options must be the name of an existing vdr plugin, optionally
              followed by a blank separated list of command line options for
              that plugin. If options contains any blanks, you need to enclose
              it in quotes, like for example

              vdr -P "abc -a -b xyz"

              which would load a plugin named abc, giving it the command line
              options -a -b xyz. If you want to load all available plugins
              (without any particular options) you can use

              vdr -P "*"

              (note the quotes around the asterisk to prevent wildcard
              expansion).

       -r cmd, --record=cmd
              Call cmd before and after a recording. See the file INSTALL for
              more information.

       -s cmd, --shutdown=cmd
              Call cmd to shutdown the computer. See the file INSTALL for more
              information.

       --split
              Split edited files at the editing marks.  This option is only
              useful in conjunction with --edit, and must precede that option
              to have an effect.

       -t tty, --terminal=tty
              Set the controlling terminal.

       -u user, --user=user
              Run as user user in case vdr was started as user 'root'.
              Starting vdr as 'root' is necessary if the system time shall be
              set from the transponder data, but for security reasons vdr can
              switch to a lesser privileged user id during normal operation.

       --userdump
              allow coredumps if -u is given (only for debugging).

       --vfat Encode special characters in recording names to avoid problems
              with VFAT file systems.

       -v dir, --video=dir
              Use dir as video directory.  The default is /video.

       -V, --version
              Print version information and exit.

       -w sec, --watchdog=sec
              Activate the watchdog timer with a timeout of sec seconds.  A
              value of 0 (default) disables the watchdog.

SIGNALS
       SIGINT, SIGTERM
              Program exits with status 0.

       SIGHUP Program exits with status 1. This can be used to force a reload,
              for example if an update has been installed.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      An error has been detected which requires the DVB driver and vdr
              to be reloaded.

       2      An non-recoverable error has been detected, vdr has given up.

FILES
       channels.conf
              Channel configuration.

       timers.conf
              Timer configuration.

       setup.conf
              User definable setup.

       commands.conf
              User definable commands (executed from the Commands menu).

       svdrphosts.conf
              SVDRP host configuration, defining which hosts or networks are
              given access to the SVDRP port.

       marks  Contains the editing marks defined for a recording.

       info   Contains a description of the recording.

       resume Contains the index into the recording where the last replay
              session left off.

       index  Contains the file number, offset and type of each frame of the
              recording.

       remote.conf
              Contains the key assignments for the remote control.

       keymacros.conf
              Contains user defined remote control key macros.

       00001.ts_... 65535.ts
              The actual data files of a recording.

       epg.data
              Contains all current EPG data. Can be used for external
              processing and will also be read at program startup to have the
              full EPG data available immediately.

       .update
              If this file is present in the video directory, its last
              modification time will be used to trigger an update of the list
              of recordings in the "Recordings" menu.

SEE ALSO
       vdr(5)

AUTHOR
       Written by Klaus Schmidinger, with contributions from many others.  See
       the file CONTRIBUTORS in the vdr source distribution.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <vdr-bugs@tvdr.de>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2008 Klaus Schmidinger.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
       NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE.



1.6                               10 Feb 2008                           vdr(1)
