vnpstext(1V)                                                      vnpstext(1V)



NAME
       vnpstext - PostScript filter for Vietnamese text printing

SYNTAX
       vnpstext [-i <prologfile>] [input_8-bit_VISCII_file(s) ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The command operates much like the command: it reads a text file from
       standard input, and outputs the text in a format suitable for sending
       directly to a PostScript printer.  A typical invocation is:
       % vnpstext 8-bit-vietnamese-file | lpr -PPostScript
       expects the Vietnamese font (by default, Courier-VN) to have been
       downloaded to the PostScript printer.  This will be discussed further
       below.

       Without any arguments, will use the font Courier-VN at 10-point size.
       You may change this by specifying an appropriate prolog file.  As of
       this date (5/92), the prolog files available with vnpstext are
       cour10.pro (default), cour12.pro, cour17.pro, cour10b.pro, cour12b.pro,
       cour17b.pro, which use Vietnamese Courier fonts at 10-, 12-, and
       17-point sizes in normal and bold faces, respectively.

       The location of the prolog file can either be the current directory, or
       in /usr/local/share/vn-fonts.  The latter setting may be overridden by
       the environment variable PSLIBDIR.

OPTIONS
       -i <prologfile>     use the specified prolog file instead of generating
                           the default (cour10.pro).

       The prolog file is searched relative to the directory specified by
       PSLIBDIR, or the current working directory if PSLIBDIR is not set in
       the environment.  If the prolog file name starts with the '/'
       character, it is assumed to be an absolute path name and PSLIBDIR is
       ignored.

USAGE NOTES
       expects the font you use to have been downloaded to the printer.  To do
       this, send it the appropriate font installation file.  As of this date
       (5/92), the following are available with initcour.ps and initcourb.ps,
       which will download the Vietnamese Courier and Courier-Bold fonts to
       the printer.  The font sizes are continuously scalable and is specified
       in the prolog file.

       The downloaded font will persist until the next time the printer is
       power cycled.  Also, note that the PS engine requires that a password
       be supplied for this kind of operation to take place; the password is
       normally "0" unless it is changed by the user.  This assumption is made
       in the init*.ps files.  If the printer password is something other than
       "0", modify these files accordingly before sending it to the printer.

EXAMPLES
       To print out a mail message that contains 7-bit VIQR data, you might
       use:
       % vn7to8 -m input_file | vnpstext | lpr -PPostScript
       The -m option to tells it to start out assuming English mode.

       Or if the message contain Viet-Net style Vietnamese but is not
       necessarily VIQR-compliant in that it does not explicitly specify the
       Vietnamese language state with the sequence ":
       % vn7to8 -v input_file | vnpstext | lpr -PPostScript

       Two sample shell scripts are provided to facilitate Vietnamese
       printing: and which performs the necessary conversions to print 7-bit
       VIQR and 8-bit VISCII data, respectively.  See the contents of those
       shell scripts for usage details.

RESTRICTIONS
       -      The line length is limited to 1024 characters.

       -      Lines are not wrapped.  If a line is too long to fit across a
              page width, it is truncated (by the printer).

FILES
       /usr/local/share/vn-fonts:
                           default prolog search directory

       initcour.ps:        Vietnamese Courier font file to download to the
                           printer.

       initcourb.ps:       Vietnamese Courier-Bold font file to download to
                           the printer.

       cour*.pro:          Various prolog files which specify non-default
                           values for font face and size.

AUTHOR
       The TriChlor Group, TriChlor@haydn.Stanford.EDU.
       Thanks also to Nam Chan Phamdo (nam@src.umd.edu) for pointing out the
       lines-per-page bug (which has been fixed!)

SEE ALSO
       vn7to8(1V), vnelvis(1V), pstext(1PS)



                                                                  vnpstext(1V)
