VITUNES(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             VITUNES(1)

NAME
     vitunes – A curses media indexer and player for vi-users

SYNOPSIS
     vitunes [-c command] [-d database-file] [-e command [argument ...]]
             [-f config-file] [-m media-backend] [-p playlist-dir]

DESCRIPTION
     vitunes is a curses-based music player and playlist manager for *nix
     whose goals are a minimalistic appearance, strong vi-like bindings, and
     quick playlist creation/management.

     It is not intended to be a feature-rich media player, but rather a quick,
     vi-like media indexer and playlist manager that also happens to be able
     to play the media it indexes (via mplayer(1) ).

     vitunes accepts the following command line options:

     -c command  Execute the specified command in the currently running
                 vitunes instance, and exit.  This is useful for controlling
                 vitunes from other windows or scripts.

                 The commands that may be specified are both those named in
                 the RUN-TIME COMMANDS section below and keybindings specified
                 by their keybinding action name, listed in the KEYBINDING
                 ACTIONS section below.

                 To execute multiple commands, use this option repeatedly as
                       $ vitunes -c command1 -c command2 ...

                 For example, to have the currently running vitunes load and
                 play a playlist, one could issue:
                       $ vitunes -c ‘playlist SomePlaylist’ -c media_play

                 Note that for this to work, when vitunes starts up it
                 attempts to create a socket at /tmp/.vitunes that are used by
                 this option to communicate with the original instance.  If
                 this socket cannot be created for any reason, this option
                 will not work.

     -d database-file
                 Specifies the database containing all known media files and
                 their meta information that vitunes should use.  If you're
                 using this option in conjunction with an e-command, this
                 option must be specified before the e-command.

                 The default location is ~/.vitunes/vitunes.db.

     -e command options
                 Execute one of the available e-commands to manipulate the
                 database that vitunes uses.  See the section below titled E-
                 COMMANDS for more information.

     -f config-file
                 Specifies the path of the configuration file vitunes should
                 load.  See the section below titled CONFIGURATION FILE for
                 information on what the configuration may contain.

                 The default location is ~/.vitunes/vitunes.conf.

     -m media-backend
                 Specify the media backend to use for playback.  The current
                 list of supported media backends are:

                 mplayer  Uses a fork(2) / execvp(3) 'd instance of mplayer(1)
                          for all playback.  Note that the mplayer binary must
                          be in your PATH environment variable.

                 Currently only mplayer is supported.

     -p playlist-dir
                 Specifies the directory containing all of the playlists
                 vitunes will load and use.  Any new playlists created while
                 running vitunes will be created here.

                 The default location is ~/.vitunes/playlists/.

   Getting Started
     vitunes works by maintaining a database of tagged media files.  The
     database must be created and populated before vitunes can be run
     normally.

     After that, files can be added, modified, or removed from the database,
     and on the next invocation, vitunes will see the changes (additionally,
     the database can be re-loaded at runtime).

     •   All database management is done using "e-commands", which are always
         of the form:
               $ vitunes -e command-name [parameters ...]

     •   Once the database has been created, vitunes can be run normally with
         the following:
               $ vitunes

     •   All playlist management is done while vitunes is running normally.

     See the E-COMMANDS section below for more information on database
     management.  To get started quickly, simply do the following:

     1.   Create initial empty database with
                $ vitunes -e init

     2.   Add files to your database with
                $ vitunes -e add ~/music/ /path/to/more/music/

     3.   Then just start normally with
                $ vitunes

   The Display
     When run normally, the default display will show the following 4 windows:

     player      This window occupies the top row of the display and contains
                 information about the currently playing song (if any) and the
                 current play-mode.

     command/status
                 This window occupies the bottom row of the display.  It
                 behaves very similar to the command/status window in vi(1).

     library     This window occupies the left-side of the screen and shows
                 each playlist, in addition to the library and filter-buffer.
                 The filter buffer is where the results of every :filter ...
                 command are temporarily stored.
                 Playlists with unsaved changes appear bold and have their
                 name preceded with a '+'.

     playlist    This window is to the right of the library window and
                 occupies most of the display.  It shows the contents of
                 whichever playlist has currently been selected in the library
                 window.

   Useful Keybindings
     The following is only a partial listing keybindings, but are the most
     frequently used.

     Enter   Load the selected playlist for viewing or begin playback of the
             selected file.

     Tab     Toggle focus between the library and playlist windows.

     z       Pause playback.

     s       Stop playback.

     f/b     Seek forwards/backwards 10 seconds.

     F/B     Seek forwards/backwards 1 minute.

     m       In the playlist window, show/hide information for the current
             file.

     See the KEYBINDING ACTIONS section for a complete listing.

E-COMMANDS
     Below is a brief summary of each e-command available in vitunes.  More
     detailed usage information and examples for each can be obtained by
     issuing:
           $ vitunes -e help command-name

     vitunes -e init
             Create the necessary database file and playlist directory used by
             vitunes.  This command only needs to be run once, when vitunes is
             first run.  If either of these already exist, they remain
             unchanged.

     vitunes -e add path1 [path2 ...]
             This command takes any number of files/directories as parameters.
             Each file is scanned for meta-information and if found, added to
             the database.  Directories are search recursively.

             TagLib(3) is used for all meta-extraction, which includes the
             following fields: album, artist, comment, play-length, title,
             track number, and year.

     vitunes -e addurl url
             This command is used to add non-files (things like URL's for
             Internet radio stations) to the database, where the meta-
             information cannot be determined automatically.  It can also be
             used to update the meta-info of an existing URL in the database.

             After executing, you are prompted to enter all of your own
             information.

     vitunes -e check [-rsd] file1 [file2 ...]
             Scan the files specified and display their meta-information as
             present in the files themselves or in the vitunes database.  This
             is useful for checking if a file is in the database.

     vitunes -e flush [-t time-format]
             Dump the contents of the database to stdout in an easy-to-parse
             format, optionally with the specified strftime(3) compatible
             format for times.

     vitunes -e help command
             Display detailed usage information and examples for the e-command
             specified by command.

     vitunes -e rm [-f] file/url
             Remove a file/URL from the database.

     vitunes -e rmfile [-f] file/url
             Alias for the "rm" e-command.

     vitunes -e tag [options] file1 [file2 ...]
             Add/modify the meta-information tags of raw files.  There are
             many options to this e-command.  See the help page for more
             information:
                   $ vitunes -e help tag

     vitunes -e update [-s]
             Load the existing database and check each file to see if its
             meta-information has been updated, or if the file has been
             removed.  The database is updated accordingly.

RUN-TIME COMMANDS
     Below is a listing of all run-time commands supported by vitunes.

     All commands are entered by typing ':' followed by the command name and
     any parameters (just like in vi(1) ).

     Note that abbreviations are also supported.  That is, entering any non-
     ambiguous abbreviation of a command name will also execute the command.

     :bind action keycode
             This will bind the action specified by action to the keycode
             specified by keycode.  After this command is issued, entering the
             inputting the specified keycode will result in firing the
             specified action.

             See the section SPECIFYING KEYCODES for details on how to specify
             keycode, and section KEYBINDING ACTIONS for a listing of all
             actions vitunes supports.

     :color item=fg,bg
             Change the color of the given item to fg colored text on a bg
             colored background.

             Available values for item are:

                   Item Name         Description
                   bars              The bars dividing the various windows.
                   player            The player window.
                   status            The status window.
                   library           The library window.
                   playlist          The playlist window.
                   errors            Error messages in the status window.
                   messages          Informational messages in the status
                                     window.
                   tildas-library    The tildas in empty rows of the library
                                     window.
                   tildas-playlist   The tildas in empty rows of the playlist
                                     window.
                   playing-library   Currently playing playlist in the library
                                     window.
                   playing-playlist  Currently playing file in the playlist
                                     window.
                   current-inactive  Current row in the inactive window.
                   artist            The artist column in the playlist window.
                   album             The album column in the playlist window.
                   title             The title column in the playlist window.
                   track             The track column in the playlist window.
                   year              The year column in the playlist window.
                   genre             The genre column in the playlist window.
                   comment           The comment column in the playlist
                                     window.
                   length            The play-length column in the playlist
                                     window.

             Available colors for fg and bg are: white, black, red, green,
             yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, and default.  The color default is
             whatever the terminal uses as the default foreground or
             background color.

     :display (reset | show | display-description)
             The display command is used to change which columns are displayed
             in the playlist window, their order, their width, and their
             alignment.

             The format of display-description is a comma separated list of:
             "[-]field.size".

             Valid values for field are: album, artist, comment, genre,
             length, title, track, and year.  The size field indicates the
             number of columns.  If field is preceded with a - the field will
             be right-aligned.  As an example, the command:

             :display title.10,artist.20,-track.4

             would only show the title, artist, and track fields, in that
             order, where the title field is 10 columns wide, the artist field
             is 20 columns wide, and the track field is 4 columns wide and
             right-aligned.

             The default display can be restored with:

             :display reset

             The current display description can be seen with:

             :display show

     :filter[!] token [token2 ...]
             The filter command is used to filter out all songs from the
             currently viewed playlist that do not match (or do match) the
             provided list of tokens.  A song matches the list of tokens if
             each token appears somewhere in the song's meta-information or
             filename.

             If ":filter" is used, all records not matching the list of tokens
             are removed from the current playlist.  If ":filter!" is used,
             all records that do match the list of tokens are removed from the
             current playlist.

             The list of tokens is simply any list of strings, each possibly
             preceded with an exclamation point.  If a token is preceded with
             an exclamation point, it will only match a song if it does not
             appear anywhere in the song's meta-information or filename.

             For example, the following:

             :filter nine nails

             would match all songs that contained both "nine" and "nails", and
             remove all other songs from the current playlist.  However,

             :filter! nine nails

             would remove all songs that DO contain both "nine" and "nails."

             The query:

             :filter nine !nails

             would match all songs that contain "nine" and NOT "nails".  All
             other songs would be removed from the current playlist.

     :mode (linear | loop | random)
             Set the current playmode to one of the three available options.
             The options are:

             linear      Songs in a playlist are played in the order they
                         appear until the end is reached.

             loop        Like linear, but when the end of the playlist is
                         reached, playback continues at the beginning of the
                         playlist.

             random      Songs are chosen at random from the playlist.

     :new [name]
             Create a new, empty playlist.  If name is provided, the new
             playlist will be named accordingly unless a playlist with that
             name already exists.  If no name is provided, the default is
             "untitled".

     :playlist name
             Load the playlist named by name in the playlist window.

     :q[!]   Quit vitunes.  If there are playlists with unsaved changes, then
             you are notified of this and prevented from quitting.  You can
             forcefully quit by using :q!, and any unsaved changes to any
             playlists will be lost.

             Note that playlists with unsaved changes appear bold in the
             library window.

     :reload (db | conf)
             The reload command is used to reload either the database or
             configuration file while vitunes is running.  Handy if you update
             your database using an e-command while also running vitunes.

     :set property=value
             The set command is used to set various properties within vitunes.
             For properties that accept a value of bool, valid values are
             'true' and 'false'.

             The following properties are available:

             lhide=bool  If set to true, the library window will be hidden
                         (disappear) when it does not have focus.

             lwidth=number
                         Set the width of the library window to number columns
                         wide.  Note that the number provided must be greater
                         than 0 and less than the width of the terminal.

             match-fname=bool
                         When searching or filtering a playlist, normally the
                         filenames are also included in the matching
                         algorithm.  This can sometimes be undesirable,
                         particularly if, for example, all of your music/media
                         reside in a directory named "media" and you're trying
                         to search for a file with the word "media" in the
                         title.

                         To disable this behavior, set match-fnames to false.

             save-sorts=bool
                         Most operations that change a playlist (such as
                         paste/cut) set the 'needs-saving' flag on the
                         playlist, such that you are prompted on exiting
                         vitunes that there is a playlist with unsaved
                         changes.  By default, sorting a playlist does not do
                         this.

                         To change this behavior, and be prompted to save
                         sorts on exit, set this option to true.

     :sort sort-description
             Sort the currently viewing playlist using the provided
             sort-description, which is a comma separated list of: "[-]field",
             specifying which fields to sort by and if they should be sorted
             ascending or descending.

             Valid values for field are: album, artist, comment, genre,
             length, title, track, and year.  Each field is sorted ascending
             by default, unless the field is preceeded with the dash -, in
             which case that field is sorted descending.

             As an example, the following command:

             :sort artist,-album,title

             would sort all records in the current playlist by artist
             (ascending) first, then album-name (descending), then title
             (ascending).

             Note that while most operations on playlists set the "needs-
             saving" flag (so you are prompted when quiting vitunes that the
             playlist has unsaved changes), sorting a playlist does not do
             this.  This is intentional.  If you wish this behavior to be
             changed, see the "save-sorts" option for the set command.

     :toggle register command-list
             This command will associate a list of commands specified by
             command-list to register register.  Once set, the list of
             commands can be quickly toggled through using the toggle_forward
             and toggle_backward keybindings (which default to t and T,
             respectively).

             Toggle-lists can be useful to quickly alternate through, for
             example, various sorting or display schemes that the user may
             prefer.

             register is any single lower-case letter (a - z) or uppercase
             letter (A - Z).  command-list is any list of valid commands
             listed here, each separated by a backslash character '/'.

             As an example, the following would allow one to quickly toggle
             through various sorting schemes:

             toggle s sort artist,-year,track / sort artist,album,track / sort
             -year

             Once issued, the three individual sorts specified above can be
             toggled using the s register.  With the default keybindings this
             would be done using either ts (to toggle forward through the
             list) or Ts (to toggle backward through the list).

     :unbind (* | action action | key keycode)
             This command is used to remove existing keybindings.  It has
             three forms.  The first is simply:

             unbind *

             which will remove all existing keybindings.  This is handy in a
             configuration file where you may want to define all custom
             keybindings.  Issuing this at runtime will leave you with an
             instance of vitunes that will not respond to any keybdings!

             The second form is used to unbind actions:

             unbind action action

             This will remove any keybindings for the action specified by
             action.

             The third form is used to unbind keys:

             unbind key keycode

             This will remove any action currently bound to the key specified
             by keycode.

             See the section SPECIFYING KEYCODES for details on how to specify
             keycode, and section KEYBINDING ACTIONS for a listing of all
             actions vitunes supports.

     :w[!] [name]
             Save the currently viewing playlist.  If a name is provided, then
             the playlist will be saved with this new name.  If, however, a
             playlist already exists with that name, then you will be
             prevented from saving with that name unless '!' is provided, in
             which case the existing playlist with that name will be deleted.

SPECIFYING KEYCODES
     This section describes how to specify keycodes used in both the :bind and
     :unbind commands.

     Keycodes are specified in the following fashion:

           [Control] (key | SpecialKey)

     Here, key is used to specify the actual, printable character entered
     which is case-sensitive (e.g. 'j', 'p', 'P'), and SpecialKey is used to
     specify various non-printable characters (such as the Page-Up key).

     If the string "Control" is also specified, then the keycode only applies
     when the control key is pressed in conjunction with the key or
     SpecialKey.

     Although key is case-sensitive ('p' and 'P' are treated differently),
     both SpecialKey and "Control" are case-insensitive.

     The currently supported list of non-printable characters available for
     SpecialKey are:

           Value     Description
           PageUp    The page-up key.
           PageDown  The page-down key.
           Up        The up-arrow key.
           Down      The down-arrow key.
           Left      The left-arrow key.
           Right     The right-arrow key.
           Backspace The backspace key.
           Enter     The enter key.
           Space     The space key.
           Tab       The tab key.

     Some examples of using keycodes and the :bind run-time command are:

        bind  paste_after   p
        bind  paste_before  P

        bind  scroll_up_halfpage    Control u
        bind  scroll_down_halfpage  Control d

KEYBINDING ACTIONS
     The current list of available actions that keys may be bound to is the
     following.  For each action, the default keys bound to them are also
     listed.

     Action Name            Description

     scroll_up              Scroll the current row in the current window up by
                            one line.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: k, -, Up

     scroll_down            Scroll the current row in the current window down
                            by one line.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: j, Down

     scroll_up_page         Scroll the current window up by one line.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control y

     scroll_down_page       Scroll the current window down by one line.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control e

     scroll_up_halfpage     Scroll the current window up one half-page.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control u

     scroll_down_halfpage   Scroll the current window down one half-page.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control d

     scroll_up_wholepage    Scroll the current window up one whole page.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control b, PageUp

     scroll_down_wholepage  Scroll the current window down one whole page.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control f, PageDown

     scroll_left            Scroll the current window to the left one column.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: h, Left, Backspace

     scroll_right           Scroll the current window to the right one column.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: l, Right, Space

     scroll_leftmost        Scroll the current window to the left as far as
                            possible.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: ^, 0, |

     scroll_rightmost       Scroll the current window to the right as far as
                            possible.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: $

     jumpto_screen_top      Move the current line to the first line in the
                            current window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: H

     jumpto_screen_middle   Move the current line to the middle line in the
                            current window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: M

     jumpto_screen_bottom   Move the current line to the bottom line in the
                            current window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: L

     jumpto_line            Jump to either a specified line (if a global input
                            number is present) or to the last line in the
                            current window's buffer.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: G

     jumpto_percent         Using the global input number N, jump to the line
                            N% the way through the current window's buffer.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: %

     go                     Go to a specific location within the current
                            window.  This is planned to be similar to vim(1)
                            's use of the 'g' keybinding, with multiple
                            suffixes.  For now, only 'gg' is supported, and
                            this takes you to the first line in the current
                            window's buffer.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: g

     search_forward         Begin a search for the entered string searching
                            forward in the current window.  The current row
                            will be updated to the next matching row.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: /

     search_backward        Begin a search for the entered string searching
                            backwards in the current The current row will be
                            updated to the next matching row.  window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: ?

     find_next_forward      Using the previous search-string, search in the
                            same direction as the search was input for the
                            next matching row.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: n

     find_next_backward     Using the previous search-string, search in the
                            opposite direction as the search was input for the
                            next matching row.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: N

     cut                    Remove the following N lines from the current
                            window, placing them in the copy buffer, where N
                            is the global input number.  Note that if the
                            library window is active, only one row (playlist)
                            can be cut/deleted at a time, and that this action
                            cannot be undone.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: d

     visual                 Begin visual mode.  This is only available in the
                            playlist window, and once begun, only keybindings
                            that move the cursor within the current window are
                            allowed.  Visual mode is exited when either a yank
                            or delete operation has been performed, or when
                            the Escape key is pressed.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: v, V

     yank                   Copy the following N lines from the current window
                            into the copy buffer, where N is the global input
                            number.  This action cannot be used in the library
                            window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: y

     paste_after            Paste the contents of the copy buffer after the
                            current row in the playlist window.  This action
                            cannot be used in the library window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: p

     paste_before           Paste the contents of the copy buffer before the
                            current row in the playlist window.  This action
                            cannot be used in the library window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: P

     undo                   Undo the previous action on the currently viewed
                            playlist.  This action cannot be used in the
                            library window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: u

     redo                   Redo the previously undone action on the currently
                            viewed playlist.  This action cannot be used in
                            the library window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control r

     quit                   Exit vitunes.  If there are unsaved changes in any
                            playlists you will be prevented from exiting until
                            you either save those changes or issue a ":q!"
                            command.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control c, Control /

     redraw                 Clear and re-draw the entire display.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Control l

     command_mode           Enter command-mode, where the commands listed in
                            the RUN-TIME COMMANDS section may be issued.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: :

     shell                  Enter a command to be executed outsite of vitunes
                            and in the current shell environment.  The output
                            of the execution is shown before control and the
                            display returns to vitunes.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: !

     switch_windows         Toggle focus between the library and playlist
                            windows.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Tab

     show_file_info         Show the file information (including meta-
                            information) for the current row/file in the
                            playlist window.  This action does not work in the
                            library window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: m

     load_playlist          Load the playlist specified by the current row in
                            the library window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Enter

     media_play             Begin playing the file specified by the current
                            row in the playlist window.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: Enter

     media_pause            Pause playback of any playing media.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: z

     media_stop             Stop all playback of any playing media.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: s

     seek_forward_seconds   Seek forwards 10 seconds in any playing media.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: f, ]

     seek_backward_seconds  Seek backwards 10 seconds in any playing media.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: b, [

     seek_forward_minutes   Seek forwards 1 minute in any playing media.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: F, }

     seek_backward_minutes  Seek backwards 1 minute in any playing media.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: B, {

     media_next             Play the next song in the playlist.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: )

     media_prev             Play the previous song in the playlist.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: (

     volume_decrease        Decrease the volume.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: <

     volume_increase        Increase the volume.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: >

     toggle_forward         Execute the next command from the toggle list
                            specified by the provided register.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: t

     toggle_backward        Execute the previous command from the toggle list
                            specified by the provided register.
                            DEFAULT BINDINGS: T

     Some examples of using the above actions and keycodes to define the
     default keybdings are:

        bind  paste_after   p
        bind  paste_before  P

        bind  scroll_up_halfpage    Control u
        bind  scroll_down_halfpage  Control d

CONFIGURATION FILE
     The configuration file loaded by vitunes is relatively straight-forward.
     Each line may be one of the following:

     •   A comment, which starts with a '#'.
     •   An empty line.
     •   One of the commands from the RUN-TIME COMMANDS section above.

     That's it.  As such, review the list of commands above.

     An example configuration file that would setup some hideous DOS-like
     colors is:

        # setup colors
        color bars=white,blue
        color player=yellow,blue
        color library=green,blue
        color playlist=white,blue
        color status=red,blue

        # format for playlist window
        display artist.20,album.20,title.20,track.4,year.4

        # show most recent work of an artist first in library window
        sort artist,-year

        # make library window 20 columns wide and hide when not active
        set lwidth=20
        set lhide=true

FILES
     ~/.vitunes/vitunes.conf
             Default configuration file.
     ~/.vitunes/vitunes.db
             Default database file.
     ~/.vitunes/playlists/
             Default playlist directory.
     /tmp/.vitunes
             Default location for the socket created on start-up that can be
             used to control vitunes.
     /usr/local/bin/mplayer
             Default path to the mplayer(1) binary.

SEE ALSO
     mplayer(1), realpath(3), strftime(3), vi(1).

     More information about TagLib can be found on the TagLib website:
     http://developer.kde.org/~wheeler/taglib.html

     The vitunes website has additional information, such as a list of
     frequently asked questions, a mailing list, and up-to-date bug
     information.

     http://www.vitunes.org

AUTHORS
     vitunes was written by Ryan Flannery <ryan.flannery@gmail.com>.

BUGS
     None known.

     If you happen to find any, please send a detailed description to me at
     ryan.flannery@gmail.com.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE            August 17, 2025           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
