EMPIRE(6)                            Games                           EMPIRE(6)

NAME
       empire - the wargame of the century

SYNOPSIS
       empire [-w water] [-s smooth] [-d delay] [-S save-interval]
              [-f savefile]

DESCRIPTION
       Empire is a simulation of a full-scale war between two emperors, the
       computer and you. Naturally, there is only room for one, so the object
       of the game is to destroy the other. The computer plays by the same
       rules that you do.

       -wwater
           This option controls the amount of water on the map. This is given
           as the percentage of the map which should be water. The default is
           70% water.  water must be an integer in the between 10 and 90
           inclusive.

       -ssmooth
           This controls the smoothness of the map. A low value will produce a
           highly chaotic map with lots of small islands or lakes. A high
           value will produce a map with a few scattered continents. Be
           forewarned that a high value will cause the program to take a long
           time to start up. The default value is 5.

       -ddelay
           This option controls the length of time the computer will delay
           after printing informational messages at the top of the screen.
           delay is specified in milliseconds. The default value is 2000 which
           allows the user two seconds to read a message.

EXAMPLES
       empire -w90 -s2

       This produces a map with many islands.

       empire -w50 -s0

       This produces a really strange map. These values are not recommended
       for the faint at heart.

       empire -w10

       This produces a map with lots of land and a few lakes. The computer
       will have a hard time on this sort of map as it will try and produce
       lots of troop transports, which are fairly useless.

       There are two other option.

       -Sinterval
           sets the save interval for the game (default is 10). Once per
           interval turns the game state will be automatically saved after
           your move. It will be saved in any case when you change modes or do
           various special things from command mode, such as `M' or `N'.

       -fsavefile
           Set the save file name (normally empsave.dat).

INTRODUCTION
       Empire is a war game played between you and the computer. The world on
       which the game takes place is a square rectangle containing cities,
       land, and water. Cities are used to build armies, planes, and ships
       which can move across the world destroying enemy pieces, exploring, and
       capturing more cities. The objective of the game is to destroy all the
       enemy pieces, and capture all the cities.

       The world is a rectangle 60 by 100 squares on a side. The world
       consists of sea (.), land (+), uncontrolled cities (*),
       computer-controlled cities (X), and cities that you control (O).

       The world is displayed on the player's screen during movement. (On
       terminals with small screens, only a portion of the world is shown at
       any one time.) Each piece is represented by a unique character on the
       map. With a few exceptions, you can only have one piece on a given
       location. On the map, you are shown only the 8 squares adjacent to your
       units. This information is updated before and during each of your
       moves. The map displays the most recent information known.

       The game starts by assigning you one city and the computer one city.
       Cities can produce new pieces. Every city that you own produces more
       pieces for you according to the cost of the desired piece. The typical
       play of the game is to issue the Automove command until you decide to
       do something special. During movement in each round, the player is
       prompted to move each piece that does not otherwise have an assigned
       function.

       Map coordinates are 4-digit numbers. The first two digits are the row,
       the second two digits are the column.

PIECES
       The pieces are as follows:

              ┌───────────┬─────┬───────┬───────┬──────┬─────┬────────┐
              │Piece      │ You │ Enemy │ Moves │ Hits │ Str │  Cost  │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Army       │  A  │   a   │     1 │    1 │   1 │  5(6)  │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Fighter    │  F  │   f   │     8 │    1 │   1 │ 10(12) │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Patrol     │  P  │   p   │     4 │    1 │   1 │ 15(18) │
              │Boat       │     │       │       │      │     │        │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Destroyer  │  D  │   d   │     2 │    3 │   1 │ 20(24) │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Submarine  │  S  │   s   │     2 │    2 │   3 │ 20(24) │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Troop      │  T  │   t   │     2 │    1 │   1 │ 30(36) │
              │Transport  │     │       │       │      │     │        │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Aircraft   │  C  │   c   │     2 │    8 │   1 │ 30(36) │
              │Carrier    │     │       │       │      │     │        │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Battleship │  B  │   b   │     2 │   10 │   2 │ 40(48) │
              ├───────────┼─────┼───────┼───────┼──────┼─────┼────────┤
              │Satellite  │  Z  │   z   │    10 │   -- │  -- │ 50(60) │
              └───────────┴─────┴───────┴───────┴──────┴─────┴────────┘

       The second column shows the map representation for your units.

       The third shows the representations of enemy units.

       Moves is the number of squares that the unit can move in a single
       round.

       Hits is the amount of damage a unit can take before it is destroyed.

       Strength is the amount of damage a unit can inflict upon an enemy
       during each round of an attack.

       Cost is the number of rounds needed for a city to produce the piece.

       The number in parenthesis is the cost for a city to produce the first
       unit.

       Each piece has certain advantages associated with it that can make it
       useful. One of the primary strategic aspects of this game is deciding
       which pieces will be produced and in what quantities.

       Armies can only move on land, and are the only piece that can move on
       land. Only armies can capture cities. This means that you must produce
       armies in order to win the game. Armies have a 50% chance of capturing
       a city when they attack. (Attacking one's own city results in the
       army's destruction. Armies that move onto the sea will drown. Armies
       can attack objects at sea, but even if they win, they will drown.)
       Armies can be carried by troop transports. If an army is moved onto a
       troop transport, then whenever the transport is moved, the army will be
       moved with the transport. You cannot attack any piece at sea while on a
       transport.

       Fighters move over both land and sea, and they move 8 squares per
       round. Their high speed and great mobility make fighters ideal for
       exploring. However, fighters must periodically land at user-owned
       cities for refueling. A fighter can travel 32 squares without
       refueling. Fighters are also shot down if they attempt to fly over a
       city which is not owned by the user.

       Patrol boats are fast but lightly armored. Therefore they are useful
       for patrolling ocean waters and exploring. In an attack against a
       stronger boat, however, patrol boats will suffer heavy casualties.

       Destroyers are fairly heavily armored and reasonably quick to produce.
       Thus they are useful for destroying enemy transports which may be
       trying to spread the enemy across the face of the world.

       When a submarine scores a hit, 3 hits are exacted instead of 1. Thus
       submarines can inflict heavy damage in a fight against heavily armored
       boats. Notice that healthy submarines will typically defeat healthy
       destroyers two-thirds of the time. However, a submarine will defeat a
       fighter about two-thirds of the time, while a destroyer will defeat a
       fighter three-fourths of the time.

       Troop transports are the only pieces that can carry armies. A maximum
       of six armies can be carried by a transport. On any world containing a
       reasonable amount of water, transports will be a critical resource in
       winning the game. Notice that the weakness of transports implies they
       need protection from stronger ships.

       Aircraft carriers are the only ships that can carry fighters. Carriers
       carry a maximum of the number of hits left of fighters. Fighters are
       refueled when they land on a carrier.

       Battleships are similar to destroyers except that they are much
       stronger.

       Satellites are only useful for reconnaissance. They can not be
       attacked. They are launched in a random diagonal orbit, and stay up for
       50 turns. They can see one square farther than other objects.

       All ships can move only on the sea. Ships can also dock in a user-owned
       city. Docked ships have damage repaired at the rate of 1 hit per turn.
       Ships which have suffered a lot of damage will move more slowly.

       Because of their ability to be repaired, ships with lots of hits such
       as Carriers and Battleships have an additional advantage. After
       suffering minor damage while destroying enemy shipping, these ships can
       sail back to port and be quickly repaired before the enemy has time to
       replenish her destroyed shipping.

       The following table gives the probability that the piece listed on the
       side will defeat the piece listed at the top in a battle. (The table
       assumes that both pieces are undamaged.)

                 ┌─────┬───────┬───────┬───────┬─────────┬──────────┐
                 │     │ AFPT  │   D   │   S   │    C    │    B     │
                 ├─────┼───────┼───────┼───────┼─────────┼──────────┤
                 │AFPT │ 50.0% │ 12.5% │ 25.0% │ 00.391% │ 00.0977% │
                 ├─────┼───────┼───────┼───────┼─────────┼──────────┤
                 │D    │ 87.5% │ 50.0% │ 25.0% │ 05.47%  │ 00.537%  │
                 ├─────┼───────┼───────┼───────┼─────────┼──────────┤
                 │S    │ 75.0% │ 75.0% │ 50.0% │  31.3%  │  06.25%  │
                 ├─────┼───────┼───────┼───────┼─────────┼──────────┤
                 │C    │ 99.6% │ 94.5% │ 68.7% │  50.0%  │  04.61%  │
                 ├─────┼───────┼───────┼───────┼─────────┼──────────┤
                 │B    │ 99.9% │ 99.5% │ 93.8% │  95.4%  │  50.0%   │
                 └─────┴───────┴───────┴───────┴─────────┴──────────┘

       Notice, however, that when a ship has been damaged, the odds of being
       defeated can go up quite a bit. For example, a healthy submarine has a
       25% chance of defeating a battleship that has had one hit of damage
       done to it, and a healthy submarine has a 50% chance of defeating a
       carrier which has suffered two hits of damage.

MOVEMENT FUNCTIONS
       There are a variety of movement functions. The movement functions of
       pieces can be specified in user mode and edit mode. Cities can have
       movement functions set for each type of piece. When a movement function
       for a type of pieces is set for a city, then every time that type of
       piece appears in the city, the piece will acquire that movement
       function. Be forewarned that moving loaded transports or loaded
       carriers into a city can have undesirable side effects.

       Normally, when a movement function has been specified, the piece will
       continue moving according to that function until one of the following
       happen:

       •   An enemy piece or unowned city appears next to the piece. In this
           case the piece will be completely awoken, unless its movement
           function has been set to a specific destination. Armies on ships
           and pieces inside cities will not be awoken if the enemy piece is
           gone by the time it is their turn to move.

       •   You explicitly awaken the piece.

       •   The piece can no longer move in accordance with its programmed
           function. In this case, the piece will awaken temporarily. You will
           be asked to move the piece at which time you may awaken it.

       •   The piece is a fighter which has just enough fuel (plus a small
           reserve) to get to the nearest city. In this case, the piece will
           awaken completely, unless its movement function has been set to a
           specific destination, or its movement function has been set to
           land.

       The rationale behind this complexity is that fighters must be awoken
       completely before they are out of range of a city to prevent one from
       accidentally forgetting to waken the fighter and then watching it fly
       off to its doom. However, it is presumed that when a path is set for
       the fighter, the fighter is not in danger of running out of fuel.

       Pieces do not completely awaken when their function has been set to a
       destination because it is slightly time consuming to reset the
       destination, but very simple (one keystroke) to wake the piece.

       The movement functions are:

       Attack
           This function applies only to armies. When this function is set,
           the army will move toward the nearest enemy city, unowned city, or
           enemy army. This is useful when fighting off an invading enemy or
           taking over a new continent. When an army is set to this mode, it
           will also explore nearby territory. This tends to make the "grope"
           movement mode pretty useless.

       Awake
           When pieces are awake, you will be asked for the direction in which
           the piece should move on each turn.

       Fill
           This function applies to carriers and transports. When this
           function is specified, these ships sleep until they have been
           filled with fighters or armies respectively.

       Grope
           This function causes a piece to explore. The piece heads toward the
           nearest unseen square of the map on each of its moves. Some attempt
           is made to explore in an optimal fashion.

       Land
           This function applies to fighters and causes the fighter to head
           toward the nearest transport or carrier.

       Random
           This movement function causes a piece to move at random to an
           adjacent empty square.

       Sentry
           This movement function puts a piece to sleep. The function of a
           city cannot be set to 'sleep'.

       Transport
           This movement function only works on armies. The army sleeps until
           an unfull transport passes by, at which point the army wakes up and
           boards the transport.

       Upgrade
           This movement function only works with ships. The ship will move to
           the nearest owned city and remain there until it is repaired.

       <dir>
           Pieces can be set to move in a specified direction.

       <dest>
           Pieces can be set to move toward a specified square. In this
           movement mode, pieces take a shortest path toward the destination.
           Pieces moving in accordance with this function prefer diagonal
           moves that explore territory. Because of this, the movement of the
           piece may be non-intuitive.

       As examples of how to use these movement functions, typically when I
       have a new city on a continent, I set the Army function of the city to
       attack. Whenever an army is produced, it merrily goes off on its way
       exploring the continent and moving towards unowned cities or enemy
       armies or cities.

       I frequently set the ship functions for cities that are far from the
       front to automatically move ships towards the front.

       When I have armies on a continent, but there is nothing to explore or
       attack, I move the army to the shore and use the transport function to
       have that army hop aboard the first passing transport.

COMMANDS
       There are three command modes. The first of these is "command mode". In
       this mode, you give commands that affect the game as a whole. In the
       second mode, "move mode", you give commands to move your pieces. The
       third mode is "edit mode", and in this mode you can edit the functions
       of your pieces and examine various portions of the map.

       All commands are one character long. The full mnemonic names are listed
       below as a memorization aid. The mnemonics are somewhat contrived
       because there are so few characters in the English language. Too bad
       this program isn't written in Japanese, neh?

       In all command modes, typing "H" will print out a screen of help
       information, and typing <ctrl-L> will redraw the screen.

COMMAND MODE
       In command mode, the computer will prompt you for your orders. The
       following commands can be given at this time:

       Automove
           Enter automove mode. This command begins a new round of movement.
           You will remain in move mode after each of the computer's turns.
           (In move mode, the "O" command will return you to command mode
           after the computer finishes its next turn.

       City
           Give the computer a random unowned city. This command is useful if
           you find that the computer is getting too easy to beat.

       Date
           The current round is displayed.

       Examine
           Examine the enemy's map. This command is only valid after the
           computer has resigned.

       File
           Print a copy of the map to the specified file.

       Give
           This command gives the computer a free move.

       J
           Enter edit mode where you can examine and change the functions
           associated with your pieces and cities.

       Move
           Enter move mode for a single round.

       N
           Give the computer the number of free moves you specify.

       Print
           Display a sector on the screen.

       Quit
           Quit the game.

       Restore
           Restore the game from empsave.dat.

       Save
           Save the game in empsave.dat.

       Trace
           This command toggles a flag. When the flag is set, after each move,
           either yours or the computer's, a picture of the world is written
           out to the file 'empmovie.dat'.  Watch out! This command produces
           lots of output.

       Watch
           This command allows you to watch a saved movie. The movie is
           displayed in a condensed version so that it will fit on a single
           screen, so the output may be a little confusing. This command is
           only legal if the computer resigns. If you lose the game, you
           cannot replay a movie to learn the secrets of how the computer beat
           you. Nor can you replay a movie to find out the current positions
           of the computer's pieces. When replaying a movie, it is recommended
           that you use the -d option to set the delay to around 2000
           milliseconds or so. Otherwise the screen will be updated too
           quickly for you to really grasp what is going on.

       Zoom
           Display a condensed version of the map on the screen. The user map
           is divided into small rectangles. Each rectangle is displayed as
           one square on the screen. If there is a city in a rectangle, then
           it is displayed. Otherwise enemy pieces are displayed, then user
           pieces, then land, then water, and then unexplored territory. When
           pieces are displayed, ships are preferred to fighters and armies.

MOVE MODE
       In move mode, the cursor will appear on the screen at the position of
       each piece that needs to be moved. You can then give commands to move
       the piece. Directions to move are specified by the following keys:


                   QWE
                   A D
                   ZXC


       The arrow and keypad keys on your terminal, if any, should also work.

       These keys move in the direction of the key from S. The characters are
       not echoed and only 1 character is accepted, so there is no need for a
       <Return>. Hit the <Space> bar if you want the piece to stay put.

       Other commands are:

       Build
           Change the production of a city.

       Fill
           Set the function of a troop transport or aircraft carrier to fill.

       Grope
           Set the function of a piece to grope.

       Idir
           Set the direction for a piece to move.

       J
           Enter edit mode.

       Kill
           Wake up the piece. If the piece is a transport or carrier, pieces
           on board will not be awoken.

       Land
           Set a fighter's function to land.

       Out
           Cancel automove mode. At the end of the round, you will be placed
           in command mode.

       Print
           Redraw the screen.

       Random
           Set a piece's function to random.

       Sentry
           Set a piece's function to sentry.

       Transport
           Set an army's function to transport.

       Upgrade
           Set a ship's function to upgrade.

       Vpiece func
           Set the city movement function for the specified piece to the
           specified function. For example, typing "VAY" would set the city
           movement function for armies to attack. Whenever an army is
           produced in the city (or whenever a loaded transport enters the
           city), the army's movement function would be set to attack.

       Y
           Set an army's function to attack.

       ?
           Display information about the piece. The function, hits left,
           range, and number of items on board are displayed.

       Attacking something is accomplished by moving onto the square of the
       unit you wish to attack. Hits are traded off at 50% probability of a
       hit landing on one or the other units until one unit is totally
       destroyed. There is only 1 possible winner.

       You are "allowed" to do fatal things like attack your own cities or
       other pieces. If you try to make a fatal move, the computer will warn
       you and give you a chance to change your mind.

       You cannot move onto the edge of the world.

EDIT MODE
       In edit mode, you can move around the world and examine pieces or
       assign them new functions. To move the cursor around, use the standard
       direction keys. Other commands are:

       Build
           Change the production of the city under the cursor. The program
           will prompt for the new production, and you should respond with the
           key corresponding to the letter of the piece that you want
           produced.

       Fill
           Set a transport's or carrier's function to fill.

       Grope
           Set a piece's function to grope.

       Idir
           Set the function of a piece (or city) to the specified direction.

       Jdir
           Toggle displaying the production of all cities.

       Kill
           Wake all pieces at the current location. If the location is a city,
           the fighter path will also be canceled.

       Mark
           Select the piece or city at the current location. This command is
           used with the "N" command.

       N
           Set the destination of the piece previously selected with the "M"
           command to the current square.

       Out
           Exit edit mode.

       Printsector
           Display a new sector of the map. The map is divided into ten
           sectors of size 20 by 70. Sector zero is in the upper-left corner
           of the map. Sector four is in the lower-left corner of the map.
           Sector five is in the upper-right corner, and sector nine is in the
           lower-right corner.

       Random
           Set a piece to move randomly.

       Sentry
           Put a piece to sleep.

       Transport
           Set an army's function to transport.

       Upgrade
           Set a ship's function to upgrade.

       Vpiece func
           Set the city movement function for a piece.

       Y
           Set an army's function to attack.

       ?
           Display information about a piece or city. For a city, the
           production, time of completion of the next piece, movement
           functions, and the number of fighters and ships in the city are
           displayed.

       Note that you cannot directly affect anything inside a city with the
       editor.

HINTS
       After you have played this game for a while, you will probably find
       that the computer is immensely easy to beat. Here are some ideas you
       can try that may make the game more interesting.

       •   Give the computer one or more extra cities before starting the
           game.

       •   Try playing the game with a low smoothness value (try using the -s2
           or even -s0 option).

       •   When starting the game, the program will ask you what difficulty
           level you want. Here "difficulty level" is a misnomer. To compute a
           difficulty level, the program looks at each continent and counts
           the number of cities on the continents. A high "difficulty level"
           gives the computer a large continent with many cities, while the
           user gets a small continent with few cities. A low "difficulty
           level" has the opposite effect. It may be the case that the
           computer will play better when the "difficulty level" is low. The
           reason for this is that the computer is forced to move armies to
           multiple continents early in the game.

HISTORY
       According to A Brief History of Empire[1], the ancestral game was
       written by Walter Bright sometime in the early 1970s while he was a
       student at Caltech. A copy leaked out of Caltech and was ported to
       DEC's VAX/VMS from the TOPS-10/20 FORTRAN sources available sometime
       around fall 1979. Craig Leres found the source code on a DECUS tape in
       1983 and added support for different terminal types.

       Ed James got hold of the sources at Berkeley and converted portions of
       the code to C, mostly to use curses for the screen handling. He
       published his modified sources on the net in December 1986. Because
       this game ran on VMS machines for so long, it has been known as VMS
       Empire.

       In 1987 Chuck Simmons at Amdahl reverse-engineered the program and
       wrote a version completely in C. In doing so, he modified the computer
       strategy, the commands, the piece types, many of the piece attributes,
       and the algorithm for creating maps.

       The various versions of this game were ancestral to later and
       better-known 4X (expand/explore/exploit/exterminate) games, including
       Civilization (1990) and Master of Orion (1993).

       In 1994 Eric Raymond colorized the game.

FILES
       empsave.dat
           holds a backup of the game. Whenever empire is run, it will reload
           any game in this file.

       empmovie.dat
           holds a history of the game so that the game can be replayed as a
           "movie".

BUGS
       No doubt numerous.

       The savefile format changed incompatibly after version 1.13.

       Satellites are not completely implemented. You should be able to move
       to a square that contains a satellite, but the program won't let you.
       Enemy satellites should not cause your pieces to awaken.

AUTHORS
       Original game by Walter Bright. Support for different terminal types
       added by Craig Leres. Curses support added by Ed James. C/Unix version
       written by Chuck Simmons. Colorization by Eric S. Raymond. Probability
       table corrected by Michael Self.

COPYLEFT
       Copyright (C) 1987, 1988 Chuck Simmons

       See the file COPYING, distributed with empire, for restriction and
       warranty information.

NOTES
        1. A Brief History of Empire
           http://www.classicempire.com/history.html

empire                            02/11/2024                         EMPIRE(6)
