VMSBACKUP(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           VMSBACKUP(1)

NAME
       vmsbackup - read a VMS backup tape

SYNOPSIS
       vmsbackup -{tx}[cdevwB][s setnumber][f tapefile][b blocksize] [ name
       ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       vmsbackup reads a VMS generated backup tape, converting the files to
       Unix format and writing the files to disc.  The default operation of
       the program is to go through an entire tape, extracting every file and
       writing it to disc.  This may be modified by the following options.

       b blocksize
               Use blocksize as the blocksize to read the saveset with.

       B       Extract files in binary mode.

       c       Use complete filenames, including the version number.  A colon
               and the octal version number will be appended to all filenames.
               A colon, rather than a semicolon, is used since the Unix Shell
               uses the semicolon as the line separator.  Using a colon
               prevents the user from having to escape the semicolon when
               referencing the filename.  This option is useful only when
               multiple versions of the same file are on a single tape or when
               a file of the same name already exists in the destination
               directory.  The default is to ignore version numbers.

       d       use the directory structure from VMS, the default value is off.

       e       Process all filename extensions.  Since this program is mainly
               intended to move source code and possibly data from a DEC
               system to a Unix system, the default is to ignore all files
               whose filename extension specifies system dependent data.  The
               file types which will be ignored, unless the e option is
               specified, are


                 exe     VMS executable file
                 lib     VMS object library file
                 obj     RSX object file
                 odl     RSX overlay description file
                 olb     RSX object library file
                 pmd     RSX post mortem dump file
                 stb     RSX task symbol table file
                 sys     RSX bootable system file
                 tsk     RSX executable task file

       f       Use the next argument in the command line as the tape device to
               be used, rather than the default.

               If vmsbackup is compiled with the remote tape option and the
               file name has the form system[.user]:/dev/???  vmsbackup will
               use the tape drive /dev/??? on the remote system system, via
               rsh(1), and rmt(8).  The optional user portion of the pathname
               specifies the login name to use on the remote system.  If it is
               not supplied, the current user's login name will be used.  In
               all the cases, the user must have the appropriate permissions
               on the remote machine, in order to use this facility.  The
               default is /dev/rmt8 (drive 0, raw mode, 1600 bpi).  This must
               be a raw mode tape device.

       s saveset
               Process only the given saveset number.

       t       Produce a table of contents (a directory listing) on the
               standard output of the files on tape.

       v       Verbose output.  Normally vmsbackup does its work silently.
               The verbose option will cause the filenames of the files being
               read from tape to disk to be output on the standard output.

       w       vmsbackup prints the action to be taken followed by file name,
               then wait for user confirmation. If a word beginning with `y'
               is given, the action is done. Any other input means don't do
               it.

       x       extract the named files from the tape.

       The optional
               name argument specifies one or more filenames to be searched
               for specifically on the tape and only those files are to be
               processed.  The name may contain the usal sh(1) meta-characters
               *?![] 0n.

FILES
       /dev/rmtx

SEE ALSO
       rmtops(3)

BUGS
       The filename match uses the complete VMS file names.


AUTHOR
       John Douglas Carey
       Sven-Ove Westberg

                                                                  VMSBACKUP(1)
