waitforssh(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          waitforssh(1)

NAME
     waitforssh – Wait for a target to be up and running using SSH

SYNOPSIS
     waitforssh [-C command] [-T command] [-d delay] [-r max-retries] target
     waitforssh -v

DESCRIPTION
     waitforssh is a lightweight utility, written in POSIX shell, that waits
     for a target to be up and running via SSH and, if so, executes a command.

     -v   Display version information about waitforssh.

     -C command
          Command to be executed when waitforssh successfully establishes a
          connection.

          By default, this parameter is set to true which means that the true
          utility will be executed on target.

     -T command
          Command to execute that controls the execution flow of waitforssh
          and, therefore, the exit status. When this command is the same as
          the one specified by the -C parameter, only this command is
          executed. By default, true is the default test command.

     -d delay
          Before attempting to establish a connection and execute a command,
          waitforssh waits for as many seconds as specified in this parameter.

          The special value random which is the default value, is accepted to
          choose a random number between 1 and 10.

          See for more details on the syntax.

     -r max-retries
          Total number of retries before waitforssh exits with a non-zero exit
          status.

ENVIRONMENT
     -   WAITFORSSH_LOGLEVEL: Verbosity level that is used when logging
         messages from ssh(1).

         QUIET is the default value.

     -   WAITFORSSH_STRICTHOSTKEYCHECKING: Controls how ssh(1) verifies a
         remote server's host key to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks.

         no is the default value.

     -   WAITFORSSH_USERKNOWNHOSTSFILE: File storing a list of public SSH
         keys.

         /dev/null is the default value.

EXIT STATUS
     waitforssh may fail for one of the following reasons:

     -   EX_USAGE: The command was used incorrectly.
     -   EX_DATAERR: An argument is incorrect.
     -   EX_UNAVAILABLE A connection cannot be established.

SEE ALSO
     ssh(1) sshpass(1) sysexits(3) ssh_config(5)

AUTHORS
     Jesús Daniel Colmenares Oviedo <DtxdF@disroot.org>

CAVEATS
     When waitforssh establishes a connection, it executes the true utility as
     the first command to check whether the remote system can be accessed.  If
     the -C parameter is set to true, which is the default value, this
     operation is performed only once, but if a different value is specified,
     the specified command is executed after running the true utility. The
     command specified with the -C parameter does not affect the exit status
     in any way.

     All these operations use the -T parameter of ssh(1), so keep in mind that
     some utilities may not work correctly unless they are designed to be non-
     interactive utilities.

     Also note that this utility does not prevent keyboard-interactive
     authentication for utilities such as sshpass(1) from working correctly.
     However, it is better to use public key authentication.

BUGS
     If the utility true is not found on the remote system or returns a non-
     zero exit status, waitforssh retries as if it had failed when in fact it
     succeeded.

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
     waitforssh was designed for ephemeral environments that can be accessed
     securely (e.g.: via a VPN), which explains the default settings and
     parameters chosen, which may be considered insecure. This utility does
     not replace utilities specialized in remote command execution, but only
     serves to wait for a remote device to be operational and nothing else.
     The fact that an arbitrary command can be executed with this utility is
     only a convenient feature in some cases.

FreeBSD 15.0-RELEASE-p4        November 9, 2025                  waitforssh(1)
