WANTED-PORTS(1)       User Contributed Perl Documentation      WANTED-PORTS(1)


NAME
       wanted-ports -- depend on the ports that you want installed

SYNOPSIS
       wanted-ports [-n] [-f config] [-a|-d portname]]

DESCRIPTION
       wanted-ports is a small port that simply has a user modifiable list of
       run-time dependencies.  The idea is that by marking a port as wanted,
       it adds a double check helping to prevent accidental deletion of the
       ports you really want to have installed.  pkg_delete(1) will refuse to
       delete a port when that port is a dependency required by some other
       installed port, unless you give the -f option to force the action.

       wanted-ports can also be used as a means to automate installing the
       required software load on a server.

   Using wanted-ports
       The first time you run the wanted-ports script, it will generate a
       skeleton configuration file.  Run wanted-ports to modify the list of
       ports that you want to have marked.  This will automatically increment
       the "PORTREVISION" of wanted-ports, marking the ports-mgmt/wanted-ports
       port to be updated, eg. the next time that portmaster(8) or
       portupgrade(1) is run.

       Updating or reinstalling the port will cause the ports system to force
       all of the marked ports to be installed, using the standard dependency
       resolution mechanisms of the ports.

OPTIONS
       -n      Dry-run.  Causes wanted-ports not to update the configuration
               file, but instead to display what the final result would have
               been.

       -f config
               Read and modify an alternate configuration file.  config should
               be the full path to the alternate file.  Note: when updating
               the ports-management/wanted-ports port, set "CFGFILE" or
               "WANTEDPORTSCFG" in the make(1) environment to achieve the same
               effect.

       -a portname
               Add dependencies.  Find all matching package names or port
               paths from the INDEX file, and prompt the user whether to add
               any that are not already listed as dependencies in the
               configuration file.

       -d portname
               Delete dependencies. Find all matching package names or port
               paths from the INDEX file, and prompt the user whether to
               delete any that are currently listed as dependencies in the
               configuration file.

       The add -a and delete -d options are processed in the order given on
       the command line, so a later option can override an earlier one.  The
       portname argument will match any substring of the port or package name:
       care should be taken that you don't accidentally match unintended
       items.  You can anchor searches to start or end of item using "^" or
       "$".

FILES
       /var/db/wanted-ports.conf
                       The default configuration file used by wanted-ports.
                       This is a makefile snippet, that will be included by
                       ports-mgmt/wanted-ports/Makefile.  A skeleton version
                       will be created by wanted-ports if it doesn't exist.
                       The wanted-ports script exists to add or remove
                       "RUN_DEPENDS" entries and update the "PORTREVISION"
                       setting.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables affect the operation of wanted-
       ports.  "PORTSDIR", "INDEXFILE" and "WANTEDPORTSCFG" override the
       system default settings: normally they will not need to be set.  "USER"
       and "LOGNAME" are standard settings, from login(1).

       "PORTSDIR"      As in ports(7), the location where the ports tree is
                       installed.  Default /usr/ports

       "INDEXFILE"     As in ports(7), overrides the automatic logic to
                       determine the name of the index file.  Default INDEX-N
                       where N is the OS major version number.

       "USER"
       "LOGNAME"       The name of the user running the script.  If neither
                       are set, uses "an unknown user".

       "WANTEDPORTSCFG"
                       Override the default location of the configuration
                       file.  Using the -f config command line option
                       superceeds this setting.  Default /var/db/wanted-
                       ports.conf

SEE ALSO
       ports(7), pkg_delete(1), pkg_cutleaves(1), portmaster(8),
       portupgrade(1)

perl v5.10.1                      2010-06-12                   WANTED-PORTS(1)
