weather(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             weather(1)






NAME
       weather - command-line tool to obtain weather conditions and forecasts

SYNOPSIS
       weather [ options ] [ alias1 | search1 [ alias2 | search2 [...]]]

DESCRIPTION
       This command-line utility is intended to provide quick access to
       current weather conditions and forecasts.  Presently, it is capable of
       returning data for localities throughout the USA and some select
       locations globally by retrieving and formatting decoded METARs
       (Meteorological Aerodrome Reports) from NOAA (the USA National Oceanic
       and Atmospheric Administration) and forecasts/alerts from NWS (the USA
       National Weather Service).  The tool is written to function in the same
       spirit as other command-line informational utilities like cal(1),
       calendar(1) and dict(1).  It retrieves arbitrary weather data via
       precompiled correlations or custom-tailored aliases (system-wide or on
       a per-user basis).

       Behavior can be determined by command-line options and specification of
       zero or more location aliases and search terms.

       Aliases are defined in weatherrc(5) files, as a convenient means of
       grouping URIs together using a short name.  Specifying multiple aliases
       or location search terms on the command line causes the utility to
       output data for each, as if it had been invoked multiple times.  If
       none are specified, then an alias of default is checked for a defargs
       option and any alias names listed within it (comma-separated) are
       applied instead.

       Searches utilize location correlation sets in INI-style text files
       named airports, places, stations, zctas and zones.  A precomputed copy
       is distributed with the source, but can be rebuilt from updated data
       sources as needed by placing them in the current working directory and
       running with the --build-sets option (see the comments at the top of
       any location correlation set file for instructions on where to find
       updated data sources).  Positive search results are cached and sourced
       as aliases on subsequent runs for as long as the correlation sets
       remain unchanged, and are cleared automatically once the correlation
       sets are updated.

       Retrieved data is also cached automatically for a short period of time,
       adjustable with the cacheage configuration option or --cacheage
       command-line option.  This helps throttle load against NOAA/NWS servers
       in case the utility is repeatedly re-run requesting the same data, but
       can be overridden with the cache_data configuration option or
       --no-cache-data command-line option.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       --version
              show program's version number and exit

       -h, --help
              show a help message and exit

       -a, --alert
              include local alert notices

       --atypes=ATYPES
              list of alert notification types to display (ex:
              tornado,urgent_weather_message)

       --build-sets
              (re)build location correlation sets

       --cacheage=CACHEAGE
              duration in seconds to refresh cached data (ex: 900)

       --cachedir=CACHEDIR
              directory for storing cached searches and data (ex: ~/.weather)

       -f, --forecast
              include a local forecast

       --headers=HEADERS
              list of conditions headers to display (ex: temperature,wind)

       --imperial
              filter/convert conditions for US/UK units

       --info output detailed information for your search

       -l, --list
              list all configured aliases and cached searches

       --longlist
              display details of all configured aliases

       -m, --metric
              filter/convert conditions for metric units

       -n, --no-conditions
              disable output of current conditions

       --no-cache
              disable all caching (searches and data)

       --no-cache-data
              disable retrieved data caching

       --no-cache-search
              disable search result caching

       -q, --quiet
              skip preambles and don't indent

       --setpath=SETPATH
              directory search path for correlation sets (ex: .:~/.weather)

       -v, --verbose
              show full decoded feeds

EXAMPLES
       weather
              View output for the default alias, if one has been defined
              (otherwise display usage/syntax similar to --help)

       weather rdu
              Display weather conditions at the airport with IATA/FAA code
              RDU.

       weather --info raleigh
              Show a list of FIPS codes for United States Census Bureau places
              containing the word raleigh (or the proximity information if
              only one match was found).

       weather "^ral[ie]{2}gh city.*nc$"
              Get the current weather conditions from the nearest station to
              the Census place name matching the regular expression provided.

       weather -fv fips3755000
              Get the full decoded METAR from the nearest station, and the
              forecast data for the nearest zone to the Census place with FIPS
              code 3755000 with no special filtering or formatting.

       weather --forecast --no-cache-data 27613
              Ignore any recent cached METAR or forecast data and display
              fresh output for the nearest station and zone to the Census ZCTA
              (essentially USPS ZIP code) 27613.

       weather home work
              Show current conditions for both the home and work aliases in
              that order.

       weather 35.878573,-78.727813

       weather 35-52-43n,78-43-40w

       weather "35-52n, 78-43w"
              Display weather conditions for the nearest station to an
              arbitrary set of global coordinates in latitude,longitude order
              either in decimal format or degree, degree-minute or
              degree-minute-second formats, optionally using signed or
              cardinal hemisphere designations with or without spacing.  Note
              that the cut-off for maximum acceptable distance is hard-coded
              at 0.1 radians (roughly 637km or 396mi).

INPUT FILES
       weather may additionally obtain configuration data from a system-wide
       configuration file, a per-user configuration file, and a local
       directory configuration file.  The file format and configuration
       options are described in weatherrc(5).  They are aggregated in the
       following order:

       /etc/weatherrc  or  /etc/weather/weatherrc
              the system-wide configuration

       ~/.weather/weatherrc or ~/.weatherrc
              the per-user configuration

       ./weatherrc
              the local directory configuration

AUTHOR
       Utility and manual written by Jeremy Stanley <fungi@yuggoth.org>.

SEE ALSO
       weatherrc(5)

2.5.0                             2024-05-11                        weather(1)
