WIFIMGR(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             WIFIMGR(8)

NAME
     wifimgr – WiFi Networks Manager

SYNOPSIS
     wifimgr

DESCRIPTION
     wifimgr is a GUI-based tool to manage WiFi network configuration.

     wifimgr supports open networks, and secured networks using WEP, WPA-PSK
     and WPA-EAP with manual password or encryption key configuration.
     Automatic configuration for WPS is not supported, but passwords for WPS
     networks can be entered manually as for WPA-PSK networks.

     wifimgr acts merely as an editor of the wpa_supplicant.conf(5) file.
     Actual network interface configuration and management is still done by
     the wpa_supplicant(8) program.

     Networks in the configuration file, together with new networks found by a
     scan of the WiFi interface are displayed to the user.  The user may
     change the sort ordering of the networks between SSID (default), signal
     strength and channel, and may choose to hide (default) or show networks
     that have been previously saved but are now out of range.  The user may
     enable/disable networks as needed, enter either passwords or EAP
     configuration together with a short comment, and set a connection
     priority.  To make use of so-called ``cloaked'' networks which do not
     broadcast their SSID and which are therefore not found by the interface
     scan, the user can also manually add new networks to the list using the
     "Add" button.  When the "Save" button is clicked, the enabled networks
     are written back out to the wpa_supplicant.conf(5) file and the network
     interface is restarted.

     wifimgr stores each network's SSID and BSSID in the configuration file
     and uses these when identifying available networks.  Using the
     combination allows for situations where the same SSID is repeated on a
     separate network which has different password.  However, this also means
     that on a network with multiple access points, there must be separate
     entries for that network, one for each of the BSSIDs.  Since that can
     become unwieldly for networks with very many access points (e.g.,
     organization-wide networks and also mobile phone hotspots), the "Any
     BSSID" checkbox can be checked to not save this network's BSSID.  Keep in
     mind, however, that doing this will mean that use of a different network
     that happens to use the same SSID but a different authentication scheme
     or password will then not be possible.

     The priority field can be used to indicate which network or access points
     should be preferred over others.  Higher values mean higher priority.
     Values are in the range 0..255.

     The ‘X’ column of checkboxes can be used to mark a network or individual
     BSSID as disabled.  This is done using the ‘disabled=’ flag in the
     configuration file.  This is useful to stop wpa_supplicant from
     associating with a specific BSSID or an entire network while keeping its
     configuration in the file in order to avoid having to re-enter passwords
     and comments if a network might be needed again later.

     Since wifimgr needs to restart the network interface and edit files that
     might not be writable to regular users, when wifimgr starts up, it
     requests the administrator (i.e., root) password.

     The wpa_supplicant.conf(5) may be edited by hand in-between uses of
     wifimgr.

     wifimgr automatically saves and reloads display configuration choices
     (such as network sort order and whether or not out of range networks are
     displayed) in the file ~/.cache/wifimgr/config.

CONFIGURATION
     A network interface must be configured for WiFi use in /etc/rc.conf.
     This is best done using a configuration entry such as:

           ifconfig_wlan0="WPA DHCP"

     using the appropriate interface name.

WIFI SECURITY
     WiFi networks can operate with several security methods.

     Security can be off.  This is known as an open, plaintext or insecure
     network.  All packets broadcast over the network can be intercepted by
     others and their contents examined.  Networks in public places such as
     airports and hotels are often open networks.  Such networks can still be
     used securely, but it is up to each application to provide its own
     security and it is up to the user to confirm, before each network use,
     that application security is in use.  ssh, https and PGP email are
     examples of applications offering security themselves.

     Early WiFi security was done using WEP, Wired Equivalent Privacy.  WEP
     uses a shared password to encrypt all data transmissions.  Unfortunately,
     the encryption technique used by WEP was easily cracked and software to
     do this is widely available.

     A replacement to WEP known as WPA, or WiFi Protected Access, has become
     more widely used today.  However, due to the urgency with which it was
     needed, some vendors implemented it before the standards were completely
     approved.  This has led to there being several variants of WPA.  Early
     implementations are known as WPA networks.  Once the standard was
     approved, it was renamed to RSN, or Robust Secure Network also often
     referred to as WPA2.

     Both WPA and RSN offer several security models.  Home users and small
     businesses might use a shared access key, known as a pre-shared key
     (PSK).  Depending on the access point's capabilities, there can be a
     single PSK for all users or a separate PSK for each user.  Larger
     enterprises might use more complex key management schemes by means of
     RSN/WPA's extensible authentication protocol (EAP).  EAP typically
     requires large keys and certificates stored in files.

     All WiFi security was developed by the IEEE 802.11 Working Group.  WEP
     was the original IEEE 802.11 standard.  WPA was the later IEEE 802.11i
     draft 3 standard.  RSN is the finalized IEEE 802.11i standard.

     The security being used on a network is set in the access point
     configuration.  wifimgr detects what security is available on a network
     and prompts the user for suitable configuration to use it.

GUI SUPPORT
     wifimgr was originally written for users of the XFce4 window manager but
     it will work in any environment with the GTK+ libraries installed.

ENVIRONMENT
     TMPDIR  directory where temporary files are written (default: "/tmp")

FILES
     ~/.cache/wifimgr/config        user's display configuration
     /etc/rc.conf                   system configuration file for
                                    configuration of WiFi interface
     /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf       networks configuration file
     /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf.save  backup of any wpa_supplicant.conf that
                                    contains directives unknown to wifimgr

SEE ALSO
     rc.conf(5), wpa_supplicant(8), wpa_supplicant.conf(5).

HISTORY
     The wifimgr tool first appeared in FreeBSD 8.0.

AUTHOR
     J.R. Oldroyd, Open Advisors Limited ⟨fbsd@opal.com⟩.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE           October 30, 2009           FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
