WITNESS(4)             FreeBSD Kernel Interfaces Manual             WITNESS(4)

NAME
     witness – lock validation facility

SYNOPSIS
     options WITNESS
     options WITNESS_COUNT
     options WITNESS_KDB
     options WITNESS_NO_VNODE
     options WITNESS_SKIPSPIN

DESCRIPTION
     The witness module keeps track of the locks acquired and released by each
     thread.  It also keeps track of the order in which locks are acquired
     with respect to each other.  Each time a lock is acquired, witness uses
     these two lists to verify that a lock is not being acquired in the wrong
     order.  If a lock order violation is detected, then a message is output
     to the kernel console or log detailing the locks involved and the
     locations in question.  Witness can also be configured to drop into the
     kernel debugger when an order violation occurs.

     The witness code also checks various other conditions such as verifying
     that one does not recurse on a non-recursive lock, or attempt an upgrade
     on a shared lock held by another thread.  If any of these checks fail,
     then the kernel will panic.

     The WITNESS_COUNT kernel option controls the maximum number of witness
     entries that are tracked in the kernel.  The maximum number of entries
     can be queried via the debug.witness.count sysctl.  It can also be set
     from the loader(8) via the debug.witness.count environment variable.

     The WITNESS_NO_VNODE kernel option tells witness to ignore locking issues
     between vnode(9) objects.

     The flag that controls whether or not the kernel debugger is entered when
     a lock order violation is detected can be set in a variety of ways.  By
     default, the flag is off, but if the WITNESS_KDB kernel option is
     specified, then the flag will default to on.  It can also be set from the
     loader(8) via the debug.witness.kdb environment variable or after the
     kernel has booted via the debug.witness.kdb sysctl.  If the flag is set
     to zero, then the debugger will not be entered.  If the flag is non-zero,
     then the debugger will be entered.

     The witness code can also be configured to skip all checks on spin
     mutexes.  By default, this flag defaults to off, but it can be turned on
     by specifying the WITNESS_SKIPSPIN kernel option.  The flag can also be
     set via the loader(8) environment variable debug.witness.skipspin.  If
     the variable is set to a non-zero value, then spin mutexes are skipped.
     Once the kernel has booted, the status of this flag can be examined but
     not set via the read-only sysctl debug.witness.skipspin.

     The sysctl debug.witness.watch specifies the level of witness involvement
     in the system.  A value of 1 specifies that witness is enabled.  A value
     of 0 specifies that witness is disabled, but that can be enabled again.
     This will maintain a small amount of overhead in the system.  A value of
     -1 specifies that witness is disabled permanently and cannot be enabled
     again.  The sysctl debug.witness.watch can be set via loader(8).

     The sysctl debug.witness.output_channel specifies the output channel used
     to display warnings emitted by witness.  The possible values are
     ‘console’, indicating that warnings are to be printed to the system
     console, ‘log’, indicating that warnings are to be logged via log(9), and
     ‘none’.  This sysctl can be set via loader(8).

     The witness code also provides three extra ddb(4) commands if both
     witness and ddb(4) are compiled into the kernel:

     show locks [thread]
     Outputs the list of locks held by a thread to the kernel console along
     with the filename and line number at which each lock was last acquired by
     the thread.  The optional thread argument may be either a TID, PID, or
     pointer to a thread structure.  If thread is not specified, then the
     locks held by the current thread are displayed.

     show all locks
     Outputs the list of locks held by all threads in the system to the kernel
     console.

     show witness
     Dump the current order list to the kernel console.  The code first
     displays the lock order tree for all of the sleep locks.  Then it
     displays the lock order tree for all of the spin locks.  Finally, it
     displays a list of locks that have not yet been acquired.

SEE ALSO
     ddb(4), loader(8), sysctl(8), mutex(9)

HISTORY
     The witness code first appeared in BSD/OS 5.0 and was imported from there
     into FreeBSD 5.0.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        November 18, 2015       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
