WMANAGER-LOOP(1)        FreeBSD General Commands Manual       WMANAGER-LOOP(1)

NAME
     wmanager-loop – loop running window managers chosen with wmanager

SYNOPSIS
     wmanager-loop [OPTIONS ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The wmanager-loop program starts the first window manager listed in
     ~/.wmanagerrc (or an X terminal emulator if none), and when it exits,
     runs wmanager(1) to prompt the user for the next window manager.  It
     loops doing this until the user chooses “Exit this session” in
     wmanager(1).  Any options given to wmanager-loop will be passed on to
     wmanager(1).

     As mentioned above, if no window manager is found in the ~/.wmanagerrc
     file, the wmanager-loop program attempts to start an X terminal emulator.
     If the WMTERM environment variable is set, the wmanager-loop program uses
     it as the path to the emulator.  Otherwise it searches the user's path
     for a program named “x-terminal-emulator”, “urxvt”, “rxvt”, or “xterm” in
     this order, and starts the first one found using its full path.  If none
     of the common terminal emulators on the above list is found, the
     wmanager-loop program just runs “xterm” in the hope that something will
     come up on the user's display.

ENVIRONMENT
     The wmanager-loop program uses the following environment variables:

     WMTERM  The name of the X terminal emulator to execute if no window
             manager could be found in the ~/.wmanagerrc file.  If not
             specified, the wmanager-loop program searches the user's path as
             described above.

EXAMPLE
     To start using wmanager-loop, create a ~/.wmanagerrc file - generally
     with wmanagerrc-update(1) - and add something like the following at the
     end of your ~/.xsession file:

           exec wmanager-loop -geometry +570+585

SEE ALSO
     wmanager(1), wmanagerrc-update(1)

HISTORY
     The wmanager-loop program was written by Tommi Virtanen in 2000 and later
     modified by Peter Pentchev.  This manual page was originally written in
     perldoc format by Tommi Virtanen in 2000, and converted to mdoc format
     and updated by Peter Pentchev in 2008.

AUTHORS
     Tommi Virtanen ⟨tv@debian.org⟩
     Peter Pentchev ⟨roam@ringlet.net⟩

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             May 22, 2008             FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
