WMBLOB(1)                        User Manuals                        WMBLOB(1)

NAME
       wmblob - a WindowMaker dockapp

SYNOPSIS
       wmblob [ --help | --version ]

DESCRIPTION
       (This manpage is mainly made of sections found in the file README
       coming with the wmblob tarball.)

       I'll be honest with you.  The truth is: wmblob is a totally useless
       program.  But unlike other totally useless programs (I won't name them
       here, because they're made by an enormous and rich company), it looks
       good and shows funny moving `blobs'.  I'm sure you'll like it.  It's a
       nice dockapp for WindowMaker (see `www.windowmaker.org'), but it's
       probably going to run just as well with any other window manager.

OPTIONS
       Note: The command line options for setting the colors have been
       removed.

       -b, --broken-wm
              Handle broken window managers.  Some of them seems to need it,
              but --windowed might be the better solution.

       -w, --windowed
              Run in a window.

       -d dp, --display dp
              Use the given display.

       -h, --help
              Print a short help message.

       -v, --version
              Print version informations.

HOW TO USE IT
       Simply start it and watch it.  Nice, eh?

       What?  Don't see anything?  Try giving the `--broken-wm' or
       `--windowed' options to wmblob.

       Clicking in the window will open a dialog with lots of options.  (You
       can't change the colors anymore by clicking with different buttons,
       like in older versions.)  All these settings change the way wmblob
       behaves.  Sorry, I won't describe all of them here; you can find it out
       yourself by fiddling around.  You can look at some examples by loading
       the presets.  Select a preset from the dropdown menu, click `load' and
       then `apply'.

       wmblob saves it's settings and presets in the file .wmblobrc in your
       home directory.  you should not edit this file unless you really know
       what you're doing.  wmblob may crash if the file is not set up
       properly.  if you've messed things up, simply delete this file, wmblob
       will recreate it with the default settings.

CPU USAGE
       Being nothing more than a toy (a nice toy), wmblob cannot be tolerated
       to use too much of your cpu.  While the amount of cpu time required by
       wmblob is small (less than 1/2%) with the default settings on modern
       machines, it can use considerable cpu time (maybe 10%) on older and
       slow machines with heavy settings (lots of blobs).  It's your choice to
       run wmblob or not.  Also consider to nice it.

COPYRIGHT
       wmblob is copyright by jean-luc herren.  The GPL version 2 (or newer,
       if desired) applies to all portions of the code I wrote.  If you don't
       know the GPL, please see the file COPYING in the root of the source
       tree or go to `www.gnu.org'.

       The file wmlessgeneral.c has been taken from wmgeneral.c by Martijn
       Pieterse (pieterse at xs4all dot nl).  wmblob.c was originally derived
       from wmdots.c from `wmdots' by Mark I Manning IV (?), but there's
       nothing left from his original code.

AUTHOR
       wmblob was written by Jean-Luc Herren.  (jlh at gmx dot ch)

BUG REPORTS
       Bugs?  Where?  Well, if you find one or have some comments, questions
       or problems or feel like saying hello, feel free to send me an e-mail
       (jlh at gmx dot ch).  Warning: If you spam me, I'll remote activate
       wmblob to delete all your precious data and to break you a leg.

KNOWN BUGS
       None.  Unless you tell me about one.  I run it permanently on my
       machine and never encountered any problems.

THANKS
       Thanks to other people who wrote dockapps, I read some of their
       sources.  Especially: wmdots, wmMand and wmgeneral.

       Thanks to Thomas Otto, for his patch, for command line args.

       Thanks to Gürkan Sengün (gurkan at linuks dot mine dot nu), for making
       a Debian package and writing the initial manpage.

       Thanks to Arthur Melissen for the help with FreeBSD.

       And thanks to all the people, who dropped me an email!  It's nice to
       hear that you like it!  :)

SEE ALSO
       The WindowMaker homepage: `www.windowmaker.org'.  The DockApp homepage:
       `BSDforge.com'.  See also the file `README' and the file
       `doc/how_it_works' if you're curious.  Both are included with the
       wmblob source tarball.

       wmaker(1)

Linux                            FEBRUARY 2004                       WMBLOB(1)
