WMND(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                WMND(1)

NAME
       WMND - WindowMaker network device monitor

SYNOPSIS
       wmnd { options }

DESCRIPTION
       WMND is a WindowMaker dock application that shows a graph of the
       network traffic of the past few minutes, current activity and current
       and overall send and receive rates. Additionally it can launch any
       program in response to mouse clicks.

OPTIONS
       -i interface
              Select the interface to start with.

       -I interface
              Interface/s to monitor. Defaults to all but lo and irda. Under
              linux (using the linux_proc driver) you can specify multiple
              interfaces separated by commas to force offline ones and combine
              them into a single instance.

       -D driver
              Specify a driver to use. Defaults to auto-probe.

       -l     Start using long device names.

       -m     Start with maximal values hidden.

       -t     Start without displaying connection time of ppp links.

       -M     Use the maximal values of the entire history.

       -w mode
              Select display mode to start with.  Use wmnd -h for a list of
              available display modes.  Left-click on the graph to cycle
              through all available modes.

       -r rate
              refresh rate in microseconds

       -s scroll
              scroll rate in tenths of seconds

       -S steps
              Number of scroll steps to wait before updating the speed rate
              indicator.

       -b     Scale the values of the maximum and current rate by factors of
              base 2 instead of the default 10-based scaling. (1K equals 1024
              in binary mode, but 1000 in decimal mode.)

       -c color
              tx color

       -C color
              rx color

       -L color
              middle line color

       -d display
              Draw onto X11 display display

       -f config
              Read config instead of ~/.wmndrc

       -F     Don't parse ~/.wmndrc

       -h     Show summary of options.

       -v     Show version of WMND.

       -q     Be less verbose (display only errors).

       -Q     Show informational messages.

       -o float
              Smoothing factor (a float from 0 to 1).

       -a bytes
              Use a fixed scale for the bytes modes specified in bytes per
              second.  By default uses an automatic scale.

       -n name
              Change the WMND class/title name (defaults to "wmnd").


USAGE
   Active Interface
       You can cycle in realtime through all available active interfaces by
       simply left-clicking on the interface name gadget on the upperleft
       corner of WMND or use the mouse wheel anywhere.

       The 'lo' interface is an exception, 'lo' only works when invoked from
       the commandline (wmnd -I lo), lo was mainly built in for testing
       purposes.

   Device Name
       By default, WMND show device name in short term of four characters, for
       example, the ippp0 will be displayed as ipp0.  You can toggle the
       device name between short and long by right-click on it.

   Graphic Mode
       Left-click on the main graphic area to cycle the graphic mode.

   Max Meter
       Left-click to toggle the history max or screen max. The max mode also
       affects the main graph scale. The default is screen max when WMND is
       startup. Right-click to hide or show. Middle-click to zoom the
       statistics in a separated trend window. You can cycle the active
       interface and middle-click again to monitor multiple interfaces
       concurrently.

   Byte/Packet Mode
       Left-click on the letter gadgeted on the right-top corner can switch
       between the Byte or Packet counter mode. "B" for byte, "p" for packet.
       The current mode affects the external trend window too.

   User Script
       Click on the bottom rate meter can invoke the user command defined in
       resource file .wmndrc.

   Dragging WMND
       Be sure to drag WMND on it's outer edges, it's a bit picky due to the
       large gfx pixmap it keeps. You can also use a keyboard and mouse
       shortcut (perhaps ALT+left-click) in your window manager to drag it
       around.

   Drivers
       solaris_fpppd
              Solaris/Linux ppp streams driver. Gathers device data from
              /dev/ppp. Uses code from the Solaris/Linux pppd server and it
              should work wherever Solaris/Linux pppd works.

       linux_proc
              Reads data from the linux proc(5) virtual filesystem.

       freebsd_sysctl
              Uses the MIB to gather device statistics under FreeBSD (offline
              devices handling is buggy, support needed!)

       netbsd_ioctl
              Read statistics through the NetBSD ioctl call.

       solaris_kstat
              Gather all devices of class net from the kstat library.

       irix_pcp
              Reads metrics from the IRIX Performance Co-Pilot daemon.
              Interface format:

              [host@]interface


       generic_snmp
              Query an IF-MIB capable snmp server for gathering interface
              statistics. By default generic_snmp connects to localhost and
              uses the public community. You can change the
              community/host/interface to monitor by using the -I flag:

              [community@]host[:interface]

              You must specify an interface number, not an interface name. If
              the interface number is 0, or there's no interface
              specification, WMND will display all available interfaces. By
              default the community name is "public". Beware that by
              specifying an snmp v1 community name on a command line can be
              dangerous on an multiuser platform. Please read the README file
              on the distribution for more details.

       testing_dummy
              This is the "last resort" driver, it shows a null device useful
              only to make WMND don't exit when all other drivers failed. Can
              be enhanced to display something at compile time.

FILES
       ~/.wmndrc User configuration.

       The format of this file is described in the example file "wmndrc"
       coming with the distribution (see /usr/share/doc/wmnd/).

SIGNALS
       SIGTERM SIGINT
              Clean WMND shutdown.

BUGS
       Report bugs and suggestion to the current WMND maintainer: wave++
       <wavexx@thregr.org>. More information (including usage instructions)
       can be found into the README file found into the distribution. These
       information should be integrated here too.

SEE ALSO
       X(3x), wmaker(1x), proc(5), trend(1)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Arthur Korn <arthur@korn.ch>.  The
       original WMND authour is Reed Lai, but it is currently maintained by
       Yuri D'Elia <wavexx@thregr.org>.

                                 April 4, 2020                         WMND(1)
