word2x(1)                       LOCAL COMMANDS                       word2x(1)



NAME
       word2x - convert word 6 documents to another format


SYNOPSIS
       word2x [-Vhvq] [-w width] [-f format] [-d date-style] files...


DESCRIPTION
       word2x is a program that attempts to produce a component, if not
       perfect rendition of a word 6 document. It guesses rather a lot from
       context and can make mistakes. Pictures are not supported and will not
       appear. There is very limited maths support in LaTeX mode, mainly due
       to lack of samples of mathematics. (I probably should have done this
       using TeX catcode and macro magic, instead of writing special code).

       Input files must be seekable and therefore stdin is not allowed. The
       files argument is of the form input file, output file, input file,
       output file etc. - may be used for stdout in the output file. If the
       output file is not sepcified a named is generated by adding on an
       appropiate suffix in place of .DOC (or .doc). Both .DOC and .doc are
       added automatically if the file name specified can not be found.

       As a special exception to the above any file ending on .doc or .DOC is
       assumed to be an input file. This allows one to type word2x -f latex
       *.DOC, for example.


OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              print version on stderr and exit.

       -h, --help
              show synopsis, output and date formats supported.

       -v, --verbose
              be (moderately) verbose

       -q, --quiet
              supress non-error messages (this is the default).

       -w, --width
              set the maximum width of a line in the output

       -d, --dates
              set the date format. Currently the formats supported are uk,
              british, us.  uk dates are 22nd April, 1997, for example and US
              style dates April 22nd, 1997.  british is a synonym for uk.  The
              default is uk.

       -f, --format
              Set the output format. Currently text and latex are supported.
              The LaTeX output requires the AMS LaTeX package and LaTeX 2e.
              It should be reasonably easy to add another format, however some
              formats do a large amount of context guesswork, for example the
              LaTeX format (esp.  in the paragraph handling code).  text is
              the default.


BUGS
       One argument does not produce output on stdout

       The reader sometimes generates error messages when it is confused.

       The equation support is limited to only fractions at present.

       The program appears to understand a lot more than it really does.

       Pictures are silently disguared.

       Fast save files are not supported.

       The conversion is not perfect and needs manual cleaning up.

       Non-word files silently produce empty output in most cases.

       Equations are not supported in text output.

       If the cues the program recognised LaTeX mode does little more than
       produce LaTeX format tables and plain text output.


AUTHOR
       word2x is (C) Duncan Simpson 1997 and may be distributed under the GPL
       version 2, or any later version at your option. I would appreciate
       patches and information emailed to dps@io.stargate.co.uk




Duncan Simpson                  1st April 1997                       word2x(1)
