wdel(1)                   Internet Applications - FTP                  wdel(1)

NAME
       wdel - A wget-like program for deleting files on ftp servers

SYNOPSIS
       wdel [option]... [URL [file]...]...

DESCRIPTION
       Wdel is a free utility that is able to delete files on an ftp server.

       Wdel is non-interactive and background-capable. It can delete files or
       whole directories and is meant to be a robust client even for unstable
       connections and will therefore retry to delete a file, if the
       connection broke.

       Wdel supports connections through proxies, allowing you to use it in an
       environment that can access the internet only via a proxy or to provide
       anonymity by hiding your ip-address to the server.  For SOCKSv5-proxies
       Wdel supports also listening mode, allowing you to use port-mode ftp
       through a proxy (useful if the remote ftp is behind a firewall or a
       gateway).

URL-Input-Handling
       URLs are recognized by the ftp://-prefix.

       Wdel first reads the URLs from the command line, and associates every
       file with the last URL until a new URL is found (note that this is
       different from wput). Then, it reads the --input-file (if any) and
       parses the URLs in the same way.  So you can specify e.g. one URL and
       read all filenames from a file.

       If there are no explicit filenames given for a singe URL, then the last
       part of the URL is taken to be the file/directory to be deleted. If
       there are filenames, then the last part of the URL is considered to be
       the directory where these files reside in. Slashes at the end of the
       URL or the filename (in case it is a directory to be deleted) are
       ignored.

OPTIONS
       There are no special options introduced by Wdel. All of Wput’s options
       may be supplied, although some will not be of any effect because they
       do not apply for the process of deleting files. Please see wput(1) for
       a description of the options.

SEE ALSO
       Many options can be set in a wputrc file. For its documentation consult
       the sample file provided by Wput.

       wput(1) describes all setable options. Not all apply for wdel too
       though.

AUTHOR
       Wdel is written by Hagen Fritsch <fritsch+wdel-man@in.tum.de> and Jan
       Larres <jan@majutsushi.net>

Hagen Fritsch, Jan Larres            0.6.2                             wdel(1)
