xblast(6x)                                                          xblast(6x)

NAME
       XBlast (TNT) - Multi-player "Blast the Others" game



SYNOPSIS
       xblast  [options]



DESCRIPTION
       XBlast is a multi-player arcade game for X11R5/R6. The game can be
       played with at least two players and up to six players. It was inspired
       by the video/computer game Bomberman/Dynablaster which was to my
       knowledge first programmed for NEC's PC Engine/Turbo Grafx. Other
       (commercial) versions of the original game exist for IBM-PC, Atari ST,
       Amiga, NES, GameBoy and Super NES.



Actualized information you can obtain on the web page:
       http://xblast.sourceforge.net/ Follow the link Player-Tutorials



LAUNCHING XBLAST
       Just type xblast in an xconsole.



SOUND OPTIONS
       This option is only valid when XBlast was compiled with the optional
       sound support. Freebsd, Linux and Sun should be supported.

       -ns    This disables the sound support.



OTHER OPTIONS
       The program XBlast supports the following command-line options:

       -central
              This option starts the program as central server.

       -check This option verifies if all levels are loadable.



PLAYING XBLAST
       The idea of the game is quite simple: "There can be only one ...".  So
       the aim is to blast away all the other players. Use your bombs to blast
       away the other players and certain blocks (e.g. the ?-Blocks in the 1st
       level). Below some of these blocks there are extras.

       The program XBlast can be played locally or in network.  After you
       started XBlast it will display an intro. The next step will show you
       the "Main Menu". In the "Main Menu" you can  decide if you want to
       start a local game, join a network game or host a network game. For
       detailed information please go to the web site.



CONTROLS
       The following will explain the default bindings.  These keys control
       the first (right) player at your display:

       KP_8,_KP_Up
              Player starts walking up.

       KP_2,_KP_Down
              Player starts walking down.

       KP_4,_KP_Left
              Player starts walking to the left.

       KP_6,_KP_Right
              Player starts walking to the right.

       KP_5   Player stops (in the center of the next block).

       KP_0,_KP_Insert
              Player drops a bomb (in the center of the current block).

       Return,_KP_Add
              Player uses special function (e.g. remote control, special
              bombs).

       KP_Subtract
              Pause of level in Local Game.

       KP_Multiply
              Request to abort the level.

       KP_Divide
              Cancel abort request.

       The following keys control the second (left) player at your display:

       T      Player starts walking up.

       V,_B   Player starts walking down.

       F      Player starts walking to the left.

       H      Player starts walking to the right.

       G      Player stops (in the center of the next block).

       Space  Player drops a bomb (in the center of the current block).

       Tab    Player uses special function (e.g. remote control, special
              bombs).

       P      Pause of level in Local Game.

       A      Request to abort of level.

       Z      cancel abort request.

       A single player can use both key sets for playing.  Furthermore the
       following keys effect all players:

       P      pause game, resume game after pause.

       Escape Go to previous menu.

       Please note that since XBlast 2.7.x the keybindings can be customised
       via Options Menu Controls (see also http://blast.sf.net/ ).



EXTRA SYMBOLS
       There are many extras to be found in xblast. Most of the time they can
       be found under blastable blocks, sometimes they are just lying around.
       The following extras can be found in nearly any level. You will keep
       these extras until you have lost all your lives or the level ends. See
       the web site for actualized information.

       Bomb (red frame)
              This extra increases the number of bombs you can drop by one.

       Flame (yellow flame)
              This extra increases the range of your bombs by one field.

       Furthermore in several levels the following symbol can be found:

       Skull (cyan frame)
              This is not really an extra, but you will be infected with an
              random illness when picking it up. You will be healed
              automatically after a certain time, or if you loose one life.
              Additionally you can infect other players while being ill by
              running past them.

       In many levels there is also a special extra. There will always be only
       one type of special extra per level and you will loose it if you loose
       a life. The following special extras can be found:

       Kick extra (moving bomb in blue frame)
              This extra enables you to kick bombs by running into them.

       Invincibility (star in golden frame)
              This extra makes you invincible for some time. You are not
              killed by explosions, stunned by moving bombs, nor infected by
              skulls.

       Global Detonator (button in deep pink frame)
              Picking up this extra ignites all bombs on the map. Use with
              care.

       Construction Bombs (bricks and bombs in firebrick frame)
              This extra gives you construction bombs as special bombs.  These
              bombs create a blastable block when exploding. Use the special
              key to drop them.

       Remote Control (button box in spring green frame)
              This extra enables you to ignite all your bombs by pressing the
              special key.

       Teleport Extra (beaming player in orchid frame)
              This extra enables you to beam away to a random location. You
              must be in the center of a block to activate it. Use the special
              key to teleport.

       Airpump (clouds in sky blue frame)
              This extra enables you to blow away (not to blast away) bombs
              within a range of 2 fields. It also works when your are trapped
              between two bombs. Use the special key to activate it.

       Napalm Bombs (burning bombs in orange red frame)
              This extra allows you to drop a high powered napalm bomb using
              the special key. This bomb has a much larger explosion than
              normal, and is bigger if you have more Flames. If the bomb is
              struck with an explosion, it will explode as a normal bomb. For
              the large explosion to occur, it must explode on its own.

       Firecrackers (firecrackers in orange frame)
              This extra allows you to drop firecracker bombs with the special
              key.  Firecracker bombs set off a series of explosions that can
              clear away a small area. One in ten firecracker bombs is high
              powered and clears away a much larger area. There is no way to
              tell if a firecracker is high powered or not until it explodes.
              Unlike napalm bombs there is no way to stop the firecracker
              explosion, although it is blocked by walls and other solid
              objects.

       Pyro bombs (firecrackers in orange frame)
              This extra allows you to drop pyro bombs with the special key.
              Pyro bombs explode with a series of small explosions that dance
              around the level. These explosions are blocked by walls and
              other bombs but are able to travel through corridors with ease.
              They explode randomly and cannot be controlled. Pyro bombs have
              the same range irrespective of how many flame extras you have.
              Even if the bomb is struck with an explosion it will still
              explode as pyro bomb.

       Junkie Virus (syringe in yellow green frame)
              This extra infects you with the junkie virus. Whilst you have
              the junkie virus you are randomly infected with illnesses (as if
              you were picking up skulls). You MUST touch other players to
              pass on the illness within a certain time limit or you will lose
              a life. Any touched players are given the junkie virus as well.
              There is currently no way to get rid of the junkie virus (but
              look for a rehabilitation centre in the next release). :)

       Poison (black skull in steel blue frame)
              This extra?! cost you one of your lives. So avoid to step on it.
              At least if you are not currenlty invincible.

       Spinner (looks like normal floor)
              When picking up this extra you will be stunned for some time.
              Your opponents might want to blast you while you are spinning.

       Speed (moving head in light blue frame)
              This extra enables you too run twice as fast as normal. Try to
              overtake other players and catch them between bombs.

       Mayhem (moving head and bomb in blue frame)
              This extra gives you speed and kicking. Make the best of it.

       Holy Grail (a grail with blue light in white frame)
              This extras transfers life energy to you from your opponents.
              Be sure you are the one to get there first.

       Life (head and first aid kit in red frame)
              This extra increases your number of lifes by one. Comes in handy
              while in "hot" environments.

       Random (question mark in light blue frame)
              Picking up this extra will give you one of the following extras:
              Speed,_Poison,_Invincibility,_Spinner,_Air_Pump or Life.  Avoid
              it if you have only one life left.

       Cloak (vanishing player in violet frame)
              This extras allows you to cloak yourself using the special key.
              You become invisible for all other players. The extras wears out
              after a certain time of use.

       Morph (bomb with eyes in green frame)
              Get this extra to morph into a bomb with the special key. You
              still move as a bomb although you cannot alter course while on
              the run.  You cannot be harmed by explosions while you are a
              bomb. Beware not to be kicked in the wall while the level
              shrinks.



GAME RESOURCES
       These resources define the rest of the game setup of xblast. They will
       be taken from the following sources (in the given order):

       1.     internal defaults

       2.     the directory "~/.xblast_tnt"



DISPLAY RESOURCES
       These resources are read separately for each display used in xblast.
       They are read only from the following sources (in the given order):

       1.     internal defaults

       2.     the directory "~/.xblast_tnt"

       3.     the server resources of the default display (can be set using
              xrdb).



BUGS
       If you found one go to the web site and tell us.



COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1993-2005, Oliver Vogel.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public Licences as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2; or (at your option) any
       later version

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be entertaining,
       but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA



AUTHORS
       Oliver Vogel (Main Author)
              vogel@ikp.uni-koeln.de

       Garth Denley (Coauthor)
              g0denley@teaching.cs.adelaide.edu.au

       Norbert Nicolay (Linux Sound Support, optional)
              nicolay@ikp.uni-koeln.de

       Koen (central, SMPF, teammode on TNT, bugcatcher)

       EPFL

       Belgium Guys

       Skywalker (epfl port, laola, some game functions, user friendliness,
       Shapes)

       Kruno Sever (Major network review, Chat, bugcatcher)



CONTRIBUTORS
       Xavier Caron - x-caron@es2.fr
       Chris Doherty - cpdohert@teaching.cs.adelaide.edu.au
       Patrick Durish - dri@eup.siemens-albis.ch
       Keith Gillow - ...@...
       Rob Hite - hite@tellabs.com
       Christophe Kalt - kalt@hugo.int-evry.fr
       Joachim Kaltz - kaltz@essi.fr
       Laurent Marsan - mbaye@univ-mlv.fr
       Pierre Ramet  - ramet@labri.u-bordeaux.fr
       Mike Schneider - schneid@tellabs.com
       Mark Shepherd - ...@...
       Rob, Simon and Tristan - ...@...
       Xbresse
       Gerfried Fuchs
       Rado
       Ifi
       Bombenfutter
       Galatius
       Garth Denley
       Stephan Natschlaeger
       Amilhastre
       Fouf
       ALu
       Larsl
       Stefan Stiasny

                      Release 2.10.0 (Februar 27th 2005)            xblast(6x)
