XBMBROWSER(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          XBMBROWSER(1)

NAME
       xbmbrowser - view and manage X bitmap and X pixmap files.

SYNOPSIS
       xbmbrowser [ -options... ] [ directory ]


DESCRIPTION
       xbmbrowser will show you all the bitmaps or pixmaps in the directory if
       it is specified otherwise it will look in the current directory.  Note
       that if the program can not change directory to the directory in the
       command line it will exit and print an error message.

       Once started the User can change the directory being displayed by
       either

              •      Editing the displayed current directory string on the
                     main application window.

              •      Selecting a directory from a popup menu, by pressing a
                     mouse button over the displayed current directory string.
                     This is the recommended method when you are moving around
                     a directory tree that you know very well.

              •      Clicking with the first (left-most) mouse button on a
                     directory file symbol.

              •      Or even through one of the user configurable popup menu
                     actions (See below).  This is usfull to define a specific
                     directory that you wish to change to regularly.


       This latest version of xbmbrowser will also display small symbols for
       all the other files and directories present in the displayed directory.
       These symbols can be turned of if desired either through command line
       options, resources, or interactivly within the program.

       You can perform a many different operations on bitmap (or pixmap) file
       that is being displayed, or even any of the other files in the current
       directory. These operations include, Rename, Copy, Delete, Edit and Set
       it as the background root window pattern.

       These operations are initialized from a default library configuration
       file "/usr/lib/X11/xbmbrowser/xbmbrowser.menu", or from the users own
       version of this file ".xbmbrowserrc" in the user's home directory.


OPTIONS
       Xbmbrowser will take all the normal Xtoolkit options as well as the
       following command line options. All but the -cf option can also be
       turned on and off as and when required from an "Options" menu (middle
       button along the top of the main application window) or its default set
       via X resource.


              -cf "file"

              -config "file"
                     Load the menu configuration from the given file instead
                     of either the users rc file ".xbmbrowserrc" or the
                     library configuration file
                     "/usr/lib/X11/xbmbrowser/xbmbrowser.menu".


              -solid This controls the two different styles in which
                     xbmbrowser can display the icons. The first -solid option
                     uses a solid background with the icons displayed in
                     shaped windows. This option is generally only usful on
                     color displays and is by default enabled if this is the
                     case.  You can override this automatic setting with the X
                     resource below.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.solid_bgnd: True


              -stipple
                     This other option is just the oppisite of the -solid
                     option above.  Display a stipple (checker board grey
                     pattern) as the background and display the icon images in
                     boxed (un-shaped) windows. This option is the original
                     default of xbmbrowser. It also produces a better display
                     on monocrome displays and as such is automatically
                     selected as the defult for such displays.  You can
                     override this automatic setting with the X resource
                     below.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.solid_bgnd: False


              -(no)label
                     Display (or not) the filenames under the icon or symbols
                     shown.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.label_all: False


              -(no)iconsonly
                     Only display (or not) the actual icons (bitmaps and
                     pixmaps) found in the current directory.  In other words
                     do not display and file symbols for directories or other
                     files found in the current directory. This option is
                     provided to allow the user to turn of the display of a
                     large number of file symbols that can appear at times,
                     and return xbmbrowser back to the `older' version style.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.icons_only: False


              -(no)dir
                     Display (or not) directory symbols for any
                     sub-directories found. The ".." directory symbol will
                     also be removed.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.show_dir: True


              -(no)xpmbad
                     Display (or not) any pixmaps which failed to load
                     properly. This Pixmaps usally couldn't be displayed as
                     they were unable to allocate enough colors on the current
                     display. To display these, try quiting some other
                     applications, removing any root background image you may
                     have on your display, or even delete or move other
                     pixmaps in the current directory elsewhere.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.show_xpmbad: True


              -(no)other
                     Display (or not) the other files found in the current
                     directory. As part of the attempt to load these files as
                     icons for display, xbmbrowser has determined weather or
                     not these files are either binary, plain text, or some
                     other special file type.  It will use an appropiate file
                     symbol to show the user its findings.  NOTE: Picture
                     Image formats such as gif and jpeg will appear as binary
                     files.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.show_other: False


              -(no)hidden
                     Include in the display (or not) the UNIX hidden (or
                     `dot') files found in the directory. Note that this only
                     allows these hidden files to be shown, other options
                     (above) may or may not permit these files to be visible.
                     EG: hidden directories will not be visible in the display
                     if either hidden files or directories are not visible.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.show_hidden: False


              -R or -recursive
                     This option can slow xbmbrowser enormously. When it is
                     turned on, initially by this command line option, or
                     interactively through the "Options" menu, xbmbrowser will
                     recursively scan and display all the files in the
                     directories under the current directory.  This directory
                     search can take a very very long and could result in
                     system limitations crashing the program.  As such this
                     option will be automatically turned off any time
                     xbmbrowser successfully changes the current directory.

                     Resource: XbmBrowser.recursive: False

                     This option was provided at the request of Steve Kinzler
                     to allow xbmbrowser to scan the directory tree structure
                     of his ``picons'' collection (See  SEE ALSO  below).



OTHER X RESOURCES
       Other than those associated with command line others the following
       resources are also available and usful in your .Xdefults or other
       resource control files.


              XbmBrowser.shape_syms: True
                     Controls if the non-icon file symbols are to be displayed
                     in a shaped window or as a boxed symbol. Note that by
                     default this is initially set equal to the value of the
                     XbmBrowser.solid_bgnd: (see -solid commandline option
                     above) unless overridden by your own resource setting
                     (IE: True on color displays False on monocrome).


              XbmBrowser.label_syms: False
                     Label only the file symbols. The XbmBrowser.label_all:
                     resource (see -(no)label commandline option above) can
                     override this value if it is True.


              XbmBrowser.sym_foreground: black

              XbmBrowser.sym_background: wheat
                     The colors to display file symbols and their labels on
                     the display.


              XbmBrowser.icon_foreground: black

              XbmBrowser.icon_background: white
                     The colors to display bitmap icons and their labels with.


              XbmBrowser.icon_transparent: linen
                     This is the color used for the transparent (or `None')
                     pixmap color when not using a solid background color (and
                     shaped windows). It is also the color of the pixmaps
                     label.


              XbmBrowser.solid_background: grey
                     The the solid background color to use.


              XbmBrowser.stipple_background: pale green
                     This is a very light color to use with the foreground
                     color (usally black) when creating the background stipple
                     pattern. This color is usally not used as the stipple
                     pattern is normall used on monocrome display only.

                     ASIDE: The forground color of the stipple pattern
                     currently is set to whatever the border color of the
                     iconbox widget is set to.  If you don't want it to be
                     black you can change it with the resource
                     XbmBrowserconbox.borderColor.  In a future release you
                     may be able to set this color and maybe the stripple
                     pattern used, just like the other resources above.


       Suggestion. Try setting the icon_background, icon_transparent, and
       solid_background all to the same color such as grey. This will make the
       background color of the bitmaps and pixmap labels the same as the solid
       background color, thus removing the square boxes around these items.
       This is more like a typical WWW client display.

       Unfortunately if you do this, you will loose the visual information on
       the true bitmap sizes being used. You can temporarally regain this
       information however by switching to stripple (non-solid_background)
       mode which turns off shaped windows.


              XbmBrowser*IconLabel.labelTop: True
                     This resource will cause xbmbrowser to place any and all
                     Labels above the images displayed instead of below as is
                     normal. This is not strictly a xbmbrowser resource but
                     one for the unusal Widget it uses to handle the display
                     of the Bitmaps and Pixmaps.



USER CONFIGURABLE MENUS
       This version of xbmbrowser has a user definable menu of commands that
       can be executed for displayed bitmaps pixmaps and other files.  There
       is a default library configuration file, usally located in
       "/usr/lib/X11/xbmbrowser/xbmbrowser.menu" (check with your system
       programmers) or you can have your own config file called
       ".xbmbrowserrc" in your home directory. I suggest that you copy the
       library file "/usr/lib/X11/xbmbrowser/xbmbrowser.menu.tut", which is a
       heavily commented version of the default library file, to your home
       directory as ".xbmbrowserrc" and then edit it to suit your needs.

       Each line of this file consists of either :-

              # comment line
                     A comment line which is completely ignored. Comments can
                     appear at the end of any (non-continued) line.


              menu "main"

              menu "main" "Main Menu"
                     Add any new menu elements (see below) to this menu. Only
                     specific menus are allowed and will be titled using the
                     optional second argument.  The menus, if defined, will be
                     poped up when the appropriate mouse button is pressed on
                     a displayed icon ot file symbol.  If the menu is not
                     defined the program will `beep' the user.  The following
                     are the menus which the user may define:-


                     "main"        The menu which pops up when the "Main Menu"
                                   button when pressed. Generally this is used
                                   a menu of directories the user likes to
                                   visit. Warning no file is selected by the
                                   user when using this menu so some
                                   substitutions may be empty strings. (See
                                   Substitions below)

                                   Note: this menu must be defined. If it
                                   isn't a warning message is printed and a
                                   default menu containing only a QUIT button
                                   is created.


                     "global"      A menu of global actions which will popup
                                   when either the first two mouse buttons are
                                   are pressed on a displayed icon or file
                                   symbol or any mouse button on the
                                   background of the icon area. If the pointer
                                   was not over a displayed icon or symbol, no
                                   filename, basename, or suffix will be
                                   defined. (See function `selected()' below)

                                   NOTE: If button 1 (leftmost or select mouse
                                   button) is pressed on a directory symbol,
                                   the browser will automaticaly decend into
                                   that directory, instead of poping up the
                                   global menu.


                     "bitmap"      Display this menu on any displayed X bitmap
                                   with the right most (menu) mouse button.


                     "pixmap"      As "bitmap", but for any X pixmap (or
                                   pixmap which failed to load).


                     "directory"   Same again, but for directory symbols.


                     "other"       Again, for any other file symbol (text,
                                   binary..).



              line
                     Just insert a line into the menu at this point.


              item "Delete"  confirm("Really delete %f?") \

                             exec("rm '%f'")   rescan()
                     Insert a item into the current menu which will execute
                     the sequence builtin functions (see below). As it is
                     posible for a very long sequences to be required for some
                     menu items, the menu lines can be continued onto the next
                     line by `backslashing' (\) the return character at the
                     end of the line.

                     Each function may or may-not require some quoted string
                     arguments, with the quote being either single or double,
                     allowing the other quote to be used freely with the
                     argument.

                     Each argument can contain any number of macro
                     substitutions which consist of a % character followed by
                     a single letter. A percent character can be substituted
                     with %%.

       The following builtin functions can be called (in sequence) from a menu
       item :-

              quit() Exit xbmbrowser. Need I say more?

              scan() Completely scan the current directory (Again). (See
                     rescan() below)

              rescan()
                     Do a fast rescan of the current directory. Note that X
                     pixmaps which failed to load will NOT be loaded by this
                     command, to avoid slowing the rescan() in a directory of
                     unloadable X pixmaps. This occurance is actually common
                     on a directory of pixmaps which do not follow a standard
                     color table.

                     To attempt to load these Pixmaps use either a full
                     scan(), touch the failed pixmap when more colors are
                     available, or convert that pixmap to a common color
                     table.  Alturnatively, display the pixmap in a secondary
                     image viewer (converting it if nessary).

              chdir("dir")
                     Change directory to the given directory. If the directory
                     change succeeds xbmbrowser will automatically do a full
                     scan() of the new directory.  If this fails, no scan()
                     will be performed.

              exec("command")
                     Execute the given bourne shell command. Any output by the
                     command executed will be to the standard output (or
                     error) of xbmbrowser, usally the users terminal.

              confirm("prompt")
                     Ask the user to confirm action before continuing the next
                     function.  If the user presses ``cancal'' the current
                     function sequence will be aborted.

              input("prompt","initial")
                     Ask the user for some input, giving the user the
                     "initial" string to start with. The result entered by the
                     user will be returned in the substitution marco %i (see
                     below). The ``cancal'' button will abort the current
                     function sequence.

              selected()
                     If the user pointer was NOT over an icon or symbol then
                     abort the current sequence with a popup error.  This
                     function is not usful in anything but the "global" menu,
                     as in the other menus an icon is either always or never
                     selected.


       The following are substition macros can be used within function
       arguments :-

              %d     The current directory of the browser.  Note that a the
                     directory seperator '/' have been pre-added to this
                     substition macro.

              %f     The filename of the icon (or file) selected by the user.

              %b     The basename (suffix removed) of the current filename.

              %s     The suffix of the current filename  EG: ".xbm"

              %i     The users input of the last input() function (see above).

              %h     The Users Home directory (do NOT use ~ in an argument for
                     this).  Note that a the directory seperator '/' have been
                     pre-added to this substition macro.

              %D     The Initial Startup Directory. This is either the
                     directory XbmBrowser was started in or was given to it as
                     an command line argument.

              %%     Substitutes a percent character, just in case you really
                     do need it.

       NOTE: The full path of a selected file is %d%f. Also %b%s exactly the
       same as the %f substition.

       WARNING: the substitution macros %f, %b and %s will be an empty string
       if the users pointer was not over a display icon or file symbol. See
       the function selected() above.


FILES
       ~/.xbmbrowserrc
              User's own menu configuration file.

       /usr/lib/X11/xbmbrowser/xbmbrowser.menu
              Default library menu configuration file.

       /usr/lib/X11/xbmbrowser/xbmbrowser.menu.tut
              Verbose menu configuration file (with extra examples).

       Note: Some of these files may be installed in different directories on
       your system, for example /usr/X11R6/lib/X11.  If you are not sure,
       please contact your local system programmers.



SEE ALSO
       ``Anthony's Icon Library''
              This is a HUGE library of bitmaps and pixmaps of `icon' size.
              The library is sorted into sections based of size and intended
              usage of the icons.  All the pixmaps in the library follow a
              standard color table of 30 colors so you can use and view as
              many pixmaps as you require. It is for the coordination of this
              library that xbmbrowser was originally developed.

              The coordinator is Anthony Thyssen, and the last release is
              downloadable from ftp://ftp.cit.gu.edu.au/pub/AIcons/ or
              directly accessable (between releases) via the World Wide Web on
              http://www.cit.gu.edu.au/~anthony/icons.

              Also in this library (under support) is a collection of scripts
              and a xbmbrowser config (rc) file to provided a much expanded
              set of menus for icon handling and conversion.


       ``PIcons'' bitmap collection
              A collection of bitmaps and pixmaps all 48 by 48 pixels in size.
              This collection is designed for use by mail and news readers,
              and as such is sorted into: news groups, logos, and people
              sorted by email address.  The icons is stored in a large
              directory structure making the recursive scan feature a must for
              viewing this collection.

              The coordinator is Steve Kinzler kinzler@cs.indiana.edu and the
              collection is downloadable from
              ftp://ftp.cs.indiana.edu/pub/faces/picons/ or on the WWW from
              http://www.cs.indiana.edu/picons/ftp/index.html .


AUTHORS
       Original Programmer
              Ashley Roll -- ash@cit.gu.edu.au ( upto version 3.4 )

       Current Programmer & Original Idea for Program
              Anthony Thyssen -- anthony@cit.gu.edu.au ( version 4.0 and later
              )



                                  26 May 1995                    XBMBROWSER(1)
