XCDPLAYER(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           XCDPLAYER(1)

NAME
       xcdplayer - X window system interface to run the sun or sgi cdrom drive
       as a typical audio CD player.

SYNOPSIS
       xcdplayer [ -toolkitoption ... ] [-xcdplayeroption ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       Xcdplayer is a graphical user interface for controlling the Sun or SGI
       cdrom drive under the X Window System.  It provides visual feedback and
       gives the user facilities for mode selection, device control, scanning,
       and programming.

       Xcdplayer allows previously stored cd title and program information to
       be read from a specified directory and loaded into the player on
       startup or at disc changes.  This directory can be specified either on
       the command line, by using the -cdInfoDir option, by using a customized
       personal resource file, or by setting the environment variable
       XCDINFODIR.  If no directory is specified by any of these methods,
       xcdplayer looks in the current directory.

OPTIONS
       Xcdplayer accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options
       (see X(1)), plus the following xcdplayer specific options:

       -debug      Displays debugging messages as the tool runs.

       -device     CDROM device to use (useful for systems with multiple CDROM
                   drives)

       -volBase    Bottom of volume scale for player [range 0-255] (default
                   187)

       -volPcent   Ratio of volume change [range 0..255] to percent of
                   scrollbar shown (default .267).  This value is used in
                   conjunction with the volBase parameter.

       -cdInfoDir  Specifies which directory should be used for storing and
                   looking up CD information.



SUBWINDOWS
       Xcdplayer contains the following subwindows:

       Title Window        Displays the title of the CD (if stored or entered)
                           corresponding to the CD currently in the CD player.

       Program Window      Brought up on press of the program button, this
                           panel contains a viewport displaying the current
                           selected program, option buttons, and track
                           selection buttons.  The program window (and program
                           mode) are dismissed via the Cancel button.

COMMAND BUTTONS
   Main Commands
       play           Enter play mode.

       pause          Pause play.  Activating this button has an effect on
                      program selection.

       stop           Stop disc and reset to beginning.

       prev           Go back either to the beginning of the previous track
                      (or start of current track if more than replayThreshold
                      seconds have elapsed); if in program mode, go to
                      previous selection in program.

       next           Go to beginning of next track; if in program mode, go to
                      next program selection.

       eject          Eject the disc. Resets all modes.

       audio          Toggle the audio output if possible.  It will default to
                      the best quality audio available (SGI only).

       quit           Exit xcdplayer.  (Leaves disc in last set state.

       cycle          Cycle the disc.  If in shuffle mode, reshuffle will
                      occur at end of current shuffle; if in program mode, the
                      program will replay.

       shuffle        Select all of the tracks in random order.  This button
                      has no effect unless play mode is not active, and is a
                      toggle to program mode.

       rewind         Rewind the disc.  If held down, will continue rewinding.
                      Scan skip amount and pause interval between skips are
                      controlled by the resources scanSkipInterval and
                      scanPauseInterval.  If the disc is paused, it will skip
                      by the ammount specifed by pauseSkipInterval.

       fast-forward   Analogous to rewind.

       program        Enter program mode.  If paused, add current track (if
                      not 0) to program.  Brings up program subwindow.

   Program Commands
       Selections          Selections displayed in the viewport of the program
                           subwindow can be clicked on, and clicking on the
                           currently selected track deletes it from the
                           program.  The highlighted selection indicates the
                           current insert/delete point in the program, and if
                           the CD is paused, clicking on a selection moves the
                           program play point to that selection.

                           Selections can be added to the program either by
                           clicking on the track buttons on the program form,
                           or by using the forward and previous buttons on the
                           main form while paused, and then clicking the
                           program button again.  Pre-insertion before the 1st
                           programmed track is allowed by clicking on the
                           space preceding the 1st entry.

       Clear               Clears current program.

       Cancel              Clears current program and cancels program mode and
                           subwindow.

       Save                Save the current program (if any) and current title
                           to file in cdInfoDir.  This file will then be read
                           whenever the current disc is put into the player.

       track buttons       Add the track number to the program at the current
                           insertion point, or if active, add track number to
                           the programmable track button.

       +10                 Add ten to the programmable track button.

       programmable track  Add the selected track number (if available on CD)
                           to program at the current insertion point.

       All                 Replace the current program with a sequential list
                           of tracks on the CD.

   Miscellaneous Commands
       track               Show number of tracks on the CD.

       timer               Toggle between time elaped and time remaining. If
                           in program mode, and not paused, toggles to time
                           remaining in program.

       volume scroll       Adjust volume of CD player output.

       title               Pop up dialog for editing title display.  Title can
                           then be associated permanently with that CD by
                           using the save button in the program subwindow.
                           The title is displayed on a button in a viewport,
                           so that long titles won't distort the size of the
                           tool.


FILES
       cdInfoDir/cd.* these files contain title and stored program info saved
       for CDs

SEE ALSO
       X(1)

LIMITATIONS
       Xcdplayer cannot yet read the current volume level and adjust the
       volume scroll accordingly, because there is not current support for
       this in the driver.

BUGS
       Xcdplayer occasionally "hangs" on a particular track, never quite
       reaching the end of it.  Advancing to the next or previous track, or
       pressing the stop button rectifies this condition.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1990 Regents of the University of California

AUTHORS
       Rusty Wright (rusty@belch.berkely.edu)
       Will Sadkin (wsadkin@bbn.com)
       Dan Rich (drich@lerc.nasa.gov)


X Version 11                      Feb 3 1992                      XCDPLAYER(1)
