XCLOCK(1)                        X Version 11                        XCLOCK(1)

NAME
     xclock - analog / digital clock for X

SYNOPSIS
     xclock [ -help | -version ] [ -analog | -analog24 | -digital ] [ -brief ] [ -chime ]
         [ -hd color ] [ -hl color ] [ -update seconds ] [ -strftime format ]
         [ -twelve | -twentyfour | -utime ] [ -padding number ]
         [ -norender ] [ -render ] [ -sharp ] [ -proportional ] [ -face pattern ]

DESCRIPTION
     The xclock program displays the time in analog or digital form.  The time
     is continuously updated at a frequency which may be specified by the
     user.

OPTIONS
     Xclock accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along
     with the additional options listed below:

     -help   This option indicates that a brief summary of the allowed options
             should be printed on the standard error.

     -analog This option indicates that a conventional 12 hour clock face with
             tick marks and hands should be used.  This is the default.

     -analog24
             This option indicates that a non-conventional 24 hour clock face
             with tick marks and hands should be used.  (This implies
             -analog.)  This is not the default.

     -digital or -d
             This option indicates that a 24 hour digital clock should be
             used.

     -brief  This option indicates that the digital clock should only display
             the hours and minutes fields.  The default is to show the full
             time and date information.

     -utime  This option indicates that a digital clock should display seconds
             since the Epoch (in format '970012340 seconds since Epoch'
             instead of a standard 24-hour time.

     -strftime format
             This option allows an strftime(3) format string to be specified
             for the digital clock's display.

     -twelve This option indicates that a digital clock should display the
             time in twelve hour format.  This is only effective for the brief
             display.

     -twentyfour
             This option indicates that a digital clock should display the
             time in twenty-four hour format.  This is only effective for the
             brief display.  This is the default when a digital clock is used.

     -chime  This option indicates that the clock should chime once on the
             half hour and twice on the hour.

     -hands color (or -hd color)
             This option specifies the color of the hands on an analog clock.
             The default is black.  This option is effectively ignored when
             Xrender is in use.

     -highlight color (or -hl color)
             This option specifies the color of the edges of the hands on an
             analog clock, and is only useful on color displays.  The default
             is black.  This option is effectively ignored when Xrender is in
             use.

     -update seconds
             This option specifies the frequency in seconds at which xclock
             should update its display.  If the clock is obscured and then
             exposed, it will be updated immediately.  A value of 30 seconds
             or less will enable a second hand on an analog clock.  The
             default is 60 seconds.

     -padding number
             This option specifies the width in pixels of the padding between
             the window border and clock text or picture.  The default is 10
             on a digital clock and 8 on an analog clock.

     -render This option tells xclock to use the Xrender extension to draw an
             anti-aliased face.  This is the default if xclock has been
             compiled with Xrender support.  Note that the color selection
             options and resources used when Xrender is in effect differ from
             the standard options.

     -norender
             This option turns off the use of Xrender to draw the clock.

     -sharp  This option tells xclock to use sharper edges when drawn using
             the Xrender extension.

     -proportional
             When drawn using the Xrender extension, this option tells xclock
             to draw a proportional clock even if the window is not square.

     -face pattern
             This option specifies the font to use in digital mode when the
             Xrender extension is used.  Patterns are specified using the
             fontconfig face format described in the Font Names section of
             fonts.conf(5).

     -version
             This option indicates that the program version should be printed,
             followed by the command exiting without opening a clock window.

X DEFAULTS
     This program uses the Clock widget.  It understands all of the core
     resource names and classes as well as:

     width (class Width)
             Specifies the width of the clock.  The default for analog clocks
             is 164 pixels; the default for digital clocks is whatever is
             needed to hold the clock when displayed in the chosen font.

     height (class Height)
             Specifies the height of the clock.  The default for analog clocks
             is 164 pixels; the default for digital clocks is whatever is
             needed to hold the clock when displayed in the chosen font.

     update (class Interval)
             Specifies the frequency in seconds at which the time should be
             redisplayed.

     foreground (class Foreground)
             Specifies the color for the tick marks.  The default depends on
             whether reverseVideo is specified.  If reverseVideo is specified
             the default is lwhite, otherwise the default is black.  Note that
             this resource is not used when Xrender is in effect.

     hands (class Foreground)
             Specifies the color of the insides of the clock's hands.  The
             default depends on whether reverseVideo is specified.  If
             reverseVideo is specified the default is lwhite, otherwise the
             default is black.  Note that this resource is not used when
             Xrender is in effect.

     highlight (class Foreground)
             Specifies the color used to highlight the clock's hands.  The
             default depends on whether reverseVideo is specified.  If
             reverseVideo is specified the default is lwhite, otherwise the
             default is black.  Note that this resource is not used when
             Xrender is in effect.

     analog (class Boolean)
             Specifies whether or not an analog clock should be used instead
             of a digital one.  The default is True.

     analog24 (class Boolean)
             Specifies whether or not a 24 hour analog clock should be used
             instead of a digital or 12 hour analog clock.  Setting it to True
             will also set analog to True.  The default is False.

     twentyfour (class Boolean)
             Specifies whether or not a digital clock should display the time
             in twenty-four hour format.  The default is True.

     chime (class Boolean)
             Specifies whether or not a bell should be rung on the hour and
             half hour.

     padding (class Margin)
             Specifies the amount of internal padding in pixels to be used.
             The default is 8.

     font (class Font)
             Specifies the font to be used for the digital clock.  Note that
             variable width fonts currently will not always display correctly.
             This font is only used when Xrender is not in effect.

     render (class Boolean)
             Specifies whether or not the Xrender extension should be used for
             the display.  The default is True if xclock has been compiled
             with Xrender support.

     When Xrender is in effect, the following additional resources are
     understood:

     face (class FaceName)
             Specify the pattern for the font to be used for the digital clock
             when Xrender is used.  Patterns are specified using the
             fontconfig face format described in the Font Names section of
             fonts.conf(5).

     sharp (class Boolean)
             Specifies if sharp edges should be used when rendering the clock.
             The default is False.

     buffer (class Boolean)
             Specifies that the updates of the image are drawn to a pixmap
             before copied into the window instead drawing them into the
             window directly.

     The defaults of the following color resources depend on whether
     reverseVideo is specified.  If reverseVideo is specified the default is
     lwhite, otherwise the default is black.

     hourColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the hour hand.

     minuteColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the minute hand.

     secondColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the second hand.

     majorColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the major scale ticks (i. e. each five minutes or,
             if -analog24, each 2.5 minutes).

     minorColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the minor scale ticks (between major ticks).

     amColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the AM marker.

     pmColor (class Foreground)
             The color of the PM marker.

     fixed1Color (class Foreground)
             The color of fixed element 1.

     fixed2Color (class Foreground)
             The color of fixed element 2.

     fixed3Color (class Foreground)
             The color of fixed element 3.

     hourShape (class String)
             The shape of the hour hand.

             The shape is given as a series of points, each group of 3 points
             describing a triangle. A point can be given as (X, Y) where (0,
             0) is at the center of the clock face, (0, 100) at the top
             perimeter when the hand is pointing up and (100, 0) at the right
             perimeter when the hand is pointing up. A point can also be given
             as an integer index where 0 refers to the first point, -1 to the
             previous point etc. Anywhere outside parentheses, you may
             transform the coordinate system, affecting all subsequent
             coordinates: rA rotates the coordinate system clockwise by angle
             A, wF / hF scales the x / y coordinate respectively by factor F,
             and xL / yL translates the coordinate system along x / y
             respectively by length L. An empty string will render as nothing.

     minuteShape (class String)
             The shape of the minute hand.

     secondShape (class String)
             The shape of the second hand.

     majorShape (class String)
             The shape of the major scale ticks (i. e. each five minutes).

     minorShape (class String)
             The shape of the minor scale ticks (between major ticks).

     amShape (class String)
             The shape of the AM marker.

     pmShape (class String)
             The shape of the PM marker.

     fixed1Shape (class String)
             The shape of fixed element 1.  Fixed elements will not rotate,
             allowing you to design the clock face arbitrarily.

     fixed2Shape (class String)
             The shape of fixed element 2.

     fixed3Shape (class String)
             The shape of fixed element 3.

     rotateAmpm (class Boolean)
             If true, rotate the AM and PM markers at the same rate as the
             hour hand.

     zOrder (class String)
             A string describing the order in which clock elements are
             rendered.  Each character designates one clock elements, as
             follows:

             T: major ticks
             t: minor ticks
             1: fixed element 1
             2: fixed element 2
             3: fixed element 3
             a: AM marker
             p: PM marker
             h: hour hand
             m: minute hand
             s: second hand

     proportional (class Boolean)
             If true, make a proportional clock even if the window is not
             square.

WIDGETS
     In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the
     widgets which compose xclock.  In the notation below, indentation
     indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name is given first,
     followed by the widget instance name.

     XClock  xclock
             Clock  clock


EXAMPLE USE OF X RESOURCES
     As an example, add the following to ~/.Xresources:

     XClock.Clock.width: 600
     XClock.Clock.update: 0.1
     XClock.Clock.foreground: #cc6050
     XClock.Clock.analog: true
     XClock.Clock.padding: 20
     XClock.Clock.font: fixed
     XClock.Clock.face: :pixelsize=50:antialias=true
     XClock.Clock.majorColor: #cc6050
     XClock.Clock.hourShape: (-5, 30) (0, 5) (0, 35) -2 -2 (5, 30) \
                             (-1, 37.5) (0, 38.5) (0, 36.5) -2 -2 (1, 37.5) \
                             (-1, 0) (0, 1) (0, -1) -2 -2 (1, 0)

     Then run xrdb ~/.Xresources and start xclock.


ENVIRONMENT
     DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

     XENVIRONMENT
             to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global
             resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.

FILES
     /usr/local/share/X11/app-defaults/XClock
            specifies required resources

SEE ALSO
     xrdb(1), time(3), fonts.conf(5), X(7).

BUGS
     Xclock believes the system clock.

     When in digital mode, the string should be centered automatically.

AUTHORS
     Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena, DEC)
     Dave Mankins (MIT-Athena, BBN)
     Ed Moy (UC Berkeley)

xclock 1.2.0                      2025-05-18                         XCLOCK(1)
