xcmd(1x)                                                              xcmd(1x)

NAME
       xcmd - front-end for starting programs under X11

SYNOPSIS
       (1) xcmd --help

       (2) xcmd [--display display] [find-options] --xcmd command

       (3) xcmd [--display display] [find-options] [term-options] --cmd
       command

   Find Options
       --find-class window-class
       --find-resource window-resource
       --find-substr title-substring
       --find-title window-title
       {--iconify-and-raise | --only-raise}

   Terminal Window Options
       --title window-title
       --icon icon-title
       --name window-resource
       --geometry window-geometry
       --opt additional-options
       {--scroll | +scroll}
       {--rxvt | --xterm}

DESCRIPTION
       Xcmd is a front-end for starting programs under X11.  You can tell xcmd
       to look for a window with a specific class, resource name, or title
       string (using the --find-property options); if it finds one or more,
       xcmd will `raise' them, otherwise it will run the command you specify.
       You can tell xcmd to run commands that create their own windows (using
       --xcmd), or to run commands inside a terminal window (using --cmd) with
       various options.

OPTIONS
       -h or --help
              Display version information and a summary of command syntax.

       -d or --display display
              This option allows you to specify the server to connect to; see
              X(3x).

       -c or --cmd command
              Run command in a terminal window (see Terminal Window Options
              below).  If you use one of the --find-property options, xcmd
              only runs command if it can't find a window with that property.

       -x or --xcmd command
              Run command, with the expectation that it will create its own
              window.  If you use one of the --find-property options, xcmd
              only runs command if it can't find a window with that property.

   Find Options
       The following options tell xcmd to search the display for a window that
       has the specified property.  If xcmd finds one or more such windows, it
       raises them to the top of the display.  These options are mutually
       exclusive.

       -fc or --find-class window-class
              Find windows whose class matches window-class exactly.

       -fr or --find-resource window-resource
              Find windows whose resource name matches window-resource
              exactly.

       -fs or --find-substr title-substring
              Find windows whose title contains the string title-substring.

       -ft or --find-title window-title
              Find windows whose title matches window-title exactly.

       -ir or --iconify-and-raise
              When xcmd finds a window, first iconify it, then raise it; this
              `flashes' a little, but it works reliably under FVWM with
              different X server loads.  It doesn't work reliably with
              WindowMaker.

       -or or --only-raise
              When xcmd finds a window, just raise it.  This doesn't `flash',
              but it also doesn't always work with FVWM.  It does work
              reliably with WindowMaker, as long as the window is in the
              current workspace.  This is the default.

   Terminal Window Options
       The following options control the appearance of the terminal window
       created when you run a command with --cmd.  Xcmd gives an error if you
       use any of these options without using --cmd.

       -t or --title window-title
              The title to give the terminal window.  If you don't specify
              this option, the title reverts to the resource name (see --name)
              if one is specified, otherwise it reverts to command.

       -i or --icon icon-title
              The title to give to the terminal window when it's iconified.
              If you don't specify this option, the icon title reverts to the
              window title.

       -n or --name window-resource
              The resource name to give the terminal window.  If you don't
              specify this option, it reverts to the default resource name for
              the terminal program (e.g., `xterm' for xterm(1x)).

       -g or --geometry window-geometry
              The geometry to use for the terminal window.  If you don't
              specify this option, it reverts to the default for the terminal
              program.

       -o or --opt additional-options
              Additional options to pass to the terminal program;
              additional-options should be one argument---you may need to
              quote it using your favorite shell's regular syntax.

       -s/+s or --scroll/+scroll
              Use (--scroll) or don't use (+scroll) a scrollbar in the
              terminal window.  If you don't specify either of these options,
              whether the terminal uses a scrollbar depends on its defaults
              and its X resource settings.

       -rt/-xt or --rxvt/--xterm
              Use rxvt(1x) or xterm(1x) as the terminal program to run command
              in.  Normally, xcmd uses the terminal program specified in the
              XCMD_TERM environment variable (see ENVIRONMENT below), or
              xterm(1x) if that variable is not set.  These options override
              the default setting.

EXAMPLES
       Here are some examples of how to use xcmd:

       xcmd --cmd vi
              Run vi in a terminal window.

       xcmd --cmd 'vi ~/.Xdefaults'
              Run vi in a terminal window and edit ~/.Xdefaults.

       xcmd --find-resource 'Navigator' --xcmd netscape
              Look for a Netscape window, or start one if none found.

       xcmd --find-title 'Network Configurator' --xcmd 'sudo netcfg'
              Look for a window titled Network Configurator; if none found,
              use sudo to start netcfg.

       xcmd --find-title Mail --cmd pine --title Mail --name xMail +scroll
              Look for a window titled Mail; if none found, start pine in a
              terminal window titled Mail, with a resource name of xMail and
              no scrollbar.  If the X resource `*xMail*vt100.geometry: 80x40'
              is set, for instance, the resulting window will be 80 columns
              wide by 40 lines high.

NOTES
       Xcmd uses an execl(3) call to run /bin/sh -c exec command, so that
       command inherits xcmd's process ID.  Xcmd runs in the foreground by
       default; use your favorite shell's regular syntax to start xcmd in the
       background (e.g., `xcmd --find-title vi --cmd vi &' for Bourne-
       compatible shells).

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY
              To get the default host and display number.

       XCMD_TERM
              To set the default terminal program to use with --cmd.
              Overridden by the command line.

       XCMD_ICONIFY
              If set to `0', `no', or `false', act as if the command-line
              option --only-raise was specified (this is the default if not
              set).  If set to `1', `yes', or `true', act as if the command-
              line option --iconify-and-raise was specified.  Any other value
              produces an error message.  XCMD_ICONIFY is overridden by the
              command line.

SEE ALSO
       X(3x), rxvt(1x), xterm(1x), xwininfo(1x)

AUTHOR
       Jim Knoble <jmknoble@pobox.com>

       Xcmd is very loosely derived from portions of xwit by Mark Martin and
       David DiGiacomo and xwininfo by Mark Lillibridge.  Almost none of the
       original code remains.

Version 1.8                       1998-Jan-03                         xcmd(1x)
