XCOLOREDIT(l)                                                    XCOLOREDIT(l)

NAME
       xcoloredit - find colour values by graphical colour mixing

SYNOPSIS
       xcoloredit [ standard X Toolkit arguments ] [ -silent ] [ -format
       "format string" ] [ -text "example text" ][ {0-255} .. ]

DESCRIPTION
       xcoloredit provides a graphical method of mixing the three primary
       colors available on a colour workstation.  This mixing can be done
       using the Red, Green and Blue slider controls on the left of the window
       or using the Hue, Saturation and Value slider controls on the right.

       The three boxes above the Red, Green and Blue slider controls are used
       for linking the controls together via the fourth slider to the right of
       the blue slider.  Whilst in the slider controls the first mouse button
       increments the colour components value, the third mouse button
       decrements the value (this only works with the Red, Green, Blue and
       Linked sliders).  The middle mouse button allows the user to
       continually change the value.

       The results of the colour mixing is shown in the four central squares.
       The three smaller squares showing the intensities of the red, green and
       blue components.  The hexidecimal value below these squares is the
       corresponding colour value which can be used in defaults files.  This
       value is also placed in the PRIMARY_COLOR selection property.  If the
       user presses the colour value button the button is highlighted and the
       colour value is placed in PRIMARY_SELECTION as well (useful for pasting
       into defaults files).

       At the bottom of the main window are 36 colour cells.  The current
       colour cell is highlighted by box drawn around it.  By clicking with
       the first mouse button in another cell this new cell's current value
       can be edited (if the cell has no defined value the current cells value
       is copied to it and the cell is highlighted with a dashed box).  These
       colour cells can be connected to cells in the default colourmap of the
       display.  To do this the user must give the colourmap entry number(s)
       (pixel number) as a command line argument(s).

       The text shown in the mixed colour window can be displayed in one of
       the 36 colour cell colours.  Typing "c" or "t" in this window changes
       the colour of the text to that of the currently selected colour cell.
       This can be used to see what text will look like with different
       foreground and background colours.  The example text can be modified
       using the -text command line option.

OPTIONS
       Apart from standard X Toolkit options, the following are available:

       -silent
              Do not print out the edited colour values when xcoloredit quits.

       -text "example text"
              This sets the example text to display in the mixed colour
              window.  Newlines are allowed in this string.

       -format "format string"
              This string is the format used to display the RGB value of the
              colour.  This format is used by the printf(2) function call.  By
              default the format is set to "#%02x%02x%02x" which is the
              standard RGB format for X.

SELECTION ATOMS
       The following selection atoms are used/defined:
       PRIMARY_COLOR - current colour selection value
       PRIMARY_SELECTION - current colour selection value when highlighted.

AUTHOR
       Richard Hesketh, University of Kent at Canterbury, March 1989
       rlh2@ukc.ac.uk

                                 18 March 1989                   XCOLOREDIT(l)
