XCPUSTATE(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           XCPUSTATE(1)

NAME
       xcpustate - display CPU states (idle, nice, system, kernel) statistics

SYNTAX
       xcpustate [ -toolkitoption ...] [ -count iterations] [ -interval
       seconds] [ -shorten components] [ -cpu] [ -nocpu] [ -disk] [ -nodisk] [
       -omni] [ -noomni] [ -wait] [ -nowait] [ -filltype
       auto|grayscale|color|tile|stipple] [ -host hostname] [ -version] [
       -colors colorname[,colorname[,...]]] [ -avg iterations][ -kernel
       pathname] [ -mmap] [ -nommap]

DESCRIPTION
       Xcpustate displays bars showing the percentage of time the CPU spends
       in different states. On some systems, it optionally indicates disk
       states in the same manner. It can also query remote systems that offer
       RSTAT RPC services.

       When using the RSTAT protocol, or when running locally on machines
       running Cygwin, or Berkeley Unix or a derivative (eg. suns with
       SunOS<=4.1.1, microVaxen with Ultrix), the bar indicates the
       proportions of idle, user, nice, and system time with increasing levels
       of grayscale or color (from left to right).  When running locally on
       supported multiprocessors (Solbourne OS/MP systems, Ultrix
       multiprocessors, Linux/SMP, and the Gould NP1), there will be one bar
       for each CPU.

       On Linux systems, each CPU bar indicates the proportions of idle, user,
       nice, and system time, respectively, from left to right. Each disk
       drive bar indicates the proportions of idle, read I/O operations, and
       write I/O operations, from left to right. For disk drive bars, the I/O
       operations are displayed on a sliding scale, the entire bar
       corresponding to the maximum total (read and write) number of I/O
       operations per interval since xcpustate was started, and read/write I/O
       operations shown as fractions of the current maximum. For disk drive
       bar display under Linux, xcpustate relies on the "disk_io" statistics
       in /proc/stat (2.4 kernels) or the information in /proc/diskstats (2.6
       or later kernels).

       On systems running OpenBSD 3.0 or later, each CPU bar indicates the
       proportions of idle, user, nice, interrupt, and system time,
       respectively, from left to right.

       On an SGI system running IRIX, there will be one bar for each CPU,
       indicating the proportions of idle + wait, user, kernel, sxbrk and
       interrupt time for that CPU. If the ``wait'' option is set, the bars
       indicate idle, wait, user, kernel, sxbrk, and interrupt time, from left
       to right.

       On a Sun multiprocessor under SunOS 4.1.2 or 4.1.3, bars indicate the
       proportions of idle + diskwait, user, nice, system, spinlock, and
       crosscall service time for each CPU.

       On a Sun or other system (eg. Solbourne, Cray Superserver-6400) running
       Solaris 2.x or later, and on an IBM system running AIX, bars indicate
       the proportions of idle + wait, user, and kernel time for each CPU.  If
       the ``wait'' option is set, the bars indicate idle, wait, user, and
       system/kernel time, from left to right.

       On a Cray X/MP or Y/MP running Unicos 5.1 or greater, bars indicate the
       proportions of idle + wait, user and system/kernel time for each CPU.

       On systems running the Mach operating system, bars indicates the
       proportions of user, system, and idle time for each CPU.

       On supported SVR4 systems (e.g. Dell Unix 2.2), a single bar is
       displayed showing idle, user, system and wait times.

       On NCR SVR4 MP/RAS systems, one bar for each CPU (or disk drive) is
       displayed.  Each bar indicates the relative proportions of idle, user,
       system and wait times for that CPU.  Disk drive times show device idle
       and busy.

OPTIONS
       Xcpustate accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options,
       plus:

       -count iterations
               The number of times it should update the display. Default is
               forever.

       -avg iterations
               The number of iterations the bar values should be averaged
               over. Default is one.

       -interval seconds
               the interval in seconds (fractions permitted) between updates.
               Default is 1 second.

       -shorten components
               On some systems, xcpustate will display the hostname in the bar
               labels.  Since some fully qualified domain names can be very
               long, this option allows them to be shortened to a specific
               number of components.  eg.  if your hostname is
               foo.wherever.edu, you can shorten it to foo by specifying
               -shorten 1 or to foo.wherever by specifying -shorten 2 .
               Specifying -shorten 0 will omit the hostname completely; a
               negative number will cause xcpustate to draw unlabeled bars.
               Some systems may not support this option.

       -cpu    Display CPU statistics (default).

       -nocpu  Do not display CPU statistics.

       -disk   Display Disk statistics. This is supported only on Suns running
               SunOS 4.x or 5.x, on Linux systems, or when using RSTAT. One
               bar is displayed for each disk. Disk bars appear below the CPU
               bars, if any. When using RSTAT, exactly four bars appear
               regardless of the number of disks on the remote host (this is a
               limitation of the current version of the RSTAT protocol). For
               Suns running SunOS 4.x, the bars report idle, seek, and
               transfer time. For Suns running SunOS 5.x, the bars report
               idle, wait, and run time. For Linux systems, the bars report
               idle, read I/O operations and write I/O operations.  When RSTAT
               is being used, the bars report idle and transfer time.

       -nodisk Do not display disk statistics (default).

       -omni   Display Omni Network Coprocessor Statistics. This is supported
               only on Suns running SunOS 4.x. One bar is displayed for each
               Network Coprocessor, and placed immediately below the bars for
               the regular CPU(s). Each bar indicates idle and system time.

       -noomni Do not display omni statistics (default).

       -wait   Display CPU disk/system wait time as a separate statistic on
               applicable systems (Eg. SunOS 5.x, SGI IRIX, IBM AIX).

       -nowait Include CPU disk/system wait time as part of idle (default).

       -version
               Print out version information and exit.

       -filltype
               Specify the method xcpustate should use to fill the bars.
               Available options include grayscale, color, tile, stipple, or
               auto. Auto automatically chooses between tiling, grayscale, and
               colour, depending on your display type. Auto is the default.

       -colors Specify the colors used to draw the bars. Colors are specified
               in left-to-right order, separated by commas. A single dot can
               be used to specify the default color at that position. Up to
               ten colors may be specified.  Defaults are used for the
               leftmost colors if less than ten are specified.

       -kernel pathname
               Specify the path that xcpustate will use to find kernel symbol
               file information on some systems. This option is ignored on
               IRIX, Mach, and SunOS 5.x.

       -mmap   Request that xcpustate use mmap to directly map kernel memory
               into the current process address space on some systems (SVR4
               and NCR). This is the default.

       -nommap Inverse of mmap option.

X DEFAULTS
       For xcpustate the available class identifiers are:

       CPUStateMonitor - the application
       Form - enclosing the entire application, and sub-Forms enclosing
       Label/Bar pairs.

       For xcpustate, the available name identifiers are:

       xcpustate - application name
       The outer Form is "form".
       The Forms enclosing the Label/Bar pairs are "formN", where N is the
       index number, starting with the top pair as zero.
       Each Label name is the same as the label string.
       Each Bar name is "barN".


       For xcpustate, the available resources are:

       name interval, class Interval
              corresponds to the -interval option. Takes a float value.

       name count, class Count
              corresponds to the -count argument. Takes an integer value.

       name avg, class Avg
              corresponds to the -avg argument. Takes an integer value.

       name shorten, class Shorten
              corresponds to the -shorten argument. Takes an integer value.

       name cpu, class Cpu
              corresponds to the -cpu and -nocpu arguments. Takes a boolean
              value.

       name disk, class Disk
              corresponds to the -disk and -nodisk arguments. Takes a boolean
              value.

       name omni, class Omni
              corresponds to the -omni and -noomni arguments. Takes a boolean
              value.  Not available on systems other than Suns running SunOS
              4.x.

       name wait, class Wait
              corresponds to the -wait and -nowait arguments. Takes a boolean
              value.

       name filltype, class Filltype
              corresponds to the -filltype argument. Takes a string.

       name host, class Host
              corresponds to the -host argument. Takes a hostname.

       name colors, class Colors
              corresponds to the -colors argument. Takes a comma-separated
              list of color names.

       name mmap, class Mmap
              corresponds to the -mmap and -nommap argument. Takes a boolean
              value.

       name kernel, class Kernel
              corresponds to the -kernel argument. Takes a pathname.

NOTES
       Xcpustate is meant to be easy to port, and extend to monitor a wide
       variety of statistics.

SEE ALSO
       xperfmon, xload, xmeter

AUTHORS
       Mark Moraes at D. E. Shaw wrote the original X code and the SGI IRIX
       code. He also enhanced the code for the Bar widget to support color.
       John DiMarco at the University of Toronto is the current maintainer. He
       contributed to the color support, fixed some minor problems, added
       support for SunOS 4.x multiprocessors, SunOS 5.x, disks, Omni network
       coprocessors, AIX (SMP on AIX 4.x) and RSTAT. Thanks to David O'Brien
       of the University of California, Davis for the 4.4BSD code, Chris
       Siebenmann of the University of Toronto for the code for 4.3BSD
       systems; Walter D. Poxon from Cray Research for the code for Cray
       machines running Unicos; Melinda Shore at mt Xinu for the code for Mach
       systems; Bill Kucharski at Solbourne for the code for Solbourne
       systems; Salvador Pinto Abreu at Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Portugal,
       for the code for Ultrix multiprocessors; Hugues Leroy at Irisa, Rennes,
       France for the code for Gould NP1 bi-processors, Bruce Frost at NCR for
       the code for (Dell) SVR4 and NCR systems, and Kumsup Lee at the
       University of Minnesota and Greg Nakhimovsky at Sun Microsystems for
       the Linux code. Thanks also to Robert Montjoy from the University of
       Cincinatti for contributing and testing some of the SunOS 5.x code, to
       Dave Cahlander from Cray for cleaning up the X resource code, and to
       Ron Wigmore from Ryerson Polytechnic University for his assistance with
       the AIX port.


BUGS
       The RSTAT RPC protocol supports only one processor and four disks on
       the remote system. On a multiprocessor, the CPU data reported by RSTAT
       will be an average of all the active CPUs on the machine.

       For some operating systems, there may be internal compile-time limits
       on the number of CPUs or disks supported.  If there are compile-time
       limits, they are reported by the output of the -version flag.

       Xcpustate may initially display nonsensical data, before being updated
       the first time.

       The use of very small (significantly less than one second) intervals
       may result in xcpustate using significant resources, particularly when
       running over the network.  A minimum interval may be specified as a
       compile-time option, and intervals less than this will not be
       permitted.

                                March 29, 1996                    XCPUSTATE(1)
