XDaliClock(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          XDaliClock(1)

NAME
       xdaliclock - melting digital clock

SYNOPSIS
       xdaliclock [-toolkitoption ...] [-option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The xdaliclock program displays a digital clock; when a digit changes,
       it ``melts'' into its new shape.

       This program was inspired by the Alto and Macintosh programs of the
       same name, written by Steve Capps in 1983 or 1984.

OPTIONS
       xdaliclock accepts all of the standard toolkit options, and also
       accepts the following options:

       -help   Print a brief summary of the allowed options on the standard
               error output.

       -12     Use a twelve hour clock.

       -24     Use a twenty-four hour clock.

       -seconds
               Update every second.

       -noseconds
               Update once per minute; don't display seconds at all.

       -cycle  Do color-cycling.

       -nocycle
               Don't do color-cycling.

       -font fontname
               Specifies the X font to use; xdaliclock can correctly animate
               any font that contains all the digits plus colon and slash, and
               in which the letters aren't excessively curly.

               The xdaliclock program also contains four builtin bitmapped
               fonts, which are larger and more attractive than the standard X
               fonts.  One of these fonts will be used if the -font option is
               given one of the fontnames BUILTIN0,  BUILTIN1,  BUILTIN2, or
               BUILTIN3.

       -builtin0
               This is the same as specifying -font BUILTIN0.

       -builtin1
               This is the same as specifying -font BUILTIN1.

       -builtin2 or -builtin
               This is the same as specifying -font BUILTIN2.

       -builtin3
               This is the same as specifying -font BUILTIN3.

       -fullscreen
               Make the window take up the whole screen.  When -fullscreen is
               specified, the displayed time will wander around a little, to
               prevent any pixels from being on continuously and causing
               phosphor burn-in.

       -root   Display the clock on the root window instead of in its own
               window.  This makes the digits wander around too.

       -window-id window
               Render the clock on a window created by some other program.

       -visual visual
               Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are:

               default Use the screen's default visual (the visual of the root
                       window.)  This is the default.

               best    Use the visual which supports the most writable color
                       cells.

               class   One of StaticGray, StaticColor, TrueColor, GrayScale,
                       PseudoColor, or DirectColor.  Selects the deepest
                       visual of the given class.

               number  A number (decimal or hex) is interpreted as a visual id
                       number, as reported by the xdpyinfo(1) program; in this
                       way you can select a shallower visual if desired.

               If you don't have a 24-bit system, using a visual other than
               the default one may cause colormap flashing.

       -transparent
               Causes the background of the window to be transparent, if
               possible.

               If the server supports overlay planes, then they will be used
               (this is the case on SGIs, and on certain HP, DEC, and IBM
               systems.)

               If overlay planes are not available, but the server supports
               the Shape extension, then that will be used instead.  However,
               the Shape extension is very inefficient: it will cause your X
               server to use up a lot of cycles.

               Also, if the Shape extension is used, you will probably need to
               configure your window manager to not put a titlebar on the
               XDaliClock window.  (This is the case at least with twm, tvtwm,
               and mwm.)  If you don't do this, then the window will flicker
               constantly, as the window manager tries to add and remove the
               titlebar ten times each second.

               None of these problems occur if overlay planes are used (or if
               the -transparent option is not requested.)

       -nontransparent
               Don't make the window's background be transparent.  This is the
               default.

       -memory low
               Use high-bandwidth, low-memory mode.  If you have a very fast
               connection between the machine this program is running on and
               the X server it is displaying on, then xdaliclock can work
               correctly by simply making the drawing requests it needs when
               it needs them.  This is the elegant method.  However, the
               amount of data necessary to animate the display ends up being a
               bit over 10 kilobytes worth of X Protocol per second.  On a
               fast machine with a local display, or over a fast network,
               that's almost negligible, but (for example) an NCD X Terminal
               at 38.4 kbps can't keep up.  That is the reason for:

       -memory medium
               Use high-memory, low-bandwidth mode.  In this mode, xdaliclock
               precomputes most of the frames that it will ever need.  This is
               the sleazy copout method.  The bandwidth requirements are
               drastically reduced, because instead of telling the server what
               bits to draw where, it merely tells it what pixmaps to copy
               into the window.  Aside from the fact that I consider this to
               be cheating, the only downside of this method is that those
               pixmaps (about 170 of them, each the size of one character) are
               consuming server-memory.  This probably isn't a very big deal,
               unless you're using an exceptionally large font.

       -memory high
               With memory set to high, the cache is twice as large (the n ->
               n+2 transitions are cached as well as the n -> n+1 ones).  Even
               with memory set to medium, this program can seem sluggish when
               using a large font over a very slow connection to the display
               server.

       -countdown date
               Instead of displaying the current time, display a countdown to
               the specified date (if the date has already passed, count up
               from it.)  The date can take two forms: either a time_t (an
               integer, the number of seconds past "Jan 1 00:00:00 GMT 1970");
               or, a string of the form "Mmm DD HH:MM:SS YYYY", for example,
               "Jan 1 00:00:00 2000".  This string is interpreted in the local
               time zone.

               To count up from the current time, do this:
               xdaliclock -countdown "`date '+%b %d %T %Y'`"

       The following standard X Toolkit command line arguments are commonly
       used with xdaliclock:

       -display host:dpy
               This option specifies the X server to contact.

       -geometry geometry
               This option specifies the preferred size and position of the
               clock window.

       -bg color
               This option specifies the color to use for the background of
               the window.  The default is ``white.''

       -fg color
               This option specifies the color to use for the foreground of
               the window.  The default is ``black.''

       -bd color
               This option specifies the color to use for the border of the
               window.  The default is the same as the foreground color.

       -rv     This option indicates that reverse video should be simulated by
               swapping the foreground and background colors.

       -bw number
               This option specifies the width in pixels of the border
               surrounding the window.

       -xrm resourcestring
               This option specifies a resource string to be used.

COMMANDS
       Clicking and holding any mouse button in the xdaliclock window will
       cause it to display the date while the button is held.

       Typing ``space'' at the xdaliclock window will toggle between a twelve
       hour and twenty-four hour display.

       Typing ``q'' or ``^C'' at the window quits.

       If the xdaliclock window is iconified or otherwise unmapped, it will go
       to sleep until it is mapped again.

X RESOURCES
       xdaliclock understands all of the core resource names and classes as
       well as:

       mode (class Mode)
               Whether to display 12-hour or 24-hour time.  If 12, this is the
               same as the -12 command line argument; if 24, this is the same
               as -24.

       datemode (class DateMode)
               Specifies how the date should be printed when a mouse button is
               held down.  This may be one of the strings mm/dd/yy, dd/mm/yy,
               yy/mm/dd, yy/dd/mm, mm/yy/dd, or dd/yy/mm.  The default is
               mm/dd/yy.  If seconds are not being displayed, then only the
               first four digits will ever be displayed (mm/dd instead of
               mm/dd/yy, for example.)

       seconds (class Seconds)
               Whether to display seconds.  If true, this is the same as the
               -seconds command line argument; if false, this is the same as
               -noseconds.

       cycle (class Cycle)
               Whether to do color cycling.  If true, this is the same as the
               -cycle command line argument; if false, this is the same as
               -nocycle.

       font (class Font)
               The same as the -font command line option: the font to melt.
               If this is one of the strings BUILTIN0, BUILTIN1, BUILTIN2, or
               BUILTIN3, then one of the large builtin fonts will be used.
               Otherwise, this must be the name of a valid X font.

       fullScreen (class FullScreen)
               The same as the -fullscreen command-line option.

       root (class Root)
               The same as the -root command-line option.

       visualID (class VisualID)
               The same as the -visual command-line option.

       transparent (class Transparent)
               Whether to make the window's background be transparent, if
               possible.  If true, this is the same as the -transparent
               command line argument; if false, this is the same as
               -nontransparent.

       memory (class Memory)
               This must be high, medium, or low, the same as the -memory
               command-line option.

       countdown (class Countdown)
               Same as the -countdown command-line option.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY
           to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
           to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global
           resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.

       TZ  to get the current time zone.  If you want to force the clock to
           display some other time zone, set this variable before starting it.
           For example:
            sh:   TZ=GMT0 xdaliclock
           csh:   ( setenv TZ PST8PDT ; xdaliclock )
           You may notice that the format of the TZ variable (which is used by
           the C library ctime(3) and localtime(3) routines) is not actually
           documented anywhere.  The fourth character (the digit) is the only
           thing that really matters: it is the offset in hours from GMT.  The
           first three characters are ignored.  The last three characters are
           used to flag daylight savings time: their presence effectively adds
           1 to the zone offset.  (I am not making this up...)

BUGS
       Other system load will sometimes cause the second-display to increment
       by more than one second at a time, in order to remain synchronized to
       the current time.

       The -memory option is disgusting and shouldn't be necessary, but I'm
       not clever enough to eliminate it.  It has been said that hacking
       graphics in X is like finding sqrt(pi) with roman numerals.

       When using a small font (less than 48x56 or so) it's possible that
       shipping a bitmap to the server would be more efficient than sending a
       DrawSegments request (since the endpoints are specified using 16 bits
       each, when all that we really need is 6 or 7 bits.)

       Support for the Shared Memory Extension would be a good thing.

       It should display the day of the week somewhere.

       The color cycling should be less predictable; it should vary saturation
       and intensity as well, and should be more careful that foreground and
       background contrast well.

       The correct default datemode should be extracted from the current
       locale.

       Should have a -analog mode (maybe someday...)

UPGRADES
       The latest version can always be found at
       https://www.jwz.org/xdaliclock/

       There is a version of this program for PalmOS available there as well.

SEE ALSO
       X(1), xrdb(1), xlsfonts(1), xclock(1), dclock(1), oclock(1), tclock(1),
       xscreensaver(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002
       by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and
       sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby
       granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in
       all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission
       notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made
       about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
       "as is" without express or implied warranty.

AUTHOR
       Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 18-sep-91.

       Please let me know if you find any bugs or make any improvements.

       Thanks to Ephraim Vishniac <ephraim@think.com> for explaining the
       format of the bitmap resources in the Macintosh version of this, so
       that I could snarf them for the -builtin3 font.

       And thanks to Steve Capps for the really great idea.

X Version 11                      11-Sep-2002                    XDaliClock(1)
