XDaliClock(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          XDaliClock(1)

NAME
       xdaliclock - melting digital clock

SYNOPSIS
       xdaliclock

DESCRIPTION
       The xdaliclock program displays a digital clock; when a digit changes,
       it melts into its new shape.

       This program was inspired by the Alto and Macintosh programs of the
       same name, written by Steve Capps in 1983 or 1984.

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       --display host:display.screen
           The X display to use.

       --version
           Print the version number and exit.

       --root
           Render on the root window instead of opening an application window.

       --window-id number
           Render on an existing X11 Window instead of its own window.

GESTURES
       Single click
           Display the date.  It will also be briefly shown about once a
           minute.

       Double click
           Switch between 12-hour and 24-hour mode.

       Right click
           Open the preferences dialog.

       Left arrow or down arrow keys
           Reduce the number of digits shown (e.g. HH:MM:SS to HH:MM).

       Right arrow or up arrow keys
           Increase the number of digits shown (e.g. HH:MM to HH:MM:SS).

PREFERENCES
       Date & Time
           How to format the date and time, and how many digits to use.

       Colors
           The starting foreground and background colors, and how quickly to
           cycle their hues.

       Countdown timer
           To count down to (and then up from) a target time, enter it in the
           form "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".  If the "Seconds only in home stretch"
           box is checked, the display will switch to a seconds-only display
           30 seconds before the target.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
               The window ID to use with --root.

       GSETTINGS_SCHEMA_DIR
               Where preferences and defaults are stored.

UPGRADES
       The latest version can be found at https://www.jwz.org/xdaliclock/

       There are also version of this program there for macOS, iOS, Android
       and others.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 1991-2022 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
       modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
       any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
       copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
       notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
       No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
       any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
       warranty.

AUTHOR
       Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 18-sep-91.

       Based on a concept by Steve Capps.

X Version 11                  25-Aug-2022 (2.45)                 XDaliClock(1)
