xearth(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              xearth(1)



NAME
       xearth - displays a shaded image of the Earth in an X window


SYNOPSIS
       xearth [-proj proj_type ] [-pos pos_spec ] [-rot angle ] [-sunpos
       sun_pos_spec ] [-mag factor ] [-size size_spec ] [-shift shift_spec ]
       [-shade|-noshade] [-label|-nolabel] [-labelpos geom ]
       [-markers|-nomarkers] [-markerfile file ] [-showmarkers]
       [-stars|-nostars] [-starfreq frequency ] [-bigstars percent ]
       [-grid|-nogrid] [-grid1 grid1 ] [-grid2 grid2 ] [-day pct ] [-night pct
       ] [-term pct ] [-gamma gamma_value ] [-wait secs ] [-timewarp
       timewarp_factor ] [-time fixed_time ] [-onepix|-twopix] [-mono|-nomono]
       [-ncolors num_colors ] [-font font_name ] [-root|-noroot] [-geometry
       geom ] [-title title ] [-iconname iconname ] [-name name ]
       [-fork|-nofork] [-once|-noonce] [-nice priority ] [-gif] [-ppm]
       [-display dpyname ] [-version]


DESCRIPTION
       Xearth sets the X root window to an image of the Earth, as seen from
       your favorite vantage point in space, correctly shaded for the current
       position of the Sun. By default, xearth updates the displayed image
       every five minutes. The time between updates can be changed with the
       -wait option (see below); updates can be disabled completely by using
       the -once option (see below).

       If desired, Xearth can be configured to create and render into its own
       top-level X window instead of the root window; see the -root, -noroot,
       and -geometry options (below). Finally, xearth can also render directly
       into PPM and GIF files instead of drawing into an X window; see the
       -ppm and -gif options (below).

       This man page documents version 1.1 of xearth.


OPTIONS
       Xearth understands the following command line options (corresponding X
       resources can be found in the following section):


       -proj proj_type
              Specify the projection type xearth should use. Supported
              projection types are mercator, orthographic, and cylindrical;
              these can either be spelled out in full or abbreviated to merc,
              orth, or cyl, respectively. Xearth uses an orthographic
              projection by default.


       -pos pos_spec
              Specify the position from which the Earth should be viewed. The
              pos_spec (position specifier) consists of a keyword, possibly
              followed by additional arguments. Valid keywords are: fixed,
              sunrel, orbit, moon, and random. (If you're having problems
              getting xearth to accept a position specifier as a command line
              argument, make sure and read the comments about position
              specifier delimiters and using explicit quoting in the sixth
              paragraph following this one.)

              The position specifier keyword fixed should be followed by two
              arguments, interpreted as numerical values indicating the
              latitude and longitude (expressed in decimal degrees) of a
              viewing position that is fixed with respect to the Earth's
              surface. Positive and negative values of latitude correspond to
              positions north and south of the equator, respectively. Positive
              and negative values of longitude correspond to positions east
              and west of Greenwich, respectively.

              The position specifier keyword sunrel should be followed by two
              arguments, interpreted as numerical values indicating the
              offsets in latitude and longitude (expressed in decimal degrees)
              of a viewing position that is fixed with respect to the position
              of the Sun. Positive and negative values of latitude and
              longitude are interpreted as for the fixed keyword.

              The position specifier keyword orbit should be followed by two
              arguments, interpreted as numerical values indicating the period
              (in hours) and orbital inclination (in decimal degrees) of a
              simple circular orbit; the viewing position follows this orbit.
              Astute readers will surely note that these parameters are not
              sufficient to uniquely specify a single circular orbit. This
              problem is solved by limiting the space of possible orbits to
              those positioned over 0 degrees latitude, 0 degrees longitude at
              time zero (the Un*x epoch, see time(3)).

              The position specifier keyword moon should not be followed by
              any arguments. When this keyword is used, the viewing position
              is the current position of the moon, recalculated at each
              update.

              The position specifier keyword random should not be followed by
              any arguments. When this keyword is used, the viewing position
              is selected at random each time an update occurs.

              Components of a position specifier are delimited by either
              whitespace, forward slashes (/), or commas. Note that using
              whitespace to separate position specifier components when
              invoking xearth from a shell may require explicit quoting to
              ensure the entire position specifier is passed as a single
              argument. For example, if you want to use spaces to delimit
              components and are using a "typical" shell, you'd need to use
              something like:

                  -pos "fixed 42.33 -71.08"

              or

                  -pos 'fixed 42.33 -71.08'

              to make things work. If you'd rather not have to explicitly
              quote things, you can use forward slashes or commas instead of
              spaces to separate components, as shown below.

                  -pos fixed,42.33,-71.08
                  -pos fixed/42.33/-71.08

              If a position specifier is not provided, xearth uses a default
              position specifier of "sunrel 0 0" (such that the entire day
              side of the Earth is always visible).


       -rot angle
              Specify a rotated viewing position such that the north is not
              "straight up" in the center of the rendered image. The angle can
              be specified either as a numeric value or the keyword galactic.
              When angle is a numeric, it represents the number of degrees by
              which the image is to be rotated. Positive values of angle
              rotate the rendered image counterclockwise; negative values
              rotate the rendered image clockwise. The keyword galactic
              orients the image so that the galactic north is straight up: the
              sun is positioned somewhere on the plane passing through the
              horizontal center of the screen. The default value of angle is
              0.


       -sunpos sun_pos_spec
              Specify a fixed point on the Earth's surface where the Sun is
              always directly overhead. The sun_pos_spec (Sun position
              specifier) consists of two components, both numerical values;
              these components are interpreted as the latitude and longitude
              (in decimal degrees) of the point where the Sun is directly
              overhead.

              The details provided for position specifiers (see above) about
              the interpretation of positive and negative latitude and
              longitude values and the characters used to delimit specifier
              components apply to Sun position specifiers as well.

              By default, xearth calculates the actual position of the Sun and
              updates this position with the progression of time.


       -mag factor
              Specify the magnification of the displayed image. When the
              orthographic projection is in use, the diameter of the rendered
              Earth image is factor times the shorter of the width and height
              of the image (see the -size option, below). For the mercator and
              cylindrical projections, the width of the rendered image is
              factor times the width of the image (see the -size option,
              below). The default magnification factor is 1.


       -size size_spec
              Specify the size of the image to be rendered. The size_spec
              (size specifier) consists of two components, both positive
              integers; these components are interpreted as the width and
              height (in pixels) of the image.

              The details provided for position specifiers (see above) about
              the characters used to delimit specifier components apply to
              size specifiers as well.

              When rendering into the X root window, these values default to
              the dimensions of the root window. When producing a PPM or GIF
              file instead of drawing in the X root window (see the -ppm and
              -gif options, below), both values default to 512.

              When rendering into its own top-level X window, any values
              specified using this option are ignored; dimensions for the top-
              level window can be specified using the -geometry option.


       -shift shift_spec
              Specify that the center of the rendered Earth image should be
              shifted by some amount from the center of the image. The
              shift_spec (shift specifier) consists of two components, both
              integers; these components are interpreted as the offsets (in
              pixels) in the X and Y directions.

              The details provided for position specifiers (see above) about
              the characters used to delimit specifier components apply to
              shift specifiers as well.

              By default, the center of the rendered Earth image is aligned
              with the center of the image.


       -shade | -noshade
              Enable/disable shading. When shading is enabled, the surface of
              the Earth is shaded according to the current position of the Sun
              (and the values provided for the -day, -night, and -term
              options, below). When shading is disabled, use flat colors
              (green and blue) to render land and water. Shading is enabled by
              default.


       -label | -nolabel
              Enable/disable labeling. If labeling is enabled and xearth is
              rendering into an X window, provide a label that indicates the
              current date and time and current viewing and sun positions. The
              position of the label can be controlled using the -labelpos
              option (see below). Labeling is disabled by default.


       -labelpos geom
              Specify where the label should be drawn. If labeling is enabled
              and xearth is rendering into an X window, geom is interpreted as
              the "position" part an X-style geometry specification (e.g.,
              {+-}<xoffset>{+-}<yoffset>; positive and negative values of
              xoffset denote offsets from the left and right edges of the
              display, respectively; positive and negative values of yoffset
              denote offsets from the top and bottom edges of the display,
              respectively) indicating how the label should be positioned.
              The label position defaults to "-5-5" (i.e., five pixels inside
              the lower right-hand corner of the display).


       -markers | -nomarkers
              Enable/disable markers. If markers are enabled and xearth is
              rendering into an X window, display small red circles and text
              labels indicating the location of interesting places on the
              Earth's surface. Markers are enabled by default.


       -markerfile file
              Specify a file from which user-defined marker data (locations
              and names) should be read. Each line in the marker data file
              consists of three required components: the latitude and
              longitude (expressed in decimal degrees) followed by the text of
              the label that should be used. Individual components are
              delimited by either whitespace, forward slashes (/), or commas.
              Components that need to include delimiter characters (e.g., a
              multi-word label) should be enclosed in double quotes. For
              example, a line in a typical marker data file might look
              something like:

                  42.33 -71.08 "Boston, MA"    # USA

              Everything between a `#' character and the end of a line,
              inclusive, is a considered to be a comment. Blank lines and
              lines containing only comments are allowed.

              In addition to the three required components, xearth supports
              optional following "key=value" components. In this version of
              xearth, the only supported "key" is "align", which can be used
              to control where marker labels are drawn in relation to the
              marker proper. Supported alignment values are "left", "right",
              "above", and "below"; the default behavior (if no alignment is
              specified) is "align=right".

              The marker data file is reread every time xearth redraws an
              image into an X window. In this way, the marker positions and
              labels can be dynamic (e.g., given appropriate data sources,
              markers could be used to encode hurricane positions, where
              earthquakes have happened recently, temperatures at fixed
              locations, or other forms of "real-time" data).

              Xearth includes a built-in set of marker data for 76 major
              locations around the world. The built-in data can be selected by
              specifying "built-in" for the file argument; this is the default
              behavior. The built-in set of marker data can be examined either
              by using the -showmarkers option (see below) or by reading the
              BUILT-IN file included with the xearth source distribution (see
              OBTAINING THE XEARTH SOURCE DISTRIBUTION, below).


       -showmarkers
              This option indicates that xearth should load the marker data
              (whether built-in or user-specified), print a copy of it to
              standard out in a form suitable for use with the -markers option
              (see above), and then exit.


       -stars | -nostars
              Enable/disable stars. If stars are enabled, the black background
              of "space" is filled with a random pattern of "stars"
              (individual white pixels). The fraction of background pixels
              that are turned into stars can be controlled with the -starfreq
              option (see below). Stars are enabled by default.


       -starfreq frequency
              Set the density of the random star pattern (see -stars, above);
              frequency indicates the fraction of background pixels that
              should be turned into "stars". The default value of frequency is
              0.002.


       -bigstars percent
              Set the percentage of double-width stars (see -stars, above); by
              default, all stars are a single pixel, but this option can be
              used to create some stars that are composed of two horizontal
              pixels.  This provides a slightly less uniform look to the
              "night sky".


       -grid | -nogrid
              Enable/disable the display of a longitude/latitude grid on the
              Earth's surface. The spacing of major grid lines and dots
              between major grid lines can be controlled with the -grid1 and
              -grid2 options (see below). Grid display is disabled by default.


       -grid1 grid1
              Specify the spacing of major grid lines if grid display (see
              -grid, above) is enabled; major grid lines are drawn with a
              90/grid1 degree spacing. The default value for grid1 is 6,
              corresponding to 15 degrees between major grid lines.


       -grid2 grid2
              Specify the spacing of dots along major grid lines if grid
              display (see -grid, above) is enabled. Along the equator and
              lines of longitude, grid dots are drawn with a 90/(grid1 x
              grid2) degree spacing. The spacing of grid dots along parallels
              (lines of latitude) other than the equator is adjusted to keep
              the surface distance between grid dots approximately constant.
              The default value for grid2 is 15; combined with the default
              grid1 value of 6, this corresponds to placing grid dots on a one
              degree spacing.


       -day pct
              Specify the brightness that should be used to shade the day side
              of the Earth when shading is enabled. Pct should be an integer
              between 0 and 100, inclusive, where 0 indicates total darkness
              and 100 indicates total illumination. This value defaults to
              100.


       -night pct
              Specify the brightness that should be used to shade the night
              side of the Earth when shading is enabled. Pct should be an
              integer between 0 and 100, inclusive, where 0 indicates total
              darkness and 100 indicates total illumination. This value
              defaults to 5 (if this seems overly dark, you may want to
              double-check that appropriate gamma correction is being
              employed; see -gamma, below).


       -term pct
              Specify the shading discontinuity at the terminator (day/night
              line). Pct should be an integer between 0 and 100, inclusive. A
              value of x indicates that the shading should immediately jump x
              percent of the difference between day and night shading values
              (see -day and -night, above) when crossing from the night side
              to the day side of the terminator. Thus a value of 0 indicates
              no discontinuity (the original xearth behavior), and a value of
              100 yields a maximal discontinuity (such that the entire day
              side of the earth is shaded with the -day shading value). This
              value defaults to 1.


       -gamma gamma_value
              When xearth is rendering into an X window, adjust the colors
              xearth uses by a gamma value. Values less than 1.0 yield darker
              colors; values greater than 1.0 yield brighter colors. The
              default gamma_value is 1.0, appropriate for use on systems with
              built-in gamma correction. For systems without built-in gamma
              correction, appropriate gamma values are often in the 2.3 to 2.6
              range.

              See the GAMMA-TEST file included with the xearth source
              distribution for information about a simple test that allows you
              to directly estimate the gamma of your display system (see
              OBTAINING THE XEARTH SOURCE DISTRIBUTION, below).


       -wait secs
              When rendering into an X window, wait secs seconds between
              updates. This value defaults to 300 seconds (five minutes).


       -timewarp timewarp_factor
              Scale the apparent rate at which time progresses by
              timewarp_factor. The default value of timewarp_factor is 1.0.


       -time fixed_time
              Instead of using the current time to determine the "value" of
              time-dependent positions (e.g., the position the sun), use a
              particular fixed_time (expressed in seconds since the Un*x epoch
              (see time(3)).


       -onepix | -twopix
              Specify whether xearth should use one or two pixmaps when
              rendering into an X window. If only one pixmap is used, partial
              redraws may be visible at times in the window (when areas of the
              window are exposed and redrawn during the time xearth is
              rendering the next image). If two pixmaps are used, xearth uses
              them to double-buffer changes such that partial redraws are
              (almost?)  never seen. Using only one pixmap has the advantage
              of using quite a bit less memory in the X server; this can be
              important in environments where server-side memory is a fairly
              limited resource. Two pixmaps is the default.


       -mono | -nomono
              If rendering into an X window, enable/disable monochrome mode.
              Monochrome mode is enabled by default on systems with one-bit
              framebuffers (see the "depth of root window" information
              provided by xdpyinfo(1)) and disabled by default otherwise.


       -ncolors num_colors
              If rendering into an X window or a GIF output file, specify the
              number of colors that should be used. (If markers are enabled
              (see -markers, above), the actual number of colors used may be
              one larger than num_colors.) The default value of num_colors is
              64.

              When rendering into an X window, the maximum allowable value for
              num_colors is 1024. In practice, using values of num_colors
              larger than twice the number of distinct shades of red, green,
              or blue supported by your hardware is likely to provide little
              additional benefit, or, in some cases, produce "banding" effects
              in the image. Thus, on systems that can support 256 distinct
              shades of red, green, or blue (eight bits per component), the
              largest practical value of num_colors is around 512. Similarly,
              on systems that support only five or six bits per component
              (e.g., many systems with 16-bit displays), the largest practical
              value of num_colors is probably around 64.

              When rendering into a GIF output file, the maximum allowable
              value for num_colors is 256.


       -font font_name
              If rendering into an X window, use font_name for drawing text
              labels (see -label and -markers, above). By default, xearth uses
              the "variable" font.


       -root | -noroot
              When rendering into an X window, select whether xearth should
              render into the X root window (-root) or create and render into
              a top-level X window (-noroot). By default, xearth renders into
              the X root window.


       -geometry geom
              Cause xearth to create and render into a top-level X window with
              the specified geometry. When this option is used, the -noroot
              option can be elided. Use of the -root overrides the effect of
              -geometry. By default (if -noroot is specified by no geometry is
              provided), xearth uses a geometry of "512x512".


       -title title
              When rendering into a top-level X window, this option can be
              used to specify the window title string that might be displayed
              by a window manager. By default, xearth uses a title of
              "xearth".


       -iconname iconname
              When rendering into a top-level X window, this option can be
              used to specify the icon name that might be used by a window
              manager for the window. By default, xearth uses an icon name of
              "xearth".


       -name name
              When rendering into an X window, this option can be used to
              specify the application name under which X resources are
              obtained, rather than the default executable file name. The
              specified name should not contain "." or "*" characters.


       -fork | -nofork
              When rendering into an X window, enable/disable forking. If
              forking is enabled, xearth forks a child process to handle all
              rendering calculations and screen updates (in essence,
              automatically putting itself in the background). Forking is
              disabled by default.


       -once | -noonce
              Disable/enable updates. If updates are enabled and xearth is
              rendering into an X window, xearth updates the displayed image
              periodically (the time between updates can be controlled via the
              -wait option, above). If updates are disabled, xearth only
              renders an image once and then exits. Updates are enabled by
              default.


       -nice priority
              Run the xearth process with priority priority (see nice(1) and
              setpriority(2)). By default, xearth runs at the priority of the
              process that invoked it, usually 0.


       -gif   Instead of drawing in an X window, write a GIF file (eight-bit
              color) to standard out.


       -ppm   Instead of drawing in an X window, write a PPM file (24-bit
              color) to standard out.


       -display dpyname
              Attempt to connect to the X display named dpyname.


       -version
              Print what version of xearth this is.


X RESOURCES
       The behavior of xearth can also be controlled using the following X
       resources:


       proj (projection type)
              Specify the projection type xearth should use (see -proj,
              above).


       pos (position specifier)
              Specify the position from which the Earth should be viewed (see
              -pos, above).


       rot (float)
              Specify the viewing rotation (see -rot, above).


       sunpos (sun position specifier)
              Specify a fixed point on the Earth's surface where the Sun is
              always directly overhead (see -sunpos, above).


       mag (float)
              Specify the magnification of the displayed image (see -mag,
              above).


       size (size specifier)
              Specify the size of the image to be rendered (see -size, above).


       shift (shift specifier)
              Specify that the center of the rendered Earth image should be
              shifted by some amount from the center of the image (see -shift,
              above).


       shade (boolean)
              Enable/disable shading (see -shade, above).


       label (boolean)
              Enable/disable labeling (see -label, above).


       labelpos (geometry)
              Specify where the label should be drawn (see -labelpos, above).


       markers (boolean)
              Enable/disable markers (see -markers, above).


       markerfile (file name)
              Specify a file from which user-defined marker data (locations
              and names) should be read (see -markerfile, above).


       stars (boolean)
              Enable/disable stars (see -stars, above).


       starfreq (float)
              Set the density of the random star pattern (see -starfreq,
              above).


       bigstars (int)
              Set the percentage of stars that are double width (see
              -bigstars, above).


       grid (boolean)
              Enable/disable the display of a longitude/latitude grid on the
              Earth's surface (see -grid, above).


       grid1 (integer)
              Specify the spacing of major grid lines if grid display is
              enabled (see -grid1, above).


       grid2 (integer)
              Specify the spacing of dots along major grid lines if grid
              display is enabled (see -grid2, above).


       day (integer)
              Specify the brightness that should be used to shade the day side
              of the Earth when shading is enabled (see -day, above).


       night (integer)
              Specify the brightness that should be used to shade the night
              side of the Earth when shading is enabled (see -night, above).


       term (integer)
              Specify the shading discontinuity at the terminator (see -term,
              above).


       gamma (float)
              Specify the gamma correction xearth should use when selecting
              colors (see -gamma, above).


       wait (integer)
              Specify the delay between updates when rendering into an X
              window (see -wait, above).


       timewarp (float)
              Specify the apparent rate at which time progresses (see
              -timewarp, above).


       time (integer)
              Specify a particular fixed time that should be used to determine
              the "value" of time-dependent positions (see -time, above).


       twopix (boolean)
              Specify whether xearth should use one or two pixmaps when
              rendering into an X window (see -onepix and -twopix, above).


       mono (boolean)
              Specify whether xearth should use monochrome mode when rendering
              into an X window (see -mono and -nomono, above).


       ncolors (integer)
              Specify the number of colors xearth should use (see -ncolors,
              above). The ncolors resource is only used when rendering into an
              X window -- the number of colors to use when rendering into a
              GIF file can only be specified using the -ncolors command line
              option.


       font (font name)
              Use the named font for drawing text labels (see -font, above).


       root (boolean)
              Specify whether xearth should render into the X root window or a
              top-level X window (see -root, -noroot, and -geometry, above).


       geometry (geometry)
              Specify the geometry of a top-level X window that xearth should
              create and render into (see -geometry, above).


       title (string)
              When rendering into a top-level X window, specify the window
              title that xearth should use (see -title, above).


       iconname (string)
              When rendering into a top-level X window, specify the icon name
              that xearth should use (see -iconname, above).


       fork (boolean)
              When rendering into an X window, enable/disable the automatic
              forking of a child process to handle the updates (see -fork,
              above).


       once (boolean)
              When rendering into an X window, disable/enable updates for the
              displayed image (see -once, above).


       nice (integer)
              Specify the priority at which the xearth process should be run
              (see -nice, above).


OBTAINING THE XEARTH SOURCE DISTRIBUTION
       The latest-and-greatest version of xearth should always be available
       via a link from the xearth WWW home page (URL
       http://www.cs.colorado.edu/~tuna/xearth/index.html), or, for the web-
       deprived, via anonymous ftp from cag.lcs.mit.edu in /pub/tuna.


NOTES
       Thanks to Frank Solensky for the "-pos moon" and "-rot galactic" stuff.

       The map information used in xearth was derived from the "CIA World Data
       Bank II map database," as taken from some "cbd" files that were
       apparently originally generated by Brian Reid at DEC WRL.

       The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of
       CompuServe Incorporated. GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of
       CompuServe Incorporated.

       Thanks to Robert Berger for allowing me to include his nifty gamma
       measurement image and associated text in the xearth source
       distribution.

       Thanks to Jamie Zawinski for suggesting that I look at his xscreensaver
       package for a good example of how to use the resource and command line
       option parts of Xt; his code saved me piles of lossage.

       Thanks to Chris Metcalf for the -bigstars stuff, a pile of general
       source code cleaning, and spell checking everything carefully.

       Thanks to Chris Hayward, Chris Metcalf, Sherman Mui, Dan Rich, and
       Leonard Zubkoff for giving the pre-release of version 1.0 a test drive.

       Kudos to Jef Poskanzer for his excellent PBMPLUS toolkit.

       Finally, thanks to everybody that sent encouragement, suggestions, and
       patches. Apologies to the many people whose good ideas didn't make it
       into this release.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1990, 1993-1995, 1999 by Kirk Lauritz Johnson

       Portions of the xearth source code, as marked, are:

         Copyright (C) 1989, 1990, 1991 by Jim Frost
         Copyright (C) 1992 by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@lucid.com>

       Permission to use, copy, modify and freely distribute xearth for non-
       commercial and not-for-profit purposes is hereby granted without fee,
       provided that both the above copyright notice and this permission
       notice appear in all copies and in supporting documentation.

       Unisys Corporation holds worldwide patent rights on the Lempel Zev
       Welch (LZW) compression technique employed in the CompuServe GIF image
       file format as well as in other formats. Unisys has made it clear,
       however, that it does not require licensing or fees to be paid for
       freely distributed, non-commercial applications (such as xearth) that
       employ LZW/GIF technology. Those wishing further information about
       licensing the LZW patent should contact Unisys directly at
       (lzw_info@unisys.com) or by writing to

         Unisys Corporation
         Welch Licensing Department
         M/S-C1SW19
         P.O. Box 500
         Blue Bell, PA 19424

       The author makes no representations about the suitability of this
       software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or
       implied warranty.

       THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
       INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
       EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
       CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
       USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
       OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
       PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


AUTHOR
         Kirk Johnson <tuna@indra.com>

       Patches, bug reports, and suggestions are welcome, but I can't
       guarantee that I'll get around to doing anything about them in a timely
       fashion.

KLJ                              November 1999                       xearth(1)
