I740(4x)                                                              I740(4x)



NAME
       i740 - Intel i740 video driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "i740"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       i740 is an Xorg driver for Intel i740 video cards.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The i740 driver supports Intel 740 based cards.  A list of cards
       reported to work is provided in the README file with the driver source.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The driver auto-detects all device information necessary to initialize
       the card.

       However, if you have problems with auto-detection, you can specify:

       VideoRam - in kilobytes

       DacSpeed - in MHz

       MemBase - physical address of the linear framebuffer

       IOBase  - physical address of the memory mapped IO registers

       The following driver options are supported on all chipsets:

       Option "NoAccel" "boolean"
              Disable or enable 2D acceleration. Default: acceleration is
              enabled.

       Option "SWCursor" "boolean"
              Request a software cursor (hardware is default). Default: off

       Option "SDRAM" "boolean"
              Force the use of SDRAM timings. Default: off

       Option "SGRAM" "boolean"
              Force the use of SGRAM timings. Default: off

       Option "SlowRam" "boolean"
              Force the use of slower ram timings. Default: off

       Option "Dac6Bit" "boolean"
              Force the use of a 6 Bit Dac (8 Bit is the default). Default:
              off

       Option "UsePIO" "boolean"
              Force the use of programmed IO (Memory mapped is the default).
              Default: off

       Note: the i740 X server should automatically detect whether your card
       has SGRAM or SDRAM.  Use the "sgram" and "sdram" options if it is
       incorrectly detected.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

AUTHORS
       Authors include:  Kevin E Martin and Daryll Strauss of Precision
       Insight, Inc.

       The XFree86 version of this driver was donated to The XFree86 Project
       by Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, TX, USA

       The Xorg version of this driver originally came from XFree86 4.4rc2.




X Version 11                 xf86-video-i740 1.4.0                    I740(4x)
