VMWARE(4x)                                                          VMWARE(4x)

NAME
       vmware - VMware SVGA video driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "vmware"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       vmware is an Xorg driver for VMware virtual video cards.

MODESETTING, XINERAMA AND RANDR12
       If the driver can connect to the "vmwgfx" kernel module on linux, it
       will attempt to use kernel modesetting and will then also use RandR12
       for multiple output operation instead of Xinerama. The X server log or
       the "xrandr" application can be used to determine whether RandR12 or
       Xinerama is actually used.

3D ACCELERATION
       If the driver can connect to the "vmwgfx" kernel module on linux, and
       the Virtual Machine is set up to use 3D acceleration, the driver will
       try to use Gallium3D XA to accelerate 3D operations. It will also by
       default enable DRI, the Direct Rendering Infrastructure, primarily for
       accelerated OpenGL.  If 3D acceleration is available, the driver will
       in addition provide an additional XVideo adaptor for textured video.
       Gallium3D XA,ibxatracker.so" and the accelerated OpenGL driver,
       "vmwgfx_dri.so" is provided by the mesa distribution.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The driver auto-detects the version of any virtual VMware SVGA adapter.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "HWCursor" "boolean"
              Enable or disable the HW cursor.  Default: off.

       Option "Xinerama" "boolean"
              Disable or enable Xinerama support. Default: xinerama is enabled
              if the hardware supports it.

       Option "StaticXinerama" "string"
              Provide a static xinerama geometry that will be active at server
              startup and will not be overridden at runtime.  The format is
              "Width1xHeight1+Xoffset1+Yoffset1;Width2xHeight2+Xoffset2+Yoffset2"
              and so on. Negative offsets are not supported. If the driver is
              using RandR12, this option should be used to place and enable
              outputs at driver startup time or else when VMware tools is not
              used for that purpose.  Also please see option "GuiLayout".

       Option "GuiLayout" "string"
              A synonym to option "StaticXinerama", since the latter name is
              somewhat misleading when RandR12 is favoured before Xinerarma.

       Option "AddDefaultMode" "boolean"
              Provide a default mode with a resolution identical to the
              resolution of the guest before the X server was started. The X
              server will thus try to start without changing resolution.
              Default: on.

       Option "RenderAccel" "boolean"
              Try to accelerate render operations if the operations are
              reading from previously accelerated contents (3D or video). This
              option is needed for 3D support. Default: on if 3D acceleration
              is supported. Otherwise off.

       Option "DRI" "boolean"
              Enable the Direct Rendering Infrastructure. Default: on if 3D
              acceleration is supported and "RenderAccel" is enabled.
              Otherwise off.

       Option "DirectPresents" "boolean"
              Speed up OpenGL swapbuffers by skipping a copy operation. This
              provides some OpenGL swapbuffer speedups, but may cause
              performance degradation and rendering errors when 3D contents is
              read back for mixing with software rendered contents. Default:
              off.

       Option "HwPresents" "boolean"
              This is a developer convenience option and should not be used by
              distros or normal users. When enabled, it copies software
              rendered contents to a 3D surface before presenting it, so that
              the visible screen is always present on a 3D surface. Default:
              off.

       Option "RenderCheck" "boolean"
              This is a developer convenience option and should not be used by
              distros or normal users. When enabled, it tries to use 3D
              acceleration for all XRender operations where 3D acceleration is
              supported, resulting in a considerable slowdown due to the
              increased number of readbacks of accelerated contents from host
              to guest. This option is used to verify that the accelerated
              Xrender paths works correctly with the "rendercheck"
              application. Default: off.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7), xrandr(1)

AUTHORS
       Copyright (c) 1999-2007 VMware, Inc.

X Version 11               xf86-video-vmware 13.3.0                 VMWARE(4x)
