EGALAX(4x)                                                          EGALAX(4x)

NAME
       egalax - eGalax touch screen input driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "InputDevice"
         Identifier "idevname"
         Driver "egalax"
         Option "Device"   "devpath"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       egalax is an Xorg input driver for eGalax touchscreen devices...

       The egalax driver functions as a pointer input device, and may be used
       as the X server's core pointer.

       It is obvious that a touch panel with a stylus/finger is a one-button
       mouse.  However, the egalax tries to overcome this limitation.  If a
       user keeps stylus in one point for a certain time, then driver emulates
       release of left mouse button and then pressure on the right mouse
       button.  The area where the stylus should be kept and time are
       configurable.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The driver has been written for CarTFT CTF1020-S on screen touch panel,
       and is supposed to work with other similar touch panels based on
       eGalax.

       The egalax driver requires the uep(4) kernel driver.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "Device" "string"
              Usually "/dev/uep0" .

       Option "MinX" "integer"

       Option "MaxX" "integer"

       Option "MinY" "integer"

       Option "MaxY" "integer"
              These values configure calibration of the touch panel.

              The touchscreen resolution is 2048 points in both directions.
              However, the onscreen part of the panel is usually smaller.  So,
              the panel needs to be calibrated.  Initial values for
              calibration are quite conservative, and the driver
              autocalibrates itself when user touches areas near edge of
              screen.  After each autocalibration the driver writes suggested
              calibration values to the Xorg log.  These values should be
              written to the Xorg configuration file, to avoid bad calibration
              on next run.

       Option "ReverseY" "boolean"
              Invert the Y axis.  Default: off.

       Option "SwapAxes" "boolean"
              Some eGalax touch screen units are assembled incorrectly and
              have X and Y axes swapped.  This configuration knob allows to
              swap them back.  Default: off.

       Option "RightClickEmulArea" "integer"
              Size of the area where a stylus should be held still, before the
              driver emulates right button click.  The default is 5 pixels.

       Option "RightClickEmulPause" "integer"
              Time the driver waits befor emulating right button pressure.
              The default is 1 second.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), xorgconfig(1), Xserver(1), X(7).

AUTHORS
       The driver has been written by Gleb Smirnoff

X Version 11                 xf86-input-egalax 0.1                  EGALAX(4x)
