VOODOO(4x)                                                          VOODOO(4x)



NAME
       voodoo - Voodoo video driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "voodoo"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       voodoo is an Xorg driver for Voodoo 1 and Voodoo 2 series video
       adapters.  On the Voodoo 1 the driver uses a shadow buffer in system
       memory as the video adapter has only 3D acceleration. Selected portions
       of the shadow framebuffer are copied out to the Voodoo board at the
       right time. Because of this, the speed of the driver is very dependent
       on the CPU. Processors nowadays are actually rather fast at moving data
       so we get very good speed anyway as the shadow framebuffer is in cached
       RAM.

       The Voodoo2 has 16bpp acceleration and the driver provides accelerated
       versions of most operations except angled lines and stipples.
       Accelerated alpha blending with the Render extension is also supported
       as is DGA.

       This driver supports 16bpp modes currently. The video hardware supports
       image conversion from 24bpp to 16bpp but the hardware is 16bpp only.

       The Voodoo 1 series cards can go up to 800x600 resolution while the
       Voodoo 2 can reach 1024x768 providing it has at least 2Mb of frame
       buffer memory. 1024x768 2D mode does not require two cards configured
       in scan-line interleave mode (SLI).

       Multihead and Xinerama configurations are supported. SLI configurations
       will be treated as multiple video cards.

       Limited support for DPMS screen saving is available. The "standby" and
       "suspend" modes are just painting the screen black. The "off" mode
       turns the Voodoo board off and thus works correctly.

       This driver does not support a virtual screen size different from the
       display size. This is a hardware limitation. 3D rendering is also not
       supported.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "ShadowFB" "boolean"
              Enables a shadow buffer in main memory. This turns off
              acceleration but for otherwise unaccelerated operations can
              improve performance materially.  Default: off for voodoo2, on
              for voodoo1.

       Option "NoAccel" "boolean"
              Disables acceleration if set. Unless debugging this option
              should only be set if ShadowFB is enabled.  Default: off for
              voodoo2, on for voodoo1.

BUGS
       The driver interacts badly with the sstfb frame buffer driver as there
       is insufficient information to restore the chip to its previous state.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

AUTHORS
       Authors: Alan Cox, Ghozlane Toumi, Henrik Harmsen.



X Version 11                xf86-video-voodoo 1.2.5                 VOODOO(4x)
