WSFB(4x)                                                              WSFB(4x)

NAME
       scfb - video driver for wsdisplay framebuffer device

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "scfb"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       scfb is an Xorg driver for OpenBSD and NetBSD wsdisplay framebuffer
       devices.  This is a non-accelerated driver.  The following framebuffer
       depths are supported: 1, 8, 16 and 24, given that the wsdisplay device
       underneath supports them.
       A StaticGray monochrome visual is provided for depth 1, all visual
       types are supported for depth 8 and a TrueColor visual is supported for
       the other depths.  Multi-head configurations are supported.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The scfb driver supports all hardware where a wsdisplay framebuffer
       driver is available on OpenBSD and NetBSD.  On OpenBSD, currently this
       includes OpenBSD/macppc, OpenBSD/sgi, OpenBSD/sparc, OpenBSD/sparc64
       and OpenBSD/alpha on TGA graphics cards.  It also supports NetBSD/i386
       using wsdisplay on vesafb(4).

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the Screen
       section of the configuration file.  The scfb driver picks up the
       currently used video mode from the framebuffer driver and uses it.
       Video modes specifications in the configuration file are ignored.

       The following driver options are supported in the Device section:

       Option "device" "string"
              The wsdisplay framebuffer device to use.  Default for OpenBSD:
              /dev/ttyC0.  Default for NetBSD: /dev/ttyE0.

       Option "ShadowFB" "boolean"
              Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  See
              shadowfb(4x) for further information.  Default: on for depths
              were it is supported, off otherwise.
              ShadowFB is currently not supported on monochrome displays.

       Option "Rotate" "string"
              Enable rotation of the display. The supported values are "CW"
              (clockwise, 90 degrees), "UD" (upside down, 180 degrees) and
              "CCW" (counter clockwise, 270 degrees).  Implies use of the
              shadow framebuffer layer.  Default: off.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), xorgconfig(1), Xserver(1), X(7), wsdisplay(4x)

AUTHORS
       Authors include: Matthieu Herrb, Gerd Knorr, Michel Dänzer, Geert
       Uytterhoeven

X Version 11                 xf86-video-scfb 0.0.5                    WSFB(4x)
