AMDGPU(4x)                                                          AMDGPU(4x)

NAME
       amdgpu - AMD RADEON GPU video driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "amdgpu"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       amdgpu is an Xorg driver for AMD RADEON-based video cards with the
       following features:

       • Support for 8-, 15-, 16-, 24- and 30-bit pixel depths;
       • RandR support up to version 1.4;
       • 3D acceleration;

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The amdgpu driver supports SI and newer families' video cards.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "SWcursor" "boolean"
              Selects software cursor.  The default is off.

       Option "Accel" "boolean"
              Enables or disables all hardware acceleration.
              The default is on.


       Option "ZaphodHeads" "string"
              Specify the RandR output(s) to use with zaphod mode for a
              particular driver instance.  If you use this option you must use
              this option for all instances of the driver.
              For example: Option "ZaphodHeads" "LVDS,VGA-0" will assign
              xrandr outputs LVDS and VGA-0 to this instance of the driver.

       Option "DRI" "integer"
              Define the maximum level of DRI to enable. Valid values are 2
              for DRI2 or 3 for DRI3.  The default is 3 for DRI3 if the Xorg
              version is >= 1.18.3, otherwise 2 for DRI2.

       Option "EnablePageFlip" "boolean"
              Enable DRI2 page flipping.  The default is on.

       Option "TearFree" "boolean"
              Set the default value of the per-output 'TearFree' property,
              which controls tearing prevention using the hardware page
              flipping mechanism. TearFree is on for any CRTC associated with
              one or more outputs with TearFree on. Two separate scanout
              buffers need to be allocated for each CRTC with TearFree on. If
              this option is set, the default value of the property is 'on' or
              'off' accordingly. If this option isn't set, the default value
              of the property is auto, which means that TearFree is on for
              rotated outputs, outputs with RandR transforms applied and for
              RandR 1.4 secondary outputs, otherwise off.

       Option "VariableRefresh" "boolean"
              Enables support for enabling variable refresh on the Screen's
              CRTCs when an suitable application is flipping via the Present
              extension.
              The default is off.

       Option "AsyncFlipSecondaries" "boolean"
              Use async flips for secondary video outputs on multi-display
              setups. If a screen has multiple displays attached and DRI3 page
              flipping is used, then only one of the displays will have its
              page flip synchronized to vblank for tear-free presentation.
              This is the display that is used for presentation timing and
              timestamping, usually the one covering the biggest pixel area of
              the screen.  All other displays ("Secondaries") will not
              synchronize their flips. This may cause some tearing on these
              displays, but it prevents a permanent or periodic slowdown or
              irritating judder of animations if not all video outputs are
              running synchronized with each other and with the same refresh
              rate. There is no perfect solution apart from perfectly
              synchronized outputs, but this option may give preferrable
              results if the displays in a multi-display setup mirror or clone
              each other.  The default is off.

       Option "AccelMethod" "string"
              Setting this option to none disables use of the glamor
              acceleration architecture. In that case, all 2D rendering is
              done by the CPU, but 3D and video hardware acceleration can
              still work. This is mainly useful for OpenGL driver bring-up.
              The default is to use glamor.


       The following driver Option is supported for glamor :

       Option "ShadowPrimary" "boolean"
              This option enables a so-called "shadow primary" buffer for fast
              CPU access to pixel data, and separate scanout buffers for each
              display controller (CRTC).  This may improve performance for
              some 2D workloads, potentially at the expense of other (e.g. 3D,
              video) workloads.  Note in particular that enabling this option
              currently disables page flipping.  The default is off.


SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

        1. Wiki page:
           https://www.x.org/wiki/radeon

        2. Overview about amdgpu development code:
           https://cgit.freedesktop.org/xorg/driver/xf86-video-amdgpu/

        3. Mailing list:
           https://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/amd-gfx

        4. IRC channel:
           #radeon on irc.freenode.net

        5. Query the bugtracker for amdgpu bugs:
           https://bugs.freedesktop.org/query.cgi?product=xorg&component=Driver/AMDgpu

        6. Submit bugs & patches:
           https://bugs.freedesktop.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=xorg&component=Driver/AMDgpu


AUTHORS
       Authors include:
       Michel Dänzer            michel@daenzer.net
       Alex Deucher             alexdeucher@gmail.com

X Version 11               xf86-video-amdgpu 22.0.0                 AMDGPU(4x)
