elographics(4x)                                                elographics(4x)

NAME
       elographics - Elographics input driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "InputDevice"
         Identifier "idevname"
         Driver "elographics"
         Option "Device"   "devpath"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       elographics is an Xorg input driver for Elographics touchscreen
       devices.

       The elographics driver functions as a pointer input device, and may be
       used as the X server's core pointer.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       E271-2210 and E271-2200 devices are supported.  E281-2310 and
       compatible devices are supported with some features unavailable.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details and for
       options that can be used with all input drivers.  This section only
       covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The following driver options are supported:

       Option "Device" "string"
              The device that is attached to the touchscreen interface.
              Default is "/dev/ttyS1".

       Option "MinX" "integer"
              Set the minimum value for the touchscreen X axis. Default is
              600.

       Option "MaxX" "integer"
              Set the maximum value for the touchscreen X axis. Default is
              3000.

       Option "MinY" "integer"
              Set the minimum value for the touchscreen Y axis. Default is
              600.

       Option "MaxY" "integer"
              Set the maximum value for the touchscreen Y axis. Default is
              3000.

       Option "ScreenNo" "integer"
              The screen to attach to the touchscreen when running with
              multiple screens.  Default is screen 0.

       Option "PortraitMode" "string"
              Set the X/Y axis orientation. The default is "Landscape" but you
              can rotate clockwise ("Portrait") or counter-clockwise
              ("PortraitCCW").

       Option "SwapXY" "boolean"
              Swap the X and Y axis on the display. Default is false.

       Option "UntouchDelay" "integer"
              The period that finger must be released for an untouch event to
              occur. Default: 5 (50ms).

       Option "ReportDelay" "integer"
              Delay between report packets. Default: 1 (10ms).

       Option "Model" "string"
              The touchscreen model. Default: unset. Supported models: "Sunit
              dSeries".

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7).

AUTHORS
       Authors include:
        Patrick Lecoanet

       This manpage was written by Lee Maguire on behalf of the Debian
       Project.

X Version 11             xf86-input-elographics 1.4.2          elographics(4x)
