RENDITION(4x)                                                    RENDITION(4x)



NAME
       rendition - Rendition video driver

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "rendition"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       rendition is an Xorg driver for Rendition/Micron based video cards.
       The driver supports following framebuffer depths: 8, 15 (Verite V1000
       only), 16 and 24. Acceleration and multi-head configurations are not
       supported yet, but are work in progress.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The rendition driver supports PCI and AGP video cards based on the
       following Rendition/Micron chips:

       V1000       Verite V1000 based cards.

       V2100       Verite V2100 based cards. Diamond Stealth II S220 is the
                   only known such card.

       V2200       Verite V2200 based cards.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The driver auto-detects the chipset type, but the following ChipSet
       names may optionally be specified in the config file "Device" section,
       and will override the auto-detection:

           "v1000", "v2x00".

       The driver will auto-detect the amount of video memory present for all
       chips. If the amount of memory is detected incorrectly, the actual
       amount of video memory should be specified with a VideoRam entry in the
       config file "Device" section.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "SWCursor" "boolean"
              Disables use of the hardware cursor. Default: use HW-cursor.

       Option "OverclockMem" "boolean"
              Increases the Mem/Sys clock to 125MHz/60MHz from standard
              110MHz/50MHz.  Default: Not overclocked.

       Option "DacSpeed" "MHz"
              Run the memory at a higher clock. Useful on some cards with
              display glitches at higher resolutions. But adds the risk to
              damage the hardware. Use with caution.

       Option "FramebufferWC" "boolean"
              If writecombine is disabled in BIOS, and you add this option in
              configuration file, then the driver will try to request
              writecombined access to the framebuffer. This can drastically
              increase the performance on unaccelerated server. Requires that
              "MTRR"-support is compiled into the OS-kernel.  Default:
              Disabled for V1000, enabled for V2100/V2200.

       Option "NoDDC" "boolean"
              Disable probing of DDC-information from your monitor. This
              information is not used yet and is only there for informational
              purposes.  Safe to disable if you experience problems during
              startup of X-server.  Default: Probe DDC.

       Option "ShadowFB" "boolean"
              If this option is enabled, the driver will cause the CPU to do
              each drawing operation first into a shadow frame buffer in
              system virtual memory and then copy the result into video
              memory. If this option is not active, the CPU will draw directly
              into video memory.  Enabling this option is beneficial for those
              systems where reading from video memory is, on average, slower
              than the corresponding read/modify/write operation in system
              virtual memory.  This is normally the case for PCI or AGP
              adapters, and, so, this option is enabled by default unless
              acceleration is enabled.  Default: Enabled unless acceleration
              is used.

       Option "Rotate" "CW"

       Option "Rotate" "CCW"
              Rotate the display clockwise or counterclockwise.  This mode is
              unaccelerated.  Default: no rotation.

Notes
       For the moment the driver defaults to not request write-combine for any
       chipset as there has been indications of problems with it. Use Option
       "MTRR" to let the driver request write-combining of memory access on
       the video board.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

AUTHORS
       Authors include: Marc Langenbach, Dejan Ilic



X Version 11              xf86-video-rendition 4.2.7             RENDITION(4x)
