XFRACTINT(1)                                                      XFRACTINT(1)

NAME
       xfractint - fractal generation program

SYNOPSIS
       xfractint [options] [; comments]

DESCRIPTION
       Xfractint draws a wide variety of fractals.  Xfractint is a port of the
       IBM PC program fractint.  Xfractint has online documentation which
       should be referenced for most operation information.  Note that the
       online documentation is from fractint, and does not always accurately
       describe xfractint.  A text version of the online documentation can be
       generated by running ``make doc''.

OPTIONS
       -display display_name
              Specifies the X11 display to use.

       -onroot
              Indicates the resulting images should appear on the root window.
              Note: rubberband zoom boxes don't work on the root window.

       -private
              Indicates that xfractint should allocate as many colors as
              possible in a private colormap.  Normally xfractint will use 128
              colors; this flag will let you use all 256, but may mess up the
              colors in other windows.  This is not necessary if you are using
              greater than 8-bit color.

       -slowdisplay
              Indicates that the machine has a slow display, so the scrolling
              window should be updated infrequently.  Use this flag if
              xfractint hangs on the title screen.

       -fast  Indicates that xfractint should use the faster drawing mode.
              Instead of drawing each pixel immediately, xfractint will save
              up pixels and then refresh the screen every 5 seconds.
              Depending on your X implementation, this may make drawing twice
              as fast.

       -disk  Use disk video.  That is, generate the picture in memory instead
              of to the screen.  The resulting picture can be saved as a gif
              file or printer file.

       -fixcolors num
              Specifies the number of colors to use.  This number must be a
              power of two.  Also, this number can't be greater than the
              number of colors available.  And, it can't be greater than 256.

       -geometry WxH[{+-X}{+-Y}]
              This sets the size and position of the image window.  The
              default is 800x600 pixels.

       -share Indicates that xfractint should share the current colormap.
              That is, xfractint uses as many colors as possible, but doesn't
              modify the colormap.  This is not necessary with greater than
              8-bit colors.

       -simple
              Uses simpler keyboard handling.  Use this flag if you wish to
              debug xfractint with gdb, or else you may get "(gdb)" repeated
              infinitely.

       xxx=yyy
              Sets variable xxx to value yyy.  See the online documentation
              for more details on the possible variables.

       @filename
              Loads parameters from the specified file.

       @filename/groupname
              Reads a named group of parameters from the specified file.

       -psviewer
              Allows the user to change the default postscript viewer.  The
              viewer is called when the user prints an image with ctrl-p. The
              default viewer is gv.

       -ctrlwindow
              Allows the user to have a separate control window similar to the
              ncurses interface.

       -font  Loads the selected font.

       -fontbold
              Loads the selected bold font.

BUGS
       There are many bugs and things that haven't been implemented.


       Boundary tracing sometimes locks up.

       Passes=2 has problems??

       Symmetry that is offset slightly doesn't always complete the image.

       The top of the help screens are messed up.  Starting your xterm with
              -geometry 80x25 fixes this.


       Xfractint uses a bizarre (to Unix users) user interface which was
       directly copied from the IBM version.  If you don't have the
       appropriate keys, use the following key mappings:
       IBM             Unix
       F1 to F10       Shift-1 to Shift-0
       INSERT          I
       DELETE          D
       PAGE_UP         U
       PAGE_DOWN       N
       LEFT_ARROW      H
       RIGHT_ARROW     L
       UP_ARROW        K
       DOWN_ARROW      J
       HOME            O
       END             E
       CTL_PLUS        }
       CTL_MINUS       {

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1991 - 2020 by The Stone Soup Group

AUTHORS
       The original Unix port was done by Ken Shirriff (shirriff@eng.sun.com).
       Xfractint was updated to Fractint 19.5 by Tim Wegner (twegner@fractint.org)
       under Linux 2.0. Please report updates for other platforms to Tim Wegner.
       The current official release is 20.0.
       The primary authors of Fractint 20.0 are:
       Timothy Wegner         twegner@fractint.org
       Jonathan Osuch         josuch@fractint.org
       George Martin          ggmartin@compuserve.com
       Robin Bussell          robin.b2@ukonline.co.uk

                                     20.04                        XFRACTINT(1)
