XGRAPH(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              XGRAPH(1)

NAME
       xgraph - Draw a graph on an X11 Display

SYNOPSIS
       xgraph [ options ] [ =WxH+X+Y ] [ -display host:display.screen ] [ file
       ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The xgraph program draws a graph on an X display given data read from
       either data files or from standard input if no files are specified.  It
       can display up to 64 independent data sets using different colors
       and/or line styles for each set.  It annotates the graph with a title,
       axis labels,  grid lines or tick marks, grid labels, and a legend.
       There are options to control the appearance of most components of the
       graph.

       The input format is similar to graph(1G) but differs slightly.  The
       data consists of a number of data sets.  Data sets are separated by a
       blank line.  A new data set is also assumed at the start of each input
       file.  A data set consists of an ordered list of points of the form
       "{directive} X Y".  The directive is either "draw" or "move" and can be
       omitted.  If the directive is "draw", a line will be drawn between the
       previous point and the current point (if a line graph is chosen).
       Specifying a "move" directive tells xgraph not to draw a line between
       the points.  If the directive is omitted, "draw" is assumed for all
       points in a data set except the first point where "move" is assumed.
       The "move" directive is used most often to allow discontinuous data in
       a data set.  The name of a data set can be specified by enclosing the
       name in double quotes on a line by itself in the body of the data set.
       The trailing double quote is optional.  Overall graphing options for
       the graph can be specified in data files by writing lines of the form
       "<option>: <value>".  The option names are the same as those used for
       specifying X resources (see below). The option and value must be
       separated by at bleast one space.  An example input file with three
       data sets is shown below.  Note that set three is not named, set two
       has discontinuous data, and the title of the graph is specified near
       the top of the file.

       TitleText: Sample Data
       0.5 7.8
       1.0 6.2
       "set one
       1.5 8.9

       "set two"
       -3.4 1.4e-3
       -2.0 1.9e-2
       move -1.0 2.0e-2
       -0.65 2.2e-4

       2.2 12.8
       2.4 -3.3
       2.6 -32.2
       2.8 -10.3

       After xgraph has read the data,  it will create a new window to
       graphically display the data.  The interface used to specify the size
       and location of this window depends on the window manager currently in
       use.  Refer to the reference manual of the window manager for details.

       Once the window has been opened,  all of the data sets will be
       displayed graphically (subject to the options explained below) with a
       legend in the upper right corner of the screen.  To zoom in on a
       portion of the graph,  depress a mouse button in the window and sweep
       out a region.  xgraph will then open a new window looking at just that
       portion of the graph.  xgraph also presents three control buttons in
       the upper left corner of each window: Close, Hardcopy, and About.
       Windows are closed by depressing a mouse button while the mouse cursor
       is inside the Close button.  Typing EOF (control-D) in a window also
       closes that window.  Depressing a mouse button while the mouse cursor
       is in the Hardcopy button causes a dialog to appear asking about
       hardcopy (printout) options.  These options are described below:

       Output Device
              Specifies the type of the output device (e.g. "HPGL",
              "Postscript", etc).  An output device is chosen by depressing
              the mouse inside its name.  The default values of other fields
              will change when you select a different output device.

       Disposition
              Specifies whether the output should go directly to a device or
              to a file.  Again,  the default values of other fields will
              change when you select a different disposition.

       File or Device Name
              If the disposition is "To Device",  this field specifies the
              device name.  A device name is the same as the name given for
              the -P command of lpr(1).  If the disposition is "To File",
              this field specifies the name of the output file.

       Maximum Dimension
              This specifies the maximum size of the plot on the hardcopy
              device in centimeters.  xgraph takes in account the aspect ratio
              of the plot on the screen and will scale the plot so that the
              longer side of the plot is no more than the value of this
              parameter.  If the device supports it,  the plot may also be
              rotated on the page based on the value of the maximum dimension.

       Include in Document
              If selected, this option causes xgraph to produce harcopy output
              that is suitable for inclusion in other larger documents.  As an
              example,  when this option is selected the Postscript output
              produced by xgraph will have a bounding box suitable for use
              with psfig.

       Title Font Family
              This field specifies the name of a font to use when drawing the
              graph title.  Suitable defaults are initially chosen for any
              given hardcopy device.  The value of this field is hardware
              specific -- refer to the device reference manual for details.

       Title Font Size
              This field specifies the desired size of the title fonts in
              points (1/72 of an inch).  If the device supports scalable
              fonts,  the font will be scaled to this size.

       Axis Font Family and Axis Font Size
              These fields are like Title Font Family and Title Font Size
              except they specify values for the font xgraph uses to draw axis
              labels, and legend descriptions.

       Control Buttons
              After specifing the parameters for the plot,  the "Ok" button
              causes xgraph to produce a hardcopy.  Pressing the "Cancel"
              button will abort the hardcopy operation.  Depressing the About
              button causes Xgraph to display a window containing the version
              of the program and an electronic mailing address for the author
              for comments and suggestions.

       xgraph accepts a large number of options most of which can be specified
       either on the command line, in the user's .Xdefaults or .Xresources
       file, or in the data files themselves.  A list of these options is
       given below.  The command line option is specified first with its X
       default or data file name (if any) in parenthesis afterward.  The
       format of the option in the X defaults file is "program.option: value"
       where program is the program name (xgraph) and the option name is the
       one specified below.  Option specifications in the data file are
       similar to the X defaults file specification except the program name is
       omitted.

       =WxH+X+Y (Geometry)
              Specifies the initial size and location of the xgraph window.
              -<digit> <name> These options specify the data set name for the
              corresponding data set.  The digit should be in the range '0' to
              '63'.  This name will be used in the legend.

       -bar (BarGraph)
              Specifies that vertical bars should be drawn from the data
              points to a base point which can be specified with -brb.
              Usually,  the -nl flag is used with this option.  The point
              itself is located at the center of the bar.

       -bb (BoundBox)
              Draw a bounding box around the data region.  This is very useful
              if you prefer to see tick marks rather than grid lines (see
              -tk).

       -bd <color> (Border)
              This specifies the border color of the xgraph window.

       -bg <color> (Background)
              Background color of the xgraph window.

       -brb <base> (BarBase)
              This specifies the base for a bar graph.  By default,  the base
              is zero.

       -brw <width> (BarWidth)
              This specifies the width of bars in a bar graph.  The amount is
              specified in the user's units.  By default,  a bar one pixel
              wide is drawn.

       -bw <size> (BorderSize)
              Border width (in pixels) of the xgraph window.

       -db (Debug)
              Causes xgraph to run in synchronous mode and prints out the
              values of all known defaults.

       -fg <color> (Foreground)
              Foreground color.  This color is used to draw all text and the
              normal grid lines in the window.

       -gw (GridSize)
              Width,  in pixels,  of normal grid lines.

       -gs (GridStyle)
              Line style pattern of normal grid lines.

       -lf <fontname> (LabelFont)
              Label font.  All axis labels and grid labels are drawn using
              this font.  A font name may be specified exactly (e.g. "9x15" or
              "-*-courier-bold-r-normal-*-140-*") or in an abbreviated form:
              <family>-<size>.  The family is the family name (like helvetica)
              and the size is the font size in points (like 12).  The default
              for this parameter is "helvetica-12".

       -lnx (LogX)
              Specifies a logarithmic X axis.  Grid labels represent powers of
              ten.

       -lny (LogY)
              Specifies a logarithmic Y axis.  Grid labels represent powers of
              ten.

       -lw width (LineWidth)
              Specifies the width of the data lines in pixels.  The default is
              zero.

       -lx <xl,xh> (XLowLimit, XHighLimit)
              This option limits the range of the X axis to the specified
              interval.  This (along with -ly) can be used to "zoom in" on a
              particularly interesting portion of a larger graph.

       -ly <yl,yh> (YLowLimit, YHighLimit)
              This option limits the range of the Y axis to the specified
              interval.

       -m (Markers)
              Mark each data point with a distinctive marker.  There are eight
              distinctive markers used by xgraph.  These markers are assigned
              uniquely to each different line style on black and white
              machines and varies with each color on color machines.

       -M (StyleMarkers)
              Similar to -m but markers are assigned uniquely to each eight
              consecutive data sets (this corresponds to each different line
              style on color machines).

       -nl (NoLines)
              Turn off drawing lines.  When used with -m, -M, -p, or -P this
              can be used to produce scatter plots.  When used with -bar,  it
              can be used to produce standard bar graphs.

       -p (PixelMarkers)
              Marks each data point with a small marker (pixel sized).  This
              is usually used with the -nl option for scatter plots.

       -P (LargePixels)
              Similar to -p but marks each pixel with a large dot.

       -rv (ReverseVideo)
              Reverse video.  On black and white displays,  this will invert
              the foreground and background colors.  The behaviour on color
              displays is undefined.

       -t <string> (TitleText)
              Title of the plot.  This string is centered at the top of the
              graph.

       -tf <fontname> (TitleFont)
              Title font.  This is the name of the font to use for the graph
              title.  A font name may be specified exactly (e.g. "9x15" or
              "-*-courier-bold-r-normal-*-140-*") or in an abbreviated form:
              <family>-<size>.  The family is the family name (like helvetica)
              and the size is the font size in points (like 12).  The default
              for this parameter is "helvetica-18".

       -tk (Ticks)
              This option causes xgraph to draw tick marks rather than full
              grid lines.  The -bb option is also useful when viewing graphs
              with tick marks only.

       -x <unitname> (XUnitText)
              This is the unit name for the X axis.  Its default is "X".

       -y <unitname> (YUnitText)
              This is the unit name for the Y axis.  Its default is "Y".

       -zg <color> (ZeroColor)
              This is the color used to draw the zero grid line.

       -zw <width> (ZeroWidth)
              This is the width of the zero grid line in pixels.

       Some options can only be specified in the X defaults file or in the
       data files.  These options are described below:

       <digit>.Color
              Specifies the color for a data set.  Eight independent colors
              can be specified.  Thus,  the digit should be between '0' and
              '7'.  If there are more than eight data sets,  the colors will
              repeat but with a new line style (see below).

       <digit>.Style
              Specifies the line style for a data set.  A string of ones and
              zeros specifies the pattern used for the line style.  Eight
              independent line styles can be specified.  Thus,  the digit
              should be between '0' and '7'.  If there are more than eight
              data sets,  these styles will be reused.  On color workstations,
              one line style is used for each of eight colors.  Thus,  64
              unique data sets can be displayed.

       Device The default output form presented in the hardcopy dialog (i.e.
              "Postscript", "HPGL", etc).

       Disposition
              The default setting of whether output goes directly to a device
              or to a file.  This must be one of the strings "To File" or "To
              Device".

       FileOrDev
              The default file name or device string in the hardcopy dialog.

       ZeroWidth
              Width,  in pixels,  of the zero grid line.

       ZeroStyle
              Line style pattern of the zero grid line.

AUTHOR
       David Harrison University of California

BUGS
       - Zooming in on bar graphs doesn't work right.
       - There is no way to produce hardcopy without running xgraph
       interactively.

                                December, 1989                       XGRAPH(1)
