XIDLE(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               XIDLE(1)

NAME
     xidle – run a program on X inactivity

SYNOPSIS
     xidle [-area pixels] [-delay secs] [-display display]
           [-nw | -ne | -sw | -se] [-program path] [-timeout secs]

DESCRIPTION
     xidle uses the XScreenSaver(3) extension to receive inactivity events
     when a timeout is specified, running a specific program after the elapsed
     time.  xidle will also run the program if it is sent a SIGUSR1 signal, or
     if the pointer sits in a corner of the screen for an amount of time.
     Signal and corner locking are always enabled, whether -timeout is
     specified or not.

     The options are as follows:

     -area pixels
             Specify the size, in pixels, of the corner area.  The default is
             2 pixels.

     -delay secs
             Specify the number of seconds the pointer has to be in the given
             position before running the program.  The default is 2 seconds.

     -display display
             This argument allows you to specify the server to connect to; see
             X(7).

     -nw | -ne | -sw | -se
             Set the position to one of northwest, northeast, southwest, or
             southeast, respectively.  If no position is specified, the
             default is northwest.

     -program path
             Specify the full pathname of the program to run on any of the
             aforementioned events.  Arguments to the program may also be
             specified, separated by whitespace.  If -program is not
             specified, the default is xlock(1).

     -timeout secs
             Set the timeout to the specified number of seconds.  If -timeout
             is not specified, xidle won't run any program on inactivity.

RESOURCES
     A few sets of application specific resources are supported and their
     values can be overriden by the command line options:

     area (class Area)
             Specify the size, in pixels, of the corner area; see the -area
             option.

     delay (class Delay)
             Specify the number of seconds to wait before running the program;
             see the -delay option.

     position (class Position)
             Set the position to one of: "nw", "ne", "sw", or "se"; see
             descriptions of the -nw, -ne, -sw, and -se options.

     program (class Program)
             Specify the full pathname of the program to run; see the -program
             option.

     timeout (class Timeout)
             Set the timeout to the specified number of seconds; see the
             -timeout option.

     The xidle program resource class is XIdle.

EXAMPLES
     Run xlock(1) using the flying bats mode if no activity is detected in 300
     seconds or the pointer sits in the southwest corner for more than 5
     seconds:

           $ xidle -delay 5 -sw -program "/usr/X11R6/bin/xlock -mode bat" \
                   -timeout 300

SEE ALSO
     xlock(1), XScreenSaver(3), X(7)

AUTHORS
     The xidle program was written by Federico Schwindt as an xautolock
     replacement.

BUGS
     The maximum number of arguments for -program, including the executable
     file, is currently set to 9.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             June 20, 2005            FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
