XLABY(6)                     FreeBSD Games Manual                     XLABY(6)

NAME
       xlaby - X Labyrinth, the aMAZEment

SYNOPSIS
       xlaby [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       X Labyrinth is a labyrinth game under X11 that is played directly with
       the mouse pointer: the walls block the pointer's movement on the
       screen.

       The goal of the game is to retrieve the four colored squares: to
       retrieve a square, it is sufficient to move the pointer over it, and it
       will disappear. However, to make things more infuriating, the squares
       have to be taken in the following order: red, yellow, green and blue.
       When the blue square is obtained, the game is won.

       Unless otherwise specified (see OPTIONS below), it is possible to quit
       the game at any moment by pressing Q or escape and to suspend the game
       by pressing Z or tab (same key to resume).

       If the maze window is suddenly obscured or changes size or position, it
       is possible to restore it to the correct position, size and visibility
       by pressing the space bar.

       It is possible to chose between three types of maze building algorithms
       (see OPTIONS below): the "tree", "flood" and "chain" maze.

       Exit code is 1 in case of error, 42 if the maze was successfully
       solved, and 0 otherwise. This can be useful in shell scripts for
       example to test the user's patience.

OPTIONS
       -b, --blind
              Run in blind mode. You don't get to see the walls of the maze,
              which makes it slightly harder.

       --build, --slowbuild
              Show the maze as it is being built. This is the best possible
              explanation of how the maze building algorithms work.

       -c, --chain
              Use the chain maze building algorithm: the maze is built by a
              self-avoiding random walk that starts from start every time it
              is blocked.

       --copying
              Display copying information and exit. See the file COPYING for
              more information.

       -d, --discover
              Run in semi-blind mode. The walls become visible only when you
              bump into them.

       -display name
              Run on the specified display. Overrides the DISPLAY environment
              variable.

       --grabkbd
              Grab the keyboard as long as the game is being played. This
              inhibits window manager hotkeys for example; frequently used in
              conjunction with --noquit

       -f, --flood
              Use the flood maze building algorithm: the maze is built by a
              self-avoiding random walk that starts from the last possible
              place every time it is blocked.

       -h, --help
              Print help information and exit.

       -i, --info
              Print game instructions and exit.

       --noplay
              Do not play the game (only display the generated maze).

       --noquit
              Forbid quitting the game (i.e. disables the Q and Z keys).
              Beware, this can be dangerous, especially when used in
              conjunction with --grabkbd.

       -p, --play
              Play the game. This option is compulsory (so that people won't
              accidentally start xlaby and then not know how to quit).

       --pos X Y
              Define the X and Y position of the maze window. If this
              parameter is omitted (or invalid values are given), window
              position will be chosen at random.

       -q, --quantum
              Run in quantum mode: every time the pointer changes cell, it has
              a certain probability of doing a quantum leap to another
              position in the maze. It is uncertain whether that actually
              makes things easier or more difficult.

       -s, --size number
              Set the maze size.  number is a number between 0 (very small)
              and 9 (huge). Note that the maze will always fit in the screen:
              if it is too large, the cell size will be reduced, and if that
              is still not sufficient, the maze dimensions will also be
              reduced. Note that xlaby will not run if the dimension of the
              root window is less than 40x40 or so :-(

       -t, --tree
              Use the tree maze generating algorithm: the maze is built by
              growing trees of walls from the edges and the center. It is very
              easy to solve, and also quite slow for large sizes.

       -v, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -w, --warranty
              Print absence of warranty and exit. See the file COPYING for
              more information.

       Note that multiple options cannot be concatenated, so
              xlaby -pt
       is not valid: use
              xlaby -p -t
       instead.

       Also note that standard X toolkit options are not recognized, as the
       program uses low-level X.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY
              The default display name.

RESOURCES
       None!

BUGS
       Option syntax is very non-standard. Having to use the --play option is
       a pain.

       X resources are not recognized. The colors cannot be specified. Only
       the position of the window can be given, and it does not interact
       properly with the window manager (only I do not trust WMs).

       There are probably cases which I overlooked and in which the window is
       not fully visible.  Unfortunately, as far as I know, the Xlib does not
       furnish any easy way of making absolutely sure a window is entirely
       visible.

       I guess it must look awful on a monochrome display.

       The tree maze is outrageously slow for large maze sizes.

       The game is about unplayable when run across a network as the mouse
       cursor may freeze for a long time on a cell boundary.

       There is no high score table. So the name of the first person who
       completes the size 9 chain maze in blind mode shall not go down in
       History (still, if you do, send me a mail).

       The blue square (randomly placed) may overlap another one.  Actually,
       this is more a feature than a bug.

       There is no way to change the number, colors, or position of the
       squares.

       The man page does not describe all the bugs (otherwise this section
       would be the longest by far).

AUTHORS
       Peter Horvai (peter.horvai@ens.fr) for the initial idea and chain maze
       algorithm.

       David Madore (david.madore@ens.fr) for most of the programming, the
       tree maze algorithm, and this man page.

       Special thanks to Mladen Dimitrov for the flood maze algorithm.

COPYING
       GNU public license. See the file COPYING for more information.

SEE ALSO
       maze(1)

                                  01 DEC 1997                         XLABY(6)
