Xlife(6)                     FreeBSD Games Manual                     Xlife(6)



NAME
       Xlife - Conway's Game of Life and other cellular automata, for X

SYNTAX
       xlife [-display disp] [-geometry string] [-l pattern-lib] [patternfile]

       lifeconv -ACDIMPRSpv? [-l pattern-lib] [-g n] file

DESCRIPTION
       brings up a single window in which the user may experiment
       interactively with cellular automata.  In its default mode, the program
       helps the user play with John Horton Conway's `Life' game.

       By default Xlife will run in a window taking up 4/5ths of your screen;
       you can use your window manager's Zoom or Resize feature to make it
       fill the whole screen.  This window is a viewport on a universe which
       is effectively unbounded (4.2 billion on a side).  Exactly the universe
       is a big torus.

       If an initial pattern is specified, it will be loaded on startup,
       before Xlife accepts commands.

       The -geometry option sets the Xlife window size and position as per
       usual for X applications.  The -display option sets the display to use;
       overrides the DISPLAY environment variable.  The -l option allows you
       to specify a pattern list library-file for name matching (default is
       `named-patterns').

       lifeconv is a format-conversion utility that translates between several
       different file formats for saving patterns.  It takes a pattern file
       argument and writes the conversion to standard output.  Conversion
       options are described in the LOAD FILE FORMAT section below.  The -g
       option permits you to evolve a loaded pattern for a given number of
       generations before saving.  The -l option is the same as above.  The -?
       option shows the usage summary.  The -v option outputs version
       information and exits.

       A utility table2r may convert table-format file with rules to r-format.
       This utility is written in awk.


COMMANDS
       Tab       Change state 1 cells of tentative pattern to active state.
                 It is useful for the creation of multirules pattern.

       !         Place random cells on the area of the universe on the screen.

       #         Change tentative-display mode.  By default the tentative-
                 pattern cells are displayed in normal state colors but with a
                 bounding box.  In the alternate (`wireframe') mode,
                 tentative-pattern cells are displayed as open rectangles in
                 the load-box color, but with no bounding box.  Wireframe mode
                 is useful when you are trying to match a loadscript to a
                 template active pattern.  It is also useful to compare two
                 patterns.

       $         Toggle running display of changed-cell count in per-
                 generation status line.  This count makes evolution slightly
                 slower.

       %         Set a percentage density for a randomly filled area.  Default
                 is 90%.

       ( [ {     Set a marker at current mouse position.  There are three
                 markers, one for each of these characters.

       ) ] }     Go to a marker (make it the current mouse position).  The
                 marker jumped to by each closing bracket is that set by the
                 corresponding open-bracket command.

       *,=       Toggle showing of speed in the number of generations per
                 second.

       +,=       Zoom the view in, magnifying the area around the mouse
                 cursor.  At zoom scale N, cells are two to the power N pixels
                 wide; the default cell size is scale 4, 16 pixels on a side.
                 Scale range is -10 to 6; at scales -1, -2 and -3 a single
                 pixel represents the logical or of a square sample of 4, 16,
                 and 64 pixels respectively.  The same effect has the movement
                 of mouse wheel up.

       <         Slow down evolution; increase delay  by 10 msec.

       >         Speed up evolution; decrease delay by 10 msec.

       -         Zoom the view out.  The same effect has the movement of mouse
                 wheel down.

       .         Center the universe view on the cursor (also Button 3 in
                 normal mode).

       /         Show quantity of cells of different kinds (colors).

       0         Center the median position of the live boxes.

       1,End     Move your view of the universe diagonally down and left.

       2,Down    Move your view of the universe down.

       3,PageDown
                 Move your view of the universe diagonally down and right.

       4,Left    Move your view of the universe left.

       5         Center the universe on the screen (based on average position
                 of the cells).

       6,Right   Move your view of the universe right.

       7,Home    Move your view of the universe diagonally up and left.

       8,Up      Move your view of the universe up.

       9,PageUp  Move your view of the universe diagonally up and right.

       ?         Help for xlife. This help may be used as a menu.

       @         Toggle 2-state automata history.  The history provided by
                 addition of 5 new states: the new cell state 2 means that
                 this cell is dead but was alive earlier, the new states 3 and
                 4 mean marked ON and OFF respectively (they may be changed to
                 each other so they will always remain marked), the new state
                 5 means `start ON' (becomes normal marked OFF cell, the state
                 3, when it dies), the new state 6 means `boundary OFF' (can
                 never turn ON).  The history may be also activated by
                 addition of `+' suffix to the string determinating rules.

       A         Add comments.

       B         Benchmark.  Enter number of generations and get time.  This
                 is also the fastest mode of the evolution.

       C         Clear the universe and discard current load script.  If there
                 is a boxed pattern, clear that instead.

       D         Discard current load script, including any tentative pattern,
                 but leave cell population intact.  (Helpful for using an old
                 pattern as a template to construct a load script).

       E         Rotate pseudocolor display modes for 2-state automaton.  In
                 display mode 0 (the default) all live cells are displayed
                 normally.  In display mode 1, new cells are shown in state 2
                 color.  In display mode 2, new cells are shown in state 2
                 color and dying ones in state 3 color.  In display mode 3,
                 dying cells are shown in state 3 color.  In display mode 3,
                 only cells changed from the previous generation are shown
                 (whether alive or dead).  Has no effect on N-state automata
                 or a tentative pattern.  It has also no effect when scale is
                 below 8:1.

       F         Load n-state rules from a given file (see the N-STATE SUPPORT
                 section below).  The file with rules may be given by absolute
                 path or just by name of the rules.  In the latter case all
                 subdirectories of the default directories will be searched.

       G         Generate tentative loaded or active pattern for one or more
                 steps.

       H         Toggle history record mode.  It is fast mode for any type of
                 automaton.  Use `h', These colors maybe changed by `X'
                 command.

       I         Force tentative pattern to be incorporated into main pattern
                 (automatic with g, h, o, l, and W commands).

       J         Jump to (x,y) location - make it the current mouse position.

       K         Discard comments associates with current pattern.  It also
                 clears #K line.

       L         Immediately  reload,  at  the cursor, a copy of the last
                 pattern loaded.

       M         Toggle display of a grid mesh overlaying the board.

       N         Change the file's internal name.

       O         Set current mouse position to be the origin of displayed
                 coordinates.

       P         Toggle the oscillation check mode.  The `g' command evolution
                 stops whenever it detects an oscilator in this mode.  This
                 command compares the starting pattern with the next patterns.
                 So it just checks whether a given pattern is an oscillator.

       Q         Quit

       R         Change the (2-state) rules in "stays alive on"/"born on" or
                 B0..8/S0..8 format.  The standard rules are 23/3 (alive on
                 two or three neighbors, birth on three neighbors for an empty
                 cell) or B3/S23 or S23/B3.  Its possible to use third
                 component which must be number between 3 and 256.  This
                 number sets age limit for the cells.  So /2/3 establishes
                 Brian's Brain rules and 345/2/4 - Star Wars'.  Alternatively,
                 enable a payoff matrix with the syntax <float>$<float> as
                 described in the PRISONER'S DILEMMA section.  It is possible
                 to use named rules.  The words "life", "seeds", "wireworld",
                 "lifehistory", "life+", and "brian" (for "brian's brain") are
                 recognized.

       S         Save the universe to a file adding extension `.l', along with
                 any comments created via `A'.  If there is currently a boxed
                 pattern, only the boxed pattern is saved.  It is possible to
                 select a format for the saved pattern.  See section MAIN LOAD
                 FILE FORMAT for the details.

       T         Set up the topology.  It is possible to select the
                 rectangular area with connected edges (anchor ring, tore) or
                 the rectangular plain.  The letter `Q' (quasiplain) means
                 very big torus - this is the default mode.  The letter `T'
                 means limited torus and the letter `P' means limited plain.
                 You should enter rectangle's width and height in the latter
                 cases.  The sizes of the rectangle will be rounded up to the
                 multiples of 8.  The size 0 means pseudoinfinity.  The
                 bounded area center is the initial origin of coordinates.
                 For example, `T16,0', `T8x8', `P0,64', `T4096,4096',
                 `T8X512', `P400*400', `Q' may be used to set up the topology.
                 It is possible to use previous setup.  If `T512,512' topology
                 is used then the set `64x' will set `T64*512'.  You may set
                 bordered plain with any form for the 2-state automata in the
                 history mode - you should draw borders with 6th color.

       U         Undo load of tentative pattern.

       V         View comments.

       W         Write (and flush from memory) script of loaded patterns into
                 a file with `.l' extension.  When loaded, this script
                 corresponds the earliest ancestor of current pattern that can
                 be reconstructed from loaded patterns (it does not include
                 changes made with mouse: flips, rotates, and moves).

       X         Load palette from a file with extension .colors (default).
                 This file consists of lines of text.  Any blank lines or
                 lines starting with `#' are ignored.  The specification of
                 the RGB colors for one or more states should use the lines
                 like these:
                 color=1    0    0  255  #0000ff
                 color=2  255    0    0
                 color=4  255  255    0  cyan
                 color=5  255    0  255

       Y         Yank out active pattern.  If tentative one exists then move
                 tentative pattern to the universe.

       Z         Restore default palette.

       ^         Set seed for random number generator.

       a         Add n-state transition - 6 digits (one old state, one for
                 each orthogonal neighborhood cell, and one new state) or
                 filled S(N*C)R form.  The new rule will be logged to the file
                 new.transitions (this requires write permission for the
                 directory with last loaded pattern).

       b         Display the xmin/xmax and ymin/ymax values of the live cells.

       c         Toggle showing of cell count.  Active cell count makes
                 evolution a bit slower.

       d         Duplicate tentative pattern.  Allows to create multiple
                 copies of the same object interactively.  Just press `d' and
                 then mouse button 1.

       f         Set evolution speed for `g' to high (no delay between
                 evolutions), the default.

       g         Toggle running the game.  Evolve/Stop.  Incorporate any
                 tentative pattern.  Then step through generations until
                 something exceptional happens, like still life or stability
                 or a key pressed or possible oscillation detection (the last
                 only if a `P' period check is set) or like an `i' timer
                 running out.

       h         (Hide) stop displaying after each generation, does not
                 iconify.  This mode maybe up to several times faster than
                 established by g-command.  However j-command with proper step
                 gives faster speed and more comfortable output.

       i         Set up timer.  Set the maximum number of generations to
                 perform for following `g' or other evolution commands.  A
                 zero value (the default) is interpreted as "never stop".
                 This command is very similar to 'G'.

       j         Set jump length (step) for the command `g'.  The value 0 or 1
                 means no jump.  The greater value means faster speed.

       k         Pick up color from the pattern's cell.

       l         Load (actually add) pattern to the universe from a file with
                 extension `.l' (default), `.life', `.rle', `.mcl', `.lif', or
                 `.cells'.  This lets you overlay multiple saved states to
                 make for some interesting effects.  Loaded pattern is
                 (default) initially considered tentative, and may be
                 manipulated in various ways before incorporating it into main
                 pattern. (To indicate this, it's surrounded by a bounding
                 box.)  Clear the universe if you want to start from scratch.
                 It is possible either to select pattern at the widget list
                 directly or to enter pattern name - this will start the
                 search for the requested pattern at current and library
                 directories.  There are two modes to load patterns.  The
                 first mode is direct.  It directly place pattern to the
                 active pattern space. Directly loaded pattern isn't added to
                 the save script.  The second mode is tentative.  It allows
                 pattern manipulations before its addition to the pattern
                 space.

       m         Set evolution speed for `g' to medium (250 msec delay).

       n         Goto next object.  This command allows to find far ships,
                 etc.

       o         Incorporate any tentative pattern, then forward one
                 generation.

       p         Toggle running display of mouse position.  Position is only
                 for reference during a session, and does not effect
                 coordinates of saved points.

       r         Redraw the screen.

       s         Set evolution speed for `g' to slow speed (500 msec delay).

       t         Test n-state transition.  Enter 5 digits (start state and 4
                 neighbors states), get result state.

       u         Undo manipulations of the tentative pattern, but not the load
                 (tentative pattern is restored to the original position and
                 indentation).

       v         View internal variable values and other information.

       x         Change pivot position of the tentative points to the current
                 position of the mouse.


COMMANDS IN SHIFT MODE
       PageUp, PageDown, Home, End, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and cursor keys
       move the universe faster.


COMMANDS FOR WIDGET
       PageUp, PageDown, Home, and End keys scroll the list.  Esc key makes
       exit from the widget.  Shift-PageUp key sets upper directory.  Left and
       Right cursor keys or Tab move the active position to the previous/next
       widget item.  Up and Down cursor keys move the active position within
       the list.  Printable symbols maybe used to type filename.  Return key
       is used to activate the widget item.  Backspace and Delete keys remove
       last inputted character.


MOUSE WHEEL
       controls vertical scrolling of the universel. It also scrolls the list
       with the widget.


BUTTON BINDINGS IN NORMAL MODE
       1         Activate a cell at the cursor, giving it the currently
                 selected state.  In a 2-state automaton cells are always
                 activated with state 1.  In an N-state automaton, you pick
                 your current color as described in N-STATE SUPPORT below.

       2         Delete a cell at the cursor (force it to state 0).  To clear
                 a region select it by mouse and press C.

       3         Erase any previous selection box.  If you drag the cursor
                 with button 3 held down, then release it, the rectangle
                 between the press and release points is boxed and made
                 tentative (as though it had just been loaded and not yet
                 incorporated).  The tentative pattern can then be moved,
                 flipped, and rotated before re-incorporating it.  If you've
                 just clicked at a tile then this tile becomes the center of
                 the screen.


BUTTON BINDINGS WITH TENTATIVE PATTERN LOADED
       1         Move pattern to current position.

       2         Flip pattern about its x-axis.

       3         Rotate pattern clockwise about its origin.


BUTTON BINDINGS WITH STATE WINDOW
       1         Select state.

       2         Set color for the state.





WIDGET OPTIONS
   Load pattern and Load pattern part modes
       The radio buttons choose direct or tentative mode.  The direct mode
       sets to load pattern directly into the active space.  This removes
       previous pattern. The tentative mode (default) sets to load pattern
       into tentative space.  This allows to tranform a pattern before the
       addition to the active pattern.


   Save pattern mode
       The radio buttons allow to specify one of A D I M P R S.  For details
       on the A D I M P R formats, see the LOAD FILE FORMAT section below; `S'
       format is a sequence of P blocks, one for each blob in the picture,
       with appropriate offsets for each.


   Save script mode
       Two radio buttons are for collected or plain format. The plain format
       is just a list of inclusions.  The collected one resolves all
       inclusions in the saved file.  See the PATTERN INCLUSION section below
       for more details.


MAIN LOAD FILE FORMAT
       A .l image file is an ordinary text file consisting of lines terminated
       by the newline character.  It is interpreted as one or more image
       sections separated by section lines beginning with `#'.  Lines led by
       `##' are considered as hidden comments and ignored.

       Some format directives may use the offsets which are useful with direct
       load mode and with I-format.  These offsets are ignored in the
       tentative load mode.

       Each image section is interpreted according to the format letter
       following its section line #.  The format letters are:


   A - Absolute
       Each following line is interpreted as an absolute (x,y) coordinate pair
       for a cell to be put in state 1 (default).  This format is deprecated
       and should not be used for new patterns.  However it is default - it is
       used in absence of any format directive.  The -A option of lifeconv
       emits it.


   B name and E - Pattern blocks
       Patterns enclosed by #B <name> and #E lines are skipped when loading a
       whole file, but may be accessed by adding :<name> to the file name.
       They are useful for bundling related patterns into the same file.
       Access is by sequentially skipping lines not in the block, so excessive
       numbers of blocks in the same file may slow down the loading process.
       Pattern blocks may not be nested.

       Relative image sections (D, I, M, P, ...) are normally drawn with 0,0
       at the center of the universe.  This may be changed by including a pair
       of whitespace-separated integers after the format character.  If this
       is done, these will be interpreted as a pair of x and y offsets, and
       the image section will be drawn with its upper left corner displaced by
       those offsets.

       A leading image section with no header line is treated as though it had
       a `#A' header.  Thus, version 1.00 image files will load properly.


   C - Comment
       Lines beginning with "C" are comments that the user may have
       automatically written to the save file, and which may be viewed from
       within Xlife.


   D [xoff [yoff]] - Relative to the previous coordinate pair
       Each following line is interpreted as a (x,y) coordinate pair relative
       to the previous one, for a non-empty cell.  The first is relative to
       the default (0,0) or if they are given to (xoff, yoff).  The -D option
       of lifeconv emits it.


   I [xoff [yoff [rotate [flip [delay]]]]] - include
       A #I line should have whitespace-separated fields after the #I
       consisting of a pattern name and five optional integer parameters (x, y
       offsets, rotation, flip, and delay as defined in section on inclusion,
       below).  The named pattern is loaded as if it had been included in the
       image at this point with the given transformation applied.  The
       offsets, if present, displace the load point of the pattern relative to
       the center of the pattern space.  The include facility is useful for
       assembling `sampler' collections of interesting patterns, as well as
       maintaining structured representations of complex patterns.  See also
       PATTERN INCLUSION and STRUCTURED PATTERN EDITING sections.


   K outcome string - special comment
       This string should define the results of the evolution of the pattern.


   M [xsize, ysize] [xoff [yoff]] - run-length encoding with
       optional sizes and offsets.  The sizes are ignored by the current
       version of xlife.  Only the characters b, $, !, the letters from A to X
       and from o to y, and the digits 0 until 9 should appear except
       whitechars which are ignored.  The data is ordered a row at a time from
       top to bottom, and each row is ordered left to right.  A $ represents
       the end of each row and an optional ! represents the end of the
       pattern.  For two-state rules, a b represents an off cell, and an o
       represents an on cell.  For rules with more than two states, a .
       represents a zero state; states 1..24 are represented by A..X; states
       25..48 by pA..pX; states 49..72 by qA..qX; 241..255 by yA..yO.  The
       pattern reader is flexible and will permit b and . interchangeably and
       o and A interchangeably.  Any of state character can be led ahead by a
       positive integer, which then is interpretated as the repettion of that
       character.  Any illegal character will be interpretated as whitechar
       and ignored.  The -M option of lifeconv emits this format.


   N - Name
       This line contains the internal name of the pattern (which may differ
       from the the name of the file.


   O - Owner
       This line contains information on the person who wrote the file, it is
       written in the form: id "name"@machine date, for example.

        #0 jb7m "Jon C. R. Bennett"@sushi.andrew.cmu.edu Fri Jan 12 18:25:54
       1990

       A 0 (zero) may be used instead of O (xlife generates it during S
       command execution).

       Note: This timestamp line has changed format at least three times since
       Xlife 1.0.  It is probably not wise to try and parse these unless you
       see known format version ID (on the first line of the file).


   P [xoff [yoff]] - Picture with optional offset coordinate pair.
       Each line in the section is interpreted as a scan line of a relative
       image.  Each * character turns the corresponding cell on.  All other
       characters leave the corresponding cell off.  For multi-state automata,
       characters may be letters, @, ~, and digits, with '*' corresponding to
       1.   The -P option of lifeconv emits this format.



   R [xoff [yoff]] - Relative with optional offsets
       Each following line is interpreted as a (x,y) coordinate pair relative
       to the center of the pattern space.  These relative image sections are
       normally drawn with 0,0 on the center of the pattern space.  This may
       be changed by including a pair of whitespace-separated integers after
       the format character.  If this is done, these will be interpreted as a
       pair of x and y offsets, and the image section will be drawn with its
       upper left corner displaced from the cursor position by those offsets.
       The -R option of lifeconv emits this format.



   T survivedigits/borndigits - Set new transition rules
       This line defines a new set of 2-state rules.  survivedigits and
       borndigits are each a sublist of digits out of the range 0 up to 8,
       counting the number of neighbours when the central cell in the
       neighbourhood survives/is born to state ON.  For example the default
       and classical rules for Conway's Game of Life are: #T 23/3.  You may
       use also named rules like with `R' command: `wireworld', `seeds',
       `life', `lifehistory' or `life+', `brian'.  It is possible to add
       topology after `:'.  For example, `life+:T200,200' means Life with
       History rules at the torus grid.  You may also use rules definition in
       `B0...8/S0...8' notation, where the digits after B specify the counts
       of live neighbors necessary for a cell to be born in the next
       generation, and the digits after S specify the counts of live neighbors
       necessary for a cell to survive to the next generation.


   U filename - Use
       Format is #U followed by a filename. It loads a rule-set file just as
       if the user had typed in the name.  If the named file is already
       loaded, it will not be reloaded.  It is possible to add topology after
       `:' like with `#T' directive.


   X filename - palette for the piXels
       It loads a palette-set file with given name.

       More section formats may be added in the future.


PATTERN INCLUSION
       The #I command, as described above, has the following format:

            #I <pattern> <x> <y> <rotate> <flip> <delay>

       Any prefix of fields that includes a pattern name is acceptable, with
       the natural defaults (no delay, no flip, no rotate, no y or x offset).

       In the above

       <pattern>           is a pattern name (described below);

       <x>,<y>             are integers representing horizontal and vertical
                           offsets; and

       <rotate>            is an integer that specifies the number of times
                           the pattern is rotated 90 degrees clockwise around
                           the origin.  Any rotation value (positive or
                           negative) is acceptable, as all are taken mod 4
                           (true mod, not "%").

       <flip>              is a multiplier (1 or -1) for the y coordinate that
                           specifies a flip about the x-axis.  Other integers
                           are accepted and silently mapped  to 1.

       <delay>             is an integer specifying the number of generations
                           to perform before loading the pattern (negative
                           values have same effect as 0).

                           Note that all of the transformations applied to an
                           included pattern are taken relative to the pattern
                           that includes it.  Thus, loading an assemblage of
                           included patterns works as one would expect.

                           A pattern name takes one of the following three
                           forms:

       <file>              include whole file <file> (like old format)

       <file>:<name>       include pattern block <name> in <file>

       :<name>             include pattern block <name> in current file

                           (Note that <file>: is not allowed.)




       A file may also include literal or pattern blocks.  A pattern block is
       a pattern given in any acceptable format between a line containing "#B
       <name>" and another line containing "#E".  Pattern blocks are skipped
       when including a whole file.

       (Note that pattern blocks cannot be nested.)


       The -I and -C options of lifeconv may be useful for collecting
       inclusions from multiple files into a single self-contained file.

       When you save a pattern in `I' mode, the program automatically does a
       pattern analysis to detect `blobs' (completely connected regions of
       live cells).  Repeated blobs are recognized, even if they are rotated
       or reflected.  If there is only one blob, the save output is identical
       to #P format.  Otherwise the output is a list of blobs followed by #I
       lines that will recreate the saved pattern.  This has two advantages:
       duplicate blobs are only written once, and common pattern elements are
       recognized and named (so the save file is also a census).

       The elements container for this recognition is the file "named-
       patterns" (or file selected by -l option at startup).  It specifies the
       name of a file containing the names of patterns to be recognized and
       named when doing I-format (structured) saves.  A leading slash
       distinguishes an absolute pathname; otherwise the relative name is
       searched for beneath the LIFEPATH or default directories (as for a
       pattern file).  Each line of this file contains up to three fields; a
       pattern name, a pattern file or file:block reference (as for the `l'
       command) and a cycle length.  When the cycle length is 0, only one
       recognition template is generated from each entry; when it is nonzero,
       one is generated for each step in the cycle (with steps after 0
       distinguished by a number suffix on the name).  Thus, for example, an
       entry that reads

            glider    ss:glider 2

       Will generate two recognition templates, one named `glider' and another
       named `glider2'.  The cycle length is optional and defaults to 0; the
       second field is optional and defaults to the value of the first.
       Comments (led by #) and blank lines are ignored.  This name container
       is only activated for the life rules.

       The file "named-patterns" default content referes to the file "match.l"
       which contains named patterns list in the #B/#E-format.



N-STATE SUPPORT
       Xlife includes support for automata with up to 64 states using the
       (von-Neumann-style) 4-cell rotationally symmetric neighborhood
       (rotate4, default), rotate4reflect or absence of symmetry; to invoke
       it, load a rule-set file using the `F' command.  It is also possible to
       use the (Moore-style) 8-cell rotationally symmetric neighborhood for
       the special cases: WireWorld and 3-components (generations) rules with
       up to 256 states.  The Moore style maybe also used in the general case
       but only up to 11 states.  These two cases are established by `#T' form
       in a pattern file or by direct manual input after the `R' command (use
       recognized words or a form like 345/2/4).  Many interesting automata
       including the Wireworld-4 construct and the UCC described in E. F.
       Codd's 1968 ACM monograph can be implemented by specifying appropriate
       transition functions.

       Don't rotate or flip pattern with non-symmetrical rules!

       When Xlife is used in this mode, the program uses color to indicate
       states.  Pattern picture files may contain digits to specify the states
       of picture cells; `*' is interpreted as 1.  Color-picker radio buttons
       are set up at the right-hand side of the input window; by clicking your
       cursor on a button, you set button 1 to paint with that color.  You can
       return to 2-state mode with the `R' command.

       Refer to the rule-set file `codd.r' for an example of transition
       definition syntax.  Each line contains either a directive or 6 digits
       or letters arranged as

       <old-state><neighbor><neighbor><neighbor><neighbor><new-state>

       For <old-state> or <neighbor> you may also specify a state set; digits
       or letters enclosed in square brackets.  This wild-cards the transition
       in the obvious way.  You should use letters instead numbers for states
       above 9, so use A instead 10, B instead 11, and so on.  The letter `a'
       means 36, `b' - 37, etc.  The sign `@' means 62, `~' - 63.  Comments
       (begun with `#') are permitted in the file.

       You can arrange for rulesets to be loaded automatically by putting a
       `#U' directive in a pattern file.  When you save a pattern, a #U is
       automatically generated into the save file giving the name of the
       current ruleset.

       The directive

            states <maxstates>

       tells the code what the automaton's count of cell states is.

       Rule tables usually don't specify every possible set of inputs.  For
       those not listed, the central cell remains unchanged if `passive'
       declaration is not used.

       The presence of `passive' declaration will require manual input of
       missed transition. So if, while evolving a pattern, the code finds a
       cell and neighborhood in a state for which no transition has been
       specified, the program queries the user for a new state, and the tuple
       implied is added to the database. A line of the form

               passive <maxstate>

       instructs the code that all combinations of cell and neighbor states up
       to and including <maxstate> for which there is no explicit rule leave
       the cell status unchanged.  A `passive' declaration in a rules file can
       be partially overridden by later, explicit transition rules.  The form
       `passive 0' is a way to say to use manual input for every missed
       transition.

       The directive

            nosymmetries

       sets absence of symmetry in rules.  It may be used with Langton Ants,
       Perrier loops, etc.


       The directive

               rotate4reflect

       sets this type of symmetry.  It may be used with Bank I, II, III, IV,
       etc.

       The directive

               Moore

       sets this neighborhood.  It may be used with Bank III, etc.  The
       default symmetry is `rotate8'.  This directive should precede state or
       symmetry declaration.

       You can also specify rules depending on a neighbor count.  A rule line
       of the form

            S(N*C)R

       with S, N, C, and R being digits, is interpreted to mean that if a cell
       has state S and exactly C neighbors of state N, the result state is R.
       For an example of usage, see the Wireworld-4 rules file.  This doesn't
       works with `nosymmetries' or with `Moore'.

       Rules are checked in the order given in the file - the first rule that
       matches is applied.  If you want (`passive' should be set in this
       case), you can write rules in the form of general cases and exceptions,
       as long as the exceptions appear first in the file.

       When the evolution function encounters a neighborhood for which there
       is no defined transition, it stops and boxes that neighborhood.  You
       are prompted for a result state.  Once you've entered it, the evolution
       function continues and the new transition rule is appended to a new-
       transitions file in the current directory.  This feature can't be
       activated because all transitions are defined.


PRISONER'S DILEMMA MODELS
       In the June 1995 Scientific American, the article "The Arithmetic of
       Mutual" Help" (by Martin A. Nowak, Robert M. May and Karl Sigmund)
       describes an interesting class of cellular automata that model iterated
       Prisoner's Dilemma situations.  These games can illustrate stable and
       winning cooperate/defect strategies for situations in which each agent
       repeatedly interacts with near neighbors.  In the same issue, Alun L.
       Lloyd's "Mathematical Games" column goes into more detail about these
       simulations.

       These are two-state automata.  In Alun's implementation one state
       always cooperates, one always defects (higher states could model Tit-
       for-Tat, Generous Tit-for-Tat, or Pavlov).  There is a payoff matrix of
       the following form:


                          ┌──────────┬────────────────────┐
                          │Payoff    │ Cooperate   Defect │
                          ├──────────┼────────────────────┤
                          │Cooperate │     1         a    │
                          │Defect    │     b         0    │
                          └──────────┴────────────────────┘
       To make the game interesting, b must be greater than 1.  (Lloyd's
       simulation only considers the case a = 0.)  On each round, each cell
       first plays the game with each of its neighbors in turn.  Then, each
       cell looks at the payoffs of its neighbors (and its own payoff) and
       switches to the strategy with the highest payoff).

       To set up such a game, use the `R' command in the following form:

            R<b>$<a>

       You may also use #T form in the pattern file.

       For example, to set up Lloyd's simulation, do `R1.85$0'.  In these
       simulations, use the following mapping between states and strategies:

       0
       Quiescent.

       1
       Live, always cooperates.

       2
       Live, always defects.

       3
       A transition, from cooperator to defector.  It behaves like defector.

       4
       A transition, from defector to cooperator.  It behaves like cooperator.

       Interesting b values are in the range (1, 2]; Lloyd likes 1.85.
       Different values produce wide ranges of different behaviors, including
       stable end states, statistical equilibria and cycles with large swings.
       Initial clustering of cooperators is also important; a single
       cooperator will always be snuffed by surrounding defectors, but a block
       of 4 or more may be able to defend themselves and earn a high enough
       relative payoff to convert neighbors.

       Lloyd included illustrations of a 1.85 game starting with one defector
       in a sea of cooperators.  The resulting patterns look like Persian
       carpets or Koch snowflake curves.


OTHER FEATURES OF RULE FILES AND EDITING
       The directive

               debug NUMBER

       is ignored.

       Transition rules entered interactively are appended (commented with
       user ID and timestamp) to the file new.transitions in the current
       directory.  This file can later be selectively merged with your
       original ruleset using a text editor.


STRUCTURED PATTERN EDITING
       Almost all large Life patterns that exhibit well-defined behavior (such
       as the breeder) are in fact composed of smaller patterns that combine
       in a predictable way.  Storing such patterns as assemblies of
       subpatterns can greatly aid future experimentation as well as synthesis
       of still more complex patterns.  Here we'll explain the structured-
       editing features, and give several examples of their use.


   Overview of structured editing
       Structured editing should cut down on the number of Life patterns
       stored as atomic images (i.e. raw bitmaps or point sets).  Once a
       glider gun, for example, has been defined, there should be no need to
       duplicate the pattern.  It should instead be possible to refer to it by
       name, as a known mechanism with well-established properties.  In fact,
       the glider gun itself exhibits some structure, as it is composed of two
       period 30 shuttles that interact to produce gliders.  Ultimately, the
       "interesting" part of the period 30 shuttle does not seem to have any
       structure, and hence must be represented a picture, such as the
       following:

                      ..*...
                      .*.*..
                      *...**
                      *...**
                      *...**
                      .*.*..
                      ..*...

       Unfortunately, it is not enough to merely place such a pattern at the
       correct coordinates.  For example, we can rotate this pattern by
       multiples of 90 degrees without essentially changing its behavior.
       While this particular pattern has mirror symmetry about its horizontal
       dividing line, other patterns may not, so we may additionally wish to
       take the mirror image of a pattern.  It would be undesirable to
       maintain eight separate bitmaps for what is really the same pattern, so
       we would like a facility to perform basic geometric transformations on
       patterns to be included in more complex ones.

       A more subtle issue is that of timing.  When placed between appropriate
       stabilizing objects (such as eaters or blocks) the above pattern will
       oscillate with a period of 30.  Hence, when defining a complex pattern,
       we may need to insist (in addition to any geometric transformations)
       that it be placed within the larger pattern at a particular phase in
       its cycle.

       By controlling position, rotation, flip, and phase shift, we may
       combine patterns in any desired manner.  The #I extensions to Xlife
       makes this possible, and the structured editing features make it
       (relatively) convenient.

       Ideally, the new editing features will make it possible to use the #I
       format without ever looking at the description file.  The advanced Life
       experimenter may, however, wish to modify #I lines with a text editor
       in order to achieve very specific effects (still more advanced CAD
       tools would eliminate this need).

       To attempt the following examples, you should be running Xlife.  You
       must have a copy of the file "ex.l", supplied with the release, in
       either the directory in which you start up Xlife, or in the pattern
       directory.

       Before trying any of the examples, type `C' to clear the workspace, if
       it is not already clear.


   Experimenting with gun collisions.
       Type `l' to load in a pattern.  Backspace over the default directory,
       if there is one (probably the pattern library) and type "ex:gun".  This
       will load the pattern "gun" from the file "ex.l" in either the pattern
       library or current directory.  The pattern consists of a glider gun
       before it has produced any gliders.

       Get a feel for the movement, flip, and rotation operations performed
       with the mouse buttons.  All operations are performed with respect to
       the origin of the pattern, which is indicated by a single dot at the
       smallest scales and becomes an X shape at the larger scales (zoom in on
       it to see this).

       In order to place patterns such as glider guns, it is especially
       important to know the direction of the outgoing glider stream.  You may
       preview this by generating the loaded pattern with the `G' command
       (*not* the `g' command).  Initially, you will want to generate enough
       steps to see the stream, so type 100 when prompted for the number of
       steps.  It is better to use `I' command before `G' with first pattern.
       The negative phase shifts otherwise may be produced by `W' command.
       The negative shifts should be edited manually.

       Note that the mouse buttons continue to perform transformations on the
       generated pattern.  Place the pattern as desired.  It will be
       incorporated into the main universe when any of the commands g, h, o,
       l, or W are typed.  To incorporate it without doing anything else, use
       `I'.

       Now, load another glider gun in the same manner.  Place the two guns in
       such a way that their outgoing gliders collide.  Not all collisions are
       well behaved, and you may wish to produce a specific collision, such as
       a clean annihilation of gliders.  The references mentioned at the top,
       and some of the patterns supplied with Xlife, are a good source of
       interesting collisions.  Use `G' on the second glider gun to control
       the phase difference between the colliding gliders.

       Type `g' to let the pattern go and see what happens.  If the collision
       was chosen randomly, there is a good chance that it will merely break
       down into chaos.  Some collisions, however, produce interesting
       effects.

       Save your gun collision into a file using the `W' command.  Now type
       `C' and use `l' to load it back in.  Note that the result is not what
       you would expect from saving the current pattern.  That is, even if the
       pattern did break down into chaos, the pattern written by `W'
       corresponds to the collision as you set it up.  If you type `g' then
       you should witness the same sequence of events as before.

       The file written by `W' is not a raw pattern image, but rather a "load
       script."  That is, it gives Xlife enough information to reconstruct
       your placement of loaded patterns.  It does not contain any changes
       made by drawing or erasing cells with the mouse, but such changes
       deviate from the philosophy of pattern structuring and should be
       avoided except when drawing atomic patterns.  (In any case, the `S'
       command is provided for saving the whole image in an unstructured way.)


   Setting up a glider mirror.
       It is possible to reflect a stream of gliders as if by a mirror, using
       a period 30 shuttle with eaters at the ends.  The mirror will not work
       unless the stream (from a period 30 gun) and the mirror are perfectly
       positioned and in phase.  In general, this may involve some simple yet
       tedious calculation or else a still more tedious process of trial and
       error.  In the following, however, we will see how to use the editing
       features to produce the desired effect reasonably simply.

       Load in ex:gun, as before, and let it generate (with `G') until the
       outgoing stream contains 20 or so gliders.  This is the stream we will
       be reflecting.

       Now load in ex:mircollision.  This pattern consists of a glider poised
       to be reflected from a mirror.  Use rotates, flips, and `G' (one step
       at a time) until the the mirror glider is an exact copy of the glider
       furthest from the gun.  Use the mouse to move the loaded pattern so
       that these two gliders occupy exactly the same five cells.  It may help
       to zoom in on the pattern.

       Now, simply type `g' and let the pattern go.  It you performed the
       above steps correctly, you should see a stream of gliders bouncing off
       the mirror.  Add more mirrors, if desired, and save the result into a
       file using `W'


   Details of the structured save format
       Skip the following if you are not interested in familiarizing yourself
       with the details of the #I format.

       Take a look at the file generated by `W' in the above.  It consists of
       a sequence of #I lines, the first containing ex:gun, and the others
       containing ex:mircollision.  The latter lines each have a delay value
       as their final parameter, and these parameters will most likely be in
       the hundreds, as this is the number of steps it takes to make the
       stream of gliders used as a reference.

       Note that the mirror is a period 30 oscillator, so we may replace all
       of these numbers by their values mod 30 without affecting the crucial
       phase difference between the mirror(s) and the gun.  Do this, and look
       at the pattern in Xlife.  Note that it takes less time to load, and
       that the loaded pattern does not contain a long stream of gliders.
       Type `g' to verify that the mirrors still work (if not, make sure you
       computed mod correctly).

       The resulting pattern will contain spurious gliders.  These are the
       gliders that came with the pattern ex:mircollision.  Fortunately,
       ex:mircollision contains ex:mirror with no moves, flips,or rotations
       applied.  Hence, by replacing all instances of ex:mircollision by
       ex:mirror in your file, you will obtain the same pattern as before, but
       without the spurious gliders.

       This illustrates the notion of including extra parts in a pattern for
       reference and eliminating them in the final edit.  Use of this
       technique can substantially reduce the need for explicit calculation
       when constructing complex patterns.


   Constructing a Structured Pattern from a Template.
       Having familiarized yourself with the use of load scripts, you may wish
       to construct structured versions of old patterns you made in the
       previous version of Xlife.  This can be done in a bottom-up fashion by
       loading in the raw image and building up subpatterns using the initial
       image as a reference.  You first need to identify the the atomic
       subpatterns in the old pattern.  For example, in the mirror of the
       previous example, the atomic patterns are two eaters and the period 30
       oscillator (shown earlier in this document).

       The template pattern should not be written into the load script, and
       this may be prevented by using the `D' command after this pattern has
       been incorporated into the universe.  The effects of having the
       template written to the load script are non-fatal, and may be corrected
       with a text editor.  However, it is best to get in the habit of typing
       `I' (include pattern),

       The mirror in "ex.l" is already given in a structured way, but it will
       suffice to illustrate the technique.  To place the template, load
       ex:mirror, and type and the oscillator (ex:oscil) and place each
       pattern over the corresponding part of the old image.  Use `W' to write
       the load script.

       If the original mirror had been stored as a bitmap then you would have
       transformed a seemingly arbitrary set of points into a structured
       pattern.  Patterns defined in this way can later be combined into more
       complex patterns, and at any level, the pattern can be seen to be a
       logical combination of well-understood components rather than an
       amorphous conglomeration of Life cells.


   Using the `lifeconv' utility.
       One seeming disadvantage of structuring patterns with the `W' command
       is that a pattern that used to reside in a single file may now be
       spread over several files.  There may be too many to easily keep track
       of them.  For the user who wishes only to use #I as a means of
       collecting a structured pattern into a single file, however, the -I and
       -C options of `lifeconv' utility are provided.

       The lifeconv utility takes a pattern name as an argument (with the same
       default directories as in the `l' command).  It writes a file to
       standard output that contains an equivalent version of the pattern in a
       different format.  Usage is:

                     lifeconv pattern [-ACDIMPRSp] >destination

       where destination is any valid file name (a .l extension is
       recommended).  The option controls the format in which the destination
       file is written.  These formats are identical to those described under
       the `S' (save) command, except for C.

       Either -C or -I will suffice to convert a pattern with inclusions into
       a single-file pattern with all the inclusions resolved.  The difference
       between them is that -I does an automatic scene analysis of the file
       after merging all inclusions into one big picture, while -C just
       resolves the inclusions textually.  The one advantage of the latter
       method is that it preserves any pattern name and structure information
       present in the input file: -I renames all the pattern fragments.

       Try these options on any of the files written by `W' in examples 1, 2,
       and 3.

       Old files in #P format may not have same y coordinate when read by the
       new release.  For best results, use "lifeconv -p name ..." on old
       files.

       This utility may also be used for conversion from other formats (MCL,
       LIF, ...) to native XLife format.



ENVIRONMENT
       The program has a compiled-in default for its global pattern directory,
       LIFEDIR (normally /usr/share/xlife).

       If the the variable LIFEPATH is set to a colon-separated list of
       directories, these directories (and their first-level subdirectories)
       will be searched for pattern-file names and rulesets.  The default list
       includes "." and LIFEDIR; that is, pattern files are searched for, by
       default, below the current directory and below the global pattern
       directory.

       The recommended way to organize your pattern directories is to have one
       subdirectory per automaton.  The distribution provides the following:

       life
       contains an extensive library of interesting Life patterns.

       life-like
       contains a library of interesting similar to Life patterns (seeds, life
       without death, highlife replicator, brian's brain, starwars, ...).

       codd
       contains transition rules and several demos.

       devore
       variation of the Codd self-replicating computer.

       HPP
       is the earliest lattice gas model.

       perrier
       this loop is a self-reproducing calculator.

       wireworld
       contains transition rules and a test pattern for the Wireworld
       automaton as described in the January 1990 issue of Scientific American
       (Computer Recreations, p. 146).

       wireworld-4
       contains transition rules and test patterns for the Wireworld-4
       automata.  Wireworld-4 is a variant of classical Wireworld at the von-
       Neumann-style rotationally symmetric neighborhood.

       byl, chou-reggia
       contain small n-state replicators.

       langton
       contains famous loop and ant(s).

       evoloop, sexyloop, SDSR
       contain evolutionary replicators.

       pd
       contains patterns for Lloyd's variant of Prisoner's Dilemma games.

       These will be copied under LIFEDIR by a normal installation.  The
       distribution may contain additional directories with more patterns.


EXPLORATION
       Here are some 2-state rules to experiment with:

       23/3                the default, of course; Conway's "Life" rules.

       1234/3              patterns "crystallize"

       12345/45            patterns become contained

       12345/4             same as above, but settles VERY quickly

       5/12                floor tile patterns... Variations of this tend to
                           be interesting as well.

       1357/1357           replicators world...

       /2                  seeds - most patterns expand indefinitely, some
                           interesting ones.  Fast gliders.

       012345678/3         life without death.  Ladders.


AUTHORS
       Algorithm, implementation and file format enhancements:
            Jon Bennett

       Original X code:
            Chuck Silvers

       Enhancements to #I format and user interface:
            Paul Callahan

       Auto-sizing, load format enhancements, 8-state support, all of the non-
       Life automata, still-life detection, boxing:
            Eric S. Raymond

       Many new commands, subpixel resolution, M format:
            Achim Flammenkamp

       A lot of fixes, improvements, and a save/load widget:
            Vladimir Lidovski


SEE ALSO
       lifeconv(6), xlife(6).

                                                                      Xlife(6)
