XMAIL(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               XMAIL(1)

NAME
       xmail - X11 visual interface to the mail program

SYNOPSIS
       xmail [-toolkitoptions] [-xmailoptions]

DESCRIPTION
       xmail is an X11 window based visual interface to the standard Berkeley
       Mail program.  xmail offers functionality similar to the Sunview
       mailtool, but with some differences.

       Users may use mouse button actions in the (top) index window to select
       a message for further processing (by pressing the left mouse button),
       or automatically read the selected message (by pressing the right mouse
       button).

       Folder specification is aided by a selection menu which can walk down
       through the user's folder directory hierarchy (by pressing the right
       mouse button in the Folder command button window).

       A short description of each command button's function is presented in
       the status window whenever the mouse cursor enters any of the xmail
       command button windows.  Additional help information is presented for
       any command button or other part of xmail by pressing the middle mouse
       button while the mouse cursor is within the window or command button.
       In the case of windows which normally accept the pasting of text via
       the middle mouse button, help is available while also holding down
       either Shift key.  Those special case windows are so indicated by the
       message displayed in the status window while the mouse cursor is within
       those particular windows.

       Message composition and modification are provided by the user's
       preferred editor (/usr/ucb/vi by default).  Editor preference may be
       specified using either the user's process or Mail environment variable
       VISUAL, or the xmail command line or application resource
       editorCommand.

       Support can also be provided for displaying the content of an X-Face
       mail header, should such a header string be present in the received
       message, and for adding your own X-Face header to outgoing mail, if
       available.

       Almost all of the xmail functionality depends upon the existence and
       proper installation of the XMail default resources file (typically in
       the directory /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults).  Functionality may be
       modified to some extent by the user's specification of some or all of
       those resources.


OPTIONS
       An unrecognized or illegal command line option specification will cause
       display of a usage statement and termination of xmail.

       -toolkitoptions
              All standard X11 toolkit options are accepted on the command
              line.

       -xmailoptions
              xmail also accepts the following additional options:

              -buttonfont fontname
                     specifies the font to use when creating command buttons.
                     This option overrides the xmail resource specification
                     "*buttonFont: fontname".

              -e     Sets the xmail resource specification "*expert: True".
                     This resource determines whether "confirm" popups will be
                     presented when committing changes to a folder or deleting
                     a new message composition.  By default the resource is
                     False, which means confirm popups will be used.  This
                     resource may be toggled while running xmail, using the
                     set menu provided with the "preserve" command button.
                     See the section on CHANGING VARIABLES further down in
                     this document, or the on-line help information for the
                     preserve button, for additional details.

              -editorCommand <quoted command string>
                     Specifies the editor resource that xmail should use when
                     editing a message composition.  The quoted command must
                     be an sprintf-able format string containing two string
                     declarations.  The first of these declarations will be
                     replaced with the name of the display connection for the
                     xmail process, to allow the edit window to appear on the
                     correct display screen.  The second declaration will be
                     replaced with the name of the file to be edited.  If
                     xmail cannot locate the two separate string declarations
                     in the command, the command will be rejected and
                     processing will default to the older VISUAL methodology.
                     See the additional description of this feature in the
                     SENDING MESSAGES section of this document.

              -f [+]foldername
                     tells Mail to start by processing the specified folder.
                     This is actually a Mail program option, passed to it
                     during startup.  Unlike the regular Mail program, there
                     is no default file for this option, and a foldername must
                     be included in the specification.  The leading plus sign
                     identifies the folder file as existing within the folder
                     directory and is a shorthand notation for the full folder
                     directory path name.  This feature can also be specified
                     as an xmail resource using the specification "*MFileName:
                     [+]foldername".

              -fn fontname
                     - or -

              -font fontname
                     tells xmail to use the indicated font for all windows and
                     buttons.  Different fonts can be specified for buttons,
                     text and help, if desired, using the other appropriate
                     designations.  This feature can also be specified as an
                     xmail resource using the specification "*Font: fontname".

              -h     tells xmail to include the host name in the icon window
                     when displaying the icon.  The option can also be
                     specified as an xmail resource using the specification
                     "*icon*useHost: True".

              -helpfont fontname
                     specifies the font to use when displaying help text.
                     This option overrides the xmail resource specification
                     "*helpFont: fontname".

              -iconGeometry [+-]XOff[+-]YOff
                     provides a command line option for specifying the
                     preferred geometry location for the xmail icon window.
                     This overrides any xmail resource specification for
                     "*iconGeometry: [+-]XOff[+-]YOff".

              -ls    tells xmail to not show the last message of a folder by
                     default.  This option is equivalent to setting the xmail
                     resource *Show_Last to False.  If disabled, xmail
                     (actually Mail) will display the default (usually first)
                     message of a folder when switching to or re-reading a
                     folder.  By default, xmail attempts to read the latest
                     (or last) message of a folder.

              -n     tells Mail to not initialize from the system default
                     Mail.rc file.  This option is also a Mail program option,
                     passed on to it during startup from xmail.  The option
                     can also be specified as an xmail resource using the
                     specification "*mailopt_n: True".

              -nb    tells xmail to not ring the terminal bell when issuing
                     status and error messages.  This is equivalent to setting
                     the xmail resource specification "*bellRing: False".  The
                     default will be to ring the bell for error and
                     appropriate status messages.

              -noinfo
                     tells xmail to not display the info messages in the
                     status window normally generated whenever the mouse
                     cursor is moved into or out of any xmail command button
                     window.  By default, text would be displayed to provide
                     specific information about the particular command button
                     currently under the mouse cursor.  This option allows you
                     to disable this feature, if desired.  This is equivalent
                     to setting the xmail resource specification "*show_Info:
                     False".

              -nx    tells xmail to not include any X-Face header strings when
                     displaying the text of an incoming message.  This is
                     equivalent to setting the xmail resource specification
                     "*No_X_Hdr: True".  The default will be to include all
                     text of the incoming message, including any X-Face header
                     strings.  Either setting will not deter the display of
                     the X-Face bitmap if it exists in the message headers
                     (provided the X_FACE option was specified during
                     compilation).

              -rv    tells xmail to reverse the foreground and background
                     colors of the icon window when displaying the icon.  The
                     option can also be specified as an xmail resource using
                     the specification "*icon*reverseVideo: True".  This
                     option or resource has no effect if the program is
                     utilizing the XPM full-colored pixmap icons.

              -textfont fontname
                     specifies the font to use when writing information in
                     text windows.  This option overrides the xmail resource
                     specification "*textFont: fontname".

              -u     tells xmail to include the user's login name in the icon
                     window when displaying the icon.  The option can also be
                     specified as an xmail resource using the specification
                     "*icon*useName: True".

              -U     tells Mail to convert internet style addresses into uucp
                     format.  This option also is a Mail option, passed on to
                     it during startup.  The option can also be specified as
                     an xmail resource using the specification "*mailopt_U:
                     True".

USAGE
       The xmail shell appearance is similar in layout to mailtool.  A title
       bar decorates the top of the shell, and carries the name and version of
       the program, as well as information about the current mail folder and
       its content.

       Immediately below the title bar, an index window displays header
       information for the current mail folder.  Message selection is
       indicated by a greater-than ">" symbol located at the beginning of the
       header line for the particular message.  New and unread messages are
       indicated by "N" and "U" characters respectively, preceding the message
       number.  Deleted messages not yet removed from the index list have the
       letter "D" preceding the message number.  Saved messages are now marked
       with the letter "S", to denote the fact that such messages in your
       system folder would normally disappear from that folder when you
       finally commit the changes.  (Although messages in other folders that
       are saved will also be marked with an "S", they do not by default get
       removed from that folder when the changes are committed.  Such messages
       must be explicitly deleted if so desired.) Messages that are marked for
       preservation in the system folder are now marked with the letter "P"
       until the folder changes are committed.  Keyboard keys can be used to
       scroll the index window in much the fashion of text display programs
       such as more or less, in addition to the more traditional mouse on
       scrollbar mechanism.

       Just below the index window, a status window displays information,
       status, and error messages.  As the mouse cursor is moved between the
       various command button windows in the xmail program, a short
       description of the particular button's function(s) is displayed in the
       status window.  Moving the mouse cursor out of that command button's
       window restores the default information about obtaining help on any
       part of xmail.  Error and status messages are also displayed in this
       same status window.  The terminal bell is usually rung to draw
       attention to these messages.  The status bell can be disabled using a
       command line option or resource specification.

       Immediately below the status window and attached to it, the xmail shell
       displays a panel with a selection of commonly used Mail commands.
       Pressing and then releasing (also known as "clicking") the left mouse
       button while the mouse cursor is within a particular command button box
       invokes that Mail command.

       A grip at the top right corner of the command panel permits the user to
       slide the status window/command panel combination up and down in the
       xmail shell, to accommodate those times when the user is reviewing a
       short list of longer than average messages, or a longer list of
       relatively short messages.

       Each button in the command panel also offers an expanded menu of
       choices related to that particular command.  Pressing the right mouse
       button presents the user with the expanded menu.  Dragging the cursor
       over one of these selections while still holding down the right mouse
       button causes the particular menu selection to highlight.  A
       description of the highlighted command's function is also displayed in
       the status window.  Releasing the right mouse button while a selection
       is highlighted invokes that particular command.

       Keyboard accelerators for these actions are indicated by appropriate
       entries in the command menus.  Users may take advantage of these
       accelerators by holding down the Shift and/or Control key(s) prior to
       clicking the left mouse button on the desired command, in lieu of
       raising the command popup menu.

       Messages are displayed in the bottom text window of the xmail shell.
       Like the index window above, scroll bars provide easy access to any
       portion of the text.  Keyboard keys can also be used to scroll the text
       window.  If the displayed message contains an X-Face header string, the
       content of that string is displayed as a bitmap in the upper right-hand
       corner of the text window.  (This feature is a compile time option, and
       requires the existence of the compface library routines, which are not
       supplied with the xmail sources.  See the section on X-FACE HEADERS for
       details on acquiring this library.)

       In addition, both the text window and index window have duplicate
       keyboard definitions to augment using the mouse on the command buttons
       for normal xmail command operation.  Like many of the resources for
       xmail, these key bindings are now declared in the application resource
       file, to allow the user to modify them as desired.

       Upon completion of the editing phase of a send/reply operation, the
       user is presented with a completion popup window which contains areas
       for specifying the message header addressees, subject, and carbon and
       blind carbon copy recipients.  This information can now also be
       modified directly within the message composition, by specifying the
       editheaders Mail program option.  This option is normally declared
       within the user's .mailrc file, but can be toggled on and off using the
       special Set option menu provided with the preserve command button.
       (See the section on CHANGING VARIABLES or the on-line help information
       for the preserve button for additional details.)  Also present in the
       completion popup are command buttons to add one of two forms of user
       signature, Re-Edit the message composition, Cancel and save, Abort, or
       Deliver the message to the indicated recipients.  The pressing of these
       command buttons using the mouse may also be simulated by using the
       keyboard meta keys and the first letter of the particular command, with
       the exception that the adding of autograph signatures is denoted by the
       use of either the "S" (for upper-case Autograph Signature) or "X" (for
       the lower-case version) keys, since the "A" key is used for effecting
       the Abort function.  When either the Cancel, Abort, or Deliver function
       is executed, the composition popup is automatically removed from the
       display.

       A modified mailWatch widget (ala xwatch) is used as the xmail icon
       window.  The mailbox flag in the icon window will be raised and mail
       shown inside the box, whenever new mail arrives while the application
       is in its iconic state.  In the non-iconic state, the Newmail command
       button is highlighted to signal new mail arrival.  Clicking on the
       Newmail button will reset the flag and highlighting, and deliver the
       new mail to your display.

       Pressing the middle mouse button while the mouse cursor is within any
       window or command button of the xmail shell (in some cases while also
       holding down either Shift key) will cause help information relating to
       that window (or button) to be displayed in the (bottom) text window.
       Releasing the mouse button will cause that help information to be
       removed.  Pressing the "?" key in the text window will cause a second
       page of help information, relating to the default bindings for the
       keyboard keys, to appear.  Pressing the "LineFeed" or Control_J key
       will cause that second help window to be removed.

       During command execution, the cursor is changed to a watch face to
       indicate that xmail is busy.  Upon completion of the activity, the
       cursor is restored to its previous value.

ENVIRONMENT
       Several process environment variables are of a special interest to
       xmail.


              DEAD
                 Normally specified in the user's .mailrc file, this variable
                 indicates the name of the file to use when storing dead or
                 canceled letters.  If unspecified, it defaults to
                 "dead.letter" in the user's HOME directory.

              HOME
                 Defines the path to the user's home directory, and is used in
                 determining the complete path for mail folder and dead letter
                 files.  If unspecified, this information will be extracted
                 from the user's entry in the password file.

              MAILRC
                 If defined, denotes the full name of the user preferred Mail
                 program startup file, used to define various mail state
                 variables.  By default, Mail (and xmail) will look for the
                 file .mailrc, in the user's home directory.

              MBOX
                 Normally specified in the user's .mailrc file, this variable
                 denotes the preferred file to use when storing letters that
                 are no longer to be preserved in the system mail folder, and
                 letters copied or saved to no other specific file.

              VISUAL
                 Normally specified in the user's .mailrc file, this variable
                 denotes the preferred editor to use when composing messages
                 in xmail.  This information can be overridden by specifying a
                 value for the editorCommand command line or resource
                 declaration.

              XMAILER
                 If defined, points to the particular executable to be used as
                 the Mail program.  Normally, xmail establishes connections
                 with Mail in the default path of the process (assumed to be
                 at least "/bin /usr/bin /usr/ucb").  If need be, this
                 environment variable can be used to provide a specific path
                 to the Mail or other named program.  Note: xmail may not work
                 correctly with any mail program other than the intended
                 Berkeley Mail program.

FOLDERS
       If the right mouse button is pressed while the cursor is within the
       command panel Folder button, xmail will display a menu of available
       mail folders.  (If the user has not set their mail folders variable, a
       message so indicating will be displayed instead.) Dragging the cursor
       while still holding the right mouse button down will allow the user to
       highlight a particular folder name.  Releasing the right button while a
       name is highlighted causes a copy of that name to be written in the
       command panel File window.  The menu list is then unmapped.  Releasing
       the right button while outside any folder selection causes the folder
       menu list to disappear.

       Folders which are actually directories (that might possibly contain
       additional folder files) are displayed with a trailing slash (/)
       character.  Clicking the left mouse button within a directory folder
       while still holding down the right mouse button (also known as
       "expanding") causes xmail to expand that directory and display (on a
       new menu level) any files found there.  Dragging the cursor over one of
       these selections and releasing the right mouse button copies the
       complete folder path name to the file window.  This nesting of folder
       names may be repeated as often as there are legitimate folder
       directories.  Clicking the left mouse button on an empty folder
       directory rings the terminal bell.  Dragging the cursor beyond one of
       these nested menu levels causes that menu to disappear, without making
       a selection.  Re-clicking the left mouse button on the directory folder
       redisplays the nested menu.

       Because of the methodology utilized in determining the folder list menu
       widget hierarchy, certain restrictions must apply when declaring folder
       directories.  No folder directory name may contain an embedded period
       (.) or asterisk (*), since these items are utilized by the resource
       manager (and toolkit function XtNameToWidget) to indicate the potential
       widget hierarchy.  If a folder directory name exists at any level with
       one or more of these characters embedded in its name, attempts to
       access that folder directory will result in a beep and no further
       expansion.

       The first request for the folder menu extracts (from Mail or the
       system) the necessary information to create the menu.  Subsequent
       requests simply redisplay that menu.  To force xmail to recalculate the
       folder menu content, use the Newmail button option which causes xmail
       to destroy all current folder menus.  This mechanism provides access to
       folders created since the startup of xmail.  Pressing the right mouse
       button on the Newmail command box will present the Newmail command
       menu, which has a choice to drop the current folder list.  This same
       option is also available using the designated accelerator key and left
       mouse button on the Newmail command button box.

       As message are stored or otherwise delivered to one of the folder
       files, the accessed and modified time stamps for that folder file are
       updated by the system.  xmail uses that information to indicate (via
       the addition of a hatching pattern to the background of a particular
       folder button label) when a folder has been modified since the last
       time it was accessed.  This feature presents a method of indicating
       when new messages exists in a particular folder file.  Reading the
       particular folder automatically resets this indicator, although in some
       instances remotely accessed folder files (such as those on an NFS
       mounted file system) may not properly or consistently update this time
       information.

FONTS
       Separate fonts may now be specified for mail message (and index) text,
       help message text, and for the command buttons.  (See the options
       descriptions for a list of the command line options to use.)  You may
       also declare all fonts using the resource declaration *Font:
       <fontname>, or the command line option -fn <fontname> or -font
       <fontname>, which cause all three fonts specifications to utilize the
       same font.  Previous restrictions against the use of proportional width
       fonts have now been hopefully resolved.  Although the result of
       choosing such a font may still produce less than optimal results, the
       window shell should be of a reasonable size, and the support menu
       entries should now be readable.  Of course, no amount of coding can
       overcome inappropriate font selections.

ICONIFICATION
       xmail establishes access to a dummy mail folder whenever the
       application is in the iconified state.  This is done to prevent
       potential corruption of a real mail folder, should the user choose to
       read their mail from another process while xmail is running.  Because
       of this action, iconifying xmail always COMMITS changes made to the
       current folder, prior to switching to the dummy folder.  No
       confirmation for committing folder changes will occur when iconifying
       xmail.

       The original folder being read by the user will be automatically
       reinstated as current whenever xmail is again deiconified.  This action
       will flush any deleted messages from the index headers and renumber the
       remaining messages in the folder.  The last message in the folder will
       then become the current message displayed (unless xmail was started
       with the *Show_Last resource option disabled, in which case the first
       message would be made current).

       If the "current" folder was the user's system folder, any new mail
       received since the iconification would be automatically included by the
       re-access.  If some other folder were current (or no folder, due to
       initial conditions of no mail for the user), deiconification would not
       cause the reading of any new mail.  Under those circumstances the user
       must press the Newmail command button to change to the system mail
       folder (and read the new mail).

       The icon window also supports an auxiliary identification mechanism,
       for users that might have more than one account, possibly on more than
       one machine, and that wish to be able to identify otherwise duplicate
       xmail icons.  Pressing the "h" key while the mouse cursor is within the
       icon window will cause the icon to be tagged with the machine's
       hostname.  Pressing the "u" key will cause the user's login name to be
       displayed.  Pressing the "space" bar will clear the icon window of
       either name.  Changing the tag space content of the icon will also
       change the title of the application for window managers.  This allows
       the user to distinguish between several xmail invocations from the
       window (or icon) selection menus of the various window managers.  The
       hostname or login name addition may also be pre-selected using either
       command line options or resource declarations if desired.

       Iconification is typically promoted by user definable button events
       which are particular to the window manager in use at the time.
       Pressing the National Semiconductor Corporation logo displayed at the
       left of the title bar will also cause xmail to issue a window manager
       request for iconification.  ICCCM compliant window managers should
       honor that request by iconifying the xmail application.

       Pressing the "q" key while the mouse cursor is within the xmail icon
       window will cause xmail to terminate.  xmail also honors the ICCCM
       Window Manager protocol request WM_DELETE_WINDOW to terminate the xmail
       application.

KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
       The index and text windows support two methods of scrolling displayable
       text.  The use of the mouse buttons in the scrollbar region is
       standard.  In addition, keyboard keys have been defined in keeping with
       conventions used in text display programs such as "more" and "less".

       These keyboard accelerators will only be available if the resources are
       declared either in the application defaults file (which must be
       properly installed) or the user adds the necessary declarations to
       their local default resources.

       The following table lists the key definitions and their respective
       actions.  The abbreviation "Ctrl" means to press down and hold the
       Control key while pressing the specified letter key.  "Meta" likewise
       refers to the meta keys (labeled "Left" and "Right" or with a diamond
       symbol on Sun type-4 keyboards).

              Key Name       Action Taken
              --------       -----------------------------
               Ctrl V        move to the next page
               space         move to the next page
               Meta V        move to the previous page
                 b           move to the previous page
               Ctrl Z        scroll one line up
               Return        scroll one line up
                 j           scroll one line up
               Meta Z        scroll one line down
                 k           scroll one line down
                 -           scroll one line down
                 ´           move to the beginning of file
               Meta <        move to the beginning of file
               Meta >        move to the end of file
              Shift G        move to the end of file


       In addition to the scroll key definitions, both windows also support
       keyboard accelerators for most of the command buttons.  Where possible,
       these keyboard keys replicate the actual commands that would be typed
       if the user were running the native mail program directly.  Thus, to
       begin sending a mail message to some recipient, the user could press
       the "m" key, and to delete a current message, the user could press the
       "d" key.  Certain exceptions and additions have been made, in order to
       avoid conflicts within the xmail program.

              Key Name       Command Action Taken
              --------       -----------------------------
              Shift A        reply to all, include the current message
              Shift C        copy the message to the author's name
              Shift F        forward the current mail message
              Shift M        reply to a mail message
              Shift N        bring new mail into your system folder
              Shift P        send the current message to the printer
              Shift R        include the current message in a reply
              Shift S        save the message to the author's name
                 a           reply to all recipients of a message
                 c           copy the message to the indicated folder
                 d           delete the current message
                 f           read the full header of the message
                 i           incorporate new mail without commit
                 m           mail (compose) a new mail message
                 n           read the next mail message
                 p           read the previous mail message
                 q           quit xmail, committing any changes
                 r           read the current mail message
                 s           save current message in specified folder
                 u           undelete the most recently deleted message
                 w           writes the message to the indicated file
                 x           exit xmail, without committing changes
                 ?           displays help for these key definitions
               <LF>          removes help for these key definitions

RESOURCES
       Most of the options and features of this version of xmail depend
       heavily on the installation of the application default resources file
       in the proper location (typically /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XMail).  If
       this file is not installed, xmail will still run, but only in a
       severely restricted manner, and with almost none of the features
       mentioned in this man page.  The resource declarations were moved from
       the program sources to the defaults file to allow for a greater degree
       of flexibility in the appearance and actions of xmail at the discretion
       of the user.

       xmail recognizes resource definitions for each of its component windows
       and command buttons.  Wherever possible, button resources have been
       named for the label (or first word in the label) of the command button.
       (The exception is the preserve "set" menu, whose resources are
       identified by the second word in each label.) Thus :

              *read
                 specifies resources for the read command button

              *save
                 specifies resources for the save command button

              *autoprint
                 specifies resources for the set autoprint command button, and

              *noautoprint
                 specifies resources for the set noautoprint command button.

       Color may be added (on a color display device) to enhance the
       appearance of xmail.  Example resources in the application defaults
       file have been left in a commented condition.  They may be implemented
       by uncommenting the appropriate lines in the defaults file, or
       overridden by designations in the user's .Xdefaults file, or (in some
       cases) by command line options.  Resources specified in the user's
       .Xdefaults file should be preceded with either the xmail application or
       XMail Class resource identifier.

       In addition to those resources named for a particular xmail command
       button, the following additional resource names are recognized:


              *buttonFont: <fontname>
                 denotes a preferred font to use when creating the command
                 buttons.  The width of the xmail shell, and thus its general
                 appearance is controlled by the font specified for buttons.
                 If different fonts are specified for buttons and text, and
                 the font for text is of a larger point size than that
                 specified for buttons, then text in the index and text
                 windows will most likely wrap during display.

              *Bcc
                 controls resources for the Bcc: entry window

              *bellRing: <boolean>
                 Normally true, this boolean enables ringing of the terminal
                 bell during status and error message display.

              *Cc
                 controls resources for the Cc: entry window

              *commandPanel
                 controls resources for the command panel

              *customHeader
                 This resource can be used to specify additional mail headers
                 to be included in the headers of all outgoing messages
                 created by the user.  The information contained in this
                 resource MUST conform to the format of mail headers, namely a
                 keyword, such as Organization: (which must include the
                 trailing colon character), followed by a space character, and
                 the text of the information.  An example custom header
                 resource declaration would be:

                 xmail*customHeader: Organization: Your_Company_Name

              *editorCommand: <quoted command string>
                 Specifies the editor resource that xmail should use when
                 editing a message composition.  The quoted command must be an
                 sprintf-able format containing two string declarations.  The
                 first of these declarations will be replaced with the name of
                 the display connection for the xmail process, to allow the
                 edit window to appear on the correct display screen.  The
                 second declaration will be replaced with the name of the file
                 to be edited.  If xmail cannot locate the two separate string
                 declarations in the command, the command will be rejected and
                 processing will default to the older VISUAL methodology.  See
                 the section on SENDING MESSAGES for additional details.

              *expert: <boolean>
                 This boolean defines whether the xmail user requires
                 confirmation of folder commits or composed message deletions.
                 Whenever an action would make a permanent un-recoverable
                 change to the xmail environment, a popup confirmation window
                 will be presented for the user, to assure that the action
                 should take place.  These confirmations include changing a
                 folder when deletions have occurred, or deleting the text of
                 a newly composed message instead of sending it.  Setting this
                 resource to True eliminates those confirmation popups.

              *fileWindow
                 controls resources for the file window within the command
                 panel

              *Font
                 provides font specifications for the three optionally
                 separate fonts used in xmail, buttonFont, helpFont, and
                 textFont.

              .geometry: [+-]XOff[+-]YOff
                 This resource defines the initial startup location for the
                 xmail window.  Note the dot (.) just in front of the geometry
                 resource name.  Users are cautioned to not specify this
                 resource with the wildcard (*) designation, as this would
                 force all popup windows (help, menus, and send/reply) to
                 orient to that same starting location, rather than be
                 anchored to the intended window.

              *helpFont: <fontname>
                 denotes a preferred font to use when displaying help
                 information.

              *icon
                 controls resources for the icon window.  In addition to
                 specifications of foreground and background colors, it is
                 also possible to specify the following mailWatch widget
                 resources :

                 *icon*useHost: <Boolean>
                    If set to true, tells xmail to include the mail host name
                    in the icon window when displaying the icon.  This option
                    is now alterable at runtime by keypress in the icon
                    window.  "h" sets the host name, "u" sets the user name,
                    and "space" clears either entry.

                 *icon*useName: <Boolean>
                    If set to true, tells xmail to include the user login name
                    in the icon window when displaying the icon.

                 *icon*reverseVideo: <boolean>
                    If set to true, reverses the foreground and background
                    colors for the icon.  Setting this resource has no effect
                    if the xmail program is utilizing the XPM full-colored
                    pixmap icons.

                 *icon*update: <seconds>
                    Specifies the update interval for checking new mail
                    (default is 30 seconds).

                 *icon*bell: <boolean>
                    If set to False, prevents the mailWatch widget from
                    ringing the bell when new mail arrives.  See also the
                    .mailrc variable setting for bell.

              *iconic: <boolean>
                 This boolean defines whether the xmail application should be
                 started in iconic state or not.  It is highly recommended
                 that only the application resource identifier be used if
                 specifying this resource.  Use of the XMail Class identifier
                 would also constrain any message entry windows to be started
                 iconic, which could prove confusing to the unaware user.

              *iconGeometry: [+-]XOff[+-]YOff
                 This resource defines an initial location for the icon,
                 whenever the xmail application is iconified.

              *indexWindow
                 controls resources for the index window

              *list
                 controls resources for the folder list popup window

              *mailFlag: <string>
                 is the resource which defines the icon bitmap (or XPM pixmap)
                 to use when indicating new mail.  If the XPixMap compile time
                 option was not specified, a string to bitmap resource
                 converter is supplied which automatically converts the
                 specified string to a bitmap.  If the XPM option was declared
                 at compile time, an internal conversion of string to pixmap
                 is performed.  If the string does not define an XPM pixmap,
                 an attempt is made to convert the string to a bitmap.  Thus,
                 with the XPM compile time option, either an XPM pixmap or a
                 standard bitmap may be declared.  Without the XPM option,
                 only a standard bitmap file may be specified.  In either
                 case, if the conversion should fail, the program would
                 default to an appropriate internal representation.

              *mailopt_n: <boolean>
                 Normally false, this resource duplicates the effect of the -n
                 command line option.

              *mailopt_U: <boolean>
                 Normally false, this resource duplicates the effect of the -U
                 command line option.

              *menu
                 controls resources for all of the command button popup menus

              *MFileName: <foldername>
                 Normally null, this resource duplicates the effect of the -f
                 folder command line option.

              *noMailFlag: <string>
                 is the resource which defines the icon bitmap to use when
                 indicating that new mail is not available.

              *No_X_Hdr: <boolean>
                 Normally False, if set to True this resource tells xmail to
                 not include any X-Face header strings when displaying the
                 text of an incoming message.  This is equivalent to
                 specifying the xmail command line option -nx.  Either setting
                 will not deter the display of the X-Face bitmap if it exists
                 in the message headers.

              *Show_Info: <boolean>
                 Normally true, this boolean enables display of command button
                 information messages in the status window, whenever the mouse
                 cursor enters or leaves one of the command button windows.
                 Information messages are also displayed for each of the popup
                 sub-menus as well.  Setting this resource to false prevents
                 these information messages from being displayed.

              *Show_Last: <boolean>
                 Normally true, this boolean enables display of the last
                 message in a folder, providing no other is newer or unread.
                 Setting this resource to false causes folder displays to
                 start with the first (or new or unread) message.

              *statusWindow
                 controls resources for the status window

              *Subject
                 controls resources for the Subject: entry window

              *textFont: <fontname>
                 denotes a preferred font to use when creating text and index
                 windows.

              *textWindow
                 controls resources for the text window

              *titleBar
                 controls resources for the titleBar window

              *To
                 controls resources for the To: entry window

       A set of default resource definitions are provided in the file
       /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XMail.  User's may wish to include
       appropriate alternate definitions in their $HOME/.Xdefaults file, to
       tailor preferences for colors and/or fonts.

SENDING MESSAGES
       All send and reply operations invoke the user's preferred editor to
       create or modify the message.  The editor preference may be specified
       using either the VISUAL .mailrc environment specification, or the newer
       editorCommand resource specification (or -editorCommand command line
       option).

       The editorCommand resource must define a string with two sprintf-able
       format declarations, one for the name of the X11 server display
       connection, and one for the name of the file to be edited.  The
       editorCommand specification must also ensure the proper creation of an
       appropriate X11 window for completing the desired editing session.

       The resource may be specified on the command line, either as an option,
       or as a resource manager string.  It may also be specified in the
       user's applications default file as an xmail resource.  Examples of
       editorCommand specification strings include:

              xmail -editorCommand 'emacs -display %s -name XMail %s'

              xmail -xrm '*editorCommand: xterm -display %s -e vi %s'

              xmail.editorCommand:  xedit -name XMail_Edits -display %s %s

              xmail.editorCommand:  emacs -display %s %s

              xmail.editorCommand:  xterm -display %s -name XMail -e vi %s

       If the editorCommand resource fails to provide the required string
       declarations for the display and file names, or it is not defined,
       xmail will default to the older method of utilizing the information in
       the user or Mail process VISUAL environment variable.  The default
       editor will be vi, if no VISUAL (mailrc or process) environment
       variable definition exists.

       Upon completion of the send/reply editing session, a popup window will
       be displayed containing To:, Subject:, Cc:, and Bcc: fields for the
       current message composition.  Help is available for each of these
       fields, as it is for all of xmail.

       A menu of mail aliases (extracted from the user's .mailrc file) is
       available for access from any of the To:, Cc:, or Bcc: windows.
       Pressing the right mouse button while the mouse cursor is in any of
       these input fields causes the alias names menu to be displayed.  If the
       user has not defined any mail aliases, the terminal bell will be rung
       instead, to indicate that no alias names menu is available.

       Like the File: window used to enter file and mail folder names, the
       content of the send window popup fields may be modified by the user as
       needed.  Backspace and delete keys remove the previous character,
       control_W deletes the previous word, and control_U deletes the entire
       line of information.  Pressing the Return key in any of these four
       fields causes the cursor to automatically warp to the next field.

       Users may append their Sign or sign autograph (see Mail(1)) once only
       to the end of the composed message text.  If the user does not set a
       [Ss]ign value in their .mailrc file, this version of xmail will also
       look in their home directory for either a .signature or .Signature file
       (depending on which of the two [Aa]utograph buttons was pressed) to
       append to the message text.

       Pressing the Re-Edit button allows the message to be re-edited, while
       the Cancel button terminates delivery but saves any partial composition
       in your dead.letter file.  Pressing the Abort button cancels delivery
       but does not save the composition, while the Deliver button causes the
       message to be delivered to the sendmail daemon.

       The pressing of any of these command buttons may also be simulated
       while the mouse cursor is anywhere within the popup window, by using
       the keyboard meta keys and the first letter of the command, with the
       exception that the adding of autograph signatures is denoted by the use
       of either the "S" (for upper-case Autograph Signature) or "X" (for the
       lower-case version) keys, since the "A" key is used for effecting the
       Abort function.

       When either the Cancel, Abort, or Deliver function is selected, the
       composition popup is automatically removed from the display.

       If the user attempts to deliver a message with no designated recipient
       or no message body and no message Subject line specified, xmail will
       re-display the completion popup, to permit the user to Re-Edit the
       message body, add a Subject designation and/or recipient, or
       specifically Abort the message delivery.

       Mail forwarded to another user will be bracketed by a "Begin Forwarded
       Message/End Forwarded Message" string pair when using the "forward
       message" Send command menu option.  Also included will be a "Forwarded:
       Mail from ..." line in the mail header.

       Reply messages will include a "In-Reply-To: Mail from ..." string in
       the mail header.  Like the "Forwarded:" header described above, it will
       include the name of the original sender, as well as the date the
       original message was received.

       If an X-Face header exists for the user, it will be inserted in the
       mail header section of the outgoing message.  This header must be
       stored in the file .face located in the user's home directory.

       Users may provide additional custom header information to be applied to
       all outgoing message compositions, by using the *customHeader xmail
       resource designation.  Specified information must conform to the format
       of mail headers as noted elsewhere in this documentation.

   X-FACE HEADERS
       X-Face headers are compressed bitmap images, typically of the face of
       the person owning such a header.  The compressed header contains only
       printable characters, which allows it to be included in a mail message.
       The USENIX (UNIX Users Association) FaceSaver project is the typical
       source for these bitmaps, which are compressed into X-Face header
       format using the compface software tools written and distributed by
       James Ashton <jaa@cs.su.oz.au>.  The compface library is also included
       with the distribution of the faces software, written and distributed by
       Rich Burridge, and is available from the Rich Burridge Archive Service
       <rb-archive-server@Aus.Sun.COM>.

   EDITING RESOURCES
       The editing session invoked within xmail runs as a child process of the
       xmail application.  As such, it does not use those resources that were
       declared for the  process.  Resources for the editing session should be
       tied to the use of the -name toolkit option in the editorCommand
       specification.

       The default VISUAL mechanism invokes the vi editor in an xterm window,
       using the xmail Class resource as it's name identifier.  This allows
       message composition window resources to be declared using the xmail
       Class resource name followed by the xterm terminal resources identifier
       "vt100", as in "XMail*vt100.<resource: value>".

       For example, the author uses the following resource definitions in his
       .Xdefaults file, to control the size and placement of message
       composition windows.

              XMail*vt100.geometry:           80x27+30+100
              XMail*vt100.font:               fg-22
              XMail*vt100.foreground:         white
              XMail*vt100.background:         blue
              XMail*vt100.mouse:              white

VARIABLES
       xmail also uses the existence and value of several Mail environment
       variables (defined in the user's .mailrc file) to aid in controlling
       it's operation.


              alwaysignore
                 If set, causes xmail to ignore those header fields specified
                 with the ignore .mailrc environment variable, when printing
                 messages or when including message text in a send/reply
                 composition.  This variable can be altered during the
                 execution of xmail.  (See the section below on Changing
                 Variables.)

              autoprint
                 If enabled, causes the current message text to be displayed
                 when deleting or undeleting messages.  If not enabled, users
                 must select or read the desired message.  This variable can
                 also be altered within the current xmail execution.

              bell=value
                 If defined, determines the number of times the terminal bell
                 would be rung to indicate the arrival of new mail.  A minimum
                 of once and a maximum of five times is the permissible range.
                 Whether the terminal bell rings at all when new mail arrives
                 is controlled by the "*icon*bell: <boolean>" resource (or -nb
                 command line option) described above.

              editheaders
                 Like Mail and mailtool, xmail permits the user to set and
                 modify the outgoing messages mail headers while composing the
                 message, if this variable is set.  This variable can be
                 toggled during xmail execution, using the capabilities of the
                 Set menu provided under the preserve command button.

              hold
                 Like mailtool, xmail sets "hold" on the user's system mail
                 folder, unless "nohold" has been explicitly specified in the
                 user's .mailrc file.  This variable can also be altered
                 during xmail execution.

              printmail=printer command
                 This variable, originally created for the Sunview mailtool,
                 allows the user to specify a preferred command to use when
                 printing messages.  The default command is "lpr -p".  If the
                 user is not using Sun's version of the mail handler, then the
                 print mechanism will first copy the selected message to a
                 temporary file before printing it.  This implies that the
                 printmail command must also remove this temporary file when
                 the print job has been completed.  This is typically
                 accomplished by including the -r (remove) option when
                 specifying the printmail command.  This is the default for
                 non-Sun specific printing in the xmail program.

              sendmail=shell-command
                 If set, specifies an alternate procedure to use in lieu of
                 the default /usr/lib/sendmail for delivering mail. User
                 supplied procedures must be prepared to search the message
                 file for recipients and ignore or process unexpected options
                 (which ultimately must be passed on to the real sendmail
                 program).

       Some Mail variables have no effect on xmail operation, and are in fact
       ignored if found to be set.

              replyall
                 has no effect on the meaning of commands within xmail.  This
                 prevents confusion due to a difference between how a command
                 is labeled, and how it reacts in use.

              cmd=<value>
                 is ignored, and is always defeated.  This provides a
                 mechanism to determine if the pipe command is supported in
                 the user's mail environment, and determines the method to use
                 when printing a message on the system printer (using the
                 default or user specified printmail command).

              crt=<value>
                 is ignored, and always defaults to nocrt.  This prevents user
                 specified paging mechanisms from interfering with full
                 message delivery to xmail.

              screen=<value>
                 The current release of xmail can safely handle up to a
                 maximum of 10,000 mail message in any one mail folder.  Users
                 with more than 10,000 messages in any one folder should
                 seriously consider either creating some additional sub-
                 folders, or at least deleting older messages.

   CHANGING VARIABLES
       xmail provides a mechanism for altering the state of four of the Mail
       (and one xmail specific) environment variables used to control xmail
       (and Mail) operations.  The states of alwaysignore, autoprint,
       editheaders, hold, and expert can now be "toggled" from a special menu
       attached to the preserve command button.

       Pressing the right mouse button while the mouse pointer is within the
       preserve command button box presents a menu of "set" commands which
       indicate the state the variables would be changed to if the mouse
       button were released while one of these commands was highlighted.

       Changing the state of the variable alters the next presentation of the
       menu, such that the opposite state will always be presented as the
       command option.

SEE ALSO
       Mail(1)

BUGS
       Users finding a problem in this xmail application are encouraged to
       notify the author at the indicated address.  A complete (as possible)
       description of the problem, and a context diff of the changes needed to
       fix the flaw, if available, would be greatly appreciated.  I will make
       every effort to fix any such bugs reported.

       Send any bug reports or other requested changes to:

              Michael C. Wagnitz                        M/S D3-677
              National Semiconductor Corporation
              2900 Semiconductor Drive  Santa Clara, CA 95052-8090

              Domain: michael@berlioz.nsc.com  Phone: 408/721-3266
              UUCP: {apple|decwrl|hplabs|sun}!nsc!berlioz.nsc.com!michael

AUTHOR
        Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 - National Semiconductor Corporation
                                 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED


        Michael Wagnitz, National Semiconductor Corporation, Santa Clara, CA

       Much of the original design and insight for the development of xmail
       was provided by contributions from the following authors:

       The xdbx contribution by Po Cheung (po@volta.ece.utexas.edu)
              Copyright 1989 The University of Texas at Austin

       The mailWatch widget by Dan Heller (argv@sun.com) was used as the
       source for the xmail icon window.

NSC                            February 20, 1992                      XMAIL(1)
