CDA(1)                  FreeBSD General Commands Manual                 CDA(1)



NAME
       cda - Compact disc digital audio player utility


SYNOPSIS
       cda [-dev device] [-batch] [-debug level#] [-online | -offline] command


DESCRIPTION
       Cda is a program that allows the use of the CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW or DVD
       drive as a full-featured stereo compact-disc player and "ripper" from
       the shell command line.  It can be used interactively in line mode or
       visual (screen) mode, or as a script-driven utility.  This is a
       companion utility to xmcd(1), a Motif-based CD audio player application
       for the X window system.  Cda uses the same configuration and support
       files as xmcd.

       Most of the features found on "real" CD players are available in cda,
       such as shuffle and repeat, and track programming functions.

       CDDA (CD digital audio) data extraction, playback, save-to-file, and
       pipe-to-program are supported on many platforms.  For data extraction
       to file or pipe, cda can generate the data in MP3 (MPEG-1 layer 3),
       MPEG-2/MPEG-4 AAC, MP4 Ogg Vorbis, FLAC, WAV, AU, AIFF, AIFF-C and raw
       headerless formats.  Simultaneous extraction to file/pipe and real-time
       playback is possible on high performance computers.

       Multi-disc changers are also supported.  You can switch to a soecified
       disc, select to play only a single disc or auto-play all discs in
       normal or reverse order.

       The Gracenote CDDB(R) Music Recognition Service(sm) feature is
       supported by cda, which allows the CD artist/title and track titles,
       and other information associated with the loaded CD to be displayed.
       For CDDA extraction to MP3, MP4, Ogg Vorbis and FLAC formats, cda can
       auto-fill the CD information tags embedded in these files.

       This release of cda supports the enhanced Gracenote CDDB2(R) service on
       a number of platforms, and offers much richer features and content than
       the "classic" CDDB.  Moreover, CDDB2-supplied information is now in
       UTF-8 data format, providing international language support.  See
       "LOCALIZATION" below.

       In addition to CDDB, this release of cda supports reading CD-TEXT data
       from the disc for the disc/track artist and title information.

       No capability is provided to add, modify or submit CDDB entries in cda.
       You must use the X-based xmcd(1) utility (or another CDDB-enabled
       application with the appropriate features) for that purpose.

       On systems with more than one CD drive, multiple invocations of cda can
       be used to operate each drive independently.

       Cda is designed to be easy to use, with particular care taken to make
       all output easily parsable by other programs.

       The internal architecture of cda is designed to be easily portable to
       many UNIX operating system variants, and adaptable to the myriad of CD
       drives available.


OPTIONS
       Cda supports the following options:


       -dev_device
              Specifies the path name to the raw CD device.  If this option is
              not used, the default device to be used is the first drive set
              up with the xmcd configuration program (See below).

       -batch Signifies that cda should run in batch mode.  This suppresses
              all interaction with the user (i.e., will not prompt the user to
              type anything).  Batch mode is not meaningful in visual mode.

       -online, -offline
              Forces cda to enable or disable Internet access.  If this option
              is not specified, then the default is configured via the
              internetOffline parameter in the common.cfg file.  In offline
              mode, CDDB lookup will only be done from the local cache.
              Please note that the daemon as well as the client will both
              perform CDDB lookups.  If you want to disable Internet access in
              both, then the -offline option should be used when you start the
              daemon via the cda on command, as well as when you issue any cda
              client command.

       -debug_level#
              Causes verbose debugging diagnostics to be displayed on stderr.
              Note that if you are running in visual mode, the stderr output
              should be redirected to a file, or the debug information will
              corrupt the screen.  The level specifies the type of debugging
              messages desired:

              1    General debugging
              2    Device I/O debugging
              4    CD information debugging
              32   Sound DSP and output file/pipe debugging
              64   Message of the day debugging

              You may add the values together to enable multiple debugging
              types (i.e., A value of 3 turns on both General and Device I/O
              debugging).


COMMANDS
       Cda supports the following commands:


       on     Start the cda daemon.

       off    Terminate the cda daemon.

       disc <load | eject | prev | next | disc#>
              Load or eject the CD, or change discs on a multi-disc changer.

       lock <on | off>
              Enable/disable the CD disc lock.  When locked, the CD cannot be
              ejected using the CD drive front-panel eject button.  You can
              only change the lock state when a CD is loaded and is not
              playing.

       play [track# [mm:ss]]
              Start playback.  If the track# is used, the playback starts from
              the specified track.  The optional mm:ss argument specifies the
              minutes and seconds offset into the track from where to start
              playback.

       pause  Pauses the playback.  Use cda play to resume playback.

       stop   Stop the plaback.

       track <prev | next>
              Proceed to the previous or the next track.  This command is only
              valid when playback is already in progress.

       index <prev | next>
              Proceed to the previous or the next index.  This command is only
              valid when playback is already in progress.

       program [clear | save | track# ...]
              If no argument is specified, this command displays the current
              program play sequence, if any.  The clear argument will cause
              the current program to be cleared.  The save argument will save
              the current program, so that a future load of the same CD will
              automatically get the program sequence.  To define a new
              program, specify a list of track numbers separated by spaces.
              To start program play, use the play command.  You cannot define
              a new program while shuffle mode is enabled.  Entering a program
              will disengage shuffle mode.

       shuffle <on | off>
              Enable/disable shuffle play mode.  When shuffle is enabled, cda
              will play the CD tracks in a random order.  You can use this
              command only when audio playback is not in progress.  Also, you
              must clear any program sequence before enabling shuffle.

       repeat <on | off>
              Enable/disable the repeat mode.

       volume [value# | linear | square | invsqr ]
              If no argument is specified, this command displays the current
              audio volume and taper setting.  If a value is used, then the
              audio volume level is set to the specified value.  The valid
              range is 0 to 100.  If one of linear, square or invsqr is
              specified, then the volume control taper is set to the specified
              curve.  This control operates the hardware volume control on the
              CD drive in standard playback mode, or the computer's audio
              hardware in cdda-play mode.  It has no effect on the data of the
              cdda-save or cdda-pipe outputs.

       balance [value#]
              If no argument is specified, this command displays the current
              balance control setting.  If a value is used, then the balance
              is set to the specified value.  The valid range is 0 to 100,
              where 0 is full left, 50 is center and 100 is full right.  This
              control operates the hardware volume control on the CD drive in
              standard playback mode, or the computer's audio hardware in
              cdda-play mode.  It has no effect on the data of the cdda-save
              or cdda-pipe outputs.

       route [stereo | reverse | mono-l | mono-r | mono | value#]
              If no argument is specified, this command displays the current
              channel routing setting.  Otherwise, to set the routing, use one
              of the appropriate keywords or a value as follows:

              0    Normal stereo
              1    Reverse stereo
              2    Mono-L
              3    Mono-R
              4    Mono-L+R

       outport [speaker | headphone | line-out | value#]
              CDDA playback output port selection.  The speaker, headphone and
              line-out keywords are toggles.  Alternatively, you may specify a
              numeric value, as follows:

              1    Speaker
              2    Headphone
              4    Line-out

              You may add the values together to enable multiple output ports
              (i.e., A value of 3 turns on both Speaker and Headphones).  When
              the value is set to 0, the port setting is unmodified.  If no
              argument is specified, this command displays the current output
              port setting.  Note that this command may be meaningful only on
              some platforms, and only certain ports may be available on a
              particular architecture.  See the PLATFORM file for details.

       cdda-att [value#]
              If no argument is specified, this command displays the current
              CDDA attenuator setting.  If a value is used, then the CDDA
              attenuator level is set to the specified value.  The valid range
              is 0 to 100.  Note that in contrast to the volume command, this
              setting does not operate any hardware.  It works by scaling the
              CDDA audio samples, and thus has no effect in standard playback
              mode, but affects all CDDA modes (cdda-play, cdda-save and cdda-
              pipe).

       status [cont [secs#]]
              Display the current disc status, disc number, track number,
              index number, time, modes, and repeat count.  If the cont
              argument is specified, then the display will run continuously
              until the user types the interrupt character (typically Delete
              or Ctrl-C).  The optional secs sub-argument is the display
              update time interval.  The default is 1 second.

       toc [offsets]
              Display the CD Table of Contents.  The disc artist/title and
              track titles associated with the current disc, queried from
              CDDB, is also shown.  If the disc has associated notes or
              credits, an asterisk (*) is displayed after the genre
              description.  Similarly, if a track has associated notes or
              credits, an asterisk is displayed after the track title.

              If the CDDB server cannot determine an exact match for your CD,
              but found a list of possible matches, then the user will be
              prompted to select from that list.  If batch mode is active
              (i.e., the -batch option is used), then no such prompt will
              occur.

              If the offsets argument is used, then the track times are the
              absolute offsets from the start of the CD.  Otherwise, the times
              shown are the track lengths.

       extinfo [track#]
              Display extended information associated with the current CD, if
              available from CDDB.  If the CD is currently playing, then
              extended information associated with the playing track is also
              displayed.  If a track number is used in the argument, then the
              extended information of the specified track is shown instead.

       notes [track#]
              Display disc notes information text associated with the current
              CD, if available from CDDB.  If the CD is currently playing,
              then the track notes information associated with the playing
              track is also displayed.  If a track number is used in the
              argument, then the track notes information text of the specified
              track is shown instead.

       on-load [none | spindown | autoplay | autolock | noautolock]
              Display, enable or disable options when a CD is loaded.  The
              spindown option will cause the CD to stop after loading to
              conserve the laser and motor.  The autoplay option will cause
              the CD to automatically start playing after loading.  The
              autolock option causes the caddy or disc tray to be
              automatically locked.  The none, spindown and autoplay options
              are mutually-exclusive.  If no argument is used, then the
              current settings are displayed.

       on-exit [none | autostop | autoeject]
              Display, enable or disable options when the cda daemon exits.
              The autostop option will cause cda to stop playback, and the
              autoeject option will cause cda to eject the CD.  Use none to
              cancel these options.  If no argument is used, then te current
              settings are displayed.

       on-done [autoeject | noautoeject | autoexit | noautoexit]
              Display, enable or disable options when cda is done with
              playback.  The autoeject option causes the cda daemon to eject
              the CD.  The autoexit option will cause the cda daemon to exit.
              If no argument is used, then the current settings are displayed.

       on-eject [autoexit | noautoexit]
              Display, enable or disable options when cda ejects a CD.  The
              autoexit option will cause the cda daemon to exit after ejecting
              the CD.  If no argument is used, then the current settings are
              displayed.

       changer [multiplay | nomultiplay | reverse | noreverse]
              Display, enable or disable multi-disc changer options.  The
              multiplay option specifies that cda plays all discs in sequence.
              The nomultiplay option will cause cda to stop after the current
              disc is done.  The reverse option implies multiplay, except that
              the disc order is reversed.  If no argument is used, then the
              current settings are displayed.

       mode [standard | cdda-play | cdda-save | cdda-pipe]
              Selects the playback mode.  If no argument is used, then the
              current setting is displayed.  See "PLAYBACK MODES" below for
              details about the modes.  Please note that the cdda modes are
              toggles.  If the current mode is cdda-play, specifying cdda-save
              will enable both cdda-play and cdda-save modes.  Specifying a
              cdda mode twice will disable that mode.  If no cdda mode is
              active, then the mode will revert to standard.  Specifying
              standard mode will disable all cdda modes.

       jittercorr [on | off]
              Enables or disables CDDA jitter correction.  If no argument is
              used, then the current setting is displayed.

       trackfile [on | off]
              For CDDA-save mode, specifies whether a separate file should be
              created for each CD track.  If no argument is used, then the
              current setting is displayed.

       subst [on | off]
              For CDDA-save mode, specifies whether space and tab characters
              in the output file path name should be substituted with
              underscores ('_').  This makes the files easier to manipulate
              while using the UNIX command shell.  If no argument is used,
              then the current setting is displayed.

       filefmt format
              Specifies the output audio file format if running in cdda-save
              or cdda-pipe modes.  The format is one of the following: raw,
              au, wav, aiff, aiff-c, mp3, ogg, flac, aac or mp4.

       outfile ["template"]
              Specifies the output audio file path name if running in cdda-
              save mode.  If no argument is used, then the currently defined
              template is displayed.  See the xmcd help file on the output
              file path template for information about the special tokens that
              could be used in the template.

       pipeprog ["path [arg ...]"]
              Specifies the external program to which the audio stream will be
              piped to when running in cdda-pipe mode.  If no argument is
              used, then the currently defined program is displayed.

       compress [<0 | 3> [bitrate#] | <1 | 2> [qual#]]
              Selects the compression mode for compressed file formats, as
              follows:

              For MP3, the modes are as follows:
              0    Constant bitrate (CBR)
              1    Variable bitrate (VBR, old algorithm)
              2    Variable bitrate (VBR, new algorithm, faster)
              3    Average bit rate (ABR)

              For Ogg Vorbis and MP4, all modes are VBR, as follows:
              0, 3 Use an average bit rate
              1, 2 Use a quality factor

              For FLAC, the modes are as follows:
              0    None
              1    Enable exhaustive LP coefficient quant. search
              2    Enable encoding correctness verification
              3    Enable both

              For AAC, all modes are VBR, as follows:
              0    Use an average bit rate, MPEG-2
              1    Use a quality factor, MPEG-2
              2    Use a quality factor, MPEG-4
              3    Use an average bit rate, MPEG-4

              For modes 0 and 3, an optional bitrate (in kb/s) sub-argument
              can be specified.  The supported bitrates are a discrete set of
              numbers from 32 to 320.  A value of 0 can also be used to
              indicate the use of an internal default.  For modes 1 and 2, an
              optional quality factor (from 1 to 10) sub-argument can be used.
              Lower bitrates and quality factor values yield smaller files
              whereas higher numbers produce higher audio quality.  For AAC
              and MP4 formats, the bitrate you specify will be double the
              actual bitrate (e.g., if you specify 128kbps, the actual bitrate
              used will be 64kbps).  The bitrate or quality values, if
              specified, are ignored for the FLAC format.  If no argument is
              used, then the current settings are displayed.

       min-brate [bitrate#]
              In average bitrate and variable bitrate modes, this commands
              lets you specify a low bitrate limit.  The encoder will not drop
              below this limit while dynamically changing the bitrate.  A
              value of 0 can be specified to indicate the use of an internal
              default.  If no argument is used, then the current setting is
              displayed.  This parameter has no effect on the FLAC, AAC or MP4
              format.

       max-brate [bitrate#]
              In average bitrate and variable bitrate modes, this commands
              lets you specify a high bitrate limit.  The encoder will not go
              above this limit while dynamically changing the bitrate.  A
              value of 0 can be specified to indicate the use of an internal
              default.  If no argument is used, then the current setting is
              displayed.  This parameter has no effect on the FLAC, AAC or MP4
              format.

       coding [stereo | j-stereo | force-ms | mono | algo#>]fR
              This command selects the stereo mode and encoding noise-
              shaping/psychoacoustics algorithm.  If no argument is used, then
              the current settings are displayed.

              For MP3, the algorithm is a number from 1 to 10.  Lower numbers
              gives faster encoding whereas higher numbers produce higher
              audio quality.

              For AAC and MP4, stereo disables the mid/side coding, j-stereo
              and force-ms are synonymous, and mono is not supported.  An
              algorithm value of 10 enables temporal noise shaping (TNS).

              For FLAC, the stereo modes have no effect, but the algorithm
              value selects between faster encoding versus slightly better
              compression.

              For Ogg Vorbis, this parameter has no effect.

       lowpass [off | auto | freq# [width#]]
              This allows a lowpass filter to be added.  The off setting means
              no filter, the auto setting causes the encoder to determine
              whether a filter should be added and its parameters.  Specifying
              a frequency (and optionally, a width) will enable the filter in
              manual mode.  The frequency and width are both in Hz.  The valid
              frequency range is from 16 to 50000 Hz.  For MP3, the filter
              functions fully as described.  For AAC and MP4, the freq can be
              used to limit the bandwidth, but the width is ignored.  For Ogg
              Vorbis and FLAC, these parameters have no effect.  If no
              argument is used, then the current settings are displayed.

       highpass [off | auto | freq# [width#]]
              For encoding to MP3 files, this allows a highpass filter to be
              added.  The off setting means no filter, the auto setting causes
              the encoder to determine whether a filter should be added and
              its parameters.  Specifying a frequency (and optionally, a
              width) will enable the filter in manual mode.  The frequency and
              width are both in Hz.  The valid frequency range is from 500 to
              50000 Hz.  The lower limit is imposed by the polyphase filter
              implementation in the MP3 encoder.  For non-MP3 formats, these
              parameters have no effect.  If no argument is used, then the
              current settings are displayed.

       flags [C|c][O|o][N|n][E|e][I|i]
              This allows you to specify some MP3 header and frame flags.  The
              letter c denotes the "copyright" flag, the letter o denotes the
              "original" flag, the letter n denotes the "no res" (no bit
              reservoir) flag, the letter e denotes the addition of a 2-byte
              checksum to each frame for error correction, and the letter i
              indicates strict ISO compatibility.  The use of a upper-case
              letter turns on the flag, and lower-case turns off the flag.
              Multiple flags may be specified together.  If no argument is
              used, then the current settings are displayed.

       lameopts [<disable | insert | append | replace> ["options"]]
              This command allows you to query or set command line options to
              be passed directly to the LAME MP3 encoder, and control how
              those options will be passed.  This facilitates the use of
              advanced or experimental LAME features that cannot otherwise be
              invoked via the cda command line interface for setting encoding
              parameters.  The following keywords control how the command line
              options are to be passed:

              disable: No additional command line options are to be passed.
              insert: The specified options are to be inserted before the
              standard options.
              append: The specified options are to be appended after the
              standard options.
              replace: The specified options are to be used instead of the
              standard options.

              Standard options refers to the LAME command line options that
              cda generates, based on the current settings (and can be altered
              by other encoding related cda commands above).  If no argument
              is used, then the current settings are displayed.

       tag [off | v1 | v2 | both]
              This command specifies whether CD information (such as album and
              track artists and titles, genre type, etc.) should be added to
              the CDDA output file.  For MP3, the information is added to
              either the version 1, version 2 or both versions of the ID3 tag
              areas.  For Ogg Vorbis, FLAC and MP4, the information is added
              to the metadata area.
              Note: An ID3v2 tag will not be added to the cdda-pipe MP3 stream
              regardless of the setting of this command.

       device Displays the CD drive and device information.

       version
              Displays the cda version and copyright information.

       cddbreg
              Invoke dialog to register with Gracenote in order to access the
              CDDB2 service.  This command can be used to do the initial
              registration, as well as to change or update user registration
              information.  This function is not available with the "classic"
              CDDB service.

       cddbhint
              Ask Gracenote to send the password hint via e-mail.  This is
              used in case you forget the CDDB user password.  The password
              and password hint are both initially set via the cddbreg
              command.  This function is not available with the "classic" CDDB
              service.

       motd   Retrieve and display messages from the xmcd MOTD server, if any.
              Note that messages are displayed by the cda daemon rather than
              the client process.  Thus, it will be displayed on the terminal
              where the daemon was started.

       debug [level#]
              Show, or set the debug level.  If set, verbose debugging
              diagnostics will be printed on stderr of the terminal that the
              cda daemon is started from.  If this is the same terminal that
              is running cda in visual mode, the debug information will
              corrupt the screen.  See the description of the -debug option
              above for supported debug levels.

       visual Enter an interactive, screen-oriented visual mode.  Most other
              cda commands can also be invoked within this mode.


DEVICE CONFIGURATION
       See xmcd(1) for a description of the device configuration requirements.

       WARNING: If cda is not correctly configured, you may cause cda to
       deliver commands that are not supported by your CD drive.  Under some
       environments this may lead to system hang or crash.


USING CDA
       Start the cda daemon with the cda on command (or the F1 (o) function in
       visual mode).  This reserves the CD device and initializes the program
       for further commands.  All other cda functions will not work unless the
       cda daemon is running.  The other cda commands should be self
       explanatory.

       The off command (or the F1 (o) function in visual mode) can be used to
       terminate the cda daemon and release the CD drive for use by other
       software.


VISUAL MODE
       If the cda visual command is used, it enters a screen-oriented visual
       mode.  In this mode, the status and other information available is
       continuously displayed and updated on the screen, and most functions
       are available via a single key stroke.

       The minimum terminal screen size for the visual mode is 80 columns by 9
       rows.  If your terminal is made to be smaller than that (for example,
       an xterm(1) window that has been sized too small), the output will be
       garbled.  For best results, an 80x24 or larger terminal screen should
       be used.

       Visual mode uses the curses screen library to control the screen.  It
       is essential that the TERM environment variable reflect the current
       terminal type, which ideally should have 8 (or more) function keys.
       Since function key definitions in terminfo descriptions are often
       unreliable, alphabetic key alternatives are also available.

       The screen is divided into two windows: an information window and a
       status window.  According to context, the information window displays a
       help screen, device and version information, disc information and table
       of contents, or extended information about the track.  This window is
       scrollable if it overflows its allotted screen area.  The status window
       consists of the last few lines of the screen, enclosed in a box.  The
       first line contains the program list, or track number and offset
       together with volume, balance and stereo/mono information.  The
       remaining lines contain the function keys (with their alphabetic
       synonymns) and the functions they invoke.  These functions are
       highlighted when they are on, making it easy to see the current state.

       Screen annotation and online help make operation self explanatory, but
       for reference, a list of commands follows. Alphabetic key alternatives
       to function keys are given in parenthesis.


       ?      Display help screen. Dismiss this screen by pressing the space
              bar.

       F1 (o) On/Off. Start or stop the cda daemon.

       F2 (j) Load or eject the CD.

       F3 (p) Play, pause or unpause.

       F4 (s) Stop.

       F5 (k) Enable/disable the CD caddy lock. When locked, the CD cannot be
              ejected using the CD drive front-panel eject button.

       F6 (u) Shuffle/Program.  Pressing this key cycles through three states:
              normal, shuffle and program. In shuffle mode, the tracks of the
              CD will be played in random order.  On entering program mode,
              cda will prompt for a space or comma separated list of track
              numbers, representing a desired playing order. The list should
              be terminated by carriage return.  An empty list returns cda to
              normal mode.  Shuffle and program mode cannot be engaged unless
              a CD is loaded but not playing or paused.

       F7 (e) Enable/disable repeat mode.

       F8 (q) Terminate the visual mode.  If the cda daemon is running, a
              reminder of the fact is given and it is allowed to continue.
              The CD drive will continue operating in the same state.  Cda may
              be invoked again in either visual or line mode when required.

       D/d    Change to the previous/next disc on multi-disc changes.

       Cursor left/right (C/c)
              Previous/next track. This is only valid if playback is already
              in progress.

       </>    Proceed to the previous/next index mark. This is only valid if
              playback is already in progress.

       Cursor up/down (^/v)
              Scroll the information portion of the screen up or down. It may
              be scrolled up only until the last line is on the top line of
              the screen, and may not be scrolled down beyond the initial
              position. The initial scroll position is restored when different
              information is displayed, (e.g., when switching to or from the
              help information).

       +/-    Increase or decrease volume by 5%.

       l/r    Move balance 5% to left or right.

       Tab    Successive depressions of this key change the mode from stereo
              to mono, mono right, mono left, reverse stereo, and back to
              normal stereo.

       <n> [mins secs]
              Proceed to track n at mins minutes and secs seconds from the
              start. If mins secs is not given, start at the beginning of
              track n.

       ^l/^r  Control-l or control-r repaints the screen.  This is useful if
              the screen content has been corrupted (e.g., by operator
              messages sent by the wall(1M) command).


CD DATABASE
       The Gracenote CDDB(R) Music Recognition Service(sm) feature is
       supported by cda, which allows you to display the disc artists/title,
       track titles, and other information about the CD or tracks via the toc,
       extinfo and notes commands of cda.  In visual mode, this information is
       displayed automatically if available.  You cannot add, modify or submit
       CDDB information via cda.  For more details about CDDB, see xmcd(1) and
       the CDDB file that comes with this release.

       This release of cda also supports reading the CD-TEXT data from the
       disc for CD information.  Only some recent CDs are produced with CD-
       TEXT data and this data can only be read on CD drives with CD-TEXT
       capability.

       The priority of the CD information schemes (CDDB, CD-TEXT or local CD
       database files) is controlled via the cdinfoPath parameter in the
       common.cfg file.


PLAYBACK MODES
       This release supports the following user-selectable playback modes (via
       the cda mode command):


       standard
              When playing an audio CD, the audio output is the analog "line
              out" connection on the back of your CD drive.  There should be
              an audio cable connecting this output to your computer audio
              hardware CD input (or to an externally amplfied speaker or
              stereo system).  The audio output is also available at the CD
              drive's front panel headphone connection, if so equipped.  The
              cda volume command affect the CD drive's built-in volume
              control, if the drive has such controls.  This is the mode that
              previous releases (cda version 1.x through 3.0) supported.


       cdda-play
              When playing a CD in this mode, cda extracts the CD digital
              audio data off the CD drive over the data cable (e.g., SCSI or
              ATAPI/IDE).  Then, it sends the data to the DSP (digital signal
              processor) device in your computer's audio hardware for real-
              time playback.  The audio is typically heard through the
              computer's built-in speakers.  No signal is produced at the
              line-out or headphone connections of the CD drive.  The cda
              volume command affects the computer's DSP device.


       cdda-save
              When playing a CD in this mode, cda extracts the CD digital
              audio data off the CD drive over the data cable (e.g., SCSI or
              ATAPI/IDE).  Then, it writes the data into a file of your
              choosing.  The cda volume command does not affect the data
              written to the output file.  The output file format can be
              selected to be one of the following:

              Format Ext   Description
              ------ ----- ---------------------------------------
              RAW    .raw  Little-endian, 16 bit, 44.1 kHz, stereo
              AU     .au   Big-endian, 16 bit, 44.1 kHz, stereo
              WAV    .wav  Little-endian, 16 bit, 44.1 kHz, stereo
              AIFF   .aiff Big-endian, 16 bit, 44.1 kHz, stereo
              AIFF-C .aifc Big-endian, 16 bit, 44.1 kHz, stereo
              MP3    .mp3  MPEG 1.0 Layer III compressed
              OGG    .ogg  Ogg Vorbis compressed
              FLAC   .flac Free Lossless Audio CODEC compressed
              AAC    .aac  AAC (MPEG-2 or MPEG-4) compressed
              MP4    .mp4  MP4 (MPEG-4) compressed

              The file can be played later using an appropriate playback
              utility, or converted to another format.  This mode will
              typically run faster than real-time with the non-compressed
              formats.  With the compressed formats, it depends on the CPU
              performance of your system.


       cdda-pipe
              When playing a CD in this mode, cda extracts the CD digital
              audio data off the CD drive over the data cable (e.g., SCSI or
              ATAPI/IDE).  Then, it pipes the data stream to an external
              program that you specify.  The output format is selected as in
              the CDDA save to file mode.  This mode can be used with an
              external audio player, encoder, or other digital audio
              manipulation program.  The external program must be capable of
              accepting audio data on its standard input, in one of the
              formats listed above.

       More than one of the three CDDA modes can be selected at the same time.
       For example, if both the cdda-play and the cdda-save modes are enabled,
       the two functions will be performed simultaneously.  Note that on most
       systems, only one program can access the system's DSP at a time,
       therefore you will likely not be able to select cdda-play and cdda-pipe
       at the same time, where the external program is itself an audio player.

       NOTE: The CDDA (CD digital audio) modes will function only on CD drives
       that provides this capability, and only on some OS and hardware
       platforms.  See the RELNOTES file for details about platform support
       and other CDDA related notes.


LOCALIZATION
       The "classic" CDDB service supplies data in the ISO Latin-1 format
       only, multi-byte characters are not supported.

       The CDDB2 service supplies data in UTF-8 data format, which is
       identical to US-ASCII for single-byte characters.  Multi-byte UTF-8
       characters are also supported.  By default, cda will translate the
       characters to ISO Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1, for English and many European
       character sets).  By changing the setting of the charsetConvMode
       parameter in the common.cfg file, you can have cda display the UTF-8
       data without conversion (good for US-ASCII or if you are using UTF-8
       fonts), or attempt to convert UTF-8 strings to the default character
       set as specified by the LANG environment variable.  This conversion
       will occur only if the system's list of locales also support UTF-8.

       If you desire to view CDDB data in languages other than English or the
       ISO Latin-1 European character set, you may need to configure your
       display terminal to display the appropriate fonts (if the terminal has
       such capabilities).  Terminal font configuration is device-dependent,
       OS-dependent and beyond the scope of this document.  Please see your
       display terminal's documentation (or in the case of a computer graphics
       console, the operating system's console font related documentation for
       information.

       Non-CDDB text (such as headings, labels and error messages) are not
       localized in cda.


NOTES
       Not all platforms and CD drives support all the features of cda.  For
       example, some drives do not support a software-driven volume control.
       On these drives the cda volume and balance commands may have no effect,
       or may simply change the volume between full mute and maximum.
       Similarly, the lock, disc, index, and route commands of cda may not
       have any effect on drives that do not support the appropriate
       functionality.

       The lame(1) MP3 encoder program must be installed on your system in
       order for cda to perform CD ripping to MP3 format files.  Similarly,
       the faac(1) encoder program must be installed on your system for the
       AAC and MP4 formats.

       Your copy of the cda executable must be compiled and linked with the
       Ogg Vorbis and FLAC encoder libraries in order to perform CD ripping to
       these formats.  See the INSTALL file for details.


ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The LANG environment variable sets the default character set.  See
       "LOCALIZATION" above.

       The LAME_PATH environment variable may be used to specify the path to
       the lame(1) MP3 encoder program.

       The FAAC_PATH environment variable may be used to specify the path to
       the faac(1) AAC/MP4 encoder program.

       The AUDIODEV environment variable may be used to specify an alternate
       audio device when running cda in the cdda-play mode.  The default audio
       device is write method dependent as follows:

           AIX write method:   /dev/paud0/1   (PCI audio)
           AIX write method:   /dev/baud0/1   (MCA audio)
           ALSA write method:  plughw:0,0
           HP-UX write method: /dev/audio
           Linux/OSS write method:  /dev/dsp
           OSF1 write method:  0
           Solaris write method:    /dev/audio

       In addition, with the OSS and ALSA write methods, the MIXERDEV
       environment variable may be used to specify the PCM mixer channel
       device.  The default is /dev/mixer for OSS, and default for ALSA.

       On FreeBSD with ATAPI CD drives, cda will automatically use either the
       CDIOCREADAUDIO ioctl or the pread(2) system call for CDDA reads, based
       on the running kernel version.  You may override the default by setting
       the environment variable CDDA_USE_PREAD to 0 or 1, respectively.
       Normally this is not necessary.


FILES
       $HOME/.cddb2/∗
       $HOME/.xmcdcfg/∗
       XMCDLIB/cdinfo/∗
       XMCDLIB/config/config.sh
       XMCDLIB/config/common.cfg
       XMCDLIB/config/device.cfg
       XMCDLIB/config/.tbl/∗
       XMCDLIB/config/∗
       XMCDLIB/help/∗
       BINDIR/cda
       MANDIR/cda.1
       /tmp/.cdaudio/∗


RELATED WEB SITES
       Xmcd/cda web site: http://www.amb.org/xmcd/
       Gracenote web site: http://www.cddb.com/
       Xmmix web site: http://www.amb.org/xmmix/
       LAME MP3 encoder: http://www.mp3dev.org/
       Ogg Vorbis: http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis/
       FLAC (Free Lossless Audio CODEC): http://flac.sourceforge.net/
       FAAC (AAC/MP4 encoder): http://www.audiocoding.com/
       Hydrogen Audio (discussion forums): http://www.hydrogenaudio.org/
       Sox audio format conversion utility: http://www.spies.com/Sox/


SEE ALSO
       xmcd(1), xmmix(1), X(1), lame(1), faac(1), sox(1)
       Xmcd's README, PLATFORM, DRIVES, INSTALL and RELNOTES files


AUTHOR
       Ti Kan (xmcd@amb.org)
       AMB Laboratories, Sunnyvale, CA, U.S.A.
       Cda also contains code contributed by several dedicated individuals.
       See the ACKS file in the cda distribution for information.
       Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.

v3.3.2                             04/04/21                             CDA(1)
