XMENU(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               XMENU(1)

NAME
       xmenu - menu utility for X

SYNOPSIS
       xmenu [-irw] [-p position] [-x|-X [modifier-]button] [title]

DESCRIPTION
       xmenu is a menu for X, it reads a list of newline-separated items from
       stdin, shows a menu for the user to select one of the items, and
       outputs the item selected to stdout.

       The options are as follows:

       -i     Disable icons.  This makes xmenu loading faster when not using
              icons.

       -p position
              Set the position to spawn xmenu.  Without this option, xmenu
              spawns next to the cursor.  position is a string of the form
              INTxINT[:MONITOR], where the first INT is the x position and the
              second INT is the y position.  The monitor part between brackets
              is optional.  MONITOR can be a number from 0 to the number of
              monitors minus 1; or it can be a string like current or cursor.
              If present, the monitor specifies that the position is relative
              to the upper left corner of that monitor.  If monitor is current
              or cursor, the monitor to be used is that where the cursor is
              in.  For example, -p 0x0:cursor specifies that xmenu must spawn
              at the position 0x0 of the monitor where the cursor is in.  And
              -p 100x500:0 specifies that xmenu must spawn at the position
              100x500 of the monitor 0.

       -r     If this option is set, the right mouse button is disabled; so
              pressing it will not trigger any menu item.

       -w     Asks the window manager to draw a border around the menus.  This
              option may be buggy in some window managers, specially tiled
              ones that do not respect window hints.

       -x [mod-]button
              This option requires an argument of the form mod-button or
              button; where mod is Mod1 to Mod5, or Alt (equivalent to Mod1),
              or Super (equivalent to Mod4); and button is the number of a
              mouse button.  When this option is used, xmenu listens to button
              presses on the root window, and shows the pie menu when the
              given button is pressed, together with the given modifier, on
              the root window.  For example, invoking xmenu with the option -x
              Super-3 makes a menu open when clicking with the third mouse
              button on the root window, or when clicking with the third mouse
              button together with the Super (Mod4) modifier on any window.
              This option makes xmenu run continuously; so it should be used
              when xmenu is invoked in background on a X startup file (like
              ~/.xinitrc).

       -X [mod-]button
              Just like -x, but also pass the click to the root window (for
              the window manager to use it, for example).  This option is
              incompatible with -x.

       Each item read from stdin has the following format:

              ITEM := [TABS] [[IMAGE TABS] LABEL [TABS OUTPUT]] NEWLINE

       That means that each item is composed by tabs, followed by an optional
       image specification, followed by tabs followed by a label, followed by
       more tabs, followed by an output, and ended by a newline.  Brackets
       group optional elements.

              The initial tabs indicate the menu hierarchy: items indented
              with a tab is shown in a submenu of the preceding item not
              indented.  An item without initial tabs is a top-level item.

              The image is a string of the form "IMG:/path/to/image.png".  It
              specifies the path to a image file to be shown as icon at the
              left of the entry.  If the path does not begin with "/", "./" or
              "../", the file is searched on the paths specified in the
              ICONPATH environment variable.

              The label is the string that will be shown as a item in the
              menu.  An item without label is considered a separator and is
              drawn as a thin line in the menu separating the item above from
              the item below.

              The output is the string that will be output after selecting the
              item.  If an item does not have an output, its label is used as
              its output.

              The newline terminates the item specification.

       If the argument title is given, the title of the menu window is set to
       it.

USAGE
       xmenu is controlled by the mouse, but can also be controlled by the
       keyboard.  Items can be selected using the arrow keys, Tab (with and
       without Shift), Home, End, Enter and Esc, and 1-9 keys.  Items can also
       be selected by typing the first several characters in it.

       Home   Select the first item in the menu.

       End    Select the last item in the menu.

       Down   Cycle through the items in the regular direction.

       Tab    Cycle through the items in the regular direction.  When the
              type-to-select feature is active, cycle through matching items
              instead.

       Up     Cycle through the items in the reverse direction.

       Shift-Tab
              Cycle through the items in the reverse direction.  When the
              type-to-select feature is active, cycle through matching items
              instead.

       Right, Enter
              Select the highlighted item.

       Left   Go to the menu above.

       Esc    Go to the menu above or exit xmenu.

       xmenu features the type-to-select selecting style, where typing a
       string will select the first item matching it.

       Additional key bindings can be set at compile time by changing the
       config.h file.

RESOURCES
       xmenu understands the following X resources.

       xmenu.font
              The font in which the labels should be drawn.  Multiple fonts
              can be added as fallback fonts; they must be separated by a
              comma.

       xmenu.background
              The background color of non-selected items in the menu.

       xmenu.foreground
              The color of the label text of non-selected items in the menu.

       xmenu.selbackground
              The background color of selected items in the menu.

       xmenu.selforeground
              The color of the label text of selected items in the menu.

       xmenu.border
              The color of the border around the menu.

       xmenu.separator
              The color of the separator between items in the menu.

       xmenu.gap
              The gap, in pixels, between the menus.

       xmenu.width
              The minimum width, in pixels, of the items in the menu.

       xmenu.height
              The size in pixels of the height of a single menu item.

       xmenu.borderWidth
              The size in pixels of the border around the menu.

       xmenu.separatorWidth
              The size in pixels of the item separator.

       xmenu.alignment
              If set to "left", "center", or "right", text is aligned to the
              left, center, or right of the menu, respectively.  By default,
              text is aligned to the left.

       xmenu.maxItems
              Maximum number of items to be displayed in a menu.  If more a
              menu has more than this number of items, they will be scrolled
              with arrow buttons.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables affect the execution of xmenu.

       DISPLAY
              The display to start xmenu on.

       ICONPATH
              A colon-separated list of directories used to search for the
              location of image files.

EXAMPLES
       The following script illustrates the use of xmenu.  The output is
       redirected to sh(1), creating a command to be run by the shell.

              #!/bin/sh

              xmenu <<EOF | sh &
              Applications
                   IMG:./web.png  Web Browser    firefox
                   IMG:./gimp.png Image editor   gimp
              Terminal (xterm)                   xterm
              Terminal (urxvt)                   urxvt
              Terminal (st)                      st

              Shutdown                           poweroff
              Reboot                             reboot
              EOF

       For example, by selecting “Applications”, a new menu will appear.
       Selecting “Web Browser” in the new menu opens firefox.

SEE ALSO
       dmenu(1), 9menu(1), thingmenu(1)

                                                                      XMENU(1)
