XMILLE(6)                    FreeBSD Games Manual                    XMILLE(6)



NAME
       xmille - X window mille bourne game

SYNOPSIS
       xmille [restore-file]

DESCRIPTION
       Xmille brings up a window for a mille bournes game.  When selecting one
       of your cards, the left button plays the card, the right button
       discards the card and the middle button chooses whichever is
       appropriate, first trying to play the card, and then discarding it.
       For those who don't know, the point behind mille bournes is to get to
       700 miles before your opponent.  You can opt for an extension, and for
       extra points go the full 1000 (mille) miles (bournes).  You must get
       exactly the correct number of miles.
       You can try and stop your opponent with various "battle" cards.  It
       will try and stop you.  You can counter the "battle" cards with the
       appropriate gasoline, repair, Go, or spare tire card.  Or you may have
       a "Safety", with will make it impossible for your opponent to hurt you
       in some fashion.  It's a good idea to keep your Safety's in your hand
       (unless your opponent gets close to the end).  If your opponent, say,
       hands you an "out of gas" card and you have the Tanker truck card, you
       play it immediately and cry out, "Coup Fourre'!!"  (pronounced, "KOO
       four RAY")  You get bonus points for that.  For full game rules, see
       the Parker Brothers card game by the same name.
       There are now keyboard equivalents for some of the actions:
       p  - Pick a card
       u# - use card number "#"  (1-6)
       up - use picked card
       d# - discard card number "#" (1-6)
       dp - discard picked card
       Q  - absolute Quit, doesn't check with you before doing so.
       s  - save game

AUTHOR
       Keith Packard
       Dave Lemke
       Dana Chee
       Keyboard stuff and minor mods by: Mike Schwager (schwager@wwa.com)

SEE ALSO
BUGS
       It does not accept any X arguments, including the -display argument.
       The DISPLAY environment variable must be set for it to work
       Sometimes it crashes if you win :-(.  I need to look into it further.
       If you can reproduce it on a regular basis, or if you can figure it
       out, that would be great! -Mike, 3/28/96



X Version 11                      April 1992                         XMILLE(6)
