XMLCATMGR(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           XMLCATMGR(1)

NAME
     xmlcatmgr – XML and SGML catalog manager

SYNOPSIS
     xmlcatmgr [-hpsv] [-c catalog] action [action_arg ...]

DESCRIPTION
     xmlcatmgr is a utility used to manipulate SGML and XML catalogs.  It is
     designed with simplicity in mind: it does not depend on external programs
     nor libraries.  This manpage corresponds to xmlcatmgr version 2.2.

     A catalog is a lookup mechanism used to translate entities into other
     different entities.  They can, for example, map public identifiers to
     local files or URIs.  This allows you to tell the parser where to look
     for entities without having to modify the original document source.

     Catalogs come in two different formats: SGML catalogs and XML catalogs.
     The former are supported by many programs, as are very easy to parse and
     have existed for a long time.  XML catalogs are quite recent and are much
     more powerful than the others.  xmlcatmgr can manage both of them, but
     its default behavior is to handle XML catalogs (hence, the name of the
     program).

     The following options are available:

     -c catalog  Use catalog as the catalog file.  If not specified, the
                 catalog defaults to /usr/local/share/xml/catalog.ports if
                 running in XML mode, or to
                 /usr/local/share/sgml/catalog.ports if running in SGML mode
                 (see the -s flag).

     -h          Show a descriptive usage message and exit.

     -p          When adding a new entry to a catalog (using the add action),
                 prepend it instead of inserting it at the end.

     -s          Use the standard SGML catalog format to parse the catalog,
                 instead of the XML format.

     -v          Show version information and exit.

     The action argument specifies what to do with the catalog file.  It is
     mandatory and may require extra arguments.  The action name can be
     preceded by the ‘--’ string, to maintain some compatibility with the
     xmlcatalog utility included in the libxml2 package.

     The following actions are available:

     add type orig replace  Add an entry to the catalog.  type specifies the
                            type of entry (see below), orig is the public
                            identifier to be replaced and replace is the
                            system URI used to do the replacement.

                            If replace is the ‘--’ string, it is ignored.
                            This is specially useful in scripts, as you can
                            parse three arguments at a time regardless the
                            current type expectations.

                            If all entries can be added successfully, the
                            program returns 0; otherwise >0.

     create                 Create an empty catalog.  Produces an error if it
                            already exists.

     destroy                Delete the catalog file.

     lookup value           Check if given entries exist in the catalog,
                            specified by their value argument.  This matches
                            the value passed to orig when using the ‘add’
                            action.  All entries found are printed to standard
                            output.

                            Note that this action does not recurse into
                            catalogs, nor does network lookups.  It is only
                            provided to check if entries exist in an specific
                            catalog, to decide if they should be registered or
                            not.

                            If all entries exist, the program returns 0;
                            otherwise >0.

     remove type value      Remove entries from the catalog, specified by
                            their type and their value.  The former provides
                            the type of entry (see below), while the later
                            matches the value passed in the orig parameter
                            when using the ‘add’ action.

                            If just one argument is provided, all matching
                            entries are removed, regardless their type.  This
                            is only provided for command line compatibility
                            with all previous versions, so do not use it any
                            more (a warning message will be shown).

                            If all entries were removed successfully, the
                            program returns 0; otherwise >0.

     When parsing SGML catalogs, the type used by ‘add’ and ‘remove’ actions
     can be one of the following: ‘BASE’, ‘CATALOG’, ‘DELEGATE’, ‘DOCTYPE’,
     ‘DOCUMENT’, ‘ENTITY’, ‘LINKTYPE’, ‘NOTATION’, ‘OVERRIDE’, ‘PUBLIC’,
     ‘SGMLDECL’ and ‘SYSTEM’.  When parsing XML catalogs, it can be:
     ‘delegatePublic’, ‘delegateSystem’, ‘delegateURI’, ‘group’ (not
     supported), ‘nextCatalog’, ‘public’, ‘rewriteSystem’, ‘rewriteURI’,
     ‘system’ and ‘uri’.

SEE ALSO
     •   http://www.jclark.com/sp/catalog.htm - Quick introduction to the SGML
         catalog format.

     •   http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/entity/spec.html - Full
         reference of the XML catalog format.

     •   http://www.xmlsoft.org/ - libxml2 homepage.

     •   http://xmlcatmgr.sourceforge.net/ - xmlcatmgr homepage.

HISTORY
     xmlcatmgr was created because the NetBSD Packages Collection needed a
     very small catalog manager to automatically (un)register catalog entries
     when (de)installing packages.

     It was released as an independant program through Sourceforge in the hope
     that it is useful to more people.

     For a list of changes between versions, see:
     /usr/local/share/doc/xmlcatmgr/CHANGES.

AUTHORS
     The xmlcatmgr utility was written by Julio M. Merino Vidal
     ⟨jmmv@users.sourceforge.net⟩.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE              May 1, 2004             FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
