XMMIX(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               XMMIX(1)



NAME
       xmmix - Audio mixer utility for X11/Motif


SYNOPSIS
       xmmix [toolkitoption ...] [-dev device] [-autoload path] [-exitreset]
       [-debug] [-demo]


DESCRIPTION
       Xmmix is a program that allows the use of the mixer section of the
       sound card hardware supported by the VoxWare driver.  See the README
       file in the xmmix distribution for further information about VoxWare.

       There are up to ten input level sliders (Synth, PCM, Alt PCM, Line,
       Line-1, Line-2, Line-3, Mic, CD) and up to four output level sliders
       (Rec Mon, Rec Out, Speaker and Master).  The Input Gain control, Output
       Gain control, Bass and Treble tone control sliders are also available.
       Each of the level sliders include a "lock" toggle button which allows
       the settings of the two stereo channels to be changed simultaneously or
       independently.  The input controls also include a "rec" button (where
       applicable), which allows the input sources to be selected for
       recording.  The tone control sliders have a "Flat" button which causes
       these controls to revert to the center setting.  In addition, these
       controls are available: a "Mute" button to silence the audio, a
       "Loudness" button to engage frequency response compensation, and an
       "Stereo Enhance" button to set the stereo separation enhancement.

       Xmmix queries the capabilities of the sound board during start-up, and
       will only display controls corresponding to features that are actually
       implemented in the hardware.

       The various controls in the xmmix main window are meant to be self
       explanatory.  Additional features include the ability to save mixer
       settings in a file and load it at a later time.  A "Reset" feature
       resets all controls to their start-up settings.

       While the use of a mouse is natural with xmmix, all functionality can
       also be operated via the keyboard.  This is in conformance to the
       guidelines published in the OSF/Motif Style Guide from the Open
       Software Foundation.


OPTIONS
       All standard Xt Intrinsics toolkit options are supported.  In addition,
       xmmix supports the following options:

       -dev_device
              Specifies the path name to the raw mixer device.  If this option
              is not used, the default device used is /dev/mixer.

       -autoload_path
              Specifies the path name to a mixer settings file that is
              automatically loaded when xmmix starts.  This forces all control
              settings to those specified in the file.  If this option is not
              used, then the control settings will be queried from the mixer
              hardware itself.  This option overrides the
              XMmix*autoLoadOnStartUp X resource.

       -exitreset
              Causes all mixer controls to reset to their start-up state when
              xmmix is exiting.  This option overrides the XMmix*resetOnExit X
              resource.

       -debug Causes verbose debugging diagnostics to be printed on stderr.

       -demo  Invokes xmmix in "demo" mode.  This causes xmmix to display all
              controls as if they are functional, but does not actually
              operate the sound hardware.


X RESOURCES
       Xmmix has many adjustable X resources to customize its look and feel,
       as well as its behavior.  Notably, the colors of virtually every
       feature on xmmix's windows can be changed, as well as the text fonts.

       The resource names and their defaults can be found in the LIBDIR/app-
       defaults/XMmix file (where LIBDIR is typically /usr/lib/X11).  It is
       not recommended that you change values in the LIBDIR/app-defaults/XMmix
       file, unless you want the changes to be forced upon all users of xmmix
       on the system.  Instead, make a copy of this file, change the copy as
       you see fit, then place it in your home directory.  Your custom
       resource settings will then override the defaults when xmmix is
       subsequently started.  Alternatively, you may also place specific
       resources you wish to override in the .Xdefaults file in your home
       directory.


SEE ALSO
       X(1).


AUTHOR
       Ti Kan (ti@amb.org)
       AMB Research Laboratories, Sunnyvale, CA, U.S.A.

       Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.

v1.2                             14 July 1996                         XMMIX(1)
