XMOONTOOL(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           XMOONTOOL(1)

NAME
       xmoontool - Moon For The Sun / Werewolf Early Warning System

SYNOPSIS
       xmoontool [-mctU]

DESCRIPTION
       Xmoontool is a Xwindows application which displays information about
       the moon in real time.  When closed (iconic) it displays a graphical
       representation of what the moon would look like right now if you were
       to go outside and look at it. (Go on, try it, the fresh air may do you
       some good).  When the window is open, the same image of the moon is
       displayed in the upper right of the window, along with more verbose
       information about both the moon and the sun (the bright yellow thing in
       the sky, not the thing you're staring at right now.  It's not a good
       idea to stare at the bright yellow thing).  The open window display is
       updated approximately once per second, the icon is updated every two
       minutes.

       Xmoontool will run on both monochrome and color displays.  Unless
       explicity told to run in either the monochrome (-m) or the color (-c)
       mode, xmoontool will automatically select the appropriate mode.  On
       color displays, the moon's face is rendered in eight colors in both the
       icon and the open window.  The darkened portion of the moon is visible
       on color displays as dark shades of blue.  On monochrome displays, only
       the illuminated portion of the face is drawn in.

       As an extra added bonus for users of color displays, the Apollo 11
       Commemorative Red Dot has been added to the face of the moon at the
       approximate location of Tranquility Base, to mark the 20th anniversary
       of An Historic Event.

       The image of the moon's face used by xmoontool, especially the color
       version, is quite accurate.  It was rendered on an Amiga by Joe
       Hitchens, an artist of no small talent, from an illustration in an
       astronomy textbook.

       If invoked with the -t option, xmoontool will start up in test mode.
       In test mode, the tool warps through time, updating the display as fast
       as possible, skipping approximately one hour per cycle.  A menu is
       available on the tool, for both the icon and the open window, which
       will let you switch in and out of test mode at will.  This is what's
       known as a cheap thrill, and can provide endless hours of entertainment
       (if you're easily entertained).

       The option -U effects the moon's and the sun's distances to be
       expressed in (statute) miles instead of the default kilometers.

       For those who are lycanthropically inclined, the open window tells you
       when the next full moon will occur.  This may or may not be something
       you'll want to know.

TEDIOUS TECHNICAL CREDITS
       Believe it or not, xmoontool uses some actual science and even
       authentic mathematics.  If you're into that sort of thing, you might
       like to know that the following books were used by the original author
       to create xmoontool:

       "Practical Astronomy With Your Calculator" by Peter Duffett-Smith,
       Second Edition, Cambridge University Press, 1981.

       "Astronomical Formulae for Calculators" by Jean Meeus, Third Edition,
       Willmann-Bell, 1985.

       "Planetary Programs and Tables from -4000 to +2800" by Pierre Bretagnon
       and Jean-Louis Simon, Willmann-Bell, 1986.

       "Celestial BASIC" by Eric Burgess, Revised Edition, Sybex, 1985.

       This one was used by Joe to render the moon image and by me to locate
       the Apollo 11 landing site:

       "Astronomy: From the Earth to the Universe" by Jay M. Pasachoff, Second
       Edition, Saunders College Publishing, 1983

SEE ALSO
       The real moon.

AUTHORS
            John Walker
            Autodesk SA
            Avenue des Champs-Montants 14b
            CH-2074 MARIN
            Switzerland
            Usenet: kelvin@Autodesk.com
            Fax:    038/33 88 15
            Voice:  038/33 76 33

       Original author of moontool (the one who did the hard part).

       Ron Hitchens, Independent Hacker.  Adder-on of various "features" and
       "improvements".  Culprit responsible for this stoopid man page.
        ronbo@vixen.uucp
        ...!uunet!cs.utah.edu!caeco!vixen!ronbo
        hitchens@cs.utexas.edu

4th Berkeley Distribution      15 SEPTEMBER 1993                  XMOONTOOL(1)
