XMOTO(6)                     FreeBSD Games Manual                     XMOTO(6)



NAME
       X-Moto—2D motocross platform game


SYNOPSIS
       xmoto [options]
       xmoto [options] replay.rpl
       xmoto [options] level.lvl


DESCRIPTION
       X-Moto is a challenging 2D motocross platform game, where physics plays
       an important role in the gameplay. You need to control your bike to its
       limit, if you want to have a chance finishing the more difficult of the
       challenges.


GAMEPLAY
       A number of strawberries are typically spread around each level, which
       generally consists of a complicated landscape seen from the side—i.e.
       much like islands in the sky. You need to collect all those berries to
       finish the level—when you've got the last one, you need find the
       sunflower which will complete the level when you touch it. Variations
       to this basic gameplay may be found around some of the levels.

       Your motocross bike is likewise seen from the side, and you control its
       throttle, braking, and simple changes to the attitude by jerking the
       bike back and forth. Additionally you can change the direction of your
       driving, by rotating on the spot.

       You control your bike using the keyboard. The following keys are the
       default values, but may be changed from inside the game:

       Up arrow
              Accelerate.

       Down arrow
              Brake.

       Left arrow
              Rotate counter-clockwise.

       Right arrow
              Rotate clockwise.

       Space  Turn around and drive in the other direction.


       Additionally, some other keys can be pressed while playing:

       Escape Pause the game, and open the in-game menu.

       TAB    Autozoom animation. Zooms out so that you can see the whole
              level.

       F2     Switch the camera to the ghost, so you can follow it and see how
              the level can be mastered.

       F3     Add the current level to favorites while playing. Press again to
              remove from favorites.

       F5     Restart the level while playing.  Rebuild the database if
              pressed while in the main menu.

       F7     Show/hide frames-per-second counter.

       F8     Activate/Deactivate Internet connection.

       F9     Switch to the "Ugly mode". Saves a lot of CPU time and shows
              some secret passages.

       F10    Theme Mode. It can be used to test custom graphics. Also helps
              to avoid wreckers.

       F11    Line Mode. This mode is mostly for testing. Draws lines around
              blocks and shows zones.

       F12    Take a Screenshot. The file is saved into the xmoto directory.

       Ctrl+i Toggle replay interpolation. Makes replays look smoother when
              turned on.

       Ctrl+m Toggle mirror mode. Wanna have twice as many levels?

       Ctrl+b Blacklist/unblacklist a level while playing.

       Ctrl+s enable/disable sound.

       Ctrl+o display the option window

       PgUp   Jump to the previous level while playing.

       PgDown Jump to the next level while playing.

       Alt+Enter
              Toggle fullscreen. Aslo changes your "run windowed/fullscreen"
              setting.

OPTIONS
       Most of these options also change your config settings, so be careful!

       -h, -?, -help, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -res, --resolution <widthxheight>
              Forces a specific display resolution.

       -fs, --fullscreen
              Forces the game to run in fullscreen mode.

       -win, --windowed
              Forces the game to run in windowed mode.

       --nosound
              Turns off sound effects, even if they are enabled in the config.

       -r, --replay <replay>
              Play the replay and quit afterwards.

       -ri, --replayInfos <replay>
              Display information about the replay and quit.

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose and output debug messages on the standard output.

       -l, --level  id
              Start playing the specified level right away. If id is a number
              the corresponding built-in level is selected, otherwise it
              should be the identifier of an external level (not the file
              name).

       --levelFile <FILE>
              Start playing the given level right away.

       -d, --debug
              Enables debug mode.

       -p, --profile  name
              Use the player profile specified by name.

       --children
              Force children compliant mode. It removes levels not suitable
              for children.

       --configpath path
              Use path as the xmoto configuration path.

       -ll, --listlevels
              Output the list of available levels and quit.

       -lr, --listreplays
              Output the list of available replays and quit.

       --fps  Enables framerate display.

       -td, --timedemo
              Tries to render the game as fast as possible. No delaying,
              maximum framerate.

       --benchmark
              Only meaningful when combined with --replay and --timedemo.
              Useful to determine graphics performance.

       --nowww
              Do not  allow xmoto to connect to the web.

       --testTheme
              Enables testThemeMode. This will display the collision forms
              over the sprites of the theme to check if the theme is nicely
              designed.

       --drawlib drawlib
              Choose which rendering engine to use (default one is OPENGL if
              available). You do not need this unless you *really* know what
              you are doing.

       --noexts
              Do not use any OpenGL extensions.

       --novobs
              Don't use VOB OpenGL extension (GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object).

       --ugly Enables "the ugly" mode. This will increase the game's framerate
              significantly, but it will also make the graphics look very
              ugly—most things inside the game will be drawn with lines, the
              rider for instance being a simple stick figure. This option is
              very useful if your system doesn't have a proper OpenGL-capable
              video card (like for instance if you have a laptop with on-board
              video card). If you have the right amount of CPU power, it
              should even be possible to run X-Moto in OpenGL software
              emulation mode (MesaGL on linux, Windows' OpenGL fallback
              driver, etc).

       --defaultTheme theme
              Set theme as default theme for new profiles created. This is
              mostly useful for packagers wanting to set the theme of their
              distribution by default.

       --noDBDirsCheck
              Don't check that system and user dirs changed at startup. It is
              mainly useful if you use X-Moto on a USB key.

       --server
              Run X-Moto as a server only (no gui).

       --serverPort <port>
              Specify the server port (with --server only).

       --serverAdminPassword <password>
              Specify a server admin password which is always valid (with
              --server only).

       --connectAtStartup
              Connect the client to the server at startup.

       --updateLevelsOnly
              Only update levels (no gui).

       --noLog
              Disable logging into xmoto.log

       --pack bin dir
              Build a bin package from the directory dir.

       --unpack bin dir no_list
              Unpack the bin package into the dir dir.  Add no_list if you do
              not need a list of all extracted files.

       --cleancache
              Deletes the content of the level cache.

       --cleanNoWWWLevels
              Check web levels list and remove levels which are not available
              on the web (removed files are put into ~/.xmoto/Trash/Levels)

       --sqlTrace
              Enable sql trace mode.

       --videoRecording
              Enable video recording while plaing/replaying (should be used
              with --replay and --benchmark).

       --videoRecordingSizeDivision DIVISION
              Change video size (1=full, 2=50%, 4=25%).

       --videoRecordingFramerate FRAMERATE
              Change video framerate.

       --videoRecordingStartTime NBCENTSOFSECONDS
              Start recording video after NBCENTSOFSECONDS time elapsed.

       --videoRecordingEndTime NBCENTSOFSECONDS
              Stop recording video after NBCENTSOFSECONDS time elapsed.

       --hidePlayingInformation
              Don't show some information while playing/replaying ; useful to
              make nicer video.


EXAMPLES
       view a replay in windowed mode:
       xmoto --windowed ~/.xmoto/Replays/replay.rpl
       disable sounds, Internet connection and play mylevel.lvl directly:
       xmoto --nosound --nowww mylevel.lvl



AUTHORS
       xmoto was written by Rasmus Neckelmann <neckelmann@gmail.com>, Nicolas
       Adenis-Lamarre <nadenislamarre@free.fr> and Emmanuel Gorse
       <e.gorse@free.fr>.


REPORTING BUGS
       Please fill out bug reports on our website:
       <http://todo.xmoto.tuxfamily.org/>, or write to xmoto@tuxfamily.org.



       This manual page was written by Samuel Mimram <smimram@debian.org>, for
       the Debian project. Updated by Amand Tihon <amand.tihon@alrj.org> and
       AvovA.

                                  2008-01-11                          XMOTO(6)
