xmessage(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            xmessage(1)

NAME
       xmsg - X window system message display program.

SYNOPSIS
       xmsg [-options ...] -m <message>

NOTE
       The xmsg command is identical in behaviour to the X11R4 version of
       xmessage but it also builds/installs/runs with X11R5, so it allows you
       to have the R4 behaviour on R5 machines.  The behaviour of the standard
       R5 version of xmessage is significantly different from, and
       incompatible with, the R4 version.  For the rest of this man page,
       where you see "xmessage", substitute "xmsg".

DESCRIPTION
       Xmsg opens a window on the screen that will contain the text of a
       message from either the command line or stdin.  This text may have a
       scroll bar along the left side to allow the user to browse through
       relatively long messages.  Along the lower edge of the message is list
       of words with boxes around them. Clicking the left mouse button on any
       of these "buttons" (words with boxes around them) will cause the
       message to go away.  If there is more than one "button" then some state
       will be returned to the invoker of the xmessage process via a change of
       the exit status of the program.

       This program serves two functions.  Firstly, it can be a method for
       shell scripts to present the user with information much as 'echo'
       allows in a tty environment, as well as allowing the user to answer
       simple questions.  Secondly it allows much of the functionality of
       'cat' again in a windowing versus tty environment.

       It should be noted that this program is intended for short messages,
       and will be quite slow when asked to handle long files from stdin.
       Although xmessage can accept input from stdin, this input is not
       allowed to come from a tty. If this is attempted, an error message will
       be printed. If xmessage is executed with an incorrect argument then it
       will print a usage message to standard output, as well as to an
       xmessage window.

COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       These are the command line options that xmessage understands.  Please
       note that some of these are inherited from the XToolkit and as the list
       of default toolkit options changes xmessage will follow.

       -printlabel
                       This will cause the program to print the label of the
                       button pressed to standard output (stdout).  I envision
                       this to be useful when popping up a message to a
                       friend, as in: "ready to go to lunch".  This allows you
                       to know if he clicked the "yes" or the "no" button.

       -noscroll (-nsb)
                       The scroll bar is active on the text window by default;
                       this causes it to be removed.

       -buttons <button> <button> ...
                       This option will cause xmessage to create one button
                       for each argument that follows it until something
                       starts with a '-'.  The string passed to the button is
                       the name of the Command button widget created and will
                       be the default text displayed to the user.  Since this
                       is the name of the widget it may be used to change any
                       of the Xresources associated with that button.

       -message <word> <word> ...
                       This must be the last argument in the command list, as
                       every argument after this one is assumed to be part of
                       the message.  There is no limit to the length of this
                       message.

       -geometry (height)x(width)+(x_offset)+(y_offset)
                       Sets the size and location of the window created by
                       xmessage.

       -bw <pixels>

       -borderwidth <pixels>
                       Specifies the width of the border for all windows in
                       xmessage.

       -bd <color>

       -bordercolor <color>
                       Specifies the color of the borders of all windows in
                       xmessage.

       -fg <color>

       -foreground <color>
                       Specifies the foreground color to be used.

       -bg <color>

       -background <color>
                       Specifies the background color to be used.

       -fn <font>

       -font <font>
                       Specifies the font to use for all buttons and text.

       -display <host:display[.screen]>
                       Specifies a display to use other than the default
                       specified by the DISPLAY environment variable.

       -name <name>
                       Specifies the name to use when retrieving resources.

       -title <title>
                       Specifies the title of this application.

       -xrm <resource>
                       Allows a resource to be specified on the command line.

WIDGET AND RESOURCE NAMES
       Resource management is an important part of X Toolkit applications, and
       xmessage is no exception.  All objects in xmessage can have many of
       their distinguishing characteristics changed by changing the resources
       associated with them.  Below is a brief list of the resources and what
       they modify.

       foreground                         - foreground color

       background                         - background color

       width & height                     - size

       borderWidth                        - border width

       borderColor                        - border color

       In order to change the default values for the widget resources you need
       to have the names; thus, below I have specified the names of some of
       the most common widgets.

       xmessage - (argv[0])               - shell widget that contains
                                          everything displayed.

       text                               - the text window.

       <button name>                      - each of the buttons. "okay" is
                                          default.

       You can also reference Widgets by class. The important classes for this
       application are: Command and Text.

       Here are a few examples of how to string all this information together
       into a resource specification that can be used on the command line with
       the -xrm flag, or added to your .Xresources file.

       xmessage*Command.foreground: Blue  All command buttons will be blue.

       xmessage*foreground: Blue          Everything in the xmessage window
                                          has a blue foreground.

       xmessage*Text.border: Red          The text widget has a red border.

       In addition Xmessage has a few specific application resources that
       allow customizations that are specific to xmessage.

       ScrollText
               A Boolean resource that determines whether you are allowed to
               scroll the text widget.  The default value is TRUE.

       printLabel
               A Boolean resource that determines whether or not the label of
               the button pressed to exit the program is printed. Default
               value is FALSE.

ERROR MESSAGES
       Xmessage errors may be printed into their own xmessage window.  This
       invocation of xmessage has a different name.  This allows its resources
       to be specified separately.  The name of xmessage error program is
       xmessage_error.

EXIT STATUS
       Xmessage will exit with status zero (0) when there is only one button
       in the list, and it is clicked to exit.  If there is more than one
       button in the list then the exit status will correspond to the number
       of the button pressed, starting at one (1) for the first button, and
       counting up.  Zero (0) is not used because no button should have a
       preferred place over the others.

WATERLOO DIFFERENCES
       See the NOTE section at the beginning of this man page.

SEE ALSO
       X(1), X(8C), xmessage(1), echo(1), cat(1)

BUGS
       There must be some, somewhere.

AUTHORS
       Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
       Chris Peterson, MIT Project Athena

X Version 11                    20 October 1988                    xmessage(1)
