XMX(LOCAL)                                                          XMX(LOCAL)

NAME
       xmx  - an X protocol multiplexor

SYNOPSIS
       xmx [:displaynum] [-option ...] [display ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Xmx is an X protocol multiplexor.  It connects to some number of X
       servers as a client, then accepts connections, as an X server itself,
       from some number of X clients.  It passes packets unaltered between the
       clients and one controlling server.  As it is doing this, it filters
       and modifies the requests and passes them along to some number of slave
       servers.

       The effect is of an X session controlled by one server broadcast to the
       other servers.  The windows controlled by xmx on the slave servers do
       not accept input, they are a visual echo of the controlling process.

OPTIONS
       :displaynum
               Specifies the display number for which to be an X server.  This
               number need not correspond to a real display - in fact it must
               not if a real X server is running on the same machine.

       -display display
               Specifies the name of the master X server to connect to.  If
               this option is not specified, the value of the environment
               variable DISPLAY is used.  If DISPLAY is not set, the first
               slave server listed becomes the master.

       -f filename
               Specifies a file which contains a whitespace-separated list of
               display names to use as slave servers.

       -p      Echo pointer motion of master server to slaves.

       -i      Run in interactive mode.  Commands are read from stdin.

       -S      Run in slave only mode.  No controlling X server display is
               opened.  This option should only be used to run an xmx process
               whose only client will be another xmx process.  No interaction
               is possible unless the topmost xmx has a master X server
               connection.  This option is used to fan-out multiplexing to
               increase speed or overcome system resource limits when
               broadcasting to a large number of displays.

       -maxfd  Set NOFILE to the maximum possible value.  On systems that
               permit it, the number of active file descriptors is raised to
               the system maximum.

       -msb num
               Increase the size of the outgoing slave socket buffers (SNDBUF)
               by a factor of num.  Can improve performance dramatically for
               protocol intensive applications (clients that putimage large
               images will benefit, for instance).  However, making the
               buffers very large can wedge xmx's host machine.  Setting num
               larger than 4 is not advised.

       -help   Print a helpful message describing usage and options.

       display...
               The list of slave server displays can also be specified on the
               command line.  If the -f option is also specified, the lists
               are merged.

SEE ALSO
       rx(LOCAL), X(1), Xserver(1)

BUGS
       Pointer motion could be improved.  Interactive mode is currently a
       hack.  Does not support any extensions yet.

AUTHOR
       John Bazik

                                    8/29/90                         XMX(LOCAL)
