LIBXO(3)               FreeBSD Library Functions Manual               LIBXO(3)

NAME
     xo_options – common options for libxo-based commands

DESCRIPTION
     libxo allows the rendering of data into various output styles, including
     text, XML, JSON, and HTML.  libxo uses command line options to trigger
     rendering behavior.  Options are recognised in three forms:

     •   --libxo <options>

     •   --libxo=<options>

     •   --libxo:<brief-options>

     The first two forms accept a comma-separated set of words, detailed
     below, while the third form accepts a set of letters, also below.  The
     triggered functionality is identical.

     Option      Action
     color       Enable colors/effects for display styles (TEXT, HTML)
     flush       Flush after each emit call
     flush-line  Flush each line of output
     html        Emit HTML output
     indent=xx   Set the indentation level
     info        Add info attributes (HTML)
     json        Emit JSON output
     keys        Emit the key attribute for keys (XML)
     log-gettext Log (via stderr) each gettext(3) string lookup
     log-syslog  Log (via stderr) each syslog message (via xo_syslog)
     no-humanize Ignore the {h:} modifier (TEXT, HTML)
     no-locale   Do not initialize the locale setting
     no-retain   Prevent retaining formatting information
     pretty      Emit pretty-printed output
     retain      Force retaining formatting information
     text        Emit TEXT output
     underscores Replace XML-friendly
     units       Add the 'units' (XML) or 'data-units (HTML) attribute
     warn        Emit warnings when libxo detects bad calls
     warn-xml    Emit warnings in XML
     xml         Emit XML output
     xpath       Add XPath expressions (HTML)

     The brief options are a set of single-letter aliases for the longer
     terms, used as a single string:

     Value Equivalent Token
     c
     f      flush
     F      flush-line
     H      html
     I      info
     i<num> indent=<num>
     J      json
     k      keys
     n      no-humanize
     P      pretty
     T      text
     U      units
     u      underscore
     W      warn
     X      xml
     x      xpath

     Most of these option are simple and direct, but some require additional
     details:

     flush-line performs line buffering, even when the output is not directed
     to a TTY device.

     info generates additional data for HTML, encoded in attributes using
     names that state with "data-".

     keys adds a "key" attribute for XML output to indicate that a leaf is an
     identifier for the list member.

     no-humanize avoids "humanizing" numeric output (see humanize_number(3)
     for details).

     no-locale instructs libxo to avoid translating output to the current
     locale.

     no-retain disables the ability of libxo to internally retain "compiled"
     information about formatting strings.

     underscores can be used with JSON output to change XML -friendly names
     with dashes into JSON -friendly name with underscores.

     warn allows libxo to emit warnings on stderr when application code make
     incorrect calls.  warn-xml causes those warnings to be placed in XML
     inside the output.

EXAMPLES
     The following are three example invocations of ps(1):

           ps --libxo json,pretty,warn -ux

           ps --libxo=xml -lg

           ps --libxo:Hxc 1

SEE ALSO
     libxo(3), xo_format(5)

HISTORY
     The libxo library first appeared in FreeBSD 11.0.

AUTHORS
     libxo was written by Phil Shafer <phil@freebsd.org>.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 11, 2017          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
