XOIDS(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               XOIDS(1)

NAME
       xoids - X Window Asteroids style game

SYNOPSIS
       xoids

DESCRIPTION
       Xoids is an Asteroids style game which uses full color pixmaps instead
       of vector-style graphics.

       The main features of the game are:

       Full color

       One or two players

       Two player game is either against each other or cooperative

       You can bounce off of asteroids if you are moving slow enough

       Shots impart inertia on your ship

       Shots have relative speed

       Asteroids have appropriate masses (realistic physics)

       The alien (called the Slurb) tracks players instead of wandering
       randomly

       Thrusting and using hyperspace can overheat your engines

MAIN MENU
       After the game initializes, you will see a main menu, from which there
       are several options.  Currently, the only Main Menu Option which drops
       you into a sub-menu is the Options menu.  At this time, the only option
       available is Game Speed.  To adjust game speed, select Options from the
       main menu and then use the left and right arrow keys to adjust the
       speed.  The maximum is 100%, and 50% seems to work well on a Pentium 75
       machine with an S3 graphics card running Linux.  Experiment.

GENERAL NON-SHIP CONTROL
       Q            This can be pressed by either player and it causes Xoids
                    to quit.

       P            Pause the game.

       ESC          Exit to the Main Menu.

       +            Increase clock speed.

       -            Decrease clock speed.

SHIP CONTROL
       The following keyboard keys are used to control the ship(s).

       UP ARROW     Activate player ONE's thrust.

       LEFT ARROW   Turn player ONE's ship to the left.

       RIGHT ARROW  Turn player ONE's ship to the right.

       RIGHT SHIFT  Fire player ONE's weapon.

       RETURN       Cause Player ONE to go into hyperspace (disappear and then
                    appear in a different location).

       F            Activate player TWO's thrust.

       C            Turn player TWO's ship to the left.

       B            Turn player TWO's ship to the right.

       LEFT SHIFT   Fire player TWO's weapon.

       SPACE        Cause Player TWO to go into hyperspace (disappear and then
                    appear in a different location).

ONE PLAYER
       Five ships are allotted at the beginning of the game.  Blast away
       asteroids and Slurbs until you are dead.

TWO PLAYER DUEL
       Points are decremented for dying, but there are unlimited lives.  The
       first player to reach 20,000 points wins.

TWO PLAYER COOPERATIVE
       The players' ships are linked via an elastic cable and there are
       unlimited lives.  Still, like Two Player Duel mode, the first player to
       20,000 points wins, which means the game may turn out more competitive
       than cooperative, but hey...

       The second player uses 'C' for 'turn left', 'B' for 'turn right', 'F'
       for thrust, left SHIFT for 'Fire', and SPACE for hyperspace.

OPTIONS
       Xoids currently takes no command line options, however, there is an
       Options menu available within the game.

BUGS
       There is a problem with window refresh after deiconification.  Running
       xoids currently causes X Windows autorepeat to die.  Use 'xset r on' to
       turn autorepeat back on.

COPYRIGHT
       Xoids is Copyright (C) 1996 by Tim Ebling

AUTHORS
       Tim Ebling, tebling@oce.orst.edu

                                 25 June 1996                         XOIDS(1)
