XPAT2(6)                     FreeBSD Games Manual                     XPAT2(6)

NAME
       xpat2 - generic patience game for X11

SYNOPSIS
       xpat2 [ options ] [ seed ] [ saved game ]

DESCRIPTION
       xpat2 is the successor of xpat, a generic patience game which can be
       used with different rule sets.  It does understand the rules of the
       well-known Spider game, as well as Klondike and others.  It features a
       flexible layout which responds to window resize commands and
       possibilities to customize the existing rules.  xpat2 has either a
       bitmap-based card drawing routine or a pixmap based routine (selectable
       at compile time).  With the pixmap based drawing routine, antialiased
       colour images of the rank and suit symbols are supplied.  The bitmap
       card images are black and red by default, but users can supply images
       of complete colour cards in XPM format.

       xpat2 may be compiled with the Athena widget set (or its nicer
       replacement, the Xaw3d widget set), or with a standard Xlib interface.
       The command line parameters and X resource names of these versions
       differ. This manual page describes only the Athena widget version, for
       the Xlib options please refer to the xpat manual page.


RULE CUSTOMIZATION OPTIONS
       -rules rule name
           (Resource: Tableau.rules)

           This option specifies the initial rule set for xpat.  Valid rule
           names are Gypsy, Spider, FreeCell, Klondike, and Seahaven, Monte
           Carlo, Calculation, Canfield, Baker's Dozen, and others. Supply an
           invalid rule name to see a complete listing.

           The initial rule set may also be given by the name of the
           executable (capitalisation is important). A predefined rule set may
           be customized by the following options, but not all options apply
           to every rule set.

       -slots slots
           (Resource: Tableau.slots)

           Use a different number of slots.

       -tmps tmps
           (Resource: Tableau.tmps)

           Use a different number of temporary storage places.

       -decks decks
           (Resource: Tableau.decks)

           Use a different number of decks. Every deck has a full set of 52
           cards.  This option does also set the number of stacks. (To 4 times
           the number of decks, naturally.)

       -facedown number
           (Resource: Tableau.facedown)

           Specifies the number of cards per slot which are initially dealt
           face-down (i.e. invisible).

       -faceup number
           (Resource: Tableau.faceup)

           Specifies the number of cards per slot which are initially dealt
           face-up.

       -jokers number
           (Resource: Tableau.jokers)

           Specifies the number of jokers in the game (increasing the number
           of cards).  With jokers, you have to put all ordinary cards onto
           the stacks and keep the jokers on the slots.

       -relaxed number
           -flips number -turn number -rotations number (Resource:
           Tableau.relaxed to Tableau.rotations)

           Defines game specific customisation parameters.

       -rng number
           (Resource: Tableau.rng)

           This option affects the random number generator. rng 0 (used up to
           version 1.03 of xpat2) has been found to generate not uniformly
           distributed permutations.  You may activate it to be able to replay
           old saved games. The default is rng 1.



GRAPHIC OPTIONS
       All standard X toolkit parameters may be given, such as

       -display display
           Specifies on which display to run.

       -geometry geometry
           (Resource: geometry) Specifies the initial geometry.

           Other options are:

       -cards cardset
           (Resource: Tableau.cards)

           cardset is the filename of an external bitmap card set which will
           be used instead of the built-in cardset. There are two card sets,
           namely  small and  french. You can also give the full pathname of a
           cardset here.

       -xpmdir xpmdir
           (Resource: Tableau.xpmdir)

           Tells xpat2 to search xpmdir for colour replacements of the card
           images. The filenames searched for are Joker.xpm and Rank.Suit.xpm,
           where Rank is one of Two to Ten, or one of Jack, Queen, King, Ace.
           The display must be capable of displaying all images at the same
           time.  For a 256-colour display, no more than 128 colours should be
           used for all card images together. An additional file,
           Cardback.xpm, may give you nice cardbacks.

           If the directory name xpmdir does not start with a dot or a slash,
           it is interpreted as a subdirectory of /usr/local/share/xpat.

       -xpmcls xpmcls
           (Resource: Tableau.xpmcls)

           Tells xpat2 to allow using colours of the given closeness when
           allocation of the real colour fails during the reading of an xpm
           file.  This option is useful on 8-bit X-servers when many colours
           are already allocated by other applications (typically when using a
           KDE desktop).

       -tb color
           (Resource: Tableau.background)

           Sets the background color to color. The default is LightSlateGrey.

       -cb color
           (Resource: Tableau.cardbackColor)

           Sets the background color of the cards to color. The default is
           SlateGrey. This option is not in effect when an XPM replacement for
           the cardback is used.

       -markwidth width
           (Resource: Tableau.markWidth)

           Sets the width of the dashed frame which marks selected cards.  If
           this width is at least half of the card width, marked cards will be
           shaded. The default is to shade the cards.

       -markcolor color
           (Resource: markColor)

           Sets the color of the marking frame.

       -sound, -nosound
           (Resource: Sound.state)

           Enables or Disables sound.


NATIVE LANGUAGE SUPPORT
       xpat2 has simple support for different languages. All messages which
       appear in the X11 window may be overloaded by files, as well as the key
       bindings.  The typical support consists of an application-defaults
       file, a message file, and a keyboard file. Possibly translated online-
       help files are also there.  To select a different language, call xpat2
       after setting the environment variable LANG to the desired value.  Some
       ISO3166 language codes will be mapped to their correspondig xpat2
       directory names.  Currently, italian and german versions are available,
       and fragments of a french and russian version.  The russian version
       requires a special cyrillic font, sq01.  The bdf-file is distributed
       with xpat2, you have to convert it into a format supported by your X-
       server (pcf, snf, ...)


FILES
        /usr/local/bin/xpat2
        /var/games/xpat.log
        /usr/local/share/xpat/small.cards
        /usr/local/share/xpat/french.cards
        /usr/local/share/xpat/audio/success.au
        /usr/local/share/xpat/audio/giveup.au
        /usr/local/share/xpat/audio/goodbye.au
        /usr/local/share/xpat/audio/cannotsave.au
        /usr/local/share/xpat/help.*
        /usr/local/share/xpat/hlp*

       and a number of subdirs of /usr/local/share/xpat, containing sets of
       colour cards.


DIAGNOSTICS
       Almost none. (Type 'v' to see the version number. This is the man-page
       of xpat2 version 1.06, using Athena Widgets. The game may behave
       somewhat different when used with another widget set.)


BUGS
       Correct cheat counting is not implemented in all rules.

       Only a few rule customisations are checked and meaningful.

       The Motif/Lesstif and Xview interfaces doesn't work reliable. Any
       volunteers?

       xpat2 uses a lot of colours when compiled with the module X-gfx2 and
       may therefore fail to start if you have an 8-bit or monochrome display.
       In this case, compile the game using the graphics loader X-gfx1, which
       uses the original card images from spider or start the game using the
       option -cards french, which uses monochrome card graphics from the file
       french.cards.  On 8-bit displays you can also experiment with the
       -xpmcls option.

       There is a problem with X-servers which are short on memory. In this
       case, some parts of the xpat2 window may be left blank after a resize
       event.  You have to hit <ctrl-L> to get the window redrawn correctly.

       Please mail bug reports to Michael.Bischoff@gmx.net.  Fixes are
       especially welcome.

SEE ALSO
       xpat(6), spider(1), xsol(1)


AUTHORS
       Heiko Eissfeldt and Michael Bischoff


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1994 by Heiko Eissfeldt and Michael Bischoff
       (heiko@colossus.escape.de and mbi@mo.math.nat.tu-bs.de)

       Copyright (c) 1990 by David Lemke & Network Computing Devices, Inc.
       (lemke@ncd.com)

       Copyright 1990 Heather Rose and Sun Microsystems, Inc.

       Copyright (c) 1989, Donald R. Woods and Sun Microsystems, Inc.


       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
       provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
       both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
       supporting documentation.

       xpat and xpat2 were developed under Linux, the free UNIX for the IBM-PC
       and compatibles. xpat is based on the game spider.  All new code which
       is not covered by spider copyrights is distributed by terms of the GNU
       General public license (GNU Copyleft).

Handmade                           June 1994                          XPAT2(6)
