XROOTCONSOLE(1)         FreeBSD General Commands Manual        XROOTCONSOLE(1)

NAME
     xrootconsole – display a file (or stdin) to a transparent window

SYNOPSIS
     xrootconsole [options] [file]

DESCRIPTION
     xrootconsole is a small utility which displays its input in a transparent
     text box on X's root window.  It will read from any file listed on the
     command line or, by default, from stdin.  It is most useful when it reads
     from a FIFO; this allows you to redirect multiple commands to the FIFO
     and monitor their output.

     The options are as follows:

     -fg color   This option specifies the color to use for displaying text.
                 The default is “black.”

     -bg color   This option specifies the color to AND with the root window,
                 for shaded transparency.  The default is “clear.”

     -bw number  This option specifies the width of the border around
                 xrootconsole in pixels.  The default is 0.

     -bd color   This option specifies the color to use for the border of the
                 window.  The default is “black.”

     -fn font    This option specifies the font to use for displaying text.
                 The default is “fixed.”

     -c number   This option produces output that is number columns wide.
                 Text is written vertically down each column in the order in
                 which text is received from the input file.  The default is
                 1.

     --topdown   Forces xrootconsole to display new lines from its input at
                 the top of the screen, scrolling previous lines down.
                 Default behavior is to insert new lines at the bottom and
                 scroll the previous lines up.

     --wrap      Rather than truncating long lines, this option specifies that
                 xrootconsole should wrap excess text to the following line or
                 lines, as necessary.

     -geometry geometry
                 This option specifies the preferred size and position of the
                 window; see X(1).  The default is “80x10+0+0.”

     -h, --help  Displays a detailed usage message and exits.

     -v, --version
                 Displays the program version and exits.

     file        Optionally specifies a file from which to read input; by
                 default, xrootconsole reads from the standard input.

DIAGNOSTICS
     Exit status is 0 on success, and 1 if the command fails for any reason.

AUTHORS
     Eric Youngblut is the original author of xrootconsole.  Bob Galloway
     ⟨bob@de-fac.to⟩ is the current maintainer.  Alexandre Duret-Lutz
     eliminated flicker by storing the background pixmap and drawing off-
     screen.  This manual page was written by Zak Johnson ⟨zakj@i.am⟩.

FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE             May 19, 2000             FreeBSD 14.1-RELEASE
