XRLOGIN(1)              FreeBSD General Commands Manual             XRLOGIN(1)

NAME
     xrlogin - start an xterm that uses rlogin or telnet to connect to a
     remote host

SYNOPSIS
     xrlogin [-l username] [-telnet] [xterm options] remote-host

DESCRIPTION
     Xrlogin opens an xterm window and runs rlogin or telnet to login to a
     remote host.

     Xrlogin automatically passes the -name argument to xterm with a value of
     "xterm-hostname" where hostname is the name of the remote host.  This
     allows the user to specify resources in their server's resource manager
     which are specific to xterms from a given host.  For example, this
     feature can be used to make all xterm windows to a given remote host be
     the same color or use a specific font or start up in a specific place on
     the screen.  Xrsh(1) passes the same string so they are compatible in
     this regard.

     Xrlogin specifies that the default title for the new xterm will be
     "hostname" where hostname is the name of the remote host.  This and the
     -name argument above can be overridden with xterm-options on the command
     line.

     One could also use xrlogin's sister command xrsh(1) to open a window to a
     remote host.  In the case of xrsh, the xterm would run on the remote host
     and use X as the connection protocol while xrlogin would run the xterm on
     the local host and use rlogin or telnet as the connection protocol.  See
     xrsh(1) for a discussion of the merits of each scheme.

OPTIONS
     -l username
            When not using -telnet, use username as the id to login to the
            remote host.

     -telnet
            Use the -telnet protocol to open the connection instead of rlogin.
            In general rlogin is preferred because it can be configured to not
            prompt the user for a password.  Rlogin also automatically
            propagates window size change signals (SIGWINCH) to the remote
            host so that applications running there will learn of a new window
            size.  Use of telnet provided mostly for hosts that don't support
            rlogin.

COMMON PROBLEMS
     Make sure that the local host is specified in the .rhosts file on the
     remote host or in the remote hosts /etc/hosts.equiv file.  See rlogin(1)
     for more information.

EXAMPLES
     xrlogin -bg red yoda
            Start a local red xterm which connects to the remote host yoda
            using rlogin.

     xrlogin -telnet c70
            Open a local xterm which connects to the remote host c70 using
            telnet.

SEE ALSO
     xrsh(1), rlogin(1), telnet(1)

AUTHOR
     James J. Dempsey <jjd@jjd.com> and Stephen Gildea
     <gildea@intouchsys.com>.

X Version 11                       Release 6                        XRLOGIN(1)
