xshisen(6)                   FreeBSD Games Manual                   xshisen(6)

NAME
       xshisen - Shisen-sho puzzle game for X11

SYNOPSIS
       xshisen [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       xshisen is a puzzle game for X11.  Similar to the famous "Shang-hai",
       your objective is to remove all the pieces on the board.  xshisen
       requires a pointing device like mouse.  It cannot be controlled with
       only keyboard.


RULES
       The game will over when you remove all the pieces on the board.  The
       pieces can be removed only when both of the following conditions are
       true.


       (1) The 2 pieces have the same picture

       (2) The 2 pieces can be connected with up to 3 lines which do not go
           over other pieces.


       It may seem difficult rule, but is easier than describing in
       words.  "Auto-demo" mode must be very useful for you to understand the
       rule.


   Score
       The best scores will be recorded at xshisen-scores file under the
       directory specified by XSHISENLIB environment variable.  X resources
       "libDirectory" will be valid if the environment variable is not set.
       Note that the score will not be recorded if you use even one of "Back",
       "Search", or "Restart".


OPTIONS
       The following command line options are available.

       standard Xt options
               xshisen accepts standard toolkit options like -display, or
               -iconic.

       -demo   Auto-demo mode.  You cannot play game with this mode, but the
               game will proceed by computer automated algorithm.  This mode
               is quite useful for you to understand rules.

       -score  Just displays the best score dialog and exits.

       -mag number
               Magnify main window by number times.  The standard window will
               be 640x400.  Number may be a decimal, but the range is limited
               from 0.5 to the display size.

       -fn fontlist
               Use fontlist for menubar and times.

       -large  Play double sized game.  Game size can be changed with menubar
               after you started xshisen.  Each game size has independent best
               time records.

       -huge   Play quadruple sized game.  Game size can be changed with
               menubar after you started xshisen.  Each game size has
               independent best time records.

       -trial  Play as "Click Trial" mode.  You can measure your mouse
               operation speed with this feature.

       -gravity
               Enable gravity effect.  All the pieces above the removed pieces
               will fall down.


RESOURCE
       The following resources are available.

       XShisen*fitPixmap
               If this value is True, the initial window size will be
               automatically calculated with the pixmap data size.  When this
               value is False, the initial window size is determined by the
               width and height resources.  The pixmap data will be resized in
               this case.  Default value is True.

       XShisen*width
               Width of the initial window.  This resource is ignored when
               fitPixmap resource is set to True.  Default value is 640.

       XShisen*height
               Height of the initial window.  This resource is ignored when
               fitPixmap resource is set to True.  Default value is 400.

       XShisen*scoreFile
               This resource specifies the score file name.  This file name
               must not contain the directory name.  Default value is
               "xshisen-scores".

       XShisen*connectLineTime
               The delay time in mili-second between you clicke the pair and
               the pair is actually removed from screen.  This value should be
               enough big for beginners, but experts may want this value
               smaller in order to play quickly.  Default value is 1000 mili-
               seconds.

       XShisen*connectLineColor
               This specifies the connection line color which appears when
               pieces are being removed.  Default value is "blue".

       XShisen*connectLineWidth
               This specifies the connection line width in pixel. Default
               value is 6.

       XShisen*background
               Background color. Default value is #004000.

       XShisen*libraryDirectory
               The directory where the pixmap data and the best score file is
               located.  This resource is ignored when you specify the
               XSHISENLIB environment variable.

       XShisen*drawing.translations
               Button binding setting for your mouse.  Default is

                     <Btn1Down>: #replace PickupPiece() 0<Btn3Down>:
               CancelPiece()



MENU BAR AND KEYBOARD
       Start (Control + D)
               Starts new game. The pieces are located at random position.

       Restart (Control + R)
               Restarts the current game. The time of restarted game will not
               be recorded as the best score.

       Pause (Control + P)
               Pauses the game. The time count will be stopped, but also the
               pieces picture will be hidden.  You can resume your game to do
               "Pause" again.

       Exit    Exits the Shisen-sho.

       Search (F1)
               Teaches the pair you can remove now.  You can use "Search"
               anytime, but the time will not be recorded as the best score if
               you use "Search" even once.

       Back (F5)
               Backs one step.  The time will not be recorded if you use
               "Back".


MOUSE CONTROL
       The following mouse control is available.  You can change mouse button
       bindings with XShisen*drawing.translations resource.

       Button 1
               Specifies the piece to remove.  You can cencel the selection
               when you click the selected piece again.

       Button 3
               Cancels the selected piece.  You can use button 3 after
               "Search", which cancels the search result.


AUTHORS
       Shisen-sho for X11: Masaoki Kobayashi
       Picture: Takayuki Akiyama


COPYRIGHT
       XShisen Copyright 1995,1996,1999,2002 by Masaoki Kobayashi
       <masaoki@techfirm.co.jp>.  Picture#1 Copyright by Takayuki Akiyama
       <taco3@ybb.ne.jp>.  Picture#2 Copyright by Mario Weilguni
       <mweilguni@sime.com>.  See LICENSE file for detail.

X Version 11                    October 6, 1995                     xshisen(6)
