PXSPREAD(1)             FreeBSD General Commands Manual            PXSPREAD(1)

NAME
       pxspread - prepare xspread files

SYNOPSIS
       pxspread [ -fhkLPrSv ] [ -s cell ] [ -R n ] [ -C n ] [ -n n ] [ -d c ]


DESCRIPTION
       Pxspread is used to prepare data for input to the spread sheet
       calculator xspread(1).  It accepts normal ascii data on standard input.
       Standard output is a xspread file.  With no options, pxspread starts
       the spread sheet in cell A0.  Strings are right justified.  All data on
       a line is entered on the same row; new input lines cause the output row
       number to increment by one.  The default delimiters are tab and space.
       The column formats are set to one larger than the number of columns
       required to hold the largest value in the column.

       Options:


       -C n   Increment by n on each new output column.


       -d c   Use the single character c as the delimiter between input
              fields.


       -f     Omit column width calculations.  This option is for preparing
              data to be merged with an existing spreadsheet.  If the option
              is not specified, the column widths calculated for the data read
              by pxspread will override those already set in the existing
              spreadsheet.


       -h     Print a short usage/help.


       -k     Keep all delimiters.  This option causes the output cell to
              change on each new delimiter encountered in the input stream.
              The default action is to condense multiple delimters to one, so
              that the cell only changes once per input data item.


       -L     Left justify strings.


       -n n   Output n rows before advancing to the next column.  This option
              is used when the input is arranged in a single column and the
              spread sheet is to have multiple columns, each of which is to be
              length n.


       -P     Plain numbers only.  A field is a number only when there is no
              imbeded [-+eE].


       -r     Output the data by row first then column.  For input consisting
              of a single column, this option will result in output of one row
              with multiple columns instead of a single column spread sheet.


       -R n   Increment by n on each new output row.


       -s cell
              Start the top left corner of the spread sheet in cell.  For
              example, -s B33 will arrange the output data so that the spread
              sheet starts in column B, row 33.


       -S     All numbers are strings.


       -v     Print the version of pxspread


SEE ALSO
       xspread(1)


AUTHOR
       Robert Bond

                                     LOCAL                         PXSPREAD(1)
