XSysStats(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           XSysStats(1)


NAME
       xsysstats - displays system statistics in a strip graph.

SYNOPSIS
       xsysstats -type type -geometry geometry -display display -name name
       -title title -border value -background color -baseline color -color
       color -foreground color -host hostname -min min -max max -sample
       sample_time -allnames -samescale -hidelabels -hidehosts -scale value
       -ruler seconds -solid -showmax -splitwidthxheight -window number
       -defcolor graphtype color -wtitle name


DESCRIPTION
       XSysStats is a tool to show various system statistics.  It shows them
       in the form of a strip graph in a window.

       It can show multiple graphs in one window, and the graphs can be
       detailing information about several machines.

       At the bottom of the window, what graph types and their scale is
       displayed.  These are displayed in the color of the graph.

       While XSysStats is running, graphs will be downscaled and upscaled as
       require.  And upscale doubles the graph scale, and only occurs when a
       new point is beyond the graph bounds.

       Downscaling occurs when the running average falls below the scale, and
       all points on the graph are less than half the present scale.
       Downscaling halves the scale of the graph.

       Upscaling and Downscaling by default do not occur on graphs of cpu
       time.  Scaling can further be controlled by the -min and -max
       arguments.

       A black and white display system will not likely be able to make much
       sense of multiple graphs in the same window.  However, using the -split
       option can be used to create several windows, each detailing a
       different statistic.


COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       Note: unlike many programs, the order the command line arguments are
       given in is relevant.  The -host, -color, -min and -max operate on the
       last -type argument given.  Also, at least one -type argument needs to
       be supplied before -host, -color, -min or -max can be used, otherwise
       an error will result.

       -type type
               This is the type of graph to display. The types are:

               collisions: number of incoming ethernet collisions since last
               update

               context: number of context switches per second

               cpu: percentage of cpu time being used

               scpu, ucpu, ncpu, icpu:  Displays percentage of system, user,
               and niced cpu that is being used.  Note that icpu is the same
               as just cpu but
                that icpu is inverted - if the system is 80% idle, the graph
               will show 20% use.

               disk: number of disk transfers per second

               errors: number of incoming ethernet errors since last update

               interrupts: average number of device interrupts, per second

               load1, load5, load15: The average number of jobs in the load
               queue for the last 1, 5, and 15 minutes.

               packets: number of incoming + outgoing ethernet packets per
               second

               packetsi: number of incoming ethernet packets per second.  This
               was formerly just known as 'packets'

               packetso: number of outgoing ethernet packets per second

               pagei: page ins since last update.  This was formally called
               just 'page'

               apagei: average page ins per second.

               pageo: page outs since last update

               apageo: average page outs per second.

               swap: swap ins and outs since last update

               swapi: swap ins since last update.  This was formally just
               called 'swap'.

               swapo: swap outs since last update.

               Instead of just the type name, a host name can be appended to
               graph information from that host (see -host below.)  Syntax
               would be -type page@host to graph page information from 'host'.

               Note: Unlike perfmeter, collisions, errors, page and swap are
               not averaged over the sample time.  This is a personal
               preference on my part, to be able to see the activity in these
               fields more clearly. For this reason, the scale of these graphs
               may appear different than perfmeter if the sample time is not
               one second.

               Multiple graphs are selected by specifying multiple -type
               arguments.  The graphs are graphed in the order of the -type
               arguments.  This means that the first -type graph given will be
               drawn first, and graphs specified later will overwrite this
               graph data.  The graph which you want to see most clearly
               should be the last -type argument.

       -geometry geometry
               The geometry of the window.

       -allnames
               This forces the hostname for all hosts to be displayed along
               with the graph type at the bottom of the window, including the
               localhost.

       -display display
               what screen/system to display the window on.

       -name name
               Set the application resource name to name.  Default is the name
               of the executable.

       -title title
               Set the window manager title to title.

       -background color
               background color of the window.

       -baseline color
               this tells XSysStats to draw a baseline of color color.  The
               baseline is a zero line, the minimum value any graph can have.

       -border vlaue
               this sets border width between graphs (when using -split mode)
               as well as spacing between graphs and the window edge.  By
               default, this value is 1.  This is a global value, and can not
               be set on a graph by graph bases.

       -color color
               this sets the color of the last graph specified with the -type
               argument.

       -defclor graphtype color
               this sets the default color for all graphs of graphtype to
               color.  This can be very useful for situation where you are
               displaying information for many systems in -split mode.  The
               -color option can be used to override individual graph colors.

       -foreground color
               this sets the default foreground color.  Any graphs that do not
               have a -color argument specified will use this color instead.

       -hidehosts
               Don't show hostnames for any host when displaying labels.
               Removes clutter if all graphs are of the same host.

       -hidelabels
               Prevent all graph labels and scale from being drawn at the
               bottom of the screen.  Makes better use of space.  Limited use
               if you need to know the scale of the graph and the graphs scale
               changes.  Certain keys can toggle the labels on or off while
               running.  See the section below on KEYBOARD CONTROL for more
               information.

       -host host
               this specifies the host to report information on.  It applies
               to the last -type argument given.  There is no checking done to
               see if this is a valid host.  If no hosts exists with the host
               name, then the graph for which this host applied will not be
               graphed in any reasonable fashion.  This option is now
               obsolete, -type graph@host can now be used instead.

       -min min
               this is the minimum value the last graph specified by -type
               will downscale to.

       -max max
               this is the maximum value the graph specified by -type will
               scale to.  If points are beyond this scale, they will be drawn
               out of bounds.

               If both min and max are the same, the graph will never change
               scale.  By default, most graphs have a min value of 2 and a
               very large max value.  The cpu graph is the one exception, both
               its min and max value is 100.

       -ruler seconds
               This causes XSysStats to draw a ruler below the graph and above
               the labels, with a mark and a label every seconds seconds.
               This is useful to see how long ago an event happened.  The
               minimum value that is useful with a 2 second sample time is
               about 30 seconds.  Depending on the width and value of seconds,
               the left most value may have a digit or two cut off.  This is
               togglable at run time by pressing 'r'.

       -sample sample_time
               This is how long the program sleeps between each update.  The
               minimum value is 1.  By default, it is 2.

       -samescale
               Graphs of similar type will always have the same scale.  This
               can be useful if the same -type is being used to graph
               information on multiple hosts.  It allows for easy comparison
               of the graph data.

       -scale value
               Causes dotted horizontal scale lines every value points on the
               graph.  Thus, if value is 32 and the scale of the graph is 64,
               a dotted line will be drawn in the middle of the window.  This
               operates on the last -type argument given.  If scale lines
               become too close together in the window, value will doubled
               until the lines are adequately spread out.  The threshold value
               is about 5 pixels.  If two of these lines would be drawn closer
               together than that, the doubling will occur.  The value of the
               lines are not drawn anyplace in the window.

       -solid  This causes the graphs to be drawn as solid lines (histograms)
               instead of curves.  Thus, a line is drawn from the baseline to
               the present value.  Use of this with multiple graphs in one
               window is not suggested, as they will be drawn over each other.
               I also recommend using the -baseline option in conjunction with
               -solid.

       -showmax
               Shows the maximum value seen so far for each graph since
               xsysstats was invoked.  The value is shown on the labels line
               (so if you have -hidelabels set you won't see this value) next
               to the current scale; the format is "scale/max".

       -split widthxheight
               This splits the XSysStats display into several smaller windows
               for graphing.  All of the windows will be the same size.  By
               using this option, one XSysStats program can be used to graph
               many different things.  By default, if no -window options are
               used (see below), the graphs are positioned from left to right,
               then top to bottom.  Thus, if the split is 3x1, the first graph
               would be in the upper left, second in top center, third in top
               right, fourth in bottom left, etc.  This needs to be specified
               before any -type or -window options are given for it to work
               properly.

       -window window
               This specifies the window to plot all the following graphs in.
               If the window has not been split (via -split), this options has
               no use.  Otherwise, all following graphs specified will be
               plotted in the window specified until another -window option is
               given.  The windows are numbers the same way graphs are plotted
               above with -split - top left would be window 1, then next on
               the top row would be 2, and so on.  If a window value of 0 is
               specified, then windows will be plotted as was described in the
               -split command above - from left to right, top to bottom,
               starting at the last window plotted before a -window options
               was specified.

       -wtitle title
               This sets up a default title for the bottom of the window.
               This can be useful if you are displaying multiple graph types
               but know what the colors mean.


X DEFAULTS
       XSysStats does not support any standard resource values.  This is based
       some on ease of programming and on usefulness of having resources.

       It seems to me that very seldom will people want to have XSysStats run
       with all the same resources more than once.  If X Defaults were
       supported, then there would also need to be a way not to use them.


KEYBOARD CONTROL
       While XSysStats is running, the following keys will cause various
       events to happen:

       l,L    This will toggle through the label modes.  As of now, there are
              three modes - None, in which case nothing is displayed.
              Minimal, in which the window title (if specified) and just the
              scale values are displayed, but the graph types are not, and
              Normal, in which case graph types with scale is displayed.

              -hidelabels sets the initial state to None, and -wtitle sets it
              to Minimal.

       m,M    This will toggle display of maximum values on or off.  This is
              the same behavior as the -showmax command line option.  Note
              that maximum values aren't displayed unless labels are turned on
              (see above).

       r,R    This will toggle the ruler on or off.  If -ruler was not
              specified on the command line, a default value of 30 seconds
              will be used for the ruler markings.

       q,Q    If XSysStats was compiled with the KEYQUIT option, this will
              cause xsysstats
               to exit.  Otherwise, it does nothing.

       C-l    (CTRL-L) Causes the window to redraw.



BUGS
       Valid host name checking should be done when the -host argument is
       specified.

       Timeouts of rstat on remote hosts will pretty much stop all the graphs.


AUTHOR
       Mark Wedel (mwedel@scruz.net)

                                August 26, 1993                   XSysStats(1)
