XTET42(6)                    FreeBSD Games Manual                    XTET42(6)

NAME
       xtet42 - X version of tetris

SYNOPSIS
       xtet42 [ -p1 player1 ] [ -m1 machine1 ] [ -m2 machine2 [ -p2 player2> ]
       [ -c1 ] [ -c2 ]

Options
       -p1 player1    player1's name.

       -p2 player2    player2's name.

       -m1 machine1   player1's display.

       -m2 machine2   player2's display.

       -c1            player1 rotate clockwise (instead of anti-clockwise).

       -c2            player2 rotate clockwise (instead of anti-clockwise).

DESCRIPTION
       Xtet42 - is a tetris game for one or two players running under the X
       window system.

BASIC RULES
       The object of the game is very simple:

       One player version -
          From the top you will se a brick which contains of four blocks. You
          shall now move that brick down to the bottom of your screen. The
          object of the game is to make the brick fit into eachother so that
          you will make a solid wall. When you hva fullfilld one or more rows
          the vill dissaper and the wall will collaps.

       Two players version -
          Basically you vill play the two players version just like the one
          player version. You vill now see your opponent upside down
          underneath your area.  When you fullfill one or more rows, your wall
          will collaps, and you aeria will be larger, and so squees you
          opponent to the bottom.


MOVEMENTS
       Move brick one block to the left  : left_arrow,h,a,b

       Move brick one block to the right : right_arrow,l,s,m

       Move brick one block down         : down_arrow,z,j,n

       Move brick all the way down       : space

       Rotate brick (anti)clockwise      : up_arrow,k,w,c


POINT
       You will get points for each brick that you will place. You get bonus
       points when you drop the brick by pressing space. When you hav
       fullfilled one row you will get points. The more rows the more points.
       Four rows is worth a lot more the four times one row.


BUGS
       Probably plenty. Report any you find to xtet42@pvv.ntnu.no.


AUTHORS
       The program was written by Hugo Eide Gunnarsen at the Norwegian
       Institute of Technology. The program is currently maintained by Steinar
       Hamre at Norwegian University of Science and Technology.


Programmer's Workshop, NTNU           X11                            XTET42(6)
