XTROJKA(6)                   FreeBSD Games Manual                   XTROJKA(6)

NAME
       xtrojka - a game of skill.

USAGE
       xtrojka [-scores] [-help] [-debug] [X11 options]

OPTIONS
       -scores
              Display high-scores.

       -help  Show a short help text.

       -debug Show a bunch of debug messages.

       X options
              Specifies the display on which xtrojka will be run. See X(1) for
              further details.

DESCRIPTION
       xtrojka is the X version of an old game called Trojka. It finally packs
       the thrills of Tetris and the combinations of Columns into one (I hope)
       attractive game.

       The name Trojka is derived from the Russian word "Trojka", which means
       "three", or "triple".  The aim of this game is to control and to place
       the falling blocks, so that at least three blocks horizontally or
       diagonally, or both, have matching patterns or colors. This sequence is
       then removed, and the above blocks will collapse. The latter sequence
       is repeated as long as there are matching patterns after each
       collapsion.  A sequence of three immediate collapsions results in a
       socalled "Trojka",  which is rewarded with bonus points.  If you reach
       the top of the screen, the game is finished.

       xtrojka is menu-controlled, so here comes a short description of the
       menu's.

       TROJKA Menu

       New_game       start a new game. Your old game must be finished.

       Abort_game     finish a game by selecting this menu option.

       Wizard         When this option is checked, you play in a socalled
                      wizard mode. This means that combinations of blocks
                      appear at the bottom of the screen. Only real Trojka
                      wizards know how to cope with this. If you played in
                      wizard mode, an asterisk will appear in the highscore
                      list.

       Slick          With this option you can choose between slick shadowed
                      blocks, or unicolored blocks.

       Quit           Well, this item quits the program.

       SPEED Menu

       With this menu you can select your favorite game speed. Beware, the
       speed will slowly increase, the longer you play. Once playing, you
       cannot switch back to a slower speed.


PREFERENCES
       The speed and preferences are automatically stored in your homedir
       under the name .xtrojka.prefs.bin.  This is a binary file, it cannot be
       edited.


KEYS
       The falling blocks are controlled using the arrows, but of course you
       can also use the keys of the alltime favorite Vi-editor:

       Left arrow,h        left

       Right arrow,l       right

       Insert, Down arrow ,j,<SPACE>
                           drop

       Up arrow, k         increase speed


FILES
        /wrkdirs/usr/ports/games/xtrojka/work/stage/usr/local/share/xtrojka/xtrojka.scores
                      The xtrojka highscore file

        .xtrojka.prefs.bin
                      The file in your homedir where the preferences are
                      stored. This is a binary file which you cannot edit. The
                      preferences have to be set from the menu.


HISTORY
       In 1989 the very first version was written for MS-Dog.  In 1990 the
       game was ported to PRIMOS, running on the local Prime system at the
       Eindhoven Polytechnic.  In 1991 versions were written for Windows and
       the Commodore Amiga.  In 1992 the Unix terminal-version became
       available The Apple Macintosh version was released in 1993.  In 1994
       the X-version 1.0 was written and released in 1995 after minor
       bugfixes. An OS/2 version was written in 1996.  See also the README
       file for a more complete version history of the X-version.


AUTHORS
       The MS-DOS, UNIX, Macintosh and this version as well as the whole game-
       concept is copyrighted by Maarten Los.  Prime version (c) Jac Goudsmit,
       Joran Jessurun, Richard Moeskops and me.  Amiga version (c) Joran
       Jessurun and Richard Moeskops.  MS Windows version (c) Jac Goudsmit.
       OS/2 version (c) Edwin Groothuis

       Send all comments and bug-reports to:

       maarten@djoe.iaf.nl


BUGS
       The preferences are stored in a very Unix-unlike way, a not editable
       binary file. The locking system of the multiuser scorefile watcher is
       poor.  The sound is also poor. In fact, there isn't any sound at all.

       Some strings are compiled-in, especially the ones shown when the game
       isn't initialized for X yet. This prevents setting them all from a the
       application resource file.


DISCLAIMER
       All brandnames listed are trademarks of their respective owners.  See
       also the Copyright notice that comes with the source code.




                                  1 Mar 1996                        XTROJKA(6)
