XWALLPAPER(1)           FreeBSD General Commands Manual          XWALLPAPER(1)

NAME
     xwallpaper – wallpaper setting utility for X

SYNOPSIS
     xwallpaper [--screen screen] [--clear] [--daemon] [--debug] [--no-atoms]
                [--no-randr] [--no-root] [--trim widthxheight[+x+y]]
                [--output output] [--center file] [--focus file]
                [--maximize file] [--stretch file] [--tile file] [--zoom file]
                [--version]

DESCRIPTION
     The xwallpaper program allows you to set image files as your X wallpaper.
     PNG file format is supported by default and preferred, but optional JPEG
     support exists as well.

     The wallpaper is also advertised to programs which support semi-
     transparent backgrounds.

OPTIONS
     The various options are as follows:

     --center file
             Centers the input file on the output.  If the dimensions of the
             input file are smaller than the output dimensions, the remaining
             area is filled black.  If the input file dimensions are too
             large, parts of the image will be cropped.

     --clear
             Initializes screen with a black background. Without this option
             the current content of pseudo transparency atoms is retrieved and
             used as foundation.  If atom contents do not exist or cannot be
             reused, e.g. due to resolution change of one of the outputs, then
             an initially black background is used as well.

     --daemon
             Keeps xwallpaper running in background, listening for RandR
             events. In this mode, the wallpapers are redrawn when output
             sizes change. This option can only be used when RandR support is
             available and activated.

     --debug
             Displays debug messages on the standard error output while
             xwallpaper is running.  If used in conjunction with --daemon the
             process will not modify the standard input and outputs.

     --focus file
             In conjunction with --trim the specified trim box will be
             guaranteed to be visible on output, zooming out if needed. If
             black pixels would occur around the selection, the input image is
             zoomed in and moved to cover them as good as possible under the
             constraint of keeping the specified trim box (or whole image if
             no trim box has been specified) on output.

     --maximize file
             Maximizes input file to fit output without cropping.  This could
             mean zooming in or out, depending on the dimensions of the input
             file and the output.  This option guarantees that the whole image
             is seen.  If the ratio does not fit the output, the remaining
             area is filled black.  The image itself will be centered on
             output.

     --no-atoms
             Atoms which are used for pseudo transparency are not updated.
             Mutually exclusive with --no-root option. Automatically enables
             --clear option.

     --no-randr
             Ignores individual outputs and uses the whole output instead.
             This is the area that spans across all different outputs
             (monitors).

     --no-root
             The background of the root window is not updated. Use this option
             if you want to update only atoms used for pseudo transparency. It
             is therefore mutually exclusive with --no-atoms option.

     --trim widthxheight+x+y
             Specifies area of interest in source file. If output mode tries
             to output more pixels than specified with trim box, then the
             adjacent pixels around the box will be added to output. Black
             pixels are only added if no further source pixels are left.

     --output output
             Specifies the output on which a subsequently supplied file shall
             be set as wallpaper.  You can retrieve a list of outputs on your
             system by executing xrandr(1).  If no output is specified, all
             outputs will be modified individually.  The special keyword all
             will repeat subsequent actions on all displays.  If the output
             could not be found, its associated actions are ignored.

     --screen screen
             Specifies a screen by its screen number.  Normally all screens of
             an X display are processed.  Please note that a screen is not a
             single monitor.  See --output for such a use case above.

     --stretch file
             Stretches input file to fully cover the output.  If the aspect
             ratio of the input file does not match the output, then the ratio
             of the input file is adjusted.

     --tile file
             Uses tiling mode.  Draws the input file at the upper left corner
             of the output and repeats the image until the remaining area of
             the output is covered.

     --version
             Prints version and exits.

     --zoom file
             Zooms input file to fit output with cropping.  This could mean
             zooming in or out, depending on the dimensions of the input file
             and the output.  If the ratio does not fit the output, parts of
             the input file will not be shown.  The image itself will be
             centered on output.  Default behaviour if no option was selected.

     If multiple contradicting options were given, the last supplied option
     wins.  It is also possible to repeat output arguments without any
     subsequent files.  In that case, the last mode and file will be reused.

EXAMPLES
     Centers a PNG file as a wallpaper on LVDS-1:
           $ xwallpaper --output LVDS-1 --center file.png

     Focuses on upper left corner of a JPEG file as a wallpaper on Virtual-1:
           $ xwallpaper --output Virtual-1 --trim 1x1+0+0 --focus file.jpg

     Tiles a PNG file as a wallpaper across all outputs:
           $ xwallpaper --no-randr --tile file.png

     Zooms into a JPEG file as a wallpaper on each output individually:
           $ xwallpaper --zoom file.jpg

     Centers and recenters a JPEG file after output updates on all outputs:
           $ xwallpaper --daemon --center file.jpg

     Tiles a JPEG file as a wallpaper on VGA-1 and zooms into a PNG file on
     LVDS-1:
           $ xwallpaper --output VGA-1 --tile file.jpg --output LVDS-1 --zoom
           file.png

BUGS
     Use the GitHub issue tracker:
     https://github.com/stoeckmann/xwallpaper/issues

AUTHOR
     Tobias Stockmann <tobias@stoeckmann.org>

xwallpaper 0.7.4                 June 30, 2022                xwallpaper 0.7.4
