xwatchwin(1)            FreeBSD General Commands Manual           xwatchwin(1)

NAME
       xwatchwin - watch a window on another X server

SYNOPSIS
       xwatchwin [-v] [-u UpdateTime] DisplayName { -w WindowID | WindowName }

DESCRIPTION
       xwatchwin allows you to peek at a window on another X server.  To use
       it, you must specify the display name of the machine you want to watch,
       then the name of the window on that machine.  Xwatchwin will attempt to
       connect with the X server hostname:0.0, and if successful, will try to
       retrieve a copy of the window in which you specified interest.

       You may specify the window you want to watch either by name or by its
       window id, usually a hexidecimal number.  Usually specifying the window
       by name is simpler, although not all windows have names associated with
       them; in that case you must use the window id option.

       If the window you want to watch is not in a viewable state, xwatchwin
       will tell you so and exit.  If while you are watching a window it
       becomes 'unviewable', xwatchwin will wait until the window becomes
       'viewable' again.

       xwatchwin was written as an aid to a class for people learning to use
       X.  The idea is that the instructor would type into an xterm window on
       his/her display and the students would use xwatchwin to see what the
       instructor typed.  The students could then type the same thing in their
       own terminal windows.  Hopefully others will find equally (if not more)
       constructive uses.


OPTIONS
       -u updatetime
               This option specifies how often (in seconds) you want to get a
               new copy of the window you're watching.  It is in effect a
               'sample rate'.  By default, xwatchwin updates your copy of the
               window as often as it can.  The time it takes to actually do
               the update is dependent on the speed of the X server on both
               machines, the speed of the intervening network, and other
               factors.


       -w windowID
               This option specifies the window you want to watch by number,
               for example, "0x50000b".  Use the xlswins(1) command to get a
               list of window id's and possibly their names on the remote
               server.

               You must specify a window to watch either by name or by id.
               Specifying a window to watch by name is usually easier if you
               know what you're looking for.


EXAMPLES
       If there is an X server on the remote machine "crow" and if on that
       server there is a window called "X Terminal Emulator", you can watch
       that window by typing

       xwatchwin crow X Terminal Emulator

       If there is a window on "crow" that has no name but has a window id of
       "0x50000b", you can watch it by typing

       xwatchwin -w 0x50000b crow

       If you want to get new copies of a window only every 30 seconds, you
       can do so by typing

       xwatchwin -u 30 -w 0x50000b crow


SEE ALSO
       xlswins(1), xwininfo(1), xdpyinfo(1),


BUGS
       xwatchwin doesn't support the -display option.  You must set the
       display on which the xwatchwin window is created by changing your
       DISPLAY environment variable.

       If the window you're watching is resized while xwatchwin is getting a
       new copy of that window, the program will crash.  The smaller your
       update interval, the more likely you are to experience this bug
       (although it hasn't happened all that often to me).

       xwatchwin can now deal with two displays of different depths.  There is
       special-case code for the conversions between 1-bit displays and 8-bit
       displays (either direction) which may garble the image on some
       machines.  The general case code should work on anything, albeit
       somewhat more slowly.  One note: ABSOLUTELY no attempt is made to make
       the colors match up.  If you're on a 5-bit display, and you're
       monitoring someone elses 8-bit display, the conversion just takes his 8
       bits and chops the top 3 bits off, and puts it on the screen.  Maybe in
       the next version...


COPYRIGHTS
       Copyright 1992 - 1995, Q. Alex Zhao

       Copyright 1989, George D. Drapeau

AUTHORS
       Light-weight version by Q. Alex Zhao azhao@cc.gatech.edu.

       Display depth conversion code added by John Bradley
       bradley@cis.upenn.edu.

       Original version by George D. Drapeau, Stanford University, Academic
       Information Resources / Systems Development,
       drapeau@jessica.stanford.edu.

Georgia Tech                      28 Dec 1995                     xwatchwin(1)
