XWAX(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                XWAX(1)

NAME
       xwax - Digital vinyl on Linux

SYNOPSIS
       xwax [options]

DESCRIPTION
       xwax is vinyl emulation software for Linux. It allows DJs and
       turntablists to playback digital audio files (MP3, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC,
       AAC and more), controlled using a normal pair of turntables via
       timecoded vinyls.

OPTIONS
       The ordering of options is important. Most options apply to subsequent
       music libraries or decks, which can be given multiple times.  See the
       EXAMPLES below.

       -l path
              Scan the music library or playlist at the given path.

       -t name
              Use the named timecode for subsequent decks. See -h for a list
              of valid timecodes. You will need the corresponding timecode
              signal on vinyl to control playback.

       -33    Set the reference playback speed for subsequent decks to 33 and
              one third revolutions per minute. This is the default.

       -45    Set the reference playback speed for subsequent decks to 45
              revolutions per minute.

       -c     Protect subsequent decks against certain operations during
              playback.

       -u     Allow all operations on a deck during playback. This is the
              inverse of the -c option, and is the default.

       --phono
              Adjust the noise thresholds of subsequent decks to tolerate a
              cartridge-level signal connected to a line-level audio
              interface. This is a 'software pre-amp'. Unless your audio path
              has low noise, this will give worse results or may not work at
              all; a true phono pre-amplifier is always preferred.

       --line Set noise thresholds of subsequent decks to standard audio
              levels.  This reverses the effect of the --phono option, and is
              the default.

       -i path
              Use the given importer executable for subsequent decks.

       -s path
              Use the given scanner executable to scan subsequent music
              libraries.

       --dummy
              Create a deck which is not connected to any audio device, used
              for testing.

       -k     Lock into RAM any memory required for real-time use.  This
              includes audio tracks held in memory which can be large.  Use
              ulimit -l to raise the kernel's memory limit to allow this.

       -q n   Change the real-time priority of the process. A priority of 0
              gives the process no priority, and is used for testing only.

       -g [nxn][+n+n][/f]
              Change the geometry of the display in size, position and scale
              (zoom) respectively.  The size and position is passed to SDL,
              which may use it to set the display mode, or size of an X
              window.  See the EXAMPLES.

       --no-decor
              Request to the window manager to create a 'frameless' window
              which does not have the regular controls such as title bars and
              buttons.  This can be useful in conjunction with the -g flag for
              dedicated xwax installations.

       -h     Display the help message and default values.

ALSA DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with
       ALSA support.

       -a device
              Create a deck which uses the given ALSA device (eg. plughw:0).

       --rate hz
              Set the sample rate for subsequent decks.  The default is to
              prefer 48000Hz, but use 44100Hz if that is not available.  To
              maintain best performance, only sample rates implemented by the
              hardware are available.

       --buffer samples
              Set the ALSA buffer size for subsequent decks.  Smaller is
              better for lower latencies and greater responsiveness.  Set too
              low and audible glitches will occur, with reports of underruns
              to the console.

JACK DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with
       JACK support.

       -j name
              Create a deck which connects to JACK and registers under the
              given name.

       xwax does not set the sample rate for JACK devices; it uses the sample
       rate given in the global JACK configuration.

OSS DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with OSS
       support.

       -d pathname
              Create a deck which uses the given OSS device (eg. /dev/dsp).

       --rate hz
              Set the sample rate for subsequent decks. The default for OSS
              devices is 48000Hz.

       -b n   Set the number of OSS buffers for subsequent decks.

       -f n   Set the OSS buffer size (2^n bytes).

HARDWARE CONTROLLER OPTIONS
       The following options are available only when xwax is compiled with
       ALSA support.

       --dicer device
              Use one or two Dicer controllers connected as the given ALSA
              device (eg. hw:Dicer). See the section NOVATION DICER CONTROLS
              for more information.

       Adding a hardware controller results in control over subsequent decks,
       up to the limit of the hardware.

KEYBOARD CONTROLS
       The playback of each deck (direction, speed and position) is controlled
       via the incoming timecode signal from the turntables.  The keyboard
       provides additional controls.

       "C-" and "S-" means a keypress is combined with the 'Control' or
       'Shift' key, respectively.

       Record selection controls:

       cursor up, cursor down
              Move highlighted record up/down by one.

       page up, page down
              Scroll the record listing up/down by one page.

       left cursor, right cursor
              Switch to the previous/next crate of records.

       tab    Toggle between the current crate and the 'All records' crate.

       C-tab  Toggle sort mode between: artist/track name, BPM and 'playlist'
              order. Playlist order is the order in which records were
              returned from the scanner.

       C-S-tab
              Re-scan the currently selected crate.

       To filter the current list of records type a portion of a record name.
       Separate multiple searches with a space, and use backspace to delete.

       Deck-specific controls:

       Deck 0   Deck 1   Deck 2
       F1       F5       F9       Load currently selected track to this deck
       F2       F6       F10      Reset start of track to the current position
       F3       F7       F11      Toggle timecode control on/off
       C-F3     C-F7     C-F11    Cycle between available timecodes

       The "available timecodes" are those which have been the subject of any
       -t flag on the command line.

       Audio display controls:

       +, -   Zoom in/out the close-up audio meters for all decks.

NOVATION DICER CONTROLS
       The Novation Dicer provides hardware control of cue points. The
       controls are:

       cue mode: dice button (1-5)
              Jump to the specified cue point, or set it if unset.

       loop-roll mode: dicer button (1-5)
              "Punch" to the specified cue point, or set it if unset. Returns
              playback to normal when the button is released.

       mode button + dice button (1-5)
              Clear the specified cue point.

       The dice buttons are lit to show that the corresponding cue point is
       set.

EXAMPLES
       2-deck setup using one directory of music and OSS devices:

              xwax -l ~/music -d /dev/dsp -d /dev/dsp1

       As above, but using ALSA devices:

              xwax -l ~/music -a hw:0 -a hw:1

       2-deck setup using a different timecode on each deck:

              xwax -l ~/music -t serato_2a -a hw:0 -t mixvibes_v2 -a hw:1

       As above, but with the second deck at 45 RPM:

              xwax -l ~/music -t serato_2a -a hw:0 -t mixvibes_v2 -45 -a hw:1

       Default to the same timecode, but allow switching at runtime:

              xwax -l ~/music -t serato_2a -t mixvibes_v2 -a hw:0 -a hw:1

       3-deck setup with the third deck at a higher sample rate:

              xwax -l ~/music --rate 48000 -a hw:0 -a hw:1 --rate 96000 -a
              hw:2

       Using all three device types simultaneously, one deck on each:

              xwax -l ~/music -a hw:0 -d /dev/dsp1 -j jack0

       Scan multiple music libraries:

              xwax -l ~/music -l ~/sounds -l ~/mixes -a hw:0

       Scan a second music library using a custom script:

              xwax -l ~/music -i ./custom-scan -l ~/sounds -a hw:0

       Control two decks with Dicer hardware:

              xwax --dicer hw:Dicer -a hw:0 -a hw:1

       Use a high resolution and enlarge the user interface:

              xwax -g 1920x1200/1.8 -a hw:0

HOMEPAGE
       http://xwax.org/

AUTHOR
       Mark Hills <mark@xwax.org>

                                                                       XWAX(1)
