XWAYLAND-SATELLITE(1)   FreeBSD General Commands Manual  XWAYLAND-SATELLITE(1)

NAME
     xwayland-satellite - Rootless Xwayland integration for Wayland
     compositors

SYNOPSIS
     xwayland-satellite [:display] [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
     xwayland-satellite is a Wayland client providing a rootless Xwayland(1)
     integration to any Wayland compositor implementing xdg_wm_base and
     wm_viewporter.  xwayland-satellite acts as an X(7) window manager, useful
     for Wayland compositors which do not want to implement an Xwayland(1)
     integration themselves.

OPTIONS
     Most of the options of xwayland-satellite are forwarded to Xwayland. See
     Xserver(1) and Xwayland(1) for more details on these flags.

     :display
            Run the X server on the given display.

     -ac    Disable host-based access control mechanisms. Do not use unless
            you know exactly what you are doing.

     -audit level
            Set the audit trail verbosity level. These logging lines are
            captured by the logs in the `xwayland_process` category.

     -auth authorization-file
            Specify a file with authorization records. This flag can be passed
            a maximum of one time. See the xdm(1) and Xsecurity(7) man pages.

     -core  Cause Xwayland to generate a core dump on fatal errors. Note this
            does not generate a core dump on fatal xwayland-satellite errors.

     +extension extension-name
            Enable the given extension. Attempting to enable an unrecognized
            is not a fatal error.

     -extension extension-name
            Disable the given extension. Attempting to disable an unrecognized
            extension is not a fatal error.
            In addition, the following extensions are required and cannot be
            disabled:
                COMPOSITE
                RANDR
                XFIXES
                X-Resource

                -glamor [gl|es|none]
                       Force the use of the given rendering API for Glamor
                       acceleration. Valid parameters are gl to use OpenGL, es
                       to use GL ES, and none to use the shared memory
                       backend. For maximum compatibility with Xwayland(1)
                       builds without the Glamor backend, the none option is
                       converted to the -shm flag under the hood.  -help
                       Prints a basic usage message and list of accepted flags
                       and returns 0.

                -listen
                       Enable a transport mechanism. This option can be used
                       multiple times to enable multiple transport mechanisms.
                       This option overrides a previous -nolisten sent with
                       the same parameter.

                -nolisten
                       Disable a transport mechanism. This option can be used
                       multiple times to disable multiple transport
                       mechanisms. This option overrides a previous -listen
                       sent with the same parameter.

                -listenfd fd
                       Add the given fd as a socket for X clients to connect
                       to. This option is used by integrating Wayland
                       compositors to automatically start xwayland-satellite
                       when an X application is started.

                --test-listenfd-support
                       Exit with status code 0 if the build of
                       xwayland-satellite supports the -listenfd flag. For
                       maximum compatibility with older versions of
                       xwayland-satellite, it is necessary to always pass the
                       :display option when using this flag and the -listenfd
                       flag.

                -verbose [n]
                       Increases the verbosity of Xwayland's logging. If a
                       numeric variable is passed, set the verbosity to that
                       level, otherwise increasing the verbosity level by 1.
                       See the RUST_LOG environment variable for changing
                       xwayland-satellite's logging.

                -version
                       Display the version identifier of xwayland-satellite
                       and return 0.

ENVIRONMENT
     RUST_LOG
            Configures the output of the logs. See
            https://docs.rs/env-logger/#filtering-results/ for more
            information on how to set this variable.

     WAYLAND_DISPLAY
            Name of the Wayland server's display.

     XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
            The directory used by xwayland-satellite to both look for the
            Wayland socket to connect to and to create the Wayland socket
            Xwayland will connect to.

BUGS
     If you have found a bug in xwayland-satellite, please report it to
     https://github.com/Supreeeme/xwayland-satellite/issues/.

SEE ALSO
     X(7), Xserver(1), Xwayland(1),

                                                         XWAYLAND-SATELLITE(1)
