xwpick(1)               FreeBSD General Commands Manual              xwpick(1)

NAME
       xwpick - pick images from an X11-screen and store in files

SYNOPSIS
       xwpick [-local] [-window id] [-gray] [-reverse] [-pause] [-format frmt]
       [<file>]

DESCRIPTION
       Xwpick lets you pick an image from an arbitrary window or rectangular
       area of an X11-server and write it to a file in a variety of formats.

       The output format is defined whether by the -format option or by the
       extension in the file name. Possible formats/extentions are:

       ps      An Encapsulated PostScript file with a compressed image. The
               image is centered, rotated and scaled to fill the maximum space
               on a page. It is displayed in color on viewers and printers
               that support color Postscript, otherwise it is displayed as
               grayscale. This format is convenient for transparency
               preparation.

       eps     Also an Encapsulated PostScript file with a compressed image,
               but the image is only centered, not rotated and scaled. It is
               intended for insertion into a document.

       epsi    The same as eps, but contains a black and white preview.

       gif     Graphics Interchange Format (GIF). Use this format when you
               want to keep files or transfer them to other computers. It is
               also convenient for visualisations, for example, with xv by
               John Bradley.

       pcx     PCX format for IBM PC.

       pict    PICT format for Macintosh. It is intended for image transfer on
               Macintosh, but GIF format is also convenient for this purpose
               (see Macintosh GIFConverter by Kevin A. Mitchell).

       ppm     PPM format from the PBM Plus library by Jef Poskanzer. Use it
               and a routine from the PBM Plus library if you wish to have the
               image in a format not mentioned above.

       The main feature of xwpick is that it uses the Lempel-Ziv Welch (LZW)
       compression scheme for image encoding in Postscript, thus producing
       very compact files (4-5 times less than files produced with Run-Length
       encoding (RLE) and 10-20 times less than files produced without
       compression)

HOW IT WORKS
       When xwpick is invoked, the user sees a blinking rectangle surrounding
       the contents of the window in which the mouse pointer is currently
       placed. When the mouse is moved to a different window, the perimeter
       automatically changes to the size of the new window.  If the mouse
       pointer is placed on the Window Manager border of a window, then the
       blinking rectangle will surround the window together with the Window
       Manager border. To select the image inside the blinking rectangle it is
       sufficient to click the left mouse button.

       If a user-defined perimeter is required, then hold down the left mouse
       button to choose the first corner of the perimeter and then drag the
       mouse to define the opposite corner. The blinking rectangle will expand
       with the movement of the mouse.

       If it is required to produce some changes inside the selected area just
       before outputing to a file, for example, to change the palette or
       display a pop-up menu, then the -pause option can be used.

OPTIONS
       -local        When -local is in the parameter list, xwpick picks an
                     image from the window under the mouse pointer. This
                     option is intended to pick images from pop-up menus,
                     which are on the screen only when a mouse button is
                     pressed and disappear immediately after the button is
                     released.

       -window id    Pick an image from the window with integer identifier
                     equal to id.  The identifier for a window can be obtained
                     with the X Window program xwininfo. To pick the entire
                     screen (root window) the user may use the word root as an
                     identifier.

       -gray         Transfer the image to grayscale. This option can be used
                     to optimize output on level 1 gray scale PostScript
                     printers.

       -reverse      Transfer the image to reverse colors. This option can
                     help you to save the toner on your printer in case when
                     the image is too dark.

       -pause        Do not output the image till the <SPACE> bar will be
                     pressed. This option allows to use the mouse to produce
                     some changes inside the selected image just before
                     outputing to a file.

       -format frmt  Set output format. The format is defined by frmt string.
                     If this option is omited, then the output format is
                     defined by the extension in the file name. Possible frmt
                     strings/extensions are: ps, eps, epsi, gif, pcx, pict,
                     ppm.  In case when -format is in the parameter list and a
                     file name is omited the output is directed to the
                     standard output.

EXAMPLES
       •       xwpick

       This is the simplest form of use. You will be prompted to input a file
       name.

       •       xwpick image.ppm
               ppmtoxpm image  >image.xpm

       This is an example of how to get an image in X11 pixmap format.  First
       you pick the image from the screen into the file image.ppm and then
       convert it using the ppmtoxpm routine from the PBM PLUS library.

       •       xwpick -local menu.epsi

       This is an example of how to pick the image of a pop-up menu window and
       store it in a file as encapsulated Postscript with preview.

       •       xwininfo
               xwpick -w 0x8000c1 -g clock.ps

       This is an example of how to pick an image from the window by the
       window's identifier. First you find the identifier using the xwininfo
       command and then pick an image from the window and store it in a
       Postscript file as a grayscale image.

       •       xwpick -window root -format ps | lpr

       This is an example of how to send an image of the root window directly
       to the printer.

AUTHOR
       Evgeni Chernyaev           chernaev@mx.ihep.su

SEE ALSO
       xwd(1), xv(1), xgrabsc(1), XtoPS(1), xwininfo(1), ppm(5)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 by Evgeni Chernyaev.

                               10 September 1994                     xwpick(1)
