xxkb(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                xxkb(1)



NAME
       xxkb - switches and indicates a current keyboard layout.

SYNOPSIS
       xxkb

DESCRIPTION
       The xxkb program shows the current keyboard layout (an XKB group) and
       allows to switch it with a mouse click. It has some additional
       features.  The xxkb remembers the layout for each application window
       and changes the keyboard state accordingly when the window gets a
       focus. The xxkb can place an additional button on a window title bar
       and that button is a switcher and an indicator for that separate
       window. If the keyboard map has more than two layouts the xxkb can
       simplify a switching using a two_state mode. In this mode the xxkb
       allows to choose two layouts, one as a base layout and another one as
       an alternative layout and then switch the keyboard state between them
       only. Also the xxkb supports applications lists which allow to tune its
       behavior for some separate applications.
         The xxkb works with any window manager.

USAGE
       Working as an indicator the xxkb shows a current XKB layout using one
       of four pixmaps and changes the pixmap when you change a layout with
       the keyboard (using the key or the key combination specified in the
       config file as an XKB group switcher) or using any other application
       which able to change the XKB group. Also the xxkb shows the similar
       pixmaps on each application window title bar which are indicators for
       separate windows. Since the global indicator and the per window
       indicators duplicates each other you can hide the global indicator or
       all per window indicators using configure options.
         Also you can use the xxkb as a layout switcher using a mouse button
       click on the main xxkb window or one of the per window indicators.  In
       last case you switch the layout for the chosen application.

       MouseButton1
           The first button acts as a layout switcher. If the two_state mode
           is active the button click switches the current layout between two
           selected layouts (XKB groups). Otherwise it selects all possible
           layouts in cycle.

       MouseButton3
           When the two_state mode is switched on the third button allows to
           choose an alternative layout. It selects all possible layouts in
           cycle and the layout you stop on becomes the alternative layout.
           Without the two_state mode this button action is the same as the
           first button action.

       MouseButton2
           The second (middle) button action depends on the place where you
           click.  The click on the main indicator terminates the xxkb. But
           the click on one of the per window indicators simply removes the
           indicator from the title bar and excludes that application from a
           set of managed applications.  Also the second button allows you to
           add an application into one of three lists of the applications
           which should be ignored (see the Applications lists options below).
           Clicking on the per window indicator when the Control key is
           pressed you add this application to the wm_class_class list. If the
           Shift key is pressed the button click adds the application to the
           wm_name list. If both keys are pressed the click adds the
           application to the wm_class_name list.  In all cases the updated
           lists will be saved in a per user config file ~/.xxkbrc.

CONFIGURE OPTIONS
       The xxkb reads all configure options from two files app-defaults/XXkb
       and ~/.xxkbrc.

Common options
       XXkb.xpm.path
           The directory where the xxkb searches pixmap files.

Main window options
       XXkb.mainwindow.enable
           switch on the xxkb main window (yes by default). If a per window
           button mode switched on some users prefer to hide the main window
           of the xxkb.

       XXkb.mainwindow.appicon
           run xxkb as an animated icon. It is useful for window managers
           which allow 'to dock' applications.

       XXkb.mainwindow.in_tray
           allow to dock xxkb into a system tray. A value is either true or
           false.

       XXkb.mainwindow.geometry
           the geometry ( WIDTHxHEIGHT{+-}XOFF{+-}YOFF ) of the main window.
           Please read the GEOMETRY SPECIFICATIONS section of X(7) for
           details.

       XXkb.mainwindow.border.color
           color to be used when drawing window border.

       XXkb.mainwindow.border.width
           border width in pixels.

       XXkb.mainwindow.xpm.N
           pixmap file names for each indicated group N. If your symbols map
           has less than four groups the unused group icons can be omitted. If
           the file name begins from '/' it means full path for the file.
           Otherwise it means the relative path beginning from the
           XXkb.xpm.path value.

       XXkb.mainwindow.label.enable
           enable labels to be printed instead of images. Group descriptions
           will be used if not overwritten by XXkb.mainwindow.label.text.N
           (where N is 1..4, group number) options.

       XXkb.mainwindow.label.text.N
           label for the specified group N.

       XXkb.mainwindow.label.background

       XXkb.mainwindow.label.foreground
           colors used to draw background and label text respectively.

       XXkb.mainwindow.label.font
           font to be used when drawing labels.

Operation mode options
       Since the xxkb can keep the keyboard state for each application and
       restore the state when the focus is changed there are group of options
       which controls how the xxkb finds the application windows.

       XXkb.controls.add_when_start
           If this mode is switched on (default) the xxkb at start time tries
           to find all application already run.

       XXkb.controls.add_when_create
           In this mode the xxkb gets a new application window at time when
           the application creates it. It is the base mode but I can't
           guaranty it works with all window managers.

       XXkb.controls.add_when_change
           In this mode the xxkb doesn't catch the windows at their creation
           but adds windows to the managed windows list if the keyboard state
           changes when the window is focused. It's an additional mode (not
           recommended) and may be useful only if the add_when_create mode for
           some reason doesn't work.

       XXkb.controls.focusout
           It makes the xxkb reset the keyboard group when the focus leaves
           the window. The mode makes sense with the add_when_change mode
           only.

       XXkb.controls.button_delete
           This mode (switched on by default) allows user to remove the per
           window button using a mouse middle button click. Although the xxkb
           tries to ignore the windows where the keyboard layout switching
           doesn't make sense, such windows can still appear. Or there are
           windows where an user for some reason doesn't want to have the
           button.

       XXkb.controls.button_delete_and_forget
           This mode in addition to previous one makes xxkb to forget the
           window which button is deleted.  It means the xxkbwill not remember
           the keyboard state changes in this window and restore this state
           when the window will be focused.

       XXkb.controls.two_state
           Switching between two chosen keyboard layouts only.  If the XKB
           symbols map has more than two groups and not all of them are needed
           for each application the xxkb allows to skip unneeded layouts at
           the layout switching. You can select one group as a base group and
           another one as an alternative group and then switch between these
           two groups only.  The base group is common for all applications
           (usually it contains ASCII) but the alternative group can be chosen
           for each application window separately.  In this mode a mouse right
           button allows to select the alternative group and a mouse left
           button as well as the key which configured as the layout switcher
           change the current state between two selected layouts only.
             This mode uses two additional config options:

       XXkb.group.base
           the base group (integer 1..4).

       XXkb.group.alt
           the default alternative group (integer 1..4).

The application window button options
       All these options make sense if the XXkb.button.enable switched on.

       XXkb.button.enable
           If turned on, the xxkb adds an additional button to a title bar of
           each managed window which is the indicator and the layout switcher
           for that particular window.  These buttons are not usual window
           manager buttons but windows (with a pixmap) owned by the xxkb
           itself. It means that in some cases a user needs to tune the button
           size and the position for the button look like a window manager
           decoration element.

       XXkb.button.geometry
           the button geometry ( WIDTHxHEIGHT{+-}XOFF{+-}YOFF ).

       XXkb.button.xpm.N
           the pixmap file names (the same as for the XXkb.mainwindow.xpm.*
           options).

       XXkb.button.label.enable

       XXkb.button.label.text.N

       XXkb.button.label.background

       XXkb.button.label.foreground

       XXkb.button.label.font

       XXkb.button.border.color

       XXkb.button.border.width
           see description of their main window counterparts.

Bell options
       XXkb.bell.enable
           enables the keyboard bell when the layout changes.

       XXkb.bell.percent
           an argument value for the XBell call.

Applications lists options
       The xxkb allows to specify lists of applications that requires some
       special actions. The applications can be specified using their WM_CLASS
       or WM_NAME properties.
         A common form of such option is

       XXkb.app_list.property.action: an applications list

         The action here can be one of ignore, start_alt or alt_groupn.  The
       ignore action means that the xxkb must ignore the windows of those
       applications and doesn't add them to the managed windows set. The
       start_alt action means that the xxkb must set the keyboard state to the
       alternative layout when the application starts. And the alt_group1,
       alt_group2, alt_group3 or alt_group4 actions allow to specify the
       alternative layout for some applications if this layout should be
       different from the common alternative layout specified in the
       XXkb.group.alt option.
         The property can be one of wm_class_class, wm_class_name or wm_name.
       The xxkb can identify an application using its window properties
       WM_CLASS or WM_NAME. The WM_CLASS property actually consists of two
       parts - a res_class and a res_name. Thus the property field specifies
       what property or part of property should be considered for the
       application identification.
         By default all these lists are empty. A not empty list is a sequence
       of words separated by space/tab. The xxkb accepts an asterisk as a part
       of word.  Long lists can be continued to the next line using a
       backslash as the last char in the line.
         For example:
         XXkb.app_list.wm_name.ignore: Fvwm* *clock \
                                       Xman

       XXkb.ignore.reverse
           This option changes a meaning of the Xxkb.*.ignore  list. If the
           option switched on the ignore list becomes the list of windows
           which should be managed but all other should be ignored.

AUTHOR
       Ivan Pascal

XXKB                              24 Jun 2002                          xxkb(1)
