FIRST(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               FIRST(1)

NAME
       first - Yagi-Uda project quick antenna builder

SYNOPSIS
       first filename  elements f_min f_design f_max f_step diameter

DESCRIPTION
       The program first is one of a number of executable programs that forms
       part of a set of programs, collectively known as the Yagi-Uda project ,
       which were designed for analysis and optimisation of Yagi-Uda antennas.
       first is used to define an antenna quickly, if you are not interested
       in analysing a specific design (in which case use input ) but need to
       get a design that is half-way reasonable so that it may be optimised.
       It is much faster in use (since its not interactive) than input The
       design methodology that first is the DL6WU antenna designs, which are
       valid for 10 or more elements, although first will calculate for any
       number of elements. DL6WU reccomends a folded dipole, but the designs
       here are for a simple dipole, since I don't yet know how to calculate
       the self and mutual impedances of folded dipoles.

LIMITATIONS
       Filenames, including full path, can't exceed 90 characters.

       Does not take into account the variation of impedance of a dipole with
       change in wavelength/diameter of elements.

FILES
       filename          Yagi description, created by first.
       filename.out      Binary data file, created by yagi.
       filename.dat      Performance of antenna, created by output.
       filename.gai      Gain of antenna, created by output.

       The DOS .EXE files as distributed require a 387 maths coprocessor to be
       present and will not run without it. A 486, Pentium, and I assume later
       processors of this series will run it without any extra hardware.


PLATFORMS
       Both DOS and and Unix versions have been built. The DOS version as
       distributed requires a 386 PC with a 387 maths coprocessor. The DOS
       version is no longer being developed, so the DOS executables included
       with the distribution are not upto date with the current source code.


AUTHORS
       Dr. David Kirkby G8WRB (david.kirkby@onetel.net).  with help with the
       conversion to the DOS/PC enviroment from Dr. Joe Mack NA3T
       (mack@fcrfv2.ncifcrf.gov)

SEE ALSO
       input(1), output(1), yagi(1), optimise(1).

BUGS
       Bugs should be reported to: David Kirkby G8WRB
       (david.kirkby@onetel.net).  Bugs tend actually to be fixed if they can
       be isolated, so it is in your interest to report them in such a way
       that they can be easily reproduced.

       If the input file is edited manually and done incorrectly, there can be
       unpredictable results.

       Options are not checked for sensible numbers. A negative length can be
       entered!

Version 1.10                    Fri Dec  2 1994                       FIRST(1)
