yodl(1)                   Your Own Document Language                   yodl(1)



NAME
       yodl - main Yodl converter

SYNOPSIS
       yodl [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       Yodl is a package that implements a pre-document language and tools to
       process it.  The idea of Yodl is that you write up a document in a
       pre-language, then use the tools (e.g. yodl2html(1)) to convert it to
       some final document language.  Current converters are for HTML, man,
       LaTeX, text and an experimental xml converter.  Main document types are
       "article", "report", "book" "manpage" and "letter".  The Yodl document
       language is designed to be easy to use and extensible.

       NOTE: Starting with Yodl version 3.00.0 Yodl’s default file inclusion
       behavior has changed. The current working directory no longer remains
       fixed at the directory in which Yodl is called, but is volatile,
       changing to the directory in which a yodl-file is located. This has the
       advantage that Yodl’s file inclusion behavior now matches the way C’s
       #include directive operates; it has the disadvantage that it may break
       some current documents. Conversion, however is simple but can be
       avoided altogether if the -L (--legacy-include) option is used (see
       below).

OPTIONS
       o      -D, --define=NAME[=VALUE]: Defines name as a symbol. This option
              is acts like DEFINESYMBOL(NAME)(). If =VALUE is added, NAME is
              initialized to VALUE (identically to DEFINESYMBOL(NAME)(VALUE)).

       o      -d, --definemacro=NAME=EXPANSION: Defines NAME as macro
              expanding to EXPANSION

       o      -h, --help: usage information is written to the standard error
              stream, describing all of Yodl’s options.

       o      -i, --index[=file]: `file’ is the name of the index file. By
              default <outputbase>.idx is used. No default when output is
              written to stdout. The index file is processed by Yodl’s
              post-processor, yodlpost.

       o      -I, --include=DIR: This defines the system-wide include
              directory where YODL searches for its input files. E.g. a
              statement to include a given file, like:
              INCLUDEFILE(latex)
              Yodl now searches for the file latex in the current directory,
              and when that fails, in the system-wide include directory. The
              system-wide include directory is typically the place where the
              maintainer of a system stores macro-files for Yodl. This
              searching process applies to files that are included inside a
              document but also applies to filenames on the command line when
              invoking the YODL program.

              The name of the included file (latex in the above example) is
              the bare name, YODL supplies a default extension (.yo), if
              necessary.

              The -I option overrules Yodl’s built-in name for the system-wide
              include directory. The built-in name is defined when compiling
              Yodl, and is, e.g., /usr/share/yodl. Furthermore, the definition
              may contain $HOME, which is replaced by the user’s home
              directory if the `home’ or `HOME’ environment variable is
              defined. It may also contain $STD_INCLUDE, which is replaced by
              the compilation defined standard include path. The standard
              includepath may be overruled by either (in that order) the
              command line switch -I or the YODL_INCLUDE_PATH environment
              variable. By default, the current directory is added to the
              standard include path. Hewver, when -I or YODL_INCLUDE_PATH is
              used, the current directory must be mentioned explicitly.  The
              individual directories need not be terminated by a /-character.
              In distributed .deb archives, the standard directory is defined
              as /usr/share/yodl (prefixed by the current working directory).

       o      -k, --keep-ws: Since YODL version 2.00 blanks at the begin and
              end of lines are ignored, even without a trailing \, when the
              `white space level’ is non-zero. Earlier versions kept these
              blanks. The legacy handling of white space at end of lines can
              by obtained using the -k flag. Note that white space are always
              kept when using verbatim copying, and when the white-space level
              is zero.

       o      -m, --messages=SET: Set the so-called `message level’ to a
              combination of the SET acdeinw. The letters of this set have the
              following meanings:

       o      a: alert. When an alert-error occurs, Yodl terminates. Here Yodl
              requests something of the system (like a get_cwd()), but the
              system fails.

       o      c: critical. When a critical error occurs, Yodl terminates.  The
              message itself can be suppressed, but exiting can’t. A critical
              condition is, e.g., the omission of an open parenthesis at a
              location where a parameter list should appear, or a non-existing
              file in an INCLUDEFILE specification (as this file should be
              parsed). A non-existing file with a NOEXPANDINCLUDE
              specification is a plain (non-critical) error.

       o      d: debug. Probably too much info, like getting information about
              each character that was read by Yodl.

       o      e: error. An error (like doubly defined symbols). Once an error
              has been encountered the remainder of the input is still parsed
              (up to a maximum number of errors), but no output is generated.

       o      i: info. Not as detailed as `debug’, but still very much info,
              like information about media switches.

       o      n: notice. Information about, e.g., calls to the builtin
              function calls.

       o      w: warning. Something you should know about, but probably not
              affecting Yodl’s proper functioning Non-configurable is the
              handling of an emergency message. These messages can’t be
              suppressed, but shouldn’t happen, as they point to some internal
              error. It would be appreciated to receive information about
              these messages if they ever occur.

       o      -n, --max-nested-files=NR: This option causes Yodl to abort when
              the number of nested input files exceeds NR, which is 20 by
              default. Exceeding this number usually means a circular
              definition somewhere in the document. This is the case when, a
              file a.yo includes b.yo, while b.yo includes a.yo etc.. It does
              not prevent recursive macro- or subst-replacements. For that the
              -r (--max-replacements) option is available.

       o      -o, --output=FILE: This option causes Yodl to write its output
              to FILE. By default, the output goes to the standard output
              stream. E.g., you can use YODL to read a file input and to write
              to output with the following two commands:

                      yodl input > output
                      yodl -ooutput input

              The difference being that in the latter case an index file is
              generated, but not in the former case. Notice that writing an
              index file can be forced when the --index option is specified.

       o      -p, --preload=CMD: This option `pre-loads’ the string cmd. It
              acts as though cmd was the first command in the first input file
              that is processed by YODL.

              More than one --preload=CMD options may be present on the
              command line.  Each of the commands is then processed in turn,
              before reading any file.

       o      -r, --max-replacements=NR: This option causes Yodl to abort when
              the number of macro calls or subst-replacements exceeds NR *
              10,000.  By default, NR equals 1. Setting --max-replacements=0
              implies that no macro- or subst-replacement checks are
              performed.

       o      -t, --trace: This option enables tracing: while parsing, Yodl
              writes its output to the standard error stream. As is the case
              with the -k option, this option is defined for debugging
              purposes only.

       o      -V, --version. This option shows YODL’s actual version.

       o      -v, --verbose: This option increases Yodl’s `verbosity level’
              and may occur more than once. By default yodl shows alerting,
              critical, emergency and error messages. Each --verbose option
              adds a next message level. In order, warning, notice, info and
              debug messages are added to this set. It is also possible to
              suppress messages. The VERBOSITY builtin can be used for that.

       o      -W, --warranty. This option shows a warranty disclaimer and a
              copyright notice.

       o      -w, --warn: The presence of this option caused Yodl to warn
              when, e.g., symbols are redefined.


FILES
       The yodl program requires no files, but `normal’ usage of the Yodl
       package requires macro files, by default installed in tmp/wip/macros.
       The files in this directory are included by the converters yodl2txt(1)
       etc..

SEE ALSO
       yodlstriproff(1), yodl(1), yodlbuiltins(7), yodlconverters(1),
       yodlletter(7), yodlmacros(7), yodlmanpage(7), yodlpost(1),
       yodlverbinsert(1).

BUGS
       -

AUTHOR
       Frank B. Brokken (f.b.brokken@rug.nl),

yodl_4.01.00.tar.gz                1996-2017                           yodl(1)
