GIST(1)                 FreeBSD General Commands Manual                GIST(1)

NAME
       gist - browse binary cgm graphics files

SYNOPSIS
       gist [[ -in ] cgmfile ] [ page-number-list ] [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       Gist is a binary CGM (Computer Graphics Metafile) browser.  It reads an
       input cgmfile and produces output to the X window system, PostScript
       files (which can be printed using lpr(1)), or another binary CGM file.
       The cgmfile may be a family of CGMs; a family is recognized whenever
       the final one or two characters of the filenames (excluding an optional
       trailing ".cgm") are digits in a numerical sequence (e.g.-
       myfile00.cgm, myfile01.cgm, myfile02.cgm, etc.).  In this case, the
       cgmfile argument should be the name of the first file in the family;
       gist will automatically hop back and forth from file to file as
       necessary.  (A single page must not be split across files, and each
       file must be a legal CGM in its own right.)  When gist opens a CGM for
       input, it must catalog the pages in the file by scanning through the
       file to find them.  This cataloguing operation takes place in the
       background while gist waits for your input.  Therefore, if you open a
       large family of CGMs, gist will be able to display the first few pages
       immediately, but if you ask for the last few pages, you will have to
       wait until the catalog is complete.  After gist has catalogued the
       input family, you can render any page without delay.

   Options
       -in_cgmfile         The -in is necessary if and only if the cgmfile
                           name begins with a digit or - sign.

       -ps_psout           to specify a PostScript output file.

       -cgm_cgmout         to specify a binary CGM output file.

       -display_host:server.screen
                           to specify an X server connection.  If this option
                           is not given, gist will use the DISPLAY environment
                           variable.

       -75                 create window(s) at 75 dpi (small window)

       -100                create window(s) at 100 dpi (large window, default)

       -geometry_WxH       create window(s) with specified width and height
                           (in pixels)

       -gks                create window(s) at 8x8 inches (default 6x6).  If
                           your cgm file was NOT created by yorick(1), this
                           may be a better guess at an appropriate window
                           size.  You can also resize the gist window using
                           your window manager or -geometry.

       -nd                 to suppress the automatic display of the first
                           picture when gist starts in interactive mode

       -b                  to run in batch mode (either -cgm or -ps must also
                           be specified, implies -nd)

       -f                  to run in filter mode, placing PostScript output on
                           stdout (implies -b)

       -x                  to run as a pure X window program (no keyboard)

       -fmbug              to compensate for a bug in FrameMaker, reverse the
                           EPS preview top-for-bottom in EPS files.  But I
                           recommend using ghostscript(1) from project GNU to
                           convert gist's PostScript output files into EPS
                           files instead of gist's EPS command, which makes
                           much cruder preview images.

       -bg0fg1             commercial packages which produce CGM files may use
                           color index 0 to mean background, index 1 to mean
                           foreground, despite their own palette -- this
                           switch compensates

       -nowarn             suppress all but first warning message

   Page-number-list
       is any number of space-delimited list elements; each element has one of
       the following forms:

       m                   just page m

       m-n                 pages m through n, inclusive

       m-n-s               pages m through n in steps of s Using m<=0 or
                           n>=total number of pages is legal, causing the loop
                           to terminate at the end-of-file (or end-of-file-
                           family)

       Thus, pages 3, 5, 7, 9, 31, and 17 through 26 (in that order) would be
       specified as:
        3-9-2 31 17-26

       A page number list on the command line is most useful in conjunction
       with the -b or -f options.

   Commands
       Unless the -b or -f options were specified, gist expects further
       commands from the keyboard, or typed in its X window.  Keyboard
       commands are:

       open_cgmfile        open a new CGM for input, closing the current input
                           CGM.  This has no effect on any output device.

       quit                finish and close any output files, then exit.
                           Synonyms for the quit command are exit and end.

       cgm_cgmout [size]   create a new output CGM.  If size is specified, the
                           file will be split into a family whose members are
                           about that size in bytes as more frames are added.
                           The default family member size is four megabytes.

       ps_psout            create a new output PostScript file.  The lpr(1)
                           utility can print PostScript files.

       display_host:server.screen [dpi]
                           create a new output X window.  The dpi (dots per
                           inch) can be either 75 (a small window), or 100 (a
                           large window, the default).

       draw_[page-number-list]
                           render the specified pages on the "drawing" devices
                           (X windows by default).

       send_[page-number-list]
                           render the specified pages on the "sending" devices
                           (PostScript files and CGMs by default).

       info                list current output devices and their states.  Also
                           prints the current input CGM and page number.

       draw_to_dev1 [dev2...]
                           specify "drawing" devices; dev1, dev2, etc., are
                           device numbers printed by the info command.  By
                           default, X windows are the "drawing" devices.

       send_to_dev1 [dev2...]
                           specify "sending" devices; dev1, dev2, etc., are
                           device numbers printed by the info command.  By
                           default, PostScript files and CGMs are the
                           "sending" devices.

       free_dev1 [dev2 ...]
                           close the output file or X window; dev1, dev2,
                           etc., are device numbers printed by the info
                           command.

       eps_epsout          create an encapsulated PostScript file, render the
                           current page there, then close it.  This command is
                           provided only for sites without the project GNU
                           ghostscript(1) program.  Ghostscript's ps2epsi
                           command produces an infinitely better preview
                           bitmap.  If you are interested in this command, get
                           ghostscript; it's free software.

       help_[topic]        prints a summary of these commands.  If specified,
                           topic is one of the command names; gist prints a
                           more detailed description of that command.

       Any of these commands may be abbreviated to the shortest part of their
       name which is unique -- dr for draw, s for send, etc.

       The following commands may be typed either in a gist X window or at the
       keyboard prompt.  The n is a prefix consisting of zero or more digits;
       if you do not specify n the default is always 1.

       nf    advance n pages and draw

       nb    back up n pages and draw

       ng    go to page n and draw

       s     send the current page to all "sending" devices

       q     quit

       If the -x option is specified on the command line, gist can be run in
       the background like other X window programs.  In this case, only the
       window commands will be recognized.

EXAMPLES
       To print every page of a CGM file family myfile00.cgm:
        gist myfile00.cgm -f | lpr
       To print only pages 3, 5, 7, 9, 31, and 17 through 26 (in that order):
        gist myfile00.cgm 3-9-2 31 17-26 -f | lpr

       To start gist as a pure X window program, with output to PostScript
       file myfile.ps:
        gist myfile00.cgm -ps myfile.ps -x &
       Type the f, b or g commands in the gist graphics window to navigate
       through myfile00.cgm.  Use the s command to write the current page into
       myfile.ps; the q command quits.

       To use gist on foreign.cgm which was not generated by Yorick, try:
        gist -75 -gks -bg0fg1 foreign.cgm

AUTHOR
       David H. Munro, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

FILES
       Y_SITE refers to the Yorick site directory; use the help command in
       yorick(1) to find its name at your site:

       Y_SITE/gist/*            graphics style sheets, palettes, and
                                PostScript template

BUGS
       Gist is designed to convert yorick(1) binary CGM output files into
       PostScript perfectly.  That is, running a yorick binary CGM through
       gist will produce exactly the same PostScript file (and X window) as
       yorick would have produced directly.

       However, the ANSI CGM standard is not a page description language like
       PostScript.  Therefore, non-yorick CGMs may or may not be acceptably
       rendered by Gist.  The -gks and -bg0fg1 options may help, but you can
       expect fonts, polymarkers, and line styles to look different with Gist
       than with other CGM browsers (.e.g- idt from NCAR graphics).

       If gist cannot find the PostScript template Y_SITE/gist/ps.ps,
       PostScript output will not work.

       You can't use multiple X windows to compare two different pages (they
       all display the same page).  Start a second copy of gist.

       On pseudocolor displays, a color image may require you to move the
       mouse into gist's X window to display properly.  Unless your window
       manager allows you to set colormap focus independently of keyboard
       focus, this can be annoying.

SEE ALSO
       yorick(1)

4th Berkeley Distribution       1994 August 30                         GIST(1)
