YPXFR(8)                FreeBSD System Manager's Manual               YPXFR(8)

NAME
     ypxfr – transfer NIS database from remote server to local host

SYNOPSIS
     /usr/libexec/ypxfr [-f] [-c] [-d target domain] [-h source host]
                        [-s source domain] [-p path]
                        [-C taskid program-number ipaddr port] mapname

DESCRIPTION
     The ypxfr utility copies an NIS database (or map) from one NIS server to
     another using NIS services.  In FreeBSD, ypxfr is generally invoked by
     ypserv(8) when it receives a map transfer request from yppush(8).  The
     ypxfr utility is used primarily in environments where several NIS servers
     are in use in a single domain.  One server, the NIS master, maintains the
     canonical copies of all NIS maps, and all the other servers, the NIS
     slaves, copy new versions of the maps from the master whenever any
     updates are made (i.e., when a user updates their password via
     yppasswd(1)).

     When run, ypxfr creates a temporary database file in
     /var/yp/[domainname], and fills it with the contents of mapname as
     supplied by the specified source host.  When the entire map has been
     transferred, ypxfr deletes the original copy of mapname and moves the
     temporary copy into its place.  When the transfer is complete, ypxfr will
     attempt to send a 'clear current map' request to the local ypserv(8)
     process to clear any possible references it may still have to the stale
     map.

     Note that all files created by ypxfr are owner readable and writable only
     for security reasons.  Since the NIS maps and the directory in which they
     reside are normally owned by root, this prevents non-privileged users
     from making unauthorized modifications.

     In order to maintain consistency across all NIS servers, ypxfr can be run
     periodically in a cron(8) job.  Maps which change infrequently need only
     be updated once a day (preferably late at night when system usage is
     lowest), whereas those that are subject to frequent changes (such a
     passwd.byname and passwd.byuid) should be updated perhaps once every
     hour.  Using cron(8) to automatically update the NIS maps is not strictly
     mandatory since all updates should be propagated by yppush(8) when
     /var/yp/Makefile is run on the NIS master server, however it is good
     practice on large networks where possible outages could cause NIS servers
     to fall out of sync with each other.

     When ypxfr is invoked without a controlling terminal, e.g. from inside
     ypserv(8), it logs all its output using the syslog(3) facility.

NOTES
     The FreeBSD version of ypxfr has support for a special map transfer
     protocol which works in conjunction with the FreeBSD rpc.ypxfrd(8)
     server.  This protocol allows it to transfer raw map database files from
     the NIS master server and can be many times faster than the standard
     transfer method, particularly for very large NIS maps.  The ypxfr utility
     will check to see if the rpc.ypxfrd(8) server is registered on the NIS
     master server and attempt to use it if it is present.  If it is not it
     will fall back to the standard transfer method, copying the map contents
     from ypserv(8) and creating new maps instead.

     Note that while the FreeBSD ypxfrd protocol is conceptually similar to
     the SunOS ypxfrd protocol, the FreeBSD protocol is not compatible with
     Sun's, therefore it will not work with Sun's ypxfrd server.  FreeBSD
     slave systems can still transfer maps from any non-FreeBSD NIS server,
     however they will only be able to take advantage of the faster protocol
     if the master server is also running FreeBSD.

OPTIONS
     The following options and flags are supported by ypxfr:

     -f      Force a map transfer.  Normally, ypxfr will not transfer a map if
             it determines that the NIS master's copy is not newer than the
             existing copy already on the local host: the -f flag forces a
             transfer regardless of which server's version is more recent.

     -c      Do not send a 'clear current map' request to the ypserv(8)
             process running on the local host.  This flag is normally used
             when invoking ypxfr manually on a machine that is not yet running
             ypserv(8).  Without this flag, failure to contact the local NIS
             server will cause ypxfr to abort the transfer.

     -d target domain
             Specify a target domain other than the current NIS domain.

     -h source host
             Specify the name of the host from which to copy the NIS maps.
             This option is used to ensure that ypxfr only copies maps from
             the NIS master server.

     -s source domain
             Specify the domain from which to transfer a map, in the event
             that the transfer is being done across two different NIS domains.

     -p path
             Specify the top level directory containing the NIS maps.  By
             default, this path is /var/yp.  The -p flag allows you to specify
             an alternate path should you wish to store your NIS maps in a
             different part of the file system.  The NIS server, ypserv(8),
             passes this flag to ypxfr if it too has been told to use an
             alternate path.

     -C taskid program-number ipaddr port
             These options are used only when ypxfr is invoked by ypserv(8) in
             response to a map transfer request initiated by yppush(8).  In
             this instance, ypxfr needs to 'callback' to the yppush(8) process
             and interact with it, so yppush(8) passes to it an IP address
             ipaddr, port number port, registered program number
             program-number and a transaction ID taskid that it can use to
             contact the waiting yppush(8) process on the master server.

     mapname
             The name of the map to transfer.

FILES
     /var/yp/[domainname]/[maps]       The NIS maps for a particular NIS
                                       domain.

SEE ALSO
     yp(8), yppush(8), ypserv(8)

AUTHORS
     Bill Paul <wpaul@ctr.columbia.edu>

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        February 5, 1995        FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
