Z80-ASM(1)                       Z80 Assembler                      Z80-ASM(1)



NAME
       z80-asm - command-line Z80 CPU assember for Unix and DO$


SYNOPSIS
       z80-asm [-wlhcf XX] inputfile[.asm] [startaddress[[:length]
       :outputfile] ]

       z80-asm [-wlhcf XX] inputfile startaddress[:length]:outputfile ...


DESCRIPTION
       z80-asm is a two pass compiler of the Z80 CPU assembly language. It's
       first argument is name of an input (source) file. If no sections follow
       no code is generated.  In the case of exactly one section follows and
       the inputfile name ends with .asm the outputfile with its leading colon
       delimiter and the optional length may be omitted. Then the output is
       written to a file named inputfilename.z80 Generally each section tells
       the compiler to save code to file outputfile from address start address
       and with len length.  Format of the file is described in z80-file(5).

       If an obligate outputfile is missing compilation is aborted after this
       section but error checking of the code is done.  If length is ommited,
       compiler saves code from start address to furthest byte stored to
       memory (inclusive).

       All addresses are given decimal in range from 0 to 65535 or hexadecimal
       in the range from 0x0000 to 0xffff.

       For assembler syntax see section z80-asm(5).


OPTIONS
       Compiler called with no options or -h option prints usage. Option -w
       turns on warning messages, when overwriting code in memory. Option -l
       writes a source listing in pass 2 to stdout. Each input line is
       prepended by PC, generated machine code and line no of 5 digits. Option
       -f which must be followed by a 2 digit hexadecimal value XX sets the
       undefined bytes in gaps created by DEFS and ORG statements to the given
       fill value XX.  Finally option -c prints a cross reference listing of
       the labels to stdout in case of no errors.


BUGS
       No bugs are known. :-) If you find some, please feel free to send me a
       bugreport.


AUTHORS
       Z80-ASM was written by Brainsoft <brain@artax.karlin.mff.cuni.cz> and
       Achim Flammenkamp <achim@math.uni-bielefeld.de>


COPYING
       Copying of this software must be under terms of the GNU General Public
       License. There's absolutely no warranty on this software. For more
       details see file doc/COPY


       (c) 1999-2004 Brainsoft


SEE ALSO
       z80-asm(5), z80-mon(1), z80-file(5)

Z80-ASM Version 2.4               18 Apr 2018                       Z80-ASM(1)
