ZFS-SEND(8)             FreeBSD System Manager's Manual            ZFS-SEND(8)

NAME
     zfs-send – generate backup stream of ZFS dataset

SYNOPSIS
     zfs send [-DLPRbcehnpsvw] [[-I|-i] snapshot] snapshot
     zfs send [-DLPcensvw] [-i snapshot|bookmark] filesystem|volume|snapshot
     zfs send --redact redaction_bookmark [-DLPcenpv] [-i snapshot|bookmark]
         snapshot
     zfs send [-Penv] -t receive_resume_token
     zfs send [-Pnv] -S filesystem
     zfs redact snapshot redaction_bookmark redaction_snapshot…

DESCRIPTION
     zfs send [-DLPRbcehnpvw] [[-I|-i] snapshot] snapshot
       Creates a stream representation of the second snapshot, which is
       written to standard output.  The output can be redirected to a file or
       to a different system (for example, using ssh(1)).  By default, a full
       stream is generated.

       -D, --dedup
           Deduplicated send is no longer supported.  This flag is accepted
           for backwards compatibility, but a regular, non-deduplicated stream
           will be generated.

       -I snapshot
           Generate a stream package that sends all intermediary snapshots
           from the first snapshot to the second snapshot.  For example, -I @a
           fs@d is similar to -i @a fs@b; -i @b fs@c; -i @c fs@d.  The
           incremental source may be specified as with the -i option.

       -L, --large-block
           Generate a stream which may contain blocks larger than 128KB.  This
           flag has no effect if the large_blocks pool feature is disabled, or
           if the recordsize property of this filesystem has never been set
           above 128KB.  The receiving system must have the large_blocks pool
           feature enabled as well.  See zpool-features(7) for details on ZFS
           feature flags and the large_blocks feature.

       -P, --parsable
           Print machine-parsable verbose information about the stream package
           generated.

       -R, --replicate
           Generate a replication stream package, which will replicate the
           specified file system, and all descendent file systems, up to the
           named snapshot.  When received, all properties, snapshots,
           descendent file systems, and clones are preserved.

           If the -i or -I flags are used in conjunction with the -R flag, an
           incremental replication stream is generated.  The current values of
           properties, and current snapshot and file system names are set when
           the stream is received.  If the -F flag is specified when this
           stream is received, snapshots and file systems that do not exist on
           the sending side are destroyed.  If the -R flag is used to send
           encrypted datasets, then -w must also be specified.

       -e, --embed
           Generate a more compact stream by using WRITE_EMBEDDED records for
           blocks which are stored more compactly on disk by the embedded_data
           pool feature.  This flag has no effect if the embedded_data feature
           is disabled.  The receiving system must have the embedded_data
           feature enabled.  If the lz4_compress feature is active on the
           sending system, then the receiving system must have that feature
           enabled as well.  Datasets that are sent with this flag may not be
           received as an encrypted dataset, since encrypted datasets cannot
           use the embedded_data feature.  See zpool-features(7) for details
           on ZFS feature flags and the embedded_data feature.

       -b, --backup
           Sends only received property values whether or not they are
           overridden by local settings, but only if the dataset has ever been
           received.  Use this option when you want zfs receive to restore
           received properties backed up on the sent dataset and to avoid
           sending local settings that may have nothing to do with the source
           dataset, but only with how the data is backed up.

       -c, --compressed
           Generate a more compact stream by using compressed WRITE records
           for blocks which are compressed on disk and in memory (see the
           compression property for details).  If the lz4_compress feature is
           active on the sending system, then the receiving system must have
           that feature enabled as well.  If the large_blocks feature is
           enabled on the sending system but the -L option is not supplied in
           conjunction with -c, then the data will be decompressed before
           sending so it can be split into smaller block sizes.  Streams sent
           with -c will not have their data recompressed on the receiver side
           using -o compress= value.  The data will stay compressed as it was
           from the sender.  The new compression property will be set for
           future data.

       -w, --raw
           For encrypted datasets, send data exactly as it exists on disk.
           This allows backups to be taken even if encryption keys are not
           currently loaded.  The backup may then be received on an untrusted
           machine since that machine will not have the encryption keys to
           read the protected data or alter it without being detected.  Upon
           being received, the dataset will have the same encryption keys as
           it did on the send side, although the keylocation property will be
           defaulted to prompt if not otherwise provided.  For unencrypted
           datasets, this flag will be equivalent to -Lec.  Note that if you
           do not use this flag for sending encrypted datasets, data will be
           sent unencrypted and may be re-encrypted with a different
           encryption key on the receiving system, which will disable the
           ability to do a raw send to that system for incrementals.

       -h, --holds
           Generate a stream package that includes any snapshot holds (created
           with the zfs hold command), and indicating to zfs receive that the
           holds be applied to the dataset on the receiving system.

       -i snapshot
           Generate an incremental stream from the first snapshot (the
           incremental source) to the second snapshot (the incremental
           target).  The incremental source can be specified as the last
           component of the snapshot name (the @ character and following) and
           it is assumed to be from the same file system as the incremental
           target.

           If the destination is a clone, the source may be the origin
           snapshot, which must be fully specified (for example,
           pool/fs@origin, not just @origin).

       -n, --dryrun
           Do a dry-run ("No-op") send.  Do not generate any actual send data.
           This is useful in conjunction with the -v or -P flags to determine
           what data will be sent.  In this case, the verbose output will be
           written to standard output (contrast with a non-dry-run, where the
           stream is written to standard output and the verbose output goes to
           standard error).

       -p, --props
           Include the dataset's properties in the stream.  This flag is
           implicit when -R is specified.  The receiving system must also
           support this feature.  Sends of encrypted datasets must use -w when
           using this flag.

       -s, --skip-missing
           Allows sending a replication stream even when there are snapshots
           missing in the hierarchy.  When a snapshot is missing, instead of
           throwing an error and aborting the send, a warning is printed to
           the standard error stream and the dataset to which it belongs and
           its descendents are skipped.  This flag can only be used in
           conjunction with -R.

       -v, --verbose
           Print verbose information about the stream package generated.  This
           information includes a per-second report of how much data has been
           sent.

           The format of the stream is committed.  You will be able to receive
           your streams on future versions of ZFS.

     zfs send [-DLPcenvw] [-i snapshot|bookmark] filesystem|volume|snapshot
       Generate a send stream, which may be of a filesystem, and may be
       incremental from a bookmark.  If the destination is a filesystem or
       volume, the pool must be read-only, or the filesystem must not be
       mounted.  When the stream generated from a filesystem or volume is
       received, the default snapshot name will be "--head--".

       -D, --dedup
           Deduplicated send is no longer supported.  This flag is accepted
           for backwards compatibility, but a regular, non-deduplicated stream
           will be generated.

       -L, --large-block
           Generate a stream which may contain blocks larger than 128KB.  This
           flag has no effect if the large_blocks pool feature is disabled, or
           if the recordsize property of this filesystem has never been set
           above 128KB.  The receiving system must have the large_blocks pool
           feature enabled as well.  See zpool-features(7) for details on ZFS
           feature flags and the large_blocks feature.

       -P, --parsable
           Print machine-parsable verbose information about the stream package
           generated.

       -c, --compressed
           Generate a more compact stream by using compressed WRITE records
           for blocks which are compressed on disk and in memory (see the
           compression property for details).  If the lz4_compress feature is
           active on the sending system, then the receiving system must have
           that feature enabled as well.  If the large_blocks feature is
           enabled on the sending system but the -L option is not supplied in
           conjunction with -c, then the data will be decompressed before
           sending so it can be split into smaller block sizes.

       -w, --raw
           For encrypted datasets, send data exactly as it exists on disk.
           This allows backups to be taken even if encryption keys are not
           currently loaded.  The backup may then be received on an untrusted
           machine since that machine will not have the encryption keys to
           read the protected data or alter it without being detected.  Upon
           being received, the dataset will have the same encryption keys as
           it did on the send side, although the keylocation property will be
           defaulted to prompt if not otherwise provided.  For unencrypted
           datasets, this flag will be equivalent to -Lec.  Note that if you
           do not use this flag for sending encrypted datasets, data will be
           sent unencrypted and may be re-encrypted with a different
           encryption key on the receiving system, which will disable the
           ability to do a raw send to that system for incrementals.

       -e, --embed
           Generate a more compact stream by using WRITE_EMBEDDED records for
           blocks which are stored more compactly on disk by the embedded_data
           pool feature.  This flag has no effect if the embedded_data feature
           is disabled.  The receiving system must have the embedded_data
           feature enabled.  If the lz4_compress feature is active on the
           sending system, then the receiving system must have that feature
           enabled as well.  Datasets that are sent with this flag may not be
           received as an encrypted dataset, since encrypted datasets cannot
           use the embedded_data feature.  See zpool-features(7) for details
           on ZFS feature flags and the embedded_data feature.

       -i snapshot|bookmark
           Generate an incremental send stream.  The incremental source must
           be an earlier snapshot in the destination's history.  It will
           commonly be an earlier snapshot in the destination's file system,
           in which case it can be specified as the last component of the name
           (the # or @ character and following).

           If the incremental target is a clone, the incremental source can be
           the origin snapshot, or an earlier snapshot in the origin's
           filesystem, or the origin's origin, etc.

       -n, --dryrun
           Do a dry-run ("No-op") send.  Do not generate any actual send data.
           This is useful in conjunction with the -v or -P flags to determine
           what data will be sent.  In this case, the verbose output will be
           written to standard output (contrast with a non-dry-run, where the
           stream is written to standard output and the verbose output goes to
           standard error).

       -v, --verbose
           Print verbose information about the stream package generated.  This
           information includes a per-second report of how much data has been
           sent.

     zfs send --redact redaction_bookmark [-DLPcenpv] [-i snapshot|bookmark]
       snapshot
       Generate a redacted send stream.  This send stream contains all blocks
       from the snapshot being sent that aren't included in the redaction list
       contained in the bookmark specified by the --redact (or -d) flag.  The
       resulting send stream is said to be redacted with respect to the
       snapshots the bookmark specified by the --redact flag was created with.
       The bookmark must have been created by running zfs redact on the
       snapshot being sent.

       This feature can be used to allow clones of a filesystem to be made
       available on a remote system, in the case where their parent need not
       (or needs to not) be usable.  For example, if a filesystem contains
       sensitive data, and it has clones where that sensitive data has been
       secured or replaced with dummy data, redacted sends can be used to
       replicate the secured data without replicating the original sensitive
       data, while still sharing all possible blocks.  A snapshot that has
       been redacted with respect to a set of snapshots will contain all
       blocks referenced by at least one snapshot in the set, but will contain
       none of the blocks referenced by none of the snapshots in the set.  In
       other words, if all snapshots in the set have modified a given block in
       the parent, that block will not be sent; but if one or more snapshots
       have not modified a block in the parent, they will still reference the
       parent's block, so that block will be sent.  Note that only user data
       will be redacted.

       When the redacted send stream is received, we will generate a redacted
       snapshot.  Due to the nature of redaction, a redacted dataset can only
       be used in the following ways:

       1.  To receive, as a clone, an incremental send from the original
           snapshot to one of the snapshots it was redacted with respect to.
           In this case, the stream will produce a valid dataset when received
           because all blocks that were redacted in the parent are guaranteed
           to be present in the child's send stream.  This use case will
           produce a normal snapshot, which can be used just like other
           snapshots.

       2.  To receive an incremental send from the original snapshot to
           something redacted with respect to a subset of the set of snapshots
           the initial snapshot was redacted with respect to.  In this case,
           each block that was redacted in the original is still redacted
           (redacting with respect to additional snapshots causes less data to
           be redacted (because the snapshots define what is permitted, and
           everything else is redacted)).  This use case will produce a new
           redacted snapshot.

       3.  To receive an incremental send from a redaction bookmark of the
           original snapshot that was created when redacting with respect to a
           subset of the set of snapshots the initial snapshot was created
           with respect to anything else.  A send stream from such a redaction
           bookmark will contain all of the blocks necessary to fill in any
           redacted data, should it be needed, because the sending system is
           aware of what blocks were originally redacted.  This will either
           produce a normal snapshot or a redacted one, depending on whether
           the new send stream is redacted.

       4.  To receive an incremental send from a redacted version of the
           initial snapshot that is redacted with respect to a subject of the
           set of snapshots the initial snapshot was created with respect to.
           A send stream from a compatible redacted dataset will contain all
           of the blocks necessary to fill in any redacted data.  This will
           either produce a normal snapshot or a redacted one, depending on
           whether the new send stream is redacted.

       5.  To receive a full send as a clone of the redacted snapshot.  Since
           the stream is a full send, it definitionally contains all the data
           needed to create a new dataset.  This use case will either produce
           a normal snapshot or a redacted one, depending on whether the full
           send stream was redacted.

       These restrictions are detected and enforced by zfs receive; a redacted
       send stream will contain the list of snapshots that the stream is
       redacted with respect to.  These are stored with the redacted snapshot,
       and are used to detect and correctly handle the cases above.  Note that
       for technical reasons, raw sends and redacted sends cannot be combined
       at this time.

     zfs send [-Penv] -t receive_resume_token
       Creates a send stream which resumes an interrupted receive.  The
       receive_resume_token is the value of this property on the filesystem or
       volume that was being received into.  See the documentation for zfs
       receive -s for more details.

     zfs send [-Pnv] [-i snapshot|bookmark] -S filesystem
       Generate a send stream from a dataset that has been partially received.

       -S, --saved
           This flag requires that the specified filesystem previously
           received a resumable send that did not finish and was interrupted.
           In such scenarios this flag enables the user to send this partially
           received state.  Using this flag will always use the last fully
           received snapshot as the incremental source if it exists.

     zfs redact snapshot redaction_bookmark redaction_snapshot…
       Generate a new redaction bookmark.  In addition to the typical bookmark
       information, a redaction bookmark contains the list of redacted blocks
       and the list of redaction snapshots specified.  The redacted blocks are
       blocks in the snapshot which are not referenced by any of the redaction
       snapshots.  These blocks are found by iterating over the metadata in
       each redaction snapshot to determine what has been changed since the
       target snapshot.  Redaction is designed to support redacted zfs sends;
       see the entry for zfs send for more information on the purpose of this
       operation.  If a redact operation fails partway through (due to an
       error or a system failure), the redaction can be resumed by rerunning
       the same command.

   Redaction
     ZFS has support for a limited version of data subsetting, in the form of
     redaction.  Using the zfs redact command, a redaction bookmark can be
     created that stores a list of blocks containing sensitive information.
     When provided to zfs send, this causes a redacted send to occur.
     Redacted sends omit the blocks containing sensitive information,
     replacing them with REDACT records.  When these send streams are
     received, a redacted dataset is created.  A redacted dataset cannot be
     mounted by default, since it is incomplete.  It can be used to receive
     other send streams.  In this way datasets can be used for data backup and
     replication, with all the benefits that zfs send and receive have to
     offer, while protecting sensitive information from being stored on less-
     trusted machines or services.

     For the purposes of redaction, there are two steps to the process.  A
     redact step, and a send/receive step.  First, a redaction bookmark is
     created.  This is done by providing the zfs redact command with a parent
     snapshot, a bookmark to be created, and a number of redaction snapshots.
     These redaction snapshots must be descendants of the parent snapshot, and
     they should modify data that is considered sensitive in some way.  Any
     blocks of data modified by all of the redaction snapshots will be listed
     in the redaction bookmark, because it represents the truly sensitive
     information.  When it comes to the send step, the send process will not
     send the blocks listed in the redaction bookmark, instead replacing them
     with REDACT records.  When received on the target system, this will
     create a redacted dataset, missing the data that corresponds to the
     blocks in the redaction bookmark on the sending system.  The incremental
     send streams from the original parent to the redaction snapshots can then
     also be received on the target system, and this will produce a complete
     snapshot that can be used normally.  Incrementals from one snapshot on
     the parent filesystem and another can also be done by sending from the
     redaction bookmark, rather than the snapshots themselves.

     In order to make the purpose of the feature more clear, an example is
     provided.  Consider a zfs filesystem containing four files.  These files
     represent information for an online shopping service.  One file contains
     a list of usernames and passwords, another contains purchase histories, a
     third contains click tracking data, and a fourth contains user
     preferences.  The owner of this data wants to make it available for their
     development teams to test against, and their market research teams to do
     analysis on.  The development teams need information about user
     preferences and the click tracking data, while the market research teams
     need information about purchase histories and user preferences.  Neither
     needs access to the usernames and passwords.  However, because all of
     this data is stored in one ZFS filesystem, it must all be sent and
     received together.  In addition, the owner of the data wants to take
     advantage of features like compression, checksumming, and snapshots, so
     they do want to continue to use ZFS to store and transmit their data.
     Redaction can help them do so.  First, they would make two clones of a
     snapshot of the data on the source.  In one clone, they create the setup
     they want their market research team to see; they delete the usernames
     and passwords file, and overwrite the click tracking data with dummy
     information.  In another, they create the setup they want the development
     teams to see, by replacing the passwords with fake information and
     replacing the purchase histories with randomly generated ones.  They
     would then create a redaction bookmark on the parent snapshot, using
     snapshots on the two clones as redaction snapshots.  The parent can then
     be sent, redacted, to the target server where the research and
     development teams have access.  Finally, incremental sends from the
     parent snapshot to each of the clones can be sent to and received on the
     target server; these snapshots are identical to the ones on the source,
     and are ready to be used, while the parent snapshot on the target
     contains none of the username and password data present on the source,
     because it was removed by the redacted send operation.

SEE ALSO
     zfs-bookmark(8), zfs-receive(8), zfs-redact(8), zfs-snapshot(8)

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         April 15, 2021         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
