ZFS-MOUNT(8)            FreeBSD System Manager's Manual           ZFS-MOUNT(8)

NAME
     zfs-mount – manage mount state of ZFS filesystems

SYNOPSIS
     zfs mount
     zfs mount [-Oflv] [-o options] -a|filesystem
     zfs unmount [-fu] -a|filesystem|mountpoint

DESCRIPTION
     zfs mount
       Displays all ZFS file systems currently mounted.

     zfs mount [-Oflv] [-o options] -a|filesystem
       Mount ZFS filesystem on a path described by its mountpoint property, if
       the path exists and is empty.  If mountpoint is set to legacy, the
       filesystem should be instead mounted using mount(8).

       -O  Perform an overlay mount.  Allows mounting in non-empty mountpoint.
           See mount(8) for more information.

       -a  Mount all available ZFS file systems.  Invoked automatically as
           part of the boot process if configured.

       filesystem
           Mount the specified filesystem.

       -o options
           An optional, comma-separated list of mount options to use
           temporarily for the duration of the mount.  See the Temporary Mount
           Point Properties section of zfsprops(7) for details.

       -l  Load keys for encrypted filesystems as they are being mounted.
           This is equivalent to executing zfs load-key on each encryption
           root before mounting it.  Note that if a filesystem has
           keylocation=prompt, this will cause the terminal to interactively
           block after asking for the key.

       -v  Report mount progress.

       -f  Attempt to force mounting of all filesystems, even those that
           couldn't normally be mounted (e.g. redacted datasets).

     zfs unmount [-fu] -a|filesystem|mountpoint
       Unmounts currently mounted ZFS file systems.

       -a  Unmount all available ZFS file systems.  Invoked automatically as
           part of the shutdown process.

       -f  Forcefully unmount the file system, even if it is currently in use.
           This option is not supported on Linux.

       -u  Unload keys for any encryption roots unmounted by this command.

       filesystem|mountpoint
           Unmount the specified filesystem.  The command can also be given a
           path to a ZFS file system mount point on the system.

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2        February 16, 2019       FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
