ELVIS(1)                FreeBSD General Commands Manual               ELVIS(1)



NAME
       celvis, cex, cvi, cview, cinput - The Chinese editor

SYNOPSIS
       celvis [flags] [+cmd] [files...]

DESCRIPTION
       Elvis is a text editor which emulates vi/ex.  Celvis is a Chinese
       version of elvis.  It should run on top of some Chinese terminal or
       Chinese system, such as cxterm in X11 window system.  This version
       supports both GB encoding and Big5 encoding Chinese text.

       On systems which pass the program name as an argument, such as Unix and
       Minix, you may also install celvis under the names "cex", "cvi",
       "cview", and "cinput".  These extra names would normally be links to
       celvis; see the "ln" shell command.

       When celvis is invoked as "cvi", it behaves exactly as though it was
       invoked as "celvis".  However, if you invoke celvis as "cview", then
       the readonly option is set as though you had given it the "-R" flag.
       If you invoke celvis as "cex", then celvis will start up in the colon
       command mode instead of the visual command mode, as though you had
       given it the "-e" flag.  If you invoke celvis as "cinput" or "cedit",
       then celvis will start up in input mode, as though the "-i" flag was
       given.

OPTIONS
       -r     To the real vi, this flag means that a previous edit should be
              recovered.  Celvis, though, has a separate program, called
              virec(1), for recovering files.  When you invoke celvis with -r,
              celvis will tell you to run virec.

       -R     This sets the "readonly" option, so you won't accidentally
              overwrite a file.

       -t tag This causes celvis to start editing at the given tag.

       -e     Celvis will start up in colon command mode.

       -v     Celvis will start up in visual command mode.

       -i     Celvis will start up in input mode.

       +command
              If you use the +command parameter, then after the first file is
              loaded command is executed as an EX command.  A typical example
              would be "celvis +237 foo", which would cause celvis to start
              editing foo and then move directly to line 237.

FILES
       /tmp/elv*
              During editing, celvis stores text in a temporary file.  For
              UNIX, this file will usually be stored in the /tmp directory,
              and the first three characters will be "elv".  For other
              systems, the temporary files may be stored someplace else; see
              the version-specific section of the documentation.

       tags   This is the database used by the :tags command and the -t
              option.  It is usually created by the ctags(1) program.

       .exrc or elvis.rc
              On UNIX-like systems, a file called ".exrc" in your home
              directory is executed as a series of ex commands.  A file by the
              same name may be executed in the current directory, too.  On
              non-UNIX systems, ".exrc" is usually an invalid file name;
              there, the initialization file is called "elvis.rc" instead.

SEE ALSO
       ctags(1), ref(1), virec(1), cxterm(1)

       Elvis - A Clone of Vi/Ex, the complete elvis documentation.

BUGS
       There is no LISP support.  Certain other features are missing, too.

       Auto-indent mode is not quite compatible with the real vi.  Among other
       things, 0^D and ^^D don't do what you might expect.

       Long lines are displayed differently.  The real vi wraps long lines
       onto multiple rows of the screen, but celvis scrolls sideways.

AUTHOR
       Steve Kirkendall
       kirkenda@cs.pdx.edu
       ...uunet!tektronix!psueea!eecs!kirkenda

       Many other people have worked to port elvis to various operating
       systems.  To see who deserves credit, run the :version command from
       within celvis, or look in the system-specific section of the complete
       documentation.

       The Chinese version, celvis, is developed by Man-Chi Pong (now with the
       Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, HK.  E-mail:
       mcpong@uxmail.usthk.hk) and Yongguang Zhang (Purdue University, e-mail:
       ygz@cs.purdue.edu).



                                                                      ELVIS(1)
