ETERM(1)                            X Tools                           ETERM(1)



NAME
       Eterm - the Enlightened terminal emulator for the X Window System

SYNOPSIS
       Eterm [options]


DESCRIPTION
       Eterm — version 0.9.6 — is a color vt102 terminal emulator intended as
       an xterm(1) replacement. It is designed with a Freedom of Choice
       philosophy, leaving as much power, flexibility, and freedom as possible
       in the hands of the user.  It is designed to look good and work well,
       but takes a feature-rich approach rather than one of minimalism.  Eterm
       uses Imlib for advanced graphic abilities.  See below for details.

OPTIONS
       The Eterm options are listed below.  In keeping with the freedom-of-
       choice philosophy, options may be eliminated or default values chosen
       at compile-time, so options and defaults listed may not accurately
       reflect the version installed on your system.

       Options that do not take a parameter (besides -h and --help) are
       boolean.  If you use the POSIX (short) option, you are forcing the
       parameter to "true".  If you use the long option, you can use any of
       the accepted boolean values, which are "yes", "on", "1", and "true" to
       turn the option on, or "no", "off", "0", or "false" to turn the option
       off.  The same is true for boolean values in the configuration file.

       -t theme, --theme theme
              Load specified theme.  Consult the FAQ for more details on what
              constitutes an Eterm theme.

       -X conffile, --config-file conffile
              Use an alternative user config file name.  Otherwise Eterm uses
              the default, which is user.cfg.  The theme config file is always
              theme.cfg.

       -d displayname, --display displayname
              Attempt to open a window on the named X display displayname.  In
              the absence of this option, the display specified by the DISPLAY
              environment variable is used.

       --debug level
              Show debugging output.  level is an integer between 0 and 5
              which determines how verbose the debugging output is.

       --install
              Tells Eterm to install its own colormap rather than using the
              default one.

       -h, --help
              Print out a message describing available options.

       --version
              Print Eterm version and compile-time configuration.

       -r, --reverse-video
              Reverse video, swaps the foreground and background colors.

       -b color, --background-color color
              Set color as the background color.  NOTE: this will actually be
              the foreground color if reverse video is also selected.

       -f color, --foreground-color color
              Set color as the foreground (text) color.  NOTE: this will
              actually be the background color if reverse video is also
              selected.

       --color0 color

       ...

       --color15 color
              Use color as color X.

       --colorBD color
              Use color as the bold color.

       --colorUL color
              Use color as the underline color.

       --pointer-color color
              Use color as the pointer color.

       -c color, --cursor-color color
              Use color as the cursor color.

       --cursor-text-color color
              Use color as the cursor text color.

       -g geom, --geometry geom
              Window geometry as Width x Height+X coord+Y coord, i.e
              100x200+0+100

       -i,--iconic
              Start in iconified state (only if the window manager supports
              iconification).

       -n name, --name name
              Sets name of current instance to name.  This will affect the
              icon title and the window title string unless they are otherwise
              explicitly set.

       -T title, --title title
              Sets window's title text to title.

       --icon-name text
              Sets the icon title text to text.

       -B type, --scrollbar-type type
              Specifies the type scrollbar style should be used.  type can be
              any of motif, xterm, or next.

       --scrollbar-width width
              Set the width of the scrollbar, in pixels, to width.  Eterm does
              not impose any restrictions on this value, but it should be
              reasonable.

       -D desktop, --desktop desktop
              Starts the Eterm on the specified desktop.  desktop should be an
              integer between 0 and your highest-numbered desktop.  NOTE:
              You must have a GNOME-compliant window manager for this feature
              to work.  Please see http://www.gnome.org/devel/gnomewm/ for
              more information on the _WIN_WORKSPACE property and how to
              support it.

       --line-space num
              Size of the extra gap, in pixels, to provide between lines in
              the terminal window.

       --bold-font font
              Sets the bold text font to font.

       -F font, --font font
              Sets the normal text font to font.

       --default-font-index num
              Specifies the index of the default (normal) text font.

       --font1 font

       ...

       --font4 font
              Sets the font at the specified index (1-4) to font.

       --proportional
              Specifies that the font in use is proportional and requests
              standard deviation-based character cell spacing.  Terminals must
              use fixed-width character cells to maintain proper columnal
              alignment, even when proportionally-spaced fonts are in use.
              Some proportionally-spaced fonts vary greatly between the
              minimum and maximum character widths.  This option chooses a
              character cell size which is up to two standard deviations above
              the average character width but will not exceed the maximum
              width of the largest glyph.  Note that characters larger than
              the chosen cell width will overwrite (or be overwritten by)
              other characters and may tend to leave pixel droppings.  This
              behavior is an expected side-effect of an imperfect scenario.
              If you object to this behavior, do not use this option.

       --font-fx effects
              Specifies the effects to apply to the terminal window font.  The
              value of effects is a single string containing a series of
              corner/color pairs.  These pairs define toward which corner a
              drop shadow of each character should be made, and what color
              that shadow will be.  The corner is specified first using the
              following keywords: top_left or tl,  top_right or tr,
              bottom_left or bl, and  bottom_right or br.  Each corner
              specifier is then followed by a color.

              There are also several shortcuts for doing common effects.  You
              can get a single-color outline by using the keyword outline
              followed by a color.  A single-color drop shadow is also
              available using the keyword shadow followed by an optional
              corner specifier (bottom_right being the default) and a color.
              For a 3-D embossed look, use emboss dark_color light_color.  The
              opposite effect, a carved-out look, can be obtained with carved
              dark_color light_color.  (Of course, with those last two, the
              3-D look will only work if you choose the light and dark colors
              wisely.)

              Finally, for no font effects at all, simply specify the keyword
              none.

              The default value is bottom_right black which yields a black
              drop shadow, greatly improving the visibility of lightly-colored
              fonts on top of light spots in a background image.  Note that
              font effects are not active in solid color mode.

       -P pic, --background-pixmap pic
              Use pic as the background image.  pic can be in any format that
              Imlib understands.  Currently this means just about anything,
              including JPG, PNG, GIF, TIFF, PPM, etc.  The image is tiled by
              default.  To specify alternate geometry, follow the filename
              with an @ sign and the geometry string.  Image geometry is
              specified as @wxh+x+y:ops where w and h are the
              horizontal/vertical scaling percentages, x and y are the
              horizontal/vertical alignment percentages, and ops is a colon-
              delimited list of operations: tiled (to tile the image),
              propscaled (for proportional scaling).  Note that these
              operations can be combined for various effects.

       -I pic, --icon pic
              Sets the icon pixmap file to pic.  Works similarly to the -P
              option above.

       --up-arrow-pixmap pic
              As above, except the scrollbar's up-arrow is set.

       --down-arrow-pixmap pic
              As above, except the scrollbar's down-arrow is set.

       --trough-pixmap pic
              As above, except the scrollbar's background (trough) is set.

       --anchor-pixmap pic
              As above, except the scrollbar's anchor image is set.

       --menu-pixmap pic
              As above, except the menu background image is set.

       -O, --trans
              This gives a pseudo-transparent Eterm.  The image is taken
              directly from the root window, so any requests for changing the
              pixmap are ignored.  If you do not use Enlightenment
              (http://www.enlightenment.org/) as your window manager (or
              another compliant window manager...I have been told that
              WindowMaker works also), you will need to use the Esetroot
              program (found in the utils/ directory) to set your root
              background image.

       -0, --itrans
              Activate the immotile transparency optimization for transparent
              Eterm windows.  Note that this does NOT activate transparency;
              you must still include the -O or --trans option.  This option
              should be used on transparent windows which are shaded or tinted
              and which do not move around on the desktop much.  See the Mon
              Mar  6 21:11:13 PST 2000 ChangeLog entry for a more detailed
              explanation.

       --viewport-mode
              This activates a special Eterm mode which is hard to describe in
              words.  Basically, imagine the effect you get with pseudo-
              transparency, where the desktop background moves through the
              Eterm window as you move the window, so that it always aligns
              with the desktop image.  Now, imagine the same effect, but the
              image used isn't the desktop image but any pixmap you choose.
              The image is scaled or tiled up to the size of the desktop, and
              dragging the Eterm around the screen reveals different portions
              of the image as you move, much like a small viewport window in a
              ship or submarine does.  The effect is especially keen if you
              open several Eterms in this mode with the same image.

       --shade percentage
              Shade the background image/transparency by a specified
              percentage.

       --tint mask

       --tint color
              Tints the background pixmap (either an image file or the
              transparent portion can be shaded).  The mask is an integer,
              usually specified in hexadecimal in the form  0xRRGGBB, where
              RR, GG, and BB are hexadecimal numbers between 00 and ff (0 and
              255 decimal) which represent the brightness of the image's red,
              green, and blue values, respectively.  A value of 00 will mask
              that color out entirely, while a value of ff will not change
              that color at all.

              You may also specify an X color such as grey75 or MidnightBlue
              or #babb7f instead of a mask.

       --cmod brightness [ contrast [ gamma ] ]
              Specifies a color modifier to apply to the image overall.  Each
              of the three values is a number greater than or equal to 0.  The
              numbers can be specified as decimal, octal (if preceded by "0"),
              or hexadecimal (if preceded by "0x").  A value of 256 (0x100)
              represents 100%, or "leave that value unchanged."  0 represents
              0%, 512 (0x200) is 200%, etc.  However, be aware that overflow
              can occur with excessively high values.  Only the brightness
              value is required for this option.  Keep in mind, though, that
              you must specify brightness with contrast, and both of these
              with gamma.

       --cmod-red brightness [ contrast [ gamma ] ]
              Same as above, except that the modifier applies to the red
              values of the image.

       --cmod-green brightness [ contrast [ gamma ] ]
              Same as above, except that the modifier applies to the green
              values of the image.

       --cmod-blue brightness [ contrast [ gamma ] ]
              Same as above, except that the modifier applies to the blue
              values of the image.

       -p newpath, --path newpath
              Sets the pic search path.  When the --background-pixmap or other
              pixmap options are used, this path will be used to find the
              image.

       --cache size
              Specify the size in bytes for the Imlib2 cache.

       -N list, --anim list
              Specifies an animation list to be use in cycling the background
              pixmap.  The list consists of two or more words.  The first word
              defines the delay, in seconds, between updates of the
              background.  This should be set to a reasonable value to insure
              that Eterm doesn't spend all its time rendering backgrounds.
              All remaining words specify background images and have the same
              syntax as the -P option above, including the optional geometry
              string.

       -M font, --mfont font
              Sets the normal multibyte text font to font.

       --mfont1 font

       ...

       --mfont4 font
              Sets multibyte font X to font.

       --mencoding encoding
              Sets multichar encoding mode (eucj or sjis or euckr)

       --input-method method
              Sets XIM input method

       --preedit-type type
              Sets XIM preedit type

       -l, --login-shell
              Makes the new shell a login shell.

       -s, --scrollbar
              Enables the scrollbar. (Default)

       -u, --utmp-logging
              Tries to enable proper utmp logging.  For this to work, Eterm
              probably needs to run setuid or setgid, usually setuid root.

       -v, --visual-bell
              Enables the "visual bell".  Means the window will flash or blink
              rather than beep.

       -H, --home-on-output
              Jump to bottom on output.

       --home-on-input
              Jump to bottom on input.

       -q, --no-input
              Keeps Eterm from accepting keyboard input, and keeps the window
              manager from focusing it.  Useful for log tailers and such.

       --scrollbar-right
              Display scrollbar on the right hand side.

       --scrollbar-floating
              Display the scrollbar without a trough.

       --scrollbar-popup
              Display the scrollbar only when the Eterm window is focused.

       -x, --borderless
              This option forces Eterm to have no borders.

       -S, --sticky
              Start Eterm as a sticky window (shows on all desktops)

       -m, --map-alert
              Un-iconify on beep.

       -8, --meta8
              Causes the Meta key to set the 8th bit in the char.

       --double-buffer
              Rather than drawing text directly onto the window, this option
              causes Eterm to allocate an additional pixmap the size of the
              terminal window into which the background *and* the text are
              rendered.  This pixmap is then set as the window background.
              Double-buffering uses additional memory in the X server, but it
              allows Eterm to ignore expose events so redraws are faster.

       --no-cursor
              Disables the text cursor.

       --pause
              After the child process terminates, Eterm will wait for a
              keypress before exiting.

       --xterm-select
              Duplicate's xterm's treatment of cutchars.  The only real
              difference is what happens when you double click on a single
              cutchar between two words.  If this option is on, only that
              single character gets selected.  If it is off, that character is
              selected along with the two words.  The latter behavior is
              useful for double-clicking on the space between someone's first
              and last names, or the @ sign in an e-mail address, etc.

       --select-line
              If activated, this option causes a triple click to select the
              entire line from beginning to end.  If off, a triple-click
              selects just from the current word to the end of the line.

       --select-trailing-spaces
              Determines whether or not trailing spaces in a selection are
              maintained (on) or discarded (off).

       --report-as-keysyms
              Reports certain keystrokes as keysyms and modifiers rather than
              escape sequences.  NOTE: This option is intended for use only
              with programs that support this special Eterm mode.  Do not
              enable it unless you are executing a program which uses this
              mode.

       --buttonbar
              Toggle the display of all buttonbars.

       --resize-gravity
              If true, Eterm will automatically detect the nearest corner, and
              font-change resizes will cause the Eterm window to gravitate
              toward that corner.

       --overstrike-bold
              If true (default), Eterm will simulate a bold font by printing
              each character twice, offsetting the second pass by one pixel.
              This makes the characters seem thicker without the need for a
              special font.  You may wish to disable this if you use a
              specific color for bold.

       --bold-brightens-foreground
              If true (default), Eterm will use the "bold" ANSI color
              attribute to brighten the foreground color by using the high-
              intensity colors (8 through 15) rather than the low-intensity
              colors (0 through 7).  Note that having a specific color
              selected for bold will override this.

       --blink-brightens-background
              If true (default), Eterm will use the "blink" ANSI color
              attribute to brighten the background color by using the high-
              intensity colors (8 through 15) rather than the low-intensity
              colors (0 through 7).

       --colors-suppress-bold
              If true (default), any colored text (that is, any text not
              rendered using the default foreground color) will not be given
              any other special treatment for bolding (e.g., bold font or bold
              overstrike).

       --big-font-key keysym
              Specify a keysym to increase the font size.  Default is Shift
              and the + key on the keypad.  Ctrl-> or Meta-> may also work (if
              you #define one of the hotkeys in src/feature.h).

       --small-font-key keysym
              Specify a keysym to decrease the font size.  Default is Shift
              and the - key on the keypad.  Ctrl-< or Meta-< may also work (if
              you #define one of the hotkeys in src/feature.h).

       --meta-mod num
              Specify which X modifier (1-5) to treat as the Meta key.  See
              xmodmap(1) and the output of xmodmap -pm for more details.

       --alt-mod num
              Same as --meta-mod, but for the Alt key.

       --numlock-mod num
              Same as --meta-mod, but for the NumLock key.

       --greek-keyboard mode
              Use Greek keyboard mapping (iso or ibm).

       --app-keypad
              Start Eterm in application keypad mode (as opposed to normal
              keypad mode).

       --app-cursor
              Start Eterm in application cursor key mode (as opposed to normal
              cursor key mode).

       -L num, --save-lines num
              Set the number of lines in the scrollback buffer to num.

       -a size, --min-anchor-size size
              Specifies the minimum size, in pixels high, of the scrollbar
              anchor.  NOTE: This causes abnormal scrolling behavior when
              combined with large scrollback buffers!

       -w width, --border-width width
              Set the window's border width to width.  The border this
              controls is the gap between the edge of the X window and the
              edge of the terminal window; this has nothing to do with the
              window border's your window manager supplies.

       --print-pipe pipe
              The pipe for the PrintScreen function.

       --cut-chars separators
              The seperators for double-click selection.

       --finished-title title
              Specifies the string Eterm should add to its title bar if
              --pause is specified and the child process completes.

       --finished-text text
              Same as above, but displays text in the terminal window.

       --term-name TERM
              Use TERM for the value $TERM.

       --pipe-name pipe
              Specifies a named pipe from which to display output.  This is
              useful for systems where syslog output goes to a named pipe,
              like /dev/xconsole on Debian.

       -a line, --attribute line
              This option is used to pass config file attributes on the
              command line.  line should be a single string, so you will
              almost certainly have to quote it.  The first word of line must
              be the context (see config file section below) which should
              parse the rest of the line.  So, for example, you could specify
              the foreground color like so: -a 'color foreground blue'.  Or
              you could add a binding: -a 'actions bind anymod button1 to
              script exit'.  Note that this option may only be used with
              config file attributes that are not context-sensitive; i.e.,
              menus and imageclasses cannot be specified using this option.

       -C, --console
              Grab console messages.  Depending on your system, Eterm may need
              to be setuid root to do this.

       -e command, --exec command
              Execute command rather than a shell. Forces Eterm mode.

       -U URL, --url URL
              Pick up a "screen" session at URL rather than a local (-U "")
              one. URLs look like so
              (screen://user@host.dom:port/screen_options), with all parts
              optional, defaulting to
              "screen://current_user@localhost:22/-RDD". Forces Escreen mode,
              overrides --exec. Note that only screen-options (see "man
              screen") are allowed; do not pass a command (with or without
              arguments) here: to pass a command to the screen-session, use
              screen [<options>] <command> [<args>] instead.

       -Z lclport:fw:fwport,delay, --fw lclport:fw:fwport,delay
              The URL given to -U is in an intranet behind firewall fw so
              we'll build an SSH-tunnel to that firewall (to port 22/SSH, or
              fwport if given) from our local machine (using any available
              port-number, or lclport if given). Then, after delay seconds (or
              a sensible default if not given), we will try to open a screen
              session on the host behind the firewall using ssh -p localport
              ... localhost screen cf.  ssh -L


THEMES
       Eterm is built on the philosophy of Freedom of Choice.  Each user
       should be able to choose the environment in which he or she wishes to
       exist, and the tools used should support that.  In accordance with that
       philosophy, Eterm is extremely configurable.  Eterm supports a concept
       called "themes," which should be familiar to users of Enlightenment,
       icewm, or Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT.  The general concept of a theme
       is a collection of resources that change as many aspects of a programs
       look and feel as possible.  For example, an Enlightenment theme allows
       you to customize menus, window borders, desktops, icons, iconbars, and
       everything else about how E looks and feels.

       An Eterm theme consists of a primary configuration file, always called
       "theme.cfg", residing in a directory bearing the same name as the
       theme. This directory must be a child of one of the directories
       specified by CONFIG_SEARCH_PATH in src/feature.h. The theme may also
       contain additional configuration files referenced by the primary
       theme.cfg file, as well as pixmaps, menu files, documentation, etc.,
       which are allowable as extensions to the minimum requirement of an
       Eterm theme.

       By convention and default, Eterm themes should be stored under
       ~/.Eterm/themes/<theme_name>/ or
       /usr/local/share/Eterm/themes/<theme_name>.

       Eterm now supports the existence of a user configuration file as a
       suppliment to the theme configuration file.  The default name for this
       file is user.cfg, and it follows the exact same syntax as any other
       configuration file.  It is searched for using the same algorithm used
       for the theme.cfg file, and any settings in the user.cfg will override
       any previous values for those settings defined by the theme.  Thus, it
       is recommended that any user.cfg files not be complete config files,
       but rather only contain those values which the user wishes to
       explicitly override.

       NOTE:  If you have a user.cfg file in the Eterm theme directory or in
       ~/.Eterm/, it will override any previous settings, even if you are
       running a different theme.  For example, if you run the trans theme,
       but ~/.Eterm/themes/Eterm/user.cfg has a mode line which sets the image
       mode to "image" rather than "trans," you will not get transparency.
       This is why user.cfg files should be kept small and only override
       settings that you know you want to enforce.  If, on the other hand, you
       were running the trans theme and had a user.cfg file in the trans theme
       (or in ~/.Eterm/themes/trans/), that user.cfg would be found before the
       one in the Eterm theme.

       Almost all command line options can be enabled/disabled in the theme's
       configuration file (the default is
       /usr/local/share/Eterm/themes/Eterm/theme.cfg).  The next section
       contains details on the format and usage of the configuration file.


CONFIGURATION
       Since Eterm 0.9.6 is based on the concept of themes, it is vital that
       you have a thorough understanding of the previous section before taking
       on this one.  The previous section and this one were written by the
       same person who wrote the Eterm code which handles options, config
       files, and themes, so it's probably the most authoritative
       documentation on the subject you're going to find.

       From here on out, I will assume you've read the above text and know how
       to change the default value for the theme.  It is highly recommended
       that you have a copy of the Eterm theme config file that comes with
       Eterm handy while you read this documentation.

       Okay, first the general idea.  The theme.cfg file is composed of
       comments and non-comments.  Comments begin with a pound sign and
       continue to the end of the line.  Lines of whitespace are also ignored.
       The rest of the file is the config stuff, which is divided into
       sections (called "contexts") and variables (called "attributes").
       There are several contexts which are listed below in sections.  Each
       attribute must be inside a certain context to be valid.  For instance,
       while the "foreground" attribute is perfectly acceptable in the color
       context, it would be rejected if found in, say, the toggles context.
       This allows for better organization of the config file as well as for
       multiple contexts to have attributes of the same name (like the
       scrollbar attributes in the color and toggles section).

       Each context must be enclosed in a begin...end pair that specifies the
       type of section.  The statement "begin toggles" starts the toggles
       context, and the next "end" statement would terminate it.  (You'll
       notice that some "end" statements have the context name after them.
       This is for readability only; any text after the word "end" is
       ignored.)

       The rest of this section will contain a step-by-step analysis of the
       config file, including what can go in each section.  Note that some
       attributes (and even entire contexts) may not be available depending on
       what support was compiled into Eterm by the person who built it.

       MAGIC NUMBER

              The first line of the config file must contain a "magic number"
              type line that lets Eterm verify that it's reading an Eterm
              config file and not something else (like an Enlightenment 0.13
              and earlier config file).  The line should look like this:

              <Eterm-VERSION>

              where VERSION is the Eterm version for which the config file is
              intended.  For example, config files written for Eterm 0.9
              should have "<Eterm-0.9>" as their first line, followed
              immediately by a newline.

       COLOR CONTEXT

              This context contains color specifications.  With the exception
              of the terminal colors 0-15, all colors should be either a valid
              color name or an RGB string as outlined in the X11(7) man page.

            foreground color
                 Use color for the foreground (text) color.

            background color
                 Use color for the background color.

            cursor color
                 Use color for the cursor color.

            cursor_text color
                 Use color for the cursor text color.

            pointer color
                 Use color for the mouse pointer color.

            video { normal | reverse }
                 normal will not reverse the foreground and background colors.
                 reverse (meaning reverse video) will.

            color num color
                 Set terminal color num (0-15) to the color name, string, or
                 set of 3 decimal/hex/octal RGB values specified by color.

            color { bd | ul } color
                 Set terminal bold  (bd) or underline (ul) color to the color
                 name, string, or set of 3 decimal/hex/octal RGB values
                 specified by color.


       ATTRIBUTES CONTEXT

              This context contains X11 attributes.  Most of these are
              dependent upon the cooperation of the window manager.

            geometry geom
                 Use the geometry string geom to specify the startup geometry.
                 geom should be in the format  WxH+X+Y where W is the width, H
                 is the height, and +X and +Y are the X and Y offsets.  If the
                 signs on X and Y are positive, the coordinates are offsets
                 (in pixels) from the left and top, respectively, of the
                 screen.  If the signs are negative, the offsets are relative
                 to the right and bottom of the screen, respectively.

            title title
                 Use title as the text in the title bar of the Eterm window.

            name name
                 Use name as the resource name of the Eterm window.

            iconname name
                 Use name as the icon name of the Eterm window icon.

            desktop num
                 Start Eterm on desktop num.  NOTE:   This requires a GNOME-
                 compliant Window Manager.  Please see
                 http://www.gnome.org/devel/gnomewm/ for more information on
                 the _WIN_WORKSPACE property and how to support it.

            scrollbar_type type
                 Use a scrollbar with the type style.  type can be any of
                 motif, xterm, or next.

            scrollbar_width num
                 Use a scrollbar that is num pixels wide.

            font num font
            font bold font
                 Set the numth font, or the bold font, to font.

            font default num
                 Specifies that the numth font should be considered the
                 "default" font.

            font proportional boolean
                 Specifies that the font in use is proportional and requests
                 standard deviation-based character cell spacing.  Terminals
                 must use fixed-width character cells to maintain proper
                 columnal alignment, even when proportionally-spaced fonts are
                 in use.  Some proportionally-spaced fonts vary greatly
                 between the minimum and maximum character widths.  This
                 option chooses a character cell size which is up to two
                 standard deviations above the average character width but
                 will not exceed the maximum width of the largest glyph.  Note
                 that characters larger than the chosen cell width will
                 overwrite (or be overwritten by) other characters and may
                 tend to leave pixel droppings.  This behavior is an expected
                 side-effect of an imperfect scenario.  If you object to this
                 behavior, do not use this option.

            font fx effects
                 Specifies the effects to apply to the terminal window font.
                 The value of effects is a single string containing a series
                 of corner/color pairs.  These pairs define toward which
                 corner a drop shadow of each character should be made, and
                 what color that shadow will be.  The corner is specified
                 first using the following keywords: top_left or tl,
                 top_right or tr,  bottom_left or bl, and  bottom_right or br.
                 Each corner specifier is then followed by a color.

                 There are also several shortcuts for doing common effects.
                 You can get a single-color outline by using the keyword
                 outline followed by a color.  A single-color drop shadow is
                 also available using the keyword shadow followed by an
                 optional corner specifier (bottom_right being the default)
                 and a color.  For a 3-D embossed look, use emboss dark_color
                 light_color.  The opposite effect, a carved-out look, can be
                 obtained with carved dark_color light_color.  (Of course,
                 with those last two, the 3-D look will only work if you
                 choose the light and dark colors wisely.)

                 Finally, for no font effects at all, simply specify the
                 keyword none.

                 The default value is bottom_right black which yields a black
                 drop shadow, greatly improving the visibility of lightly-
                 colored fonts on top of light spots in a background image.
                 Note that font effects are not active in solid color mode.


       IMAGECLASSES CONTEXT

              This context contains global image attributes.  It also provides
              the parent context for defining images via the "image" context.

            icon filename
                 Use filename as the icon image for the Eterm window.
                 filename can be an absolute path, relative to the current
                 theme, or relative to one of the directories in the path
                 attribute listed below.

            cache num
                 Sets the Imlib2 cache size to num bytes.  The default is 0.

            path directory_list
                 Specifies a colon-delimited list of directories relative to
                 which Eterm should search for image and menu files.  The
                 syntax for directory_list is precisely the same as that of
                 the $PATH environment variable in UNIX shells.

            anim interval images ...
                 Specifies an animation list to be use in cycling the
                 background pixmap.  The interval defines the delay, in
                 seconds, between updates of the background.  This should be
                 set to a reasonable value to insure that Eterm doesn't spend
                 all its time rendering backgrounds.  All the images specify
                 background images and have the same syntax as the -P option
                 above, including the optional geometry string.


       IMAGE CONTEXT

              This context defines all the attributes of a particular image.
              There can be (and usually are) several image contexts per theme,
              one for each class of image.

            type class
                 Specifies the type, or class, of the image that is going to
                 be defined in that context.  This MUST be the first attribute
                 defined in the image context.  Valid classes are: background,
                 trough, anchor,  up_arrow, down_arrow, left_arrow,
                 right_arrow, menu, menuitem,  submenu, button, and buttonbar.
                 Note that the left and right arrows, while valid, don't do
                 anything just yet.  All the subsequent attributes up to the
                 next type definition will be applied to that image class.

            mode initial_mode [ allow allowed_modes ]
                 Specifies the initial mode for this image class as well as
                 the modes which the image class is allowed to use.
                 initial_mode is the mode that the image will have on startup
                 (unless overridden by command-line options.  allowed_modes is
                 a list of one or more modes.  The image will be prevented
                 from switching to any mode not listed in the allow section.
                 If the allow section is omitted entirely, the image will
                 never be permitted to change from the initial_mode.  If no
                 mode line is specified for an image class, the default is
                 equivalent to mode solid allow solid.  Valid mode names are
                 image (to use an image), trans (for transparency), viewport
                 (for viewport mode),  auto (for auto mode, which requires
                 Enlightenment 0.16 or better), and solid (which is a solid
                 color only).

            state { normal | selected | clicked | disabled }
                 This sets the state of the image you are about to define.  Up
                 until the next state attribute that is encountered (or until
                 you change types), all attributes will apply to that
                 particular state of the image.  You should at minimum define
                 the normal state of the image.  It will be used as the
                 default if the attributes for the other states are not
                 specified.  However, each image state has self-contained
                 options.  Therefore, if you define multiple states for an
                 image class, you must define ALL attributes needed by that
                 state.  The sample themes supplied with Eterm demonstrate how
                 to define 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-state images.

            The above attributes affect the image class as a whole.  All
            remaining attributes in this context affect only the current state
            of the image class.

            color fg bg
                 Sets the foreground and background colors for this
                 imageclass.  The foreground color is used for text, and the
                 background color is used for the object itself.  If an
                 invalid color is specified, the default value for fg is
                 white, and the default for bg is black.

            file filename
                 Sets the filename from which to load the image file.  This is
                 used for the image mode.  If you allow the image mode for
                 your image, don't forget to supply an image file!  Note that
                 you can also supply an image geometry string here by adding
                 an @ symbol and the geometry string to the end of the
                 filename.  See below for the syntax of the geometry string.
                 filename must be an absolute path or a path relative to one
                 of the directories in the path attribute.  Note that the
                 image is verified and loaded when this attribute is
                 encountered during parsing.

            geom image_geometry
                 Specifies the geometry and geometry-related operations which
                 are to be applied to the image.  This attribute only applies
                 to image classes using the image mode.  Image geometry is
                 specified as wxh+x+y:ops where w and h are the
                 horizontal/vertical scaling percentages, x and y are the
                 horizontal/vertical alignment percentages, and ops is a
                 colon-delimited list of operations: tiled (to tile the
                 image),  propscaled (for proportional scaling).  Note that
                 these operations can be combined for various effects.

            cmod { image | red | green | blue } brightness [ contrast [ gamma
            ] ]
            colormod { image | red | green | blue } brightness [ contrast [
            gamma ] ]
                 Specifies a color modifier to apply to the image.  The second
                 keyword determines whether the modifier will be applied to
                 the image overall, the red values, the green values, or the
                 blue values.  Each of the three parameters is a number
                 greater than or equal to 0.  The numbers can be specified as
                 decimal, octal (if preceded by "0"), or hexadecimal (if
                 preceded by "0x").  A value of 256 (0x100) represents 100%,
                 or "leave that value unchanged."  0 represents 0%, 512
                 (0x200) is 200%, etc.  However, be aware that overflow can
                 occur with excessively high values.  Only the brightness
                 value is required for this option.  Keep in mind, though,
                 that you must specify brightness with contrast, and both of
                 these with gamma.

            border left right top bottom
                 Specifies that the image has borders which should not be
                 scaled with the rest of the image.  This is primarily used
                 for images that have a beveled look, so that the bevel will
                 not end up getting scaled and lose the bevel effect.  All
                 four parameter values are in pixels, just like the equivalent
                 options for E themes and Gtk+ pixmap themes.

            bevel { up | down }  left right top bottom
                 Adds a bevel to an image class.  This can be done to any
                 image class using the image or trans modes.  The parameters
                 are pixel values which represent the width of each edge of
                 the bevel.  This is especially useful if you want to use
                 tiled images or transparency for the arrow or anchor
                 scrollbar widgets, or for menus.

            padding left right top bottom
                 This is used only for the submenu image class.  It defines
                 the amount of pixels on each side to reserve so that the text
                 will not overwrite part of the image.  Works just like the
                 same option in Enlightenment themes.



       MENU CONTEXT

              This context is used to create a menu.  There is one instance of
              this context per menu, and the menus should be defined in
              submenu-menu order; i.e., any menu that refers to another menu
              (as its submenu) should be defined after the submenu is defined.
              Within the menu context, there should be a menuitem subcontext
              for each menu item (with the exception of the shorthand for
              separators).

            title menu_title
                 This specifies the title for the menu to be defined.  This
                 MUST be the first attribute given after the "begin menu".
                 The title must be unique amongst all the menus.  It may
                 contain spaces, but don't forget to enclose it in single or
                 double quotes if it does.  Any future references to the menu
                 will use the title.

            font font_name
                 Tells Eterm to use font_name as the font for this menu.  If
                 not given, the default terminal font is used.

            sep or -
                 These symbols can be used as shorthand to insert a separator
                 into the menu.



       MENUITEM CONTEXT

              This is a subcontext of the menu context which creates a single
              item for a menu.  There can be (and usually are) several
              menuitem contexts per menu.

            text label
                 This is the text that is displayed for this menuitem.  It is
                 left-justified in the menu window.  It can have spaces, but
                 enclose label in quotes if it does.

            rtext label
                 This is text which is right-justified next to the menuitem
                 text.  This is generally used to show what keystrokes
                 correspond to a particular menu item, like "C-x C-c" for the
                 "Exit" menuitem in an Emacs menu.

            action { string | echo | submenu | script } param
            action separator
                 Specifies the action to occur when the menuitem is chosen.
                 If you specify separator, nothing else is needed.  The other
                 action types require a parameter, param.  string specifies a
                 string to be sent to Eterm for handling (escape codes, for
                 example).  echo specifies a string to be sent to the client
                 program (for sending commands to a shell, or keystrokes to an
                 application like emacs or mutt).  If you use either of these
                 action types, param will be parsed for escape codes (\a, C-,
                 and the like) before being sent.  submenu specifies a submenu
                 which should be displayed when this item is selected, and
                 param is the title of the submenu to show.  The submenu must
                 have already been defined.  The script action type executes
                 the Eterm-builtin script contained in param.  See the section
                 below for more details on the builtin Eterm functions allowed
                 for this action type.



       ACTION CONTEXT

              Actions are key or mouse button bindings which activate certain
              behaviors.  Any action that can be triggered through an escape
              code can be bound to a key or mouse button, with or without
              modifiers.  You can also bind menus to keystrokes or mouse
              buttons.

            bind [ modifiers ] { keysym | button } to { string | echo | menu |
            script  } param
                 Binds a keysym or a mouse button to an action.  The action
                 syntax follows the keyword to and is identical to the syntax
                 used for menus (see above).  There can be any number of
                 modifiers (so long as the combination is reasonable) but only
                 one keysym or button.  Valid modifiers are ctrl, shift, lock,
                 mod1 through mod5,  alt, meta, and anymod (which allows any
                 modifier).  If none are given, the keypress must not have
                 modifier keys in use or the action will not be triggered.
                 Use anymod to allow any arbitrary modifier key to be used.
                 The keysym can be given in text (case-sensitive) or as a hex
                 number.  buttons should be specified as button1 through
                 button5.  Also note that alt and meta will be equivalent to
                 one or more of mod1 through mod5,  as well as perhaps each
                 other, based on your modifier settings.  You can view these
                 settings using xmodmap -pm.  See also the alt_mod and
                 meta_mod options below.



       BUTTON_BAR CONTEXT

              The buttonbar is an addition to Eterm 0.9.1 which allows users
              to have a fully-customizeable buttonbar at the top or bottom of
              each terminal window.  Buttons on the buttonbar can be used just
              like menuitems; they can popup menus (like a menubar), or they
              can activate any other action a menuitem can.

            font font
                 Specifies the font in which button labels will be displayed.

            dock { top | bottom |  no }
                 Specify whether or not to dock the buttonbar, and if so,
                 whether to dock it at the top or the bottom of the Eterm
                 window.  Note that only top and bottom are currently enabled.

            visible boolean
                 Toggle whether or not this particular buttonbar will be
                 visible on startup.

            button [ text ] [ icon filename ] action { string | echo | menu |
            script } param
                 Binds an action to a button.  The usage of param and the
                 action types work the same here as they do for menuitems.
                 Also note that you may specify some text or an icon or both,
                 but you cannot omit both.


       MULTICHAR CONTEXT

              Behavior for multi-byte fonts and encodings are defined here.
              This context does not exist by default.

            encoding { eucj | sjis | euckr | big5 | gb | iso-10646 }
                 Specifies the encoding method.  Patches to support other
                 encoding methods are encouraged.

            font num font
                 Set the numth multichar font to font.



       XIM CONTEXT

              This context controls locale-based behavior.

            input_method input_method
                 Specify your input method program of choice.

            preedit_type { OverTheSpot | OffTheSpot |  Root }
                 Specify your preedit type of choice.



       ESCREEN CONTEXT

              This context allows for customizations specific to Escreen mode.
              See the Escreen section below for more details.

            url protocol://user@host:port/params
                 Connect to (or create) a particular screen session via a URL-
                 type construct.  Standard URL rules apply.  The protocol
                 should be either screen (the default) or twin.  If user,
                 host, and/or port are specified, an ssh connection is made to
                 the remote server using the given login information.  The
                 default is to create/attach to a local session.

                 Any params that are given are passed directly to the
                 underlying protocol and are separated from each other by a
                 plus sign (+).

            firewall localport:firewall:remoteport
                 Bounce the connection through a firewall via ssh.

            delay secs
                 Specify the amount of time to wait before sending the
                 screen/twin initialization sequence.  This is required to
                 insure that the remote session has been established prior to
                 sending the init sequence.

            bbar_font font
                 Font to use for the Escreen buttonbar.  The default is
                 -*-helvetica-medium-r-normal--10-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1.

            bbar_dock { top | bottom | no }
                 Dock the Escreen buttonbar as specified.  Note that only top
                 and bottom are currently enabled.



       TOGGLES CONTEXT

              This context contains boolean variables which can be toggled on
              or off.  Valid values for the attributes in this section are
              "yes", "on", "1", and "true" to turn the option on, or "no",
              "off", "0", or "false" to turn the option off.  These values are
              denoted by boolean.  They all default to false unless otherwise
              noted.

            map_alert boolean
                 If true, Eterm will un-iconify itself when it receives a beep
                 (ASCII 0x07).

            visual_bell boolean
                 If true, Eterm will flash rather than sending a beep.

            login_shell boolean
                 If true, Eterm will prepend '-' to the shell name when
                 calling it.  Depending on your shell, this may modify its
                 startup behavior.

            scrollbar boolean
                 This turns on and off the display of the scrollbar.  Default
                 is on.

            utmp_logging boolean
                 If true, Eterm will attempt to make an entry in the utmp file
                 to record the login information.  Eterm may need to run
                 privileged to do this.

            meta8 boolean
                 Toggles the interpretation of the Meta key setting the 8th
                 bit in a character.

            iconic boolean
                 If true, Eterm will launch as an icon.

            home_on_output boolean
                 Zoom to the bottom of the scrollback buffer on output.

            home_on_input boolean
                 Zoom to the bottom of the scrollback buffer on input.

            no_input boolean
                 If true, Eterm will not accept any keyboard input and will
                 ask the window manager to not allow it to be focused.

            scrollbar_floating boolean
                 If true, the scrollbar will have no trough.

            scrollbar_right boolean
                 If true, Eterm will put the scrollbar on the right of the
                 window (default is left).

            scrollbar_popup boolean
                 If true, Eterm will hide the scrollbar when the Eterm window
                 loses focus and restore it when focus is regained.  Default
                 is to not change the scrollbar state based on focus.

            borderless boolean
                 If true, Eterm will run with no window borders.  This also
                 means that the window can not be moved or resized.  You will
                 want to specify a geometry with this attribute.

            double_buffer boolean
                 Rather than drawing text directly onto the window, this
                 causes Eterm to allocate an additional pixmap the size of the
                 terminal window into which the background *and* the text are
                 rendered.  This pixmap is then set as the window background.
                 Double-buffering uses additional memory in the X server, but
                 it allows Eterm to ignore expose events so redraws are
                 faster.

            no_cursor boolean
                 If true, Eterm will not display a text cursor.

            pause boolean
                 After the child process terminates, Eterm will wait for a
                 keypress before exiting.

            xterm_select boolean
                 Duplicate's xterm's treatment of cutchars.  The only real
                 difference is what happens when you double click on a single
                 cutchar between two words.  If this option is on, only that
                 single character gets selected.  If it is off, that character
                 is selected along with the two words.  The latter behavior is
                 useful for double-clicking on the space between someone's
                 first and last names, or the @ sign in an e-mail address,
                 etc.

            select_line boolean
                 If true, this attribute causes a triple click to select the
                 entire line from beginning to end.  If false (default), a
                 triple-click selects from the current word to the end of the
                 line.

            select_trailing_spaces boolean
                 If true, this attribute causes spaces at the end of a line to
                 be included as part of the selection text when selecting.
                 The default is to strip these trailing spaces.

            report_as_keysyms boolean
                 Reports certain keystrokes as keysyms and modifiers rather
                 than escape sequences.  NOTE: This option is intended for use
                 only with programs that support this special Eterm mode.  Do
                 not enable it unless you are executing a program which uses
                 this mode.

            itrans boolean
            immotile_trans boolean
                 Toggles the immotile transparency optimization for
                 transparent Eterm windows.  Note that this does NOT activate
                 transparency; you must still activate "trans" mode for the
                 background image.  This option should be used on transparent
                 windows which are shaded or tinted and which do not move
                 around on the desktop much.  See the Mon Mar  6 21:11:13 PST
                 2000 ChangeLog entry for a more detailed explanation.

            buttonbar boolean
                 Toggle the display of all buttonbars.

            resize_gravity boolean
                 If true, Eterm will automatically detect the nearest corner,
                 and font-change resizes will cause the Eterm window to
                 gravitate toward that corner.

            overstrike_bold boolean
                 If true (default), Eterm will simulate a bold font by
                 printing each character twice, offsetting the second pass by
                 one pixel.  This makes the characters seem thicker without
                 the need for a special font.  You may wish to disable this if
                 you use a specific color for bold.

            bold_brightens_foreground boolean
                 If true (default), Eterm will use the "bold" ANSI color
                 attribute to brighten the foreground color by using the high-
                 intensity colors (8 through 15) rather than the low-intensity
                 colors (0 through 7).  Note that having a specific color
                 selected for bold will override this.

            blink_brightens_background boolean
                 If true (default), Eterm will use the "blink" ANSI color
                 attribute to brighten the background color by using the high-
                 intensity colors (8 through 15) rather than the low-intensity
                 colors (0 through 7).

            colors_suppress_bold boolean
                 If true (default), any colored text (that is, any text not
                 rendered using the default foreground color) will not be
                 given any other special treatment for bolding (e.g., bold
                 font or bold overstrike).

            sticky boolean
                 If true, Eterm will make its window sticky (shows on all
                 desktops).


       KEYBOARD CONTEXT

              This context contains keyboard-related configuration options.

            smallfont_key keysym
                 Specify a keysym to decrease the font size.  Default is Shift
                 and the - key on the keypad.  Ctrl-< or Meta-< may also work
                 (if you #define one of the hotkeys in src/feature.h).

            bigfont_key keysym
                 Specify a keysym to increase the font size.  Default is Shift
                 and the + key on the keypad.  Ctrl-> or Meta-> may also work
                 (if you #define one of the hotkeys in src/feature.h).

            keysym keysym string
                 Define keysym keysym to send string instead of its default.
                 keysym must be between 0xff00 and 0xffff or Eterm will
                 complain.

            meta_mod num
                 Specify which X modifier (1-5) to treat as the Meta key.  See
                 xmodmap(1) and the output of xmodmap -pm for more details.

            alt_mod num
                 Same as meta_mod, but for the Alt key.

            numlock_mod num
                 Same as meta_mod, but for the NumLock key.

            greek boolean  { iso | ibm }
                 Turn on/off greek keyboard support, and set which greek mode
                 to use.

            app_keypad boolean
                 Turn on/off application keypad mode on startup.

            app_cursor boolean
                 Turn on/off application cursor key mode on startup.


       MISC CONTEXT

              This context contains miscellaneous attributes that really
              didn't belong anywhere else.

            print_pipe command
                 Set the command to which to pipe print requests (printscreen)
                 to command.

            save_lines num
                 Set the number of lines in the scrollback buffer to num.

            cut_chars string
                 Define the characters used as word delimiters to the
                 characters contained in string.

            min_anchor_size num
                 Sets the minimum size, in pixels, of the scrollbar anchor
                 (the part your mouse grabs onto and moves around) to num.

            border_width num
                 Sets the width of the border between the text window and the
                 X window to num.

            line_space num
                 Put num pixels' worth of space between each row of the
                 terminal window.

            finished_title title
                 Specifies that title should be displayed in the title bar of
                 a paused Eterm when the child process has completed.

            finished_text text
                 Specifies that text should be displayed in the terminal
                 window of a paused Eterm when the child process has
                 completed.

            term_name name
                 Use name as the $TERM environment variable, which controls
                 which termcap/terminfo entry gets used.  The default is
                 Eterm.

            exec command
                 Rather than executing a shell, this will cause Eterm to spawn
                 command as its child process.  You can only have one of
                 these!


       BUILT-IN FUNCTIONS

              Eterm has a set of built-in functions which are available in
              config files.  Each one accepts zero or more parameters and
              outputs a series of zero or more words.  "Words" are defined in
              shell terms; i.e., words are separated by whitespace, and single
              or double quotes can be used to encapsulate words which contain
              whitespace themselves.  You also employ backquotes to execute a
              command whose output can become part of the config file itself
              or can be passed to a built-in function as its parameter list.
              Built-in functions and backquotes may be used anywhere their
              output would be valid.  Built-in functions are prefixed with the
              % character.

            %appname()
                 Returns the application name, a hyphen, and the version
                 number.  Currently this is the string Eterm-0.9.6.

            %exec(command)
                 Executes command and returns the result.  Basically it's
                 exactly like using backquotes.

            %get(variable)
                 Retrieve the value of a config file variable.  Refer to the
                 %put() function below.

            %put(variable value)
                 Create a config variable named variable and assign it the
                 value of value.  The value can then subsequently be retrieved
                 using %get(variable)

            %random(params)
                 This function randomly chooses one of the words which compose
                 params and returns that.  The default themes that come with
                 Eterm use this function to choose random backgrounds, but
                 backgrounds aren't the only things that can be randomized
                 with this function.  You can randomize anything...colors,
                 toggles, fonts, tinting, etc.

            %version()
                 Returns the version number.  Currently this is the string
                 0.9.6.


       PREPROCESSING

              Eterm supports the %include file directive to allow for
              separation of the configuration information into multiple files.
              Eterm will load and parse file just like any other config file,
              but will treat its contents as if they replaced the directive
              itself.

              You may also request that the config file be run through an
              external preprocessor (such as m4 or cpp) before Eterm reads it.
              This is done via the %preproc command directive.  You may
              specify anything you like for command so long as it accepts
              input on STDIN and sends output to STDOUT.  See the menus.cfg
              file in the default chooser theme for an example.


       SCRIPT FUNCTIONS

              One of the action types which can be bound to keypresses, mouse
              buttons, menuitems, or buttonbar buttons is a script.  The
              script must be a single word (i.e., containing no spaces or
              enclosed in quotes) and consists of one or more calls to the
              script functions below.  Each call is separated from the next by
              a semicolon (;).  Function parameters are enclosed in
              parentheses; the parentheses are optional if no parameters are
              to be passed.  Commas and/or whitespace separate parameters from
              each other.

            copy(buffer)
                 Copies the current selection to the specified clipboard or
                 cut buffer.  buffer is either a number 0-7, in which case the
                 selection is copied to the cut buffer specified, or one of
                 the words clipboard, primary, or secondary (or any initial
                 substring thereof), in which case the selection is copied to
                 the specified clipboard.  You may omit buffer, in which case
                 the default buffer is primary (XA_PRIMARY in Xlib-speak).

            echo(string)
                 Send the specified string to the subcommand.  Exactly
                 equivalent to the echo action.

            es_display(cmd, params)
            Aliases:  es_disp
                 This is a master function which permits manipulation of
                 Escreen displays through the use of a series of subcommands.
                 The specified cmd determines what, if any, params are
                 permitted.  Available subcommands are:
                      goto - Switch to the specified display (0-9)
                      prev - Switch to the previous display
                      next - Switch to the next display
                      toggle - Toggle display
                      new - Create a new display.  A name for the new display
                      may be passed as a parameter, or ask to prompt the user
                      for the name.
                      rename - Change the name of the current display.  A name
                      for the new display may be passed as a parameter, or ask
                      to prompt the user for the name.
                      kill - Terminate the current (or specified) display.
                      watch - Toggle monitoring of the current/specified
                      display for activity.
                      scrollback - View the scrollback for the
                      current/specified display.

            es_region(cmd, params)
            Aliases:  es_reg es_win es_window
                 This is a master function which permits manipulation of
                 Escreen display regions through the use of a series of
                 subcommands.  The specified cmd determines what, if any,
                 params are permitted.  Available subcommands are:
                      goto - Switch to the specified region (0-9)
                      prev - Switch to the previous region
                      next - Switch to the next region
                      toggle - Toggle region
                      new - Create a new region.  A name for the new region
                      may be passed as a parameter, or ask to prompt the user
                      for the name.
                      rename - Change the name of the current region.  A name
                      for the new region may be passed as a parameter, or ask
                      to prompt the user for the name.
                      kill - Terminate the current (or specified) region.
                      only - Maximize the current/specified region to the full
                      display.
                      watch - Toggle monitoring of the current/specified
                      region for activity.
                      scrollback - View the scrollback for the
                      current/specified region.

            es_statement(statement)
                 Execute an Escreen (screen/twin) command directly.

            es_reset()
            Aliases:  es_rst
                 Reset the Escreen session

            exec_dialog(command)
                 The same as exec/spawn, but this function presents the user
                 with a dialog box in which she can edit/confirm the command
                 to be run and specify additional parameters if needed.

            exit(message)
            exit(code)
            Aliases:  die quit
                 Exit Eterm with an optional message or an integer return
                 code.  Either parameter may be specified, but not both.  If
                 neither is specified, a code of 0 (zero) is the default.

            kill(signal)
                 Sends the specified signal to Eterm's primary child process
                 (either your shell, or whatever you specify for Eterm to
                 execute).  For the time being, signal must be numeric.
                 SIGTERM is the default if signal is omitted.

            msgbox(message)
                 Displays a small dialog box containing message and waits for
                 a keypress before continuing.

            nop()
                 Does absolutely nothing except waste time. :-)

            paste(buffer)
                 Pastes the contents of the specified clipboard or cut buffer
                 into the terminal window.  buffer is either a number 0-7, in
                 which case the selection is pasted from the cut buffer
                 specified, or one of the words clipboard, primary, or
                 secondary (or any initial substring thereof), in which case
                 the contents of the specified clipboard are pasted.  You may
                 omit buffer, in which case the default buffer is primary
                 (XA_PRIMARY in Xlib-speak).

            save(type, filename)
                 Save the current theme/user configuration.  type can be
                 either user or theme; the default is user.  filename is the
                 file to which the settings should be saved.  It may contain a
                 path which is either absolute or relative to the theme
                 directory.  The default filename for user is user.cfg, and
                 the default filename for theme is theme.cfg.

            save_buff(filename)
                 Dumps the contents of the scrollback buffer to the specified
                 file.

            scroll(n)
                 Scrolls backward or forward in the scrollback buffer.  n is a
                 floating point number followed by an optional unit specifier.
                 The unit specifier is one of: lines or l; pages or  p; or
                 buffers or b.  The floating point number may be separated
                 from the unit specifier by whitespace or a comma, but it is
                 not required.  The floating point number should be positive
                 to scroll down (forward) and negative to scroll up
                 (backward).  For example, the key sequence Shift-PgUp is
                 equivalent to scroll(-1p).  You may also specify fractional
                 quantities, such as scroll(0.5p) to scroll down half a page.
                 The default unit if not specified is lines.

            search(str)
                 Presents a dialog box into which the user may enter a search
                 term.  The default value is set to str.  All occurances of
                 the specified search string are highlighted in the scrollback
                 buffer, and Eterm jumps back to the most recent one.
                 Searching again with the same keyword will clear the previous
                 highlighting.

            spawn(command)
            Aliases:  exec
                 Spawns a secondary child process to execute command, or Eterm
                 if no value is passed.

            string(string)
                 The specified string is parsed via Eterm.  This is exactly
                 identical to the string action.



ESCREEN
       Escreen is a screen/twin interface layer which allows Eterm to
       interoperate with GNU screen and with Massimiliano Ghilardi's twin
       software.  This allows Eterm to support multiple subshell sessions
       within a single window.  On the surface, this feature works similarly
       to the "tabbed" sessions offered by programs like konsole and
       multi-gnome-terminal.  However, Escreen has the advantage of being an
       interface to existing software, thus providing additional capabilities
       like multiple regions per display, detach/reattach capability, seamless
       remote session support, firewall support, and more.

       Escreen support is still somewhat experimental and is thus not compiled
       into Eterm by default.  To enable it, you must compile with
       --enable-escreen and/or --enable-etwin (depending on whether you have
       screen, twin, or both).  If you installed from a package, you can use
       Eterm --version and check for either +ESCREEN (enabled) or -ESCREEN
       (disabled).

       For best results, if you wish to use Escreen mode, do so by invoking
       Eterm with the Escreen theme (Eterm -t Escreen).  This theme supplies
       default key bindings, the basic Escreen menu, color definitions, etc.
       for use by the Escreen engine.  Most importantly, it supplies the
       required url parameter in order to invoke Escreen mode.

       Consult the README.Escreen file for more in-depth discussion of Escreen
       mode.


AUTHORS
       Michael Jennings (mej@eterm.org)


URL(s)
       Eterm Home Page -- http://www.eterm.org/
       Author's Home Page -- http://www.kainx.org/



X Version 11                   04 November 2022                       ETERM(1)
