ZONECTL(8)              FreeBSD System Manager's Manual             ZONECTL(8)

NAME
     zonectl – Shingled Magnetic Recording Zone Control utility

SYNOPSIS
     zonectl ⟨-d dev⟩ ⟨-c cmd⟩ [-a] [-l LBA] [-o rep_opts] [-P print_opts]

DESCRIPTION
     Manage SCSI and ATA Zoned Block devices.  This allows managing devices
     that conform to the SCSI Zoned Block Commands (ZBC) and ATA Zoned ATA
     Command Set (ZAC) specifications.  Devices using these command sets are
     usually hard drives using Shingled Magnetic Recording (SMR).  There are
     three types of SMR drives:

     Drive Managed  Drive Managed drives look and act just like a standard
                    random access block device, but underneath, the drive
                    reads and writes the bulk of its capacity using SMR zones.
                    Sequential writes will yield better performance, but
                    writing sequentially is not required.

     Host Aware     Host Aware drives expose the underlying zone layout via
                    SCSI or ATA commands and allow the host to manage the zone
                    conditions.  The host is not required to manage the zones
                    on the drive, though.  Sequential writes will yield better
                    performance in Sequential Write Preferred zones, but the
                    host can write randomly in those zones.

     Host Managed   Host Managed drives expose the underlying zone layout via
                    SCSI or ATA commands.  The host is required to access the
                    zones according to the rules described by the zone layout.
                    Any commands that violate the rules will be returned with
                    an error.

     SMR drives are divided into zones (typically in the range of 256MB each)
     that fall into three general categories:

     Conventional          These are also known as Non Write Pointer zones.
                           These zones can be randomly written without an
                           unexpected performance penalty.

     Sequential Preferred  These zones should be written sequentially starting
                           at the write pointer for the zone.  They may be
                           written randomly.  Writes that do not conform to
                           the zone layout may be significantly slower than
                           expected.

     Sequential Required   These zones must be written sequentially.  If they
                           are not written sequentially, starting at the write
                           pointer, the command will fail.

     -c cmd        Specify the zone subcommand:

                   params  Display device parameters, including the type of
                           device (Drive Managed, Host Aware, Host Managed,
                           Not Zoned), the zone commands supported, and how
                           many open zones it supports.

                   rz      Issue the Report Zones command.  All zones are
                           returned by default.  Specify report options with
                           -o and printing options with -P.  Specify the
                           starting LBA with -l.  Note that “reportzones” is
                           also accepted as a command argument.

                   open    Explicitly open the zone specified by the starting
                           LBA.

                   close   Close the zone specified by starting LBA.

                   finish  Finish the zone specified by the starting LBA.

                   rwp     Reset the write pointer for the zone specified by
                           the starting LBA.

     -a            For the Open, Close, Finish, and Reset Write Pointer
                   operations, apply the operation to all zones on the drive.

     -l lba        Specify the starting LBA.  For the Report Zones command,
                   this tells the drive to report starting with the zone that
                   starts at the given LBA.  For the other commands, this
                   allows the user to identify the zone requested by its
                   starting LBA.  The LBA may be specified in decimal,
                   hexadecimal or octal notation.

     -o rep_opt    For the Report Zones command, specify a subset of zones to
                   report.

                   all       Report all zones.  This is the default.

                   emtpy     Report only empty zones.

                   imp_open  Report zones that are implicitly open.  This
                             means that the host has sent a write to the zone
                             without explicitly opening the zone.

                   exp_open  Report zones that are explicitly open.

                   closed    Report zones that have been closed by the host.

                   full      Report zones that are full.

                   ro        Report zones that are in the read only state.
                             Note that “readonly” is also accepted as an
                             argument.

                   offline   Report zones that are in the offline state.

                   reset     Report zones that the device recommends should
                             have their write pointers reset.

                   nonseq    Report zones that have the Non Sequential
                             Resources Active flag set.  These are zones that
                             are Sequential Write Preferred, but have been
                             written non-sequentially.

                   nonwp     Report Non Write Pointer zones, also known as
                             Conventional zones.

     -P print_opt  Specify a printing option for Report Zones:

                   normal   Normal Report Zones output.  This is the default.
                            The summary and column headings are printed,
                            fields are separated by spaces and the fields
                            themselves may contain spaces.

                   summary  Just print the summary:  the number of zones, the
                            maximum LBA (LBA of the last logical block on the
                            drive), and the value of the “same” field.  The
                            “same” field describes whether the zones on the
                            drive are all identical, all different, or whether
                            they are the same except for the last zone, etc.

                   script   Print the zones in a script friendly format.  The
                            summary and column headings are omitted, the
                            fields are separated by commas, and the fields do
                            not contain spaces.  The fields contain
                            underscores where spaces would normally be used.

EXAMPLES
           zonectl -d /dev/da5 -c params

     Display basic zoning information for disk da5.

           zonectl -d /dev/da5 -c rz

     Issue the Report Zones command to disk da5, and print out all zones on
     the drive in the default format.

           zonectl -d /dev/da5 -c rz -o reset -P script

     Issue the Report Zones command to disk da5, and print out all of the
     zones that have the Reset Write Pointer Recommended bit set to true.
     Print the zones in a script friendly form.

           zonectl -d /dev/da5 -c rwp -l 0x2c80000

     Issue the Reset Write Pointer command to disk da5 for the zone that
     starts at LBA 0x2c80000.


AUTHORS
     Kenneth Merry ⟨ken@FreeBSD.org⟩

FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1          May 18, 2016          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE-p1
