ZPOOL-UPGRADE(8)        FreeBSD System Manager's Manual       ZPOOL-UPGRADE(8)

NAME
     zpool-upgrade – manage version and feature flags of ZFS storage pools

SYNOPSIS
     zpool upgrade
     zpool upgrade -v
     zpool upgrade [-V version] -a|pool…

DESCRIPTION
     zpool upgrade
             Displays pools which do not have all supported features enabled
             and pools formatted using a legacy ZFS version number.  These
             pools can continue to be used, but some features may not be
             available.  Use zpool upgrade -a to enable all features on all
             pools (subject to the -o compatibility property).

     zpool upgrade -v
             Displays legacy ZFS versions supported by the this version of
             ZFS.  See zpool-features(7) for a description of feature flags
             features supported by this version of ZFS.

     zpool upgrade [-V version] -a|pool…
             Enables all supported features on the given pool.

             If the pool has specified compatibility feature sets using the -o
             compatibility property, only the features present in all
             requested compatibility sets will be enabled.  If this property
             is set to legacy then no upgrade will take place.

             Once this is done, the pool will no longer be accessible on
             systems that do not support feature flags.  See zpool-features(7)
             for details on compatibility with systems that support feature
             flags, but do not support all features enabled on the pool.

             -a      Enables all supported features (from specified
                     compatibility sets, if any) on all pools.

             -V version
                     Upgrade to the specified legacy version.  If specified,
                     no features will be enabled on the pool.  This option can
                     only be used to increase the version number up to the
                     last supported legacy version number.

SEE ALSO
     zpool-features(7), zpoolconcepts(7), zpoolprops(7), zpool-history(8)

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2         August 9, 2019         FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
