ZPOOL-FEATURES(7)  FreeBSD Miscellaneous Information Manual  ZPOOL-FEATURES(7)

NAME
     zpool-features – description of ZFS pool features

DESCRIPTION
     ZFS pool on-disk format versions are specified via "features" which
     replace the old on-disk format numbers (the last supported on-disk format
     number is 28).  To enable a feature on a pool use the zpool upgrade, or
     set the feature@feature-name property to enabled.  Please also see the
     Compatibility feature sets section for information on how sets of
     features may be enabled together.

     The pool format does not affect file system version compatibility or the
     ability to send file systems between pools.

     Since most features can be enabled independently of each other, the on-
     disk format of the pool is specified by the set of all features marked as
     active on the pool.  If the pool was created by another software version
     this set may include unsupported features.

   Identifying features
     Every feature has a GUID of the form com.example:feature-name.  The
     reversed DNS name ensures that the feature's GUID is unique across all
     ZFS implementations.  When unsupported features are encountered on a pool
     they will be identified by their GUIDs.  Refer to the documentation for
     the ZFS implementation that created the pool for information about those
     features.

     Each supported feature also has a short name.  By convention a feature's
     short name is the portion of its GUID which follows the ‘:’ (i.e.
     com.example:feature-name would have the short name feature-name), however
     a feature's short name may differ across ZFS implementations if following
     the convention would result in name conflicts.

   Feature states
     Features can be in one of three states:

     active    This feature's on-disk format changes are in effect on the
               pool.  Support for this feature is required to import the pool
               in read-write mode.  If this feature is not read-only
               compatible, support is also required to import the pool in
               read-only mode (see Read-only compatibility).

     enabled   An administrator has marked this feature as enabled on the
               pool, but the feature's on-disk format changes have not been
               made yet.  The pool can still be imported by software that does
               not support this feature, but changes may be made to the on-
               disk format at any time which will move the feature to the
               active state.  Some features may support returning to the
               enabled state after becoming active.  See feature-specific
               documentation for details.

     disabled  This feature's on-disk format changes have not been made and
               will not be made unless an administrator moves the feature to
               the enabled state.  Features cannot be disabled once they have
               been enabled.

     The state of supported features is exposed through pool properties of the
     form feature@short-name.

   Read-only compatibility
     Some features may make on-disk format changes that do not interfere with
     other software's ability to read from the pool.  These features are
     referred to as “read-only compatible”.  If all unsupported features on a
     pool are read-only compatible, the pool can be imported in read-only mode
     by setting the readonly property during import (see zpool-import(8) for
     details on importing pools).

   Unsupported features
     For each unsupported feature enabled on an imported pool, a pool property
     named unsupported@feature-name will indicate why the import was allowed
     despite the unsupported feature.  Possible values for this property are:

     inactive  The feature is in the enabled state and therefore the pool's
               on-disk format is still compatible with software that does not
               support this feature.

     readonly  The feature is read-only compatible and the pool has been
               imported in read-only mode.

   Feature dependencies
     Some features depend on other features being enabled in order to
     function.  Enabling a feature will automatically enable any features it
     depends on.

   Compatibility feature sets
     It is sometimes necessary for a pool to maintain compatibility with a
     specific on-disk format, by enabling and disabling particular features.
     The compatibility feature facilitates this by allowing feature sets to be
     read from text files.  When set to off (the default), compatibility
     feature sets are disabled (i.e. all features are enabled); when set to
     legacy, no features are enabled.  When set to a comma-separated list of
     filenames (each filename may either be an absolute path, or relative to
     /etc/zfs/compatibility.d or /usr/share/zfs/compatibility.d), the lists of
     requested features are read from those files, separated by whitespace
     and/or commas.  Only features present in all files are enabled.

     Simple sanity checks are applied to the files: they must be between 1B
     and 16kB in size, and must end with a newline character.

     The requested features are applied when a pool is created using zpool
     create -o compatibility=… and controls which features are enabled when
     using zpool upgrade.  zpool status will not show a warning about disabled
     features which are not part of the requested feature set.

     The special value legacy prevents any features from being enabled, either
     via zpool upgrade or zpool set feature@feature-name=enabled.  This
     setting also prevents pools from being upgraded to newer on-disk
     versions.  This is a safety measure to prevent new features from being
     accidentally enabled, breaking compatibility.

     By convention, compatibility files in /usr/share/zfs/compatibility.d are
     provided by the distribution, and include feature sets supported by
     important versions of popular distributions, and feature sets commonly
     supported at the start of each year.  Compatibility files in
     /etc/zfs/compatibility.d, if present, will take precedence over files
     with the same name in /usr/share/zfs/compatibility.d.

     If an unrecognized feature is found in these files, an error message will
     be shown.  If the unrecognized feature is in a file in
     /etc/zfs/compatibility.d, this is treated as an error and processing will
     stop.  If the unrecognized feature is under
     /usr/share/zfs/compatibility.d, this is treated as a warning and
     processing will continue.  This difference is to allow distributions to
     include features which might not be recognized by the currently-installed
     binaries.

     Compatibility files may include comments: any text from ‘#’ to the end of
     the line is ignored.

     Example:
         example# cat /usr/share/zfs/compatibility.d/grub2
         # Features which are supported by GRUB2
         async_destroy
         bookmarks
         embedded_data
         empty_bpobj
         enabled_txg
         extensible_dataset
         filesystem_limits
         hole_birth
         large_blocks
         lz4_compress
         spacemap_histogram

         example# zpool create -o compatibility=grub2 bootpool vdev

     See zpool-create(8) and zpool-upgrade(8) for more information on how
     these commands are affected by feature sets.

FEATURES
     The following features are supported on this system:

     allocation_classes
             GUID                  org.zfsonlinux:allocation_classes
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature enables support for separate allocation classes.

             This feature becomes active when a dedicated allocation class
             vdev (dedup or special) is created with the zpool create or zpool
             add commands.  With device removal, it can be returned to the
             enabled state if all the dedicated allocation class vdevs are
             removed.

     async_destroy
             GUID                  com.delphix:async_destroy
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             Destroying a file system requires traversing all of its data in
             order to return its used space to the pool.  Without
             async_destroy, the file system is not fully removed until all
             space has been reclaimed.  If the destroy operation is
             interrupted by a reboot or power outage, the next attempt to open
             the pool will need to complete the destroy operation
             synchronously.

             When async_destroy is enabled, the file system's data will be
             reclaimed by a background process, allowing the destroy operation
             to complete without traversing the entire file system.  The
             background process is able to resume interrupted destroys after
             the pool has been opened, eliminating the need to finish
             interrupted destroys as part of the open operation.  The amount
             of space remaining to be reclaimed by the background process is
             available through the freeing property.

             This feature is only active while freeing is non-zero.

     bookmarks
             GUID                  com.delphix:bookmarks
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature enables use of the zfs bookmark command.

             This feature is active while any bookmarks exist in the pool.
             All bookmarks in the pool can be listed by running zfs list -t
             bookmark -r poolname.

     bookmark_v2
             GUID                  com.datto:bookmark_v2
             DEPENDENCIES          bookmark, extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the creation and management of larger
             bookmarks which are needed for other features in ZFS.

             This feature becomes active when a v2 bookmark is created and
             will be returned to the enabled state when all v2 bookmarks are
             destroyed.

     bookmark_written
             GUID                  com.delphix:bookmark_written
             DEPENDENCIES          bookmark, extensible_dataset, bookmark_v2
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables additional bookmark accounting fields,
             enabling the written#bookmark property (space written since a
             bookmark) and estimates of send stream sizes for incrementals
             from bookmarks.

             This feature becomes active when a bookmark is created and will
             be returned to the enabled state when all bookmarks with these
             fields are destroyed.

     device_rebuild
             GUID                  org.openzfs:device_rebuild
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature enables the ability for the zpool attach and zpool
             replace commands to perform sequential reconstruction (instead of
             healing reconstruction) when resilvering.

             Sequential reconstruction resilvers a device in LBA order without
             immediately verifying the checksums.  Once complete, a scrub is
             started, which then verifies the checksums.  This approach allows
             full redundancy to be restored to the pool in the minimum amount
             of time.  This two-phase approach will take longer than a healing
             resilver when the time to verify the checksums is included.
             However, unless there is additional pool damage, no checksum
             errors should be reported by the scrub.  This feature is
             incompatible with raidz configurations.  This feature becomes
             active while a sequential resilver is in progress, and returns to
             enabled when the resilver completes.

     device_removal
             GUID                  com.delphix:device_removal
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the zpool remove command to remove top-level
             vdevs, evacuating them to reduce the total size of the pool.

             This feature becomes active when the zpool remove command is used
             on a top-level vdev, and will never return to being enabled.

     draid
             GUID                  org.openzfs:draid
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables use of the draid vdev type.  dRAID is a
             variant of raidz which provides integrated distributed hot spares
             that allow faster resilvering while retaining the benefits of
             raidz.  Data, parity, and spare space are organized in redundancy
             groups and distributed evenly over all of the devices.

             This feature becomes active when creating a pool which uses the
             draid vdev type, or when adding a new draid vdev to an existing
             pool.

     edonr
             GUID                  org.illumos:edonr
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the use of the Edon-R hash algorithm for
             checksum, including for nopwrite (if compression is also enabled,
             an overwrite of a block whose checksum matches the data being
             written will be ignored).  In an abundance of caution, Edon-R
             requires verification when used with dedup: zfs set
             dedup=edonr,verify (see zfs-set(8)).

             Edon-R is a very high-performance hash algorithm that was part of
             the NIST SHA-3 competition.  It provides extremely high hash
             performance (over 350% faster than SHA-256), but was not selected
             because of its unsuitability as a general purpose secure hash
             algorithm.  This implementation utilizes the new salted
             checksumming functionality in ZFS, which means that the checksum
             is pre-seeded with a secret 256-bit random key (stored on the
             pool) before being fed the data block to be checksummed.  Thus
             the produced checksums are unique to a given pool, preventing
             hash collision attacks on systems with dedup.

             When the edonr feature is set to enabled, the administrator can
             turn on the edonr checksum on any dataset using zfs set
             checksum=edonr dset (see zfs-set(8)).  This feature becomes
             active once a checksum property has been set to edonr, and will
             return to being enabled once all filesystems that have ever had
             their checksum set to edonr are destroyed.

             FreeBSD does not support the edonr feature.

     embedded_data
             GUID                  com.delphix:embedded_data
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature improves the performance and compression ratio of
             highly-compressible blocks.  Blocks whose contents can compress
             to 112 bytes or smaller can take advantage of this feature.

             When this feature is enabled, the contents of highly-compressible
             blocks are stored in the block "pointer" itself (a misnomer in
             this case, as it contains the compressed data, rather than a
             pointer to its location on disk).  Thus the space of the block
             (one sector, typically 512B or 4kB) is saved, and no additional
             I/O is needed to read and write the data block.  This feature
             becomes active as soon as it is enabled and will never return to
             being enabled.

     empty_bpobj
             GUID                  com.delphix:empty_bpobj
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature increases the performance of creating and using a
             large number of snapshots of a single filesystem or volume, and
             also reduces the disk space required.

             When there are many snapshots, each snapshot uses many Block
             Pointer Objects (bpobjs) to track blocks associated with that
             snapshot.  However, in common use cases, most of these bpobjs are
             empty.  This feature allows us to create each bpobj on-demand,
             thus eliminating the empty bpobjs.

             This feature is active while there are any filesystems, volumes,
             or snapshots which were created after enabling this feature.

     enabled_txg
             GUID                  com.delphix:enabled_txg
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             Once this feature is enabled, ZFS records the transaction group
             number in which new features are enabled.  This has no user-
             visible impact, but other features may depend on this feature.

             This feature becomes active
              as soon as it is enabled and will never return to being enabled.

     encryption
             GUID                  com.datto:encryption
             DEPENDENCIES          bookmark_v2, extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the creation and management of natively
             encrypted datasets.

             This feature becomes active when an encrypted dataset is created
             and will be returned to the enabled state when all datasets that
             use this feature are destroyed.

     extensible_dataset
             GUID                  com.delphix:extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature allows more flexible use of internal ZFS data
             structures, and exists for other features to depend on.

             This feature will be active when the first dependent feature uses
             it, and will be returned to the enabled state when all datasets
             that use this feature are destroyed.

     filesystem_limits
             GUID                  com.joyent:filesystem_limits
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature enables filesystem and snapshot limits.  These
             limits can be used to control how many filesystems and/or
             snapshots can be created at the point in the tree on which the
             limits are set.

             This feature is active once either of the limit properties has
             been set on a dataset.  Once activated the feature is never
             deactivated.

     hole_birth
             GUID                  com.delphix:hole_birth
             DEPENDENCIES          enabled_txg
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature has/had bugs, the result of which is that, if you do
             a zfs send -i (or -R, since it uses -i) from an affected dataset,
             the receiving party will not see any checksum or other errors,
             but the resulting destination snapshot will not match the source.
             Its use by zfs send -i has been disabled by default (see
             send_holes_without_birth_time in zfs(4)).

             This feature improves performance of incremental sends (zfs send
             -i) and receives for objects with many holes.  The most common
             case of hole-filled objects is zvols.

             An incremental send stream from snapshot A to snapshot B contains
             information about every block that changed between A and B.
             Blocks which did not change between those snapshots can be
             identified and omitted from the stream using a piece of metadata
             called the "block birth time", but birth times are not recorded
             for holes (blocks filled only with zeroes).  Since holes created
             after A cannot be distinguished from holes created before A,
             information about every hole in the entire filesystem or zvol is
             included in the send stream.

             For workloads where holes are rare this is not a problem.
             However, when incrementally replicating filesystems or zvols with
             many holes (for example a zvol formatted with another filesystem)
             a lot of time will be spent sending and receiving unnecessary
             information about holes that already exist on the receiving side.

             Once the hole_birth feature has been enabled the block birth
             times of all new holes will be recorded.  Incremental sends
             between snapshots created after this feature is enabled will use
             this new metadata to avoid sending information about holes that
             already exist on the receiving side.

             This feature becomes active as soon as it is enabled and will
             never return to being enabled.

     large_blocks
             GUID                  org.open-zfs:large_blocks
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature allows the record size on a dataset to be set larger
             than 128kB.

             This feature becomes active once a dataset contains a file with a
             block size larger than 128kB, and will return to being enabled
             once all filesystems that have ever had their recordsize larger
             than 128kB are destroyed.

     large_dnode
             GUID                  org.zfsonlinux:large_dnode
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature allows the size of dnodes in a dataset to be set
             larger than 512B.  This feature becomes active once a dataset
             contains an object with a dnode larger than 512B, which occurs as
             a result of setting the dnodesize dataset property to a value
             other than legacy.  The feature will return to being enabled once
             all filesystems that have ever contained a dnode larger than 512B
             are destroyed.  Large dnodes allow more data to be stored in the
             bonus buffer, thus potentially improving performance by avoiding
             the use of spill blocks.

     livelist
             GUID                  com.delphix:livelist
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature allows clones to be deleted faster than the
             traditional method when a large number of random/sparse writes
             have been made to the clone.  All blocks allocated and freed
             after a clone is created are tracked by the the clone's livelist
             which is referenced during the deletion of the clone.  The
             feature is activated when a clone is created and remains active
             until all clones have been destroyed.

     log_spacemap
             GUID                  com.delphix:log_spacemap
             DEPENDENCIES          com.delphix:spacemap_v2
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature improves performance for heavily-fragmented pools,
             especially when workloads are heavy in random-writes.  It does so
             by logging all the metaslab changes on a single spacemap every
             TXG instead of scattering multiple writes to all the metaslab
             spacemaps.

             This feature becomes active as soon as it is enabled and will
             never return to being enabled.

     lz4_compress
             GUID                  org.illumos:lz4_compress
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             lz4 is a high-performance real-time compression algorithm that
             features significantly faster compression and decompression as
             well as a higher compression ratio than the older lzjb
             compression.  Typically, lz4 compression is approximately 50%
             faster on compressible data and 200% faster on incompressible
             data than lzjb.  It is also approximately 80% faster on
             decompression, while giving approximately a 10% better
             compression ratio.

             When the lz4_compress feature is set to enabled, the
             administrator can turn on lz4 compression on any dataset on the
             pool using the zfs-set(8) command.  All newly written metadata
             will be compressed with the lz4 algorithm.

             This feature becomes active as soon as it is enabled and will
             never return to being enabled.

     multi_vdev_crash_dump
             GUID                  com.joyent:multi_vdev_crash_dump
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature allows a dump device to be configured with a pool
             comprised of multiple vdevs.  Those vdevs may be arranged in any
             mirrored or raidz configuration.

             When the multi_vdev_crash_dump feature is set to enabled, the
             administrator can use dumpadm(1M) to configure a dump device on a
             pool comprised of multiple vdevs.

             Under FreeBSD and Linux this feature is unused, but registered
             for compatibility.  New pools created on these systems will have
             the feature enabled but will never transition to active, as this
             functionality is not required for crash dump support.  Existing
             pools where this feature is active can be imported.

     obsolete_counts
             GUID                  com.delphix:obsolete_counts
             DEPENDENCIES          device_removal
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature is an enhancement of device_removal, which will over
             time reduce the memory used to track removed devices.  When
             indirect blocks are freed or remapped, we note that their part of
             the indirect mapping is "obsolete" – no longer needed.

             This feature becomes active when the zpool remove command is used
             on a top-level vdev, and will never return to being enabled.

     project_quota
             GUID                  org.zfsonlinux:project_quota
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature allows administrators to account the spaces and
             objects usage information against the project identifier (ID).

             The project ID is an object-based attribute.  When upgrading an
             existing filesystem, objects without a project ID will be
             assigned a zero project ID.  When this feature is enabled, newly
             created objects inherit their parent directories' project ID if
             the parent's inherit flag is set (via chattr [+-]P or zfs project
             -s|-C).  Otherwise, the new object's project ID will be zero.  An
             object's project ID can be changed at any time by the owner (or
             privileged user) via chattr -p prjid or zfs project -p prjid.

             This feature will become active as soon as it is enabled and will
             never return to being disabled.  Each filesystem will be upgraded
             automatically when remounted, or when a new file is created under
             that filesystem. The upgrade can also be triggered on filesystems
             via zfs set version=current fs. The upgrade process runs in the
             background and may take a while to complete for filesystems
             containing large amounts of files.

     redaction_bookmarks
             GUID                  com.delphix:redaction_bookmarks
             DEPENDENCIES          bookmarks, extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the use of redacted zfs sends, which create
             redaction bookmarks storing the list of blocks redacted by the
             send that created them.  For more information about redacted
             sends, see zfs-send(8).

     redacted_datasets
             GUID                  com.delphix:redacted_datasets
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the receiving of redacted zfs sendstreams.
             which create redacted datasets when received.  These datasets are
             missing some of their blocks, and so cannot be safely mounted,
             and their contents cannot be safely read.  For more information
             about redacted receives, see zfs-send(8).

     resilver_defer
             GUID                  com.datto:resilver_defer
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature allows ZFS to postpone new resilvers if an existing
             one is already in progress.  Without this feature, any new
             resilvers will cause the currently running one to be immediately
             restarted from the beginning.

             This feature becomes active once a resilver has been deferred,
             and returns to being enabled when the deferred resilver begins.

     sha512
             GUID                  org.illumos:sha512
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the use of the SHA-512/256 truncated hash
             algorithm (FIPS 180-4) for checksum and dedup.  The native 64-bit
             arithmetic of SHA-512 provides an approximate 50% performance
             boost over SHA-256 on 64-bit hardware and is thus a good minimum-
             change replacement candidate for systems where hash performance
             is important, but these systems cannot for whatever reason
             utilize the faster skein and edonr algorithms.

             When the sha512 feature is set to enabled, the administrator can
             turn on the sha512 checksum on any dataset using zfs set
             checksum=sha512 dset (see zfs-set(8)).  This feature becomes
             active once a checksum property has been set to sha512, and will
             return to being enabled once all filesystems that have ever had
             their checksum set to sha512 are destroyed.

     skein
             GUID                  org.illumos:skein
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             This feature enables the use of the Skein hash algorithm for
             checksum and dedup.  Skein is a high-performance secure hash
             algorithm that was a finalist in the NIST SHA-3 competition.  It
             provides a very high security margin and high performance on
             64-bit hardware (80% faster than SHA-256).  This implementation
             also utilizes the new salted checksumming functionality in ZFS,
             which means that the checksum is pre-seeded with a secret 256-bit
             random key (stored on the pool) before being fed the data block
             to be checksummed.  Thus the produced checksums are unique to a
             given pool, preventing hash collision attacks on systems with
             dedup.

             When the skein feature is set to enabled, the administrator can
             turn on the skein checksum on any dataset using zfs set
             checksum=skein dset (see zfs-set(8)).  This feature becomes
             active once a checksum property has been set to skein, and will
             return to being enabled once all filesystems that have ever had
             their checksum set to skein are destroyed.

     spacemap_histogram
             GUID                  com.delphix:spacemap_histogram
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This features allows ZFS to maintain more information about how
             free space is organized within the pool.  If this feature is
             enabled, it will be activated when a new space map object is
             created, or an existing space map is upgraded to the new format,
             and never returns back to being enabled.

     spacemap_v2
             GUID                  com.delphix:spacemap_v2
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature enables the use of the new space map encoding which
             consists of two words (instead of one) whenever it is
             advantageous.  The new encoding allows space maps to represent
             large regions of space more efficiently on-disk while also
             increasing their maximum addressable offset.

             This feature becomes active once it is enabled, and never returns
             back to being enabled.

     userobj_accounting
             GUID                  org.zfsonlinux:userobj_accounting
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature allows administrators to account the object usage
             information by user and group.

             This feature becomes active as soon as it is enabled and will
             never return to being enabled.  Each filesystem will be upgraded
             automatically when remounted, or when a new file is created under
             that filesystem. The upgrade can also be triggered on filesystems
             via zfs set version=current fs. The upgrade process runs in the
             background and may take a while to complete for filesystems
             containing large amounts of files.

     zpool_checkpoint
             GUID                  com.delphix:zpool_checkpoint
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  yes

             This feature enables the zpool checkpoint command that can
             checkpoint the state of the pool at the time it was issued and
             later rewind back to it or discard it.

             This feature becomes active when the zpool checkpoint command is
             used to checkpoint the pool.  The feature will only return back
             to being enabled when the pool is rewound or the checkpoint has
             been discarded.

     zstd_compress
             GUID                  org.freebsd:zstd_compress
             DEPENDENCIES          extensible_dataset
             READ-ONLY COMPATIBLE  no

             zstd is a high-performance compression algorithm that features a
             combination of high compression ratios and high speed.  Compared
             to gzip, zstd offers slightly better compression at much higher
             speeds.  Compared to lz4, zstd offers much better compression
             while being only modestly slower.  Typically, zstd compression
             speed ranges from 250 to 500 MB/s per thread and decompression
             speed is over 1 GB/s per thread.

             When the zstd feature is set to enabled, the administrator can
             turn on zstd compression of any dataset using zfs set
             compress=zstd dset (see zfs-set(8)).  This feature becomes active
             once a compress property has been set to zstd, and will return to
             being enabled once all filesystems that have ever had their
             compress property set to zstd are destroyed.

SEE ALSO
     zpool(8)

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 31, 2021          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
