ZPOOL-TRIM(8)           FreeBSD System Manager's Manual          ZPOOL-TRIM(8)

NAME
     zpool-trim – initiate TRIM of free space in ZFS storage pool

SYNOPSIS
     zpool trim [-dw] [-r rate] [-c|-s] pool [device]…

DESCRIPTION
     Initiates an immediate on-demand TRIM operation for all of the free space
     in a pool.  This operation informs the underlying storage devices of all
     blocks in the pool which are no longer allocated and allows thinly
     provisioned devices to reclaim the space.

     A manual on-demand TRIM operation can be initiated irrespective of the
     autotrim pool property setting.  See the documentation for the autotrim
     property above for the types of vdev devices which can be trimmed.

     -d, --secure
             Causes a secure TRIM to be initiated.  When performing a secure
             TRIM, the device guarantees that data stored on the trimmed
             blocks has been erased.  This requires support from the device
             and is not supported by all SSDs.

     -r, --rate rate
             Controls the rate at which the TRIM operation progresses.
             Without this option TRIM is executed as quickly as possible.  The
             rate, expressed in bytes per second, is applied on a per-vdev
             basis and may be set differently for each leaf vdev.

     -c, --cancel
             Cancel trimming on the specified devices, or all eligible devices
             if none are specified.  If one or more target devices are invalid
             or are not currently being trimmed, the command will fail and no
             cancellation will occur on any device.

     -s, --suspend
             Suspend trimming on the specified devices, or all eligible
             devices if none are specified.  If one or more target devices are
             invalid or are not currently being trimmed, the command will fail
             and no suspension will occur on any device.  Trimming can then be
             resumed by running zpool trim with no flags on the relevant
             target devices.

     -w, --wait
             Wait until the devices are done being trimmed before returning.

SEE ALSO
     zpoolprops(7), zpool-initialize(8), zpool-wait(8)

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          May 27, 2021          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
