ZPOOL-CREATE(8)         FreeBSD System Manager's Manual        ZPOOL-CREATE(8)

NAME
     zpool-create – create ZFS storage pool

SYNOPSIS
     zpool create [-dfn] [-m mountpoint] [-o property=value]…
           [-o feature@feature=value]
           [-o compatibility=off|legacy|file[,file]…]
           [-O file-system-property=value]… [-R root] [-t tname] pool vdev…

DESCRIPTION
     Creates a new storage pool containing the virtual devices specified on
     the command line.  The pool name must begin with a letter, and can only
     contain alphanumeric characters as well as the underscore ("_"), dash
     ("-"), colon (":"), space (" "), and period (".").  The pool names
     mirror, raidz, draid, spare and log are reserved, as are names beginning
     with mirror, raidz, draid, and spare.  The vdev specification is
     described in the Virtual Devices section of zpoolconcepts(7).

     The command attempts to verify that each device specified is accessible
     and not currently in use by another subsystem.  However this check is not
     robust enough to detect simultaneous attempts to use a new device in
     different pools, even if multihost= enabled.  The administrator must
     ensure, that simultaneous invocations of any combination of zpool
     replace, zpool create, zpool add, or zpool labelclear, do not refer to
     the same device.  Using the same device in two pools will result in pool
     corruption.

     There are some uses, such as being currently mounted, or specified as the
     dedicated dump device, that prevents a device from ever being used by
     ZFS.  Other uses, such as having a preexisting UFS file system, can be
     overridden with -f.

     The command also checks that the replication strategy for the pool is
     consistent.  An attempt to combine redundant and non-redundant storage in
     a single pool, or to mix disks and files, results in an error unless -f
     is specified.  The use of differently-sized devices within a single raidz
     or mirror group is also flagged as an error unless -f is specified.

     Unless the -R option is specified, the default mount point is /pool.  The
     mount point must not exist or must be empty, or else the root dataset
     will not be able to be be mounted.  This can be overridden with the -m
     option.

     By default all supported features are enabled on the new pool.  The -d
     option and the -o compatibility property (e.g -o compatibility=2020) can
     be used to restrict the features that are enabled, so that the pool can
     be imported on other releases of ZFS.

     -d        Do not enable any features on the new pool.  Individual
               features can be enabled by setting their corresponding
               properties to enabled with -o.  See zpool-features(7) for
               details about feature properties.

     -f        Forces use of vdevs, even if they appear in use or specify a
               conflicting replication level.  Not all devices can be
               overridden in this manner.

     -m mountpoint
               Sets the mount point for the root dataset.  The default mount
               point is /pool or altroot/pool if altroot is specified.  The
               mount point must be an absolute path, legacy, or none.  For
               more information on dataset mount points, see zfsprops(7).

     -n        Displays the configuration that would be used without actually
               creating the pool.  The actual pool creation can still fail due
               to insufficient privileges or device sharing.

     -o property=value
               Sets the given pool properties.  See zpoolprops(7) for a list
               of valid properties that can be set.

     -o compatibility=off|legacy|file[,file]…
               Specifies compatibility feature sets.  See zpool-features(7)
               for more information about compatibility feature sets.

     -o feature@feature=value
               Sets the given pool feature.  See the zpool-features(7) section
               for a list of valid features that can be set.  Value can be
               either disabled or enabled.

     -O file-system-property=value
               Sets the given file system properties in the root file system
               of the pool.  See zfsprops(7) for a list of valid properties
               that can be set.

     -R root   Equivalent to -o cachefile=none -o altroot=root

     -t tname  Sets the in-core pool name to tname while the on-disk name will
               be the name specified as pool.  This will set the default of
               the cachefile property to none.  This is intended to handle
               name space collisions when creating pools for other systems,
               such as virtual machines or physical machines whose pools live
               on network block devices.

SEE ALSO
     zpool-destroy(8), zpool-export(8), zpool-import(8)

FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2          June 2, 2021          FreeBSD 13.1-RELEASE-p2
