3proxy(8)                                                              Universal proxy server                                                              3proxy(8)

NAME
       3proxy - 3[APA3A] tiny proxy server, or trivial proxy server, or free proxy server

SYNOPSIS
       3proxy [config_file]
       3proxy [--install]
       3proxy [--remove]

DESCRIPTION
       3proxy  is universal proxy server. It can be used to provide internal users wuth fully controllable access to external resources or to provide external users
       with access to internal resources. 3proxy is not developed to replace squid(8), but it can extend functionality of existing cashing proxy.  It can be used to
       route  requests between different types of clients and proxy servers. Think about it as application level gateway with configuration like hardware router has
       for network layer.  It can establish multiple gateways with HTTP and HTTPS proxy with FTP over HTTP support, SOCKS v4, v4.5 and v5, POP3 proxy, UDP  and  TCP
       portmappers.  Each gateway is started from configuration file like independant service proxy(8) socks(8) pop3p(8) tcppm(8) udppm(8) ftppr(8) dnspr but 3proxy
       is not a kind of wrapper or superserver for this daemons. It just has same code compiled in, but provides much more functionality.  SOCKSv5  implementatation
       allows  to  use 3proxy with any UDP or TCP based client applications designed without proxy support (with SocksCAP, FreeCAP or another client-side redirector
       under Windows of with socksification library under Unix). So you can play your favourite games, listen music, exchange files and messages and even accept in‐
       coming connections behind proxy server.

       dnspr  does  not  exist as independant service. It´ DNS caching proxy (it requires nscache and nserver to be set in configuration. Only A-records are cached.
       Please note, the this caching is mostly a 'hack' and has nothing to do with real DNS server, but it works perfectly for SOHO networks.

       3proxy supports access control lists (ACL) like network router. Source and destination networks and destination port can be specified. In addition, usernames
       and gateway action (for example GET or POST) can be used in ACLs.  In order to filter request on username basis user must be authenticated somehow. There are
       few authentication types including password authentication and authentication by NetBIOS name for Windows clients (it´s very like ident authentication).  De‐
       pending on ACL action request can be allowed, denied or redirected to another host or to another proxy server or even to a chain of proxy servers.

       It  supports  different  types  of logging: to logfiles, syslog(3) (only under Unix) or to ODBC database. Logging format is turnable to provide compatibility
       with existing log file parsers. It makes it possible to use 3proxy with IIS, ISA, Apache or Squid log parsers.

OPTIONS
       config_file
              Name of config file. See 3proxy.cfg(3) for configuration file format. Under Windows, if config_file is not specified,  3proxy  looks  for  file  named
              3proxy.cfg  in  the  default  location  (in same directory with executable file and in current directory). Under Unix, if no config file is specified,
              3proxy reads configuration from stdin. It makes it possible to use 3proxy.cfg file as executable script just by setting +x mode and adding
              #!/usr/local/3proxy/3proxy
              as a first line in 3proxy.cfg

       --install
              (Windows NT family only) install 3proxy as a system service

       --remove
              (Windows NT family only) remove 3proxy from system services

SIGNALS
       Under Unix there are few signals 3proxy catches. See kill(1).

       SIGTERM
              cleanup connections and exit

       SIGPAUSE
              stop to accept new connections, on second signal - start and re-read configuration

       SIGCONT
              start to accept new conenctions

       SIGUSR1
              reload configuration

       Under Windows, if 3proxy is installed as service you can standard service management to start, stop, pause and continue 3proxy service, for example:
       net start 3proxy
       net stop 3proxy
       net pause 3proxy
       net continue 3proxy

       Web admin service can also be used to reload configuration. Use wget to automate this task.

FILES
       /usr/local/3proxy/3proxy.cfg (3proxy.cfg)
              3proxy configuration file

BUGS
       Report all bugs to 3proxy@3proxy.ru

SEE ALSO
       3proxy.cfg(3), proxy(8), ftppr(8), socks(8), pop3p(8), tcppm(8), udppm(8), kill(1), syslogd(8),
       https://3proxy.org/

TRIVIA
       3APA3A is pronounced as ``zaraza´´.

AUTHORS
       3proxy is designed by Vladimir 3APA3A Dubrovin (3proxy@3proxy.ru)

3proxy 0.9                                                                  January 2019                                                                   3proxy(8)
