9wm(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    9wm(1)

NAME
       9wm - rio-like Window Manager for X

SYNOPSIS
       9wm [ -border ] [ -cursor cursor ] [ -version ] [ -font fname ] [ -term termprog ] [ -active color ] [ -inactive color ] [ exit|restart ]

DESCRIPTION
       9wm is a window manager for X which attempts to emulate the window management policies of Plan 9's rio window manager.

       9wm  is  click-to-type:  it  has  a notion of the current window, which is usually on top, and always has its border darkened.  Characters typed at the keyboard go to the current window, and mouse
       clicks outside the current window are swallowed up by 9wm.  To make another window the current one, click on it with button 1.  Unlike other X window managers, 9wm implements `mouse focus':  mouse
       events are sent only to the current window.

OPTIONS
       -border
              Shrinks the size of window borders to be more like Plan9.

       -cursor cursor
              Sets the cursor to one of two custom Plan9-style cursors: v1 or blit.  Use this option for maximum authenticity.

       -font fname
              Sets the font in 9wm's menu to fname, overriding the default.

       -term termprog
              Specifies an alternative program to run when the New menu item is selected.

       -active color
              Sets the color of the active window border, which defaults to black.

       -inactive color
              Sets the color of the inactive window border, which defaults to white.

       -version
              Prints the current version on standard error, then exits.

MENU
       A menu of window operations is available by pressing button 3 outside the current window.

       New    attempts to spawn an xterm process (unless the -term argument is used).

       All  of  the next operations change the cursor into a target, prompting the user to click button 3 on one of the windows to select it for the operation.  At this stage, clicking button 1 or 2 will
       abort the operation.

       Resize The user is prompted to sweep out the new outline with button 3.

       Move   The user should keep the button held down after the initial click that selected the window, and drag the window to the right place before releasing.  In either case,  button  1  or  2  will
              abort the operation.

       Delete The window will be deleted when the button is released.  This typically kills the client that owns the window.

       Hide   Makes  the  window invisible.  While hidden, the window's name appears on the bottom of the button 3 menu.  Selecting that item brings the window back (unhides it).  This operation replaces
              the iconification feature provided by other window managers.

       To make 9wm exit, you have to run 9wm exit on the command line.  There is no ``exit'' menu item.

BUGS
       Is not completely compatible with rio.

       There is a currently a compiled-in limit of 32 hidden windows.

SEE ALSO
       9term(1), xterm(1).

                                                                                                                                                                                                     9wm(1)
