ABILINT(1)                        Libabigail                        ABILINT(1)

NAME
       abilint - validate an abigail ABI representation

       abilint  parses  the  native XML representation of an ABI as emitted by
       abidw.  Once it has parsed the XML representation of the  ABI,  abilint
       builds  and  in-memory model from it.  It then tries to save it back to
       an XML form, to standard output.  If that read-write operation succeeds
       chances are the input XML ABI representation is meaningful.

       Note  that the main intent of this tool to help debugging issues in the
       underlying Libabigail library.

       Note also that abilint can also read  an  ELF  input  file,  build  the
       in-memory  model for its ABI, and serialize that model back into XML to
       standard output.  In that case, the ELF input file must be  accompanied
       with its debug information in the DWARF format.

INVOCATION
          abilint [options] [<abi-file1>]

OPTIONS
          · --help

            Display a short help message and exits.

          · –version | -v

            Display the version of the program and exit.

          · --debug-info-dir <path>

            When  reading  an  ELF input file which debug information is split
            out into a separate file, this options tells abilint where to find
            that separate debug information file.

            Note  that  path  must point to the root directory under which the
            debug information is arranged in a tree-like  manner.   Under  Red
            Hat based systems, that directory is usually <root>/usr/lib/debug.

            Note also that this option is not mandatory for split debug infor‐
            mation installed by your system’s  package  manager  because  then
            abidiff knows where to find it.

          · --diff

            For XML inputs, perform a text diff between the input and the mem‐
            ory model saved back to disk.  This can help to spot issues in the
            handling of the XML format by the underlying Libabigail library.

          · --noout

            Do  not  display  anything on standard output.  The return code of
            the command is the only way to know if the command succeeded.

          · --suppressions | suppr <path-to-suppression-specifications-file>

            Use a suppression specification file located  at  path-to-suppres‐
            sion-specifications-file.  Note that this option can appear multi‐
            ple times on the command line.  In that case, all of the  provided
            suppression specification files are taken into account.  ABI arti‐
            facts matched by the  suppression  specifications  are  suppressed
            from the output of this tool.

          · --headers-dir | --hd <headers-directory-path-1>

            Specifies  where  to  find  the public headers of the first shared
            library that the tool has to consider.  The tool will thus  filter
            out types that are not defined in public headers.

          · --header-file | --hf <header-file-path>

            Specifies  where to find one of the public headers of the abi file
            that the tool has to consider.  The  tool  will  thus  filter  out
            types that are not defined in public headers.

          · --stdin | --

            Read the input content from standard input.

          · --tu

            Expect the input XML to represent a single translation unit.

AUTHOR
       Dodji Seketeli

COPYRIGHT
       2014-2016, Red Hat, Inc.

                                 Oct 04, 2021                       ABILINT(1)
