ACHECK.1(1)                                                  User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                  ACHECK.1(1)

NAME
       acheck - Check common localization mistakes

SYNOPSIS
       acheck [OPTIONS] [INPUT_FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       This program parses a file checking for syntax rules and optionally asking Aspell for checking word spelling. It makes fix suggestions and outputs a
       corrected file accordingly adding review comments if requested.

       It tries to find the file type according to the extension or the first lines and loads rules accordingly.

       It displays lines when they are parse.

       When an error is found, a menu is displayed. Just press Enter if you don't want to change anything. If a choice suits you, enter the corresponding
       number. If you want to fix it but no choice is correct, enter a space, then you will be asked for a string to replace the highlighted text. The script
       will replace the highlighted text with your choice and parse it again for new errors.

       Here are all the available commands:

       Enter, ignore.
           Ignore.

       Ctrl+L, redraw.
           Rewrite the last line, suggestions and hints.

       Space, edit.
           Edit the highlighted text.

       E, edit line.
           Edit the whole line.

       H, add hint.
           Add  the  displayed  hint  as  review  comment.  Use  this  if  you  want the translator to see the corresponding warning or error but you have no
           correction.

       N, next line.
           Skip the rest of this line.

       X, exit and discard all changes.
           Quit without saving modifications, the script ask you for confirmation, you have to enter `yes' to exit otherwise  parsing  starts  again  at  the
           current mistake.

       a, add in dictionary.
           Add the highlighted word to you personal dictionary, capitalized as it is.

       l, add lowercase in dictionary.
           Lowercase the highlighted word to add it to your personal dictionary.

       i, ignore word.
           Ignore the highlighted word, same as Enter.

       I, ignore all.
           Ignore the highlighted word and add it to your session dictionary.

OPTIONS
       Verbosity level:

       -q, --quiet
           quiet mode.

       -v  verbose, start at level $Debug + 1, add more for more verbosity (see below).

       --verbose n
           set verbosity level to n (see below).

       Files:

       -i, --input
           input filename, can be '-' to read data from standard input.

       -o, --output
           output  filename, can be '-' to write data to standard output. If no output filename is provided, input file is backed up with `bak_ext' extension
           and input filename is used.

       Spell check:

       -s, --spell
           check spelling with Aspell.

       -d language, --dict language
           use language dictionary for Aspell.

       -n, --nospell
           don't check spelling.

       Mode:

       -r, --review
           review mode, add comments on lines beginning with $Comment after parsed line.

       -t, --trans
           translator mode, don't add comments, just fix errors.

       others:

       --rules ruleset
           use ruleset rules set.

       --type filetype
           use filetype whatever the file type is.

       --dump
           Dump the rules to check and exit, use this for debugging purposes.

       -V, --version
           print version and exit.

       -h, --help
           print a short usage message and exit.

   Verbosity Level
       0 quiet, normal
           only warnings and errors

       1 debug
           names of subroutines

       2 debug verbose
           names and arguments of subroutines

       3 .. 5 debug very verbose
           output parsing and checking details

SEE ALSO
       acheck(5), acheck-rules(5)

AUTHOR
       Nicolas Bertolissio <bertol@debian.org>

perl v5.24.1                                                              2017-01-03                                                              ACHECK.1(1)
