ADPLUGDB(1)                                                                                    User Commands                                                                                    ADPLUGDB(1)

NAME
       adplugdb - AdPlug database maintenance utility

SYNOPSIS
       adplugdb [OPTION]... COMMAND [ARGUMENT]...

DESCRIPTION
       adplugdb maintains database files in AdPlug database format. It can add, list and remove records within a central database, or merge a set of databases together into one single database.

       adplugdb  always operates on a central database file. The location of this database file is determined by first checking if the user has a home directory. If a home directory is present, the data‐
       base file will be located in ~/.adplug/adplug.db. If a home directory is not present, a database file adplug.db will be looked for in the current working directory.

       A system-wide database file can be used instead, by specifying the -s commandline option. The system-wide database file is located in /usr/local/com/adplug/adplug.db and may only be manipulated as
       the superuser. An arbitrary database file might be used as well, by specifying the -d commandline parameter. Only one database file may be manipulated at a time.

EXIT STATUS
       adplugdb returns with a successful exit status (0 on most systems) on successful operation. An unsuccessful exit status (1 on most systems) is returned otherwise.

COMMANDS
       Commands control the main operation mode of adplugdb. Commands can have a number of arguments. Only one command may be specified at a time.

       add    This command takes a list of filenames, separated by spaces, as arguments. Each file is examined and a record is added to the database if the file is supported by AdPlug.  By  default,  the
              record  will be of type Plain, unless the -t commandline option is specified (see below). The default comment entry is the specified filename. If a record for a file is already in the data‐
              base, it will be replaced by the new record.

       list   This command takes an optional list of filenames or keys, separated by spaces, as arguments. Each file is examined and the corresponding record is looked up from the database and  displayed
              on stdout, in a human-readable form. If no arguments are given, all records from the database are displayed.

       remove This command takes a list of filenames or keys, separated by spaces, as arguments. Each file is examined and the corresponding record is removed from the database.

       merge  This  command  takes  a list of database filenames, separated by spaces, as arguments. Each database file is loaded and the contents are merged and written to the central database file. The
              database files are processed in the order they are specified on the commandline. Records from databases that were specified earlier take precedence over records  from  databases  that  were
              specified  later.  Records  from  the  central database take precedence over all other records. This means that only additional records from the other databases will be added to the central
              database and if a record is found that is not already in the central database, the version from the earliest specified database that contains this record will  be  taken.  In  no  way  will
              records ever be overwritten in the central database.

OPTIONS
       The order of the option commandline parameters is not important.

   Database options:
       -d <file>
              Specify an arbitrary file to use as the central database.

       -s     Use the system-wide database file as the central database. This option is only present if adplugdb was compiled with system-wide database file support.

       -t <type>
              Specify  a  record  type  to be used as the type for all newly added records. Each record needs a special type to be useful to AdPlug's players. The commandline help, displayed using the -h
              commandline option, presents a list of types that may be specified.

       -c     Prompt for record comment. If this option is given, the user will be prompted and asked for each newly added record's comment.

       -k     Specify keys instead of filenames. If this option is given, all command arguments that normally are filenames are expected to be record keys instead. Each  record  in  the  database  has  a
              unique  identifying  key,  generated  from the corresponding file's contents. To manipulate a record entry, you either must have the exact same file and specify its name, or you specify the
              record's key, using this option. Keys are specified the same way they are displayed using the list command, as CRC16:CRC32 value in hexadecimal format.

   Generic options:
       -q, --quiet
              Be more quiet.

       -v, --verbose
              Be more verbose.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of commandline commands, arguments and options.

       -V, --version
              Show version and author information of the program.

AUTHOR
       Simon Peter <dn.tlp@gmx.net>

AdPlug database maintenance utility 2.3                                                        March 4, 2006                                                                                    ADPLUGDB(1)
