AEWM(1x)                                                                                                                                                                                               AEWM(1x)

NAME
       aewm - An Exiguous Window Manager

SYNOPSIS
       aewm [options...]

DESCRIPTION
       aewm is an X11 window manager with very few features. It draws a small titlebar above top-level windows, allows you to manipulate them with the mouse, and starts other programs when the root window is
       clicked. That's also about all it does, so don't expect anything nifty.

       The titlebar contains a small box in the upper right corner. Clicking the 1st, 2nd, or 3rd buttons on the main area of the titlebar will raise, move, or lower the window, respectively. Clicking on the
       box will respectively hide, resize, or close the window.

       By  default,  clicking on the root window with button 1 will run aemenu(1x), and button 3 will start a new xterm(1x), and and button 2 will run aemenu --switch.  aemenu (or another equivalent program)
       is required to unhide hidden windows; aewm does not do this itself.

OPTIONS
       --config file, -rc file
              Read configuration options from file.  This overrides options which precede it in the command line.

       --font xfld, -fn xfld
              Draw window titles using the font defined by xfld.

       --bgcolor color, -bg color
              Set the background color of window frames.

       --fgcolor color, -fg color
              Set the foreground color of window frames.

       --bdcolor color, -bd color
              Set the color of window borders.

       --bdwidth width, -bw width
              Draw window borders width pixels wide.

       --padding width, -p width
              Draw width pixels of space between window borders and window titles.

       --new1 command, -1 cmd
              Run command when button 1 is clicked on the root window.

       --new2 command, -2 cmd
              Run command when button 2 is clicked on the root window.

       --new3 command, -3 cmd
              Run command when button 3 is clicked on the root window.

       --help, -h
              Print a short help message to stdout and exit.

       --version, -v
              Print version information to stdout and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY Sets which X display will be managed by aewm.

SEE ALSO
       aeclients(1x), X(7), The Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual (from the X11R6 documentation).

AUTHOR
       Decklin Foster <decklin@red-bean.com>

                                                                                                                                                                                                       AEWM(1x)
