aft(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    aft(1)

NAME
       aft - "free form" document preparation system

SYNOPSIS
       aft [--verbose] [--autonumber] [--output=file | --output=-] [--type=output-type] infile ..

DESCRIPTION
       AFT  is a nearly free format documentation system which can be typed in using any editor or wordprocessor that supports tabs or hard spaces (column-based spaces whose number doesn't shrink or grow
       based on formatting). By using AFT, you are no longer constrained to one wordprocessing file standard (such as Microsoft Word), nor do you have to enter a plethora of  weird  syntactical  incanta‐
       tions of an embedded mark up language (such as LaTeX or HTML).

       Unlike other mark up languages, AFT is designed to parse and recognize patterns rather than formal commands. That is why there is no single escape or command sequence that tells AFT what to do. In
       this regard, AFT will process almost anything you throw at it.

       An  AFT document is easily converted into such popular formats as HTML, RTF and LaTeX. Because there are few commands, learning to write a document in AFT requires little effort. This doesn't mean
       that AFT is not powerful. In fact, this very document was conceived and written using AFT.

USAGE
       Running AFT is as simple as typing:

       aft NAME_OF_YOUR_FILE.aft

OPTIONS
       --verbose
              Generate a lot of commentary. By default, AFT will just silently process files (unless errors occur). Using this option causes AFT to keep you informed about what it is doing.

       --autonumber
              This switch tells AFT to automatically number your sections.--output=file |

       --output=-
              This tells AFT where to send its processed output. You can supply a filename (file) or - which tells AFT to write to your standard output (your display or stdout).

       --type=output_type
              This tells AFT what type of output to do. For example HTML output is used for html and DocBook output is used for docbook. As a side effect, this will also specify the file  name  extension
              for the output file if the --output option isn't specified.

       infile ..
              One or more AFT documents to be processed.

Almost Free Text                                                                               22. April 2003                                                                                        aft(1)
