agr(1)                      General Commands Manual                     agr(1)

NAME
       agr - Displays AmigaGuide files in a terminal

SYNOPSIS
       agr guidefile

DESCRIPTION
       AmigaGuide Reader (agr for short) is a command line program for viewing
       AmigaGuide files, the native documentation format commonly used on  the
       Amiga  platform and its clones. It supports the complete v39 specifica‐
       tion and a significant part of the v40 specification. AmigaGuide  files
       traditionally use the .guide filename suffix.

OPTIONS
       None

USAGE
       In  summary,  agr primarily uses the TAB, CURSOR, SPACE and RETURN keys
       for navigation. An exhaustive list follows.

       q or ^C
              Quits agr.

       CURSOR keys or i,j,k,l
              Scroll the document up, down, left or right in cases where it is
              wider or longer than your terminal

       PAGE UP/PAGE DOWN
              Scrolls  the  document up or down by one complete page, equal to
              the height of your terminal.

       HOME or g
              Jumps to the top of the document node.

       END or G
              Jumps to the bottom of the document node.

       SPACE or RETURN
              Display the highlighted document node link.

       TAB    Highlight the next visible node link.

       a      Highlight the previous visible node link.

       F1     Display the Help Node if the AmigaGuide file has one defined. If
              you  are  using a terminal emulator under X(1), it may trap this
              key rendering it unavailable.

       F2     Display the Index Node if the AmigaGuide file has one defined.

       F3     Display the Table of Contents Node if the  AmigaGuide  file  has
              one defined.

       n/b    Display  the  next   or previous document node. Please note, the
              next or previous document node does not follow the logical  lay‐
              out of the AmigaGuide document as it is displayed, but refers to
              the next or previous document node as  sequentially  written  in
              the AmigaGuide file.

       +/-    Increase or decrease the TAB size (tabstop) by the equivalent of
              one space.

       t      Display the current TAB size (tabstop) in the lower  right  hand
              corner.

       r      Refresh the display.

       ?      Display any meta data stored in the AmigaGuide file.

       v      Displays the contents of any broken links.

       =      Displays the current line number in the lower right hand corner.

       C      Attempt to use native Amiga colouring for coloured text.

              ANSI  colours  on the Amiga are not standardised but depend upon
              the current colourmap and palette  in  use.  Thus  if  the  user
              changes  the colours used by their desktop environment, the ANSI
              colours change too. This command attempts to convert the colours
              displayed  in  agr from standard ANSI colours to those one would
              see by default on AmigaOS 2.0+. See the conversion table below.

              Colour Table
                     #: ANSI       Amiga
                     ------------------------
                     0: Black   -> Light Grey
                     1: Red     -> Black
                     2: Green   -> White
                     3: Yellow  -> Light Blue
                     4: Blue    -> Yellow
                     5: Magenta -> Blue
                     6: Cyan    -> Green
                     7: White   -> Red

AUTHOR
       Written by Thierry Pierron.
       Additional patches by Hans de Goede.
       This man page was written by Ian Chapman.

BUGS
       Does not support the complete v40 specification.
       AREXX node links are not supported (rarely used feature).
       System command node links are not supported (rarely used feature).

       This software is not actively updated, but patches  or  bug  fixes  are
       welcome and should be sent to <packages@amiga-hardware.com>.

CAVEATS
       Amiga  filepaths  are similar but differ slightly from UNIX file paths.
       In some cases this may lead to external files referenced  by  the  Ami‐
       gaGuide  file  as not being found. However agr tries several techniques
       to avoid this.

       Amiga filenames are case insensitive so unless  the  correct  case  has
       been  used  in the AmigaGuide file, externally referenced files may not
       be found.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for agr is available as an HTML file in addition
       to an AmigaGuide file which should have been installed alongside agr.

                                                                        agr(1)
