AHCPD(8)                                                                                  System Manager's Manual                                                                                  AHCPD(8)

NAME
       ahcpd - ad-hoc configuration daemon

SYNOPSIS
       ahcpd option...  [ -- ] interface...

DESCRIPTION
       AHCP is a configuration protocol that can replace DHCP on networks without transitive connectivity, such as mesh networks.

OPTIONS
       -m multicast-address
              Specify the link-local multicast address to be used by AHCP.  The default is ff02::cca6:c0f9:e182:5359.

       -p port
              Specify the UDP port number to be used by AHCP.  The default is 5359.

       -n     Operate as a forwarder: participate in the flooding protocol, but don't actually perform any configuration.

       -4     Only attempt to configure IPv4 addresses.

       -6     Only attempt to configure IPv6 addresses.

       -N     Do not configure DNS.

       -t time
              Specify the time, in seconds, for which leases are requested.  The default is slightly over one hour.  Must be between five minutes and a year.

       -s script
              Specify the configuration script to run.  The default is /etc/ahcp/ahcp-config.sh.

       -d level
              Set the debug level to level (default 1).

       -i filename
              Specify the filename containing this host's unique id.  The default is /var/lib/ahcp-unique-id.  If it doesn't exist, it will be created by ahcpd.

       -c filename
              Specify the name of the configuration file.

       -C statement
              Specify a configuration statement directly on the command line.

       -D     Daemonise at startup.

       -L logfile
              Specify a file to log random ``how do you do?'' messages to.  This defaults to standard error if not daemonising, and to /var/log/ahcpd.log otherwise.

       -I pidfile
              Specify a file to write our process id to.  The default is /var/run/ahcpd.pid.

CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
       The  configuration  is a sequence of lines, each of which starts with one of the keywords below.  Blank lines are ignored.  Comments are introduced with an octothorp ``#'' and terminate at the end
       of the line.

       The following keywords are recognised:

       mode server|client|forwarder
              Specifies whether the daemon operates as a server, a client, or a forwarder.  If omitted, the default is to operate as a client, unless the -n flag is  present  on  the  command  line.   If
              present, this must be the first line in the configuration file.

       prefix prefix
              Specifies a prefix to use for configuring clients.  This keyword is only valid in server configurations, and may be specified twice, once for IPv4 and once for IPv6.

       lease-dir directory
              Specifies a directory to store lease files.  This keyword is only valid in server configurations.

       name-server address
              Specifies the address of a DNS server to configure clients with.  This keyword is only valid in server configurations, and may be repeated multiple times.

       ntp-server address
              Specifies the address of an NTP server to configure clients with.  This keyword is only valid in server configurations, and may be repeated multiple times.

FILES
       /var/lib/ahcp-unique-id
              An 8-byte long file containing this host's unique id.  If it doesn't exist, a new unique id will be generated from an interface's MAC address.

       /etc/ahcp/ahcp-config.sh
              The script that performs the actual configuration.  It will be passed one argument, which is either start or stop.

       /etc/ahcp/ahcp-local.sh
              If this is an executable script, it will be called by ahcp-config.sh just after configuring or deconfiguring. It will be passed one argument, which is either start or stop.

SIGNALS
       SIGUSR1
              Print ahcpd's status to standard output or to the log file.

       SIGUSR2
              Check all interfaces for status changes, then reopen the log file.

NOTES
       Since  the  AHCP protocol is designed for mesh networks, it doesn't have any provisions for setting routing parameters such as a default gateway, the IPv4 network mask and the IPv6 list of on-link
       prefixes; these are expected to be provided by a full-fledged routing protocol for mesh nodes, and by router advertisements for ordinary nodes.

       The AHCP server should use NTP to synchronise its clock.  If a server instance of ahcpd doesn't detect time synchronisation, it will only give out leases for a short period of  time,  and  be  ex‐
       tremely conservative about releasing them.  Note that an SNTP client is not enough — ahcpd actually checks with the kernel for time synchronisation, so real NTP is necessary.

SEE ALSO
       dhcpcd(8), dhclient(8), babeld(8), olsrd(8), ntpd(8), The Ad-Hoc Configuration Protocol.

AUTHOR
       Juliusz Chroboczek.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   AHCPD(8)
