ALOT(1)                                                                                             alot                                                                                            ALOT(1)

NAME
       alot - Terminal MUA using notmuch mail

SYNOPSIS
       alot [options …] [subcommand]

DESCRIPTION
       Alot  is  a  terminal-based  mail user agent for the notmuch mail system.  It features a modular and command prompt driven interface to provide a full MUA experience as an alternative to the Emacs
       mode shipped with notmuch.

OPTIONS
       -r, --read-only
              open notmuch database in read-only mode

       -c FILENAME, --config=FILENAME
              configuration file (default: ~/.config/alot/config)

       -n FILENAME, --notmuch-config=FILENAME
              notmuch configuration file (default: see notmuch-config(1))

       -C COLOURS, --colour-mode=COLOURS
              number of colours to use on the terminal; must be 1, 16 or 256 (default: configuration option colourmode or 256)

       -p PATH, --mailindex-path=PATH
              path to notmuch index

       -d LEVEL, --debug-level=LEVEL
              debug level; must be one of debug, info, warning or error (default: info)

       -l FILENAME, --logfile=FILENAME
              log file (default: /dev/null)

       -h, --help
              display help and exit

       -v, --version
              output version information and exit

COMMANDS
       search start in a search buffer using the query string provided as parameter (see notmuch-search-terms(7))

       compose
              compose a new message

       bufferlist
              start with only a bufferlist buffer open

       taglist
              start with only a taglist buffer open

       namedqueries
              start with list of named queries

       pyshell
              start the interactive python shell inside alot

USAGE
       The arrow keys, page-up/down, j, k and Space can be used to move the focus.  Escape cancels prompts and Enter selects. Hit : at any time and type in commands to the prompt.

       The interface shows one buffer at a time, you can use Tab and Shift-Tab to switch between them, close the current buffer with d and list them all with ;.

       The buffer type or mode (displayed at the bottom left) determines which prompt commands are available. Usage information on any command can be listed by typing help YOURCOMMAND to the prompt.  The
       keybindings for the current mode are listed upon pressing ?.

UNIX SIGNALS
       SIGUSR1
              Refreshes the current buffer.

       SIGINT Shuts down the user interface.

SEE ALSO
       notmuch(1)

AUTHOR
       Patrick Totzke

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) Patrick Totzke

0.11                                                                                          August 21, 2025                                                                                       ALOT(1)
