AMQP-PUBLISH(1)                                                                                RabbitMQ C Client                                                                                AMQP-PUBLISH(1)

NAME
       amqp-publish - Publish a message on an AMQP server

SYNOPSIS
       amqp-publish [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       Publishes a message to an exchange on an AMQP server. Options allow the various properties of the message and parameters of the AMQP basic.publish method to be specified.

       By default, the message body is read from standard input. Alternatively, the -b option allows the message body to be provided as part of the command.

OPTIONS
       -e, --exchange=exchange name
           The name of the exchange to publish to. If omitted, the default exchange (also known as the nameless exchange) is used.

       -r, --routing-key=routing key
           The routing key to publish with. If omitted, an empty routing key is assumed. A routing key must be specified when publishing to the default exchange; in that case, accoding to the AMQP
           specification, the routing key corresponds to a queue name.

       -p, --persistent
           Use the persistent delivery mode. Without this option, non-persistent delivery is used.

       -C, --content-type=MIME type
           Specifies the content-type property for the message. If omitted, the content-type property is not set on the message.

       -E, --content-encoding=content coding
           Specifies the content-encoding property for the message. If omitted, the content-encoding property is not set on the message.

       -b, --body=message body
           Specifies the message body. If omitted, the message body is read from standard input.

       -H, --header=header
           Specifies an optional header in the form "key: value".

EXAMPLES
       Send a short message, consisting of the word “Hello” to the queue “myqueue” via the default exchange:

               $ amqp-publish -r myqueue -b Hello

       Send some XML data from a file to the exchange “events”, with persistent delivery mode, setting the content-type property on the message to make the data format explicit:

               $ amqp-publish -e events -p -C text/xml <event.xml

SEE ALSO
       librabbitmq-tools(7) describes connection-related options common to all the RabbitMQ C Client tools.

AUTHOR
       The RabbitMQ Team <<info@rabbitmq.com>>

RabbitMQ C Client                                                                                  2021-07-22                                                                                   AMQP-PUBLISH(1)
