ANACRONTAB(5)                                                                              Anacron Users' Manual                                                                              ANACRONTAB(5)

NAME
       /etc/anacrontab - configuration file for anacron

DESCRIPTION
       The file /etc/anacrontab describes the jobs controlled by anacron(8). Its lines can be of three kinds:  job-description lines, environment assignments, or empty lines.

       Job-description lines are of one of these two forms:

          period  delay  job-identifier  command

          @period_name delay job-identify command

       The  period  is specified in days, the delay in minutes. The job-identifier can contain any non-blank character, except slashes. It is used to identify the job in Anacron messages, and as the name
       for the job's timestamp file. The command can be any shell command. The fields can be separated by blank spaces or tabs. period_name can be set to daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly. This will  en‐
       sure jobs are only run once a day, once every seven days, and once a month—no matter the number of days in this month or the previous month; or analogously for the year.

       Environment assignment lines are of the form:

          VAR = VALUE

       Spaces  around  VAR are removed. No spaces around VALUE are allowed (unless you want them to be part of the value). The assignment takes effect from the next line to the end of the file, or to the
       next assignment of the same variable.

       Empty lines are either blank lines, line containing white-space only, or lines with white-space followed by a '#' followed by an arbitrary comment.

       You can continue a line onto the next line by ending it with a '\'.

SEE ALSO
       anacron(8)

       The Anacron README file.

AUTHOR
       Itai Tzur <itzur@actcom.co.il>

       Currently maintained by Lance Lin <lq27267@gmail.com>.

The Debian Project                                                                               2025-10-03                                                                                   ANACRONTAB(5)
