
ANFO(1)                                                                                           User Manuals                                                                                          ANFO(1)

NAME
       anfo - find best alignment of short reads to database

SYNOPSIS
       anfo [ option | file ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       anfo  aligns  (short)  sequencing reads to a (gigabase sized) database.  It uses a heuristic seeding method, but then applies a genuine aligner that allows gaps, understands damage patterns in ancient
       dna and produces an easy to interpret score.

       Input files can be any variety of FastA or FastQ files, or a native anfo binary file, optinally compressed using gziporbzip2.  The file format is automatically recognized  and  other  formats  may  be
       added.

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -o file, --output file
              Write output to file. file will be written in the native anfo binary format, which can be operated upon using anfo-tool or the bindings to guile.

       -c conffile, --config conffile
              Read  configuration from conffile.  This file configures which indices are used, and by extension to which genomes an alignment is made, what parameters to use in the aligner and can set paths.
              See the example file.

       -p num, --threads num
              Start num threads for alignment.  One such thread per processor core is usually best.

       -x num, --ixthreads num
              Start num threads for indexing.  Indexing normally uses less cpu power than alignment, so fewer indexers than aligners is normally best.

       --solexa-scale
              When reading FastQ files, use the Solexa scale (log-odds-ratios) instead of the standard Phread scale (probabilities).  If you  use  Solexa/Illumina  sequencers,  refer  to  your  documentation
              whether you need this.  Else you don't.

       --fastq-origin ori
              Set  origin for FastQ decoding to ori.  The standard and default is 33, but it must be set to 64 for some versions of the Solexa/Illumina software.  If you use Solexa/Illumina sequencers, refer
              to your documentation whether you need this.  Else you don't.

       -q, --quiet
              Suppress all output except fatal errors.

       -v, --verbose
              Print a progress indicator during operation.

ENVIRONMENT
       ANFO_PATH
              Colon separated list of directories searched for genome and index files.

FILES
       /etc/popt
              The system wide configuration file for popt(3).  anfo identifies itself as "anfo" to popt.

       ~/.popt
              Per user configuration file for popt(3).

       /usr/share/doc/anfo/example/*.cfg
              Example configuration files to be used with anfo.

BUGS
       None known.

AUTHOR
       Udo Stenzel <udo_stenzel@eva.mpg.de>

SEE ALSO
       http://bioinf.eva.mpg.de/anfo

       anfo-tool(1), anfo-sge(1), fa2dna(1), dnaindex(1), popt(3), fasta(5)

Applications                                                                                      OCTOBER 2009                                                                                          ANFO(1)
