
ANFO-TOOL(1)                                                                                      User Manuals                                                                                     ANFO-TOOL(1)

NAME
       anfo-tool - process native ANFO binary files

SYNOPSIS
       anfo-tool [ option | pattern ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       anfo-tool  is used to filter, process and convert the files created by anfo.  Every pattern on the command line is wildcard expanded, then for every input file (or the standard input, if no pattern is
       given), anfo-tool builds a chain of input filters, it then merges these input streams in one of several ways, splits the result up into multiple output streams, each of which can have a chain of  out‐
       put filter applied.

OPTIONS
   General Options
       These options apply globally and modify the behavior of the whole program.  They can be placed anywhere in the command line.

       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -q, --quiet
              Suppress all output except fatal error messages.

       -v, --verbose
              Produce more output, including progress indicators for most operations.

       --debug
              Produce debugging output in addition to progress information.

       -n, --dry-run
              Parse command line, optionally print a description of the intended operations, then exit.

       --vmem X
              Limit virtual memory to X megabytes.  If memory runs out, anfo-tool tries to free up memory by forgetting about big files, e.g. genomes.  Use this option to avoid swapping or out-of-memory con‐
              ditions when operations involve big or multiple genomes.

   Setting Parameters
       A parameter can be set multiple times on the command line and will overwrite previous settings.  Any filter option that needs a parameter picks up the last definition that appeared before  the  filter
       option.

       --set-slope S
              Set  the  slope parameter to S.  The slope is used together with the intercept where filters apply to alignment scores; alignments scoring no worse than slope * (length - intercept) are consid‐
              ered good.  The default is 7.5.

       --set-intercept L
              Set the intercept parameter to L.  The intercept is used together with the slope where filters apply to alignment scores; alignments scoring no worse than slope * (length - intercept) are  con‐
              sidered good.  The default is 20.

       --set-context C
              Set the context parameter to C.  The context is the number of surrounding bases of the reference included when printing alignments in text form.  The default is 0.

       --set-genome G
              Set the genome parameter to G.  Many filters will only consider the best alignments to this specific genome if it is set.  If no genome is set, the globally best alignment is used.

       --clear-genome
              Clear the genome parameter.  Filters apply to the globally best alignment afterwards.

   Filter Options
       Filters can be applied before merging the inputs or after splitting the back up.

       -s, --sort-pos=n
              Sort by alignment position while buffering no more than n MiB in memory.  If a genome is set, alignments to that genome are used.

       -S, --sort-name=n
              Sort by read name while buffering no more than n MiB in memory.

       -l, --filter-length=L
              Retain alignments only for reads of at least L bases length.  The reads themselves are kept.

       -f, --filter-score
              Retain alignments only if their score is good enough.  Usesslopeandintercept.

       --filter-mapq=Q
              Remove alignments with mapping quality below Q.

       -h, --filter-hit=SEQ
              Keep only reads that have a hit to a sequence named SEQ.  If SEQ is empty, reads are kept if they have any hit.  If the genome parameter is set, only hits to that genome count.

       --delete-hit=SEQ
              Delete alignments to SEQ.  If SEQ is empty, all alignments are deleted.  If the genome parameter is set, only alignments to that genome are deleted.

       --filter-qual=Q
              Mask out bases with quality below Q.  Such a base is replaced by the N ambiguity code.

       --multiplicity=N
              Keep only reads of molecules that have been sequenced at least N times.  Reads are considered to come from the same original molecule if their aligned coordinates are identical.

       --subsample=F
              Subsample a fraction F of the results.  Every read is independently and randomly choosen to be kept or not.

       --inside-regions=FILE
              Read a list of regions from FILE, then keep only alignments that overlap an annotated region.

       --outside-regions=FILE
              Read a list of regions from FILE, then keep only alignments that do not overlap an annotated region.

   Special Filters
       -d, --rmdup=Q
              Remove  PCR duplicates, clamp quality scores to Q.  Two reads are considered to be duplicates, if their aligned coordinates are identical.  If a genome is set, the best alignment to that genome
              is used, else the globally best alignment.  Both alignments must be good, as determined by slopeandintercept.  For a set of duplicates, a consensus is called, generally increasing  the  quality
              scores.  If a resulting quality score exceeds Q, it is set to Q.  This filter requires the input to be sorted by alignment coordinate on the selected genome.

              --duct-tape=NAME  Duct-tape  overlapping alignments into contigs and call a consensus for them.  If a genome is set, alignments to that genome are used, else the globally best alignments.  This
              filter requires input to be sorted by alignment coordinate on the genome.  Output is a set of contigs, every position gets assigned a consensus base, a quality score and likelihoods  for  every
              possible diallele.  (It is called duct-taping because it kind of looks like an assembly, but is not nearly as solid.)

       --edit-header=ED
              Invoke the editor ED on the text representaion of the stream's header.  This can be used to clean up header that have accumulated too much cruft.

   Merging Filters
       Exactly  one  merging  filter should be given on the command line, all filter options occuring before that are part of the input filter chains, all further filters become output chains.  If no merging
       filter is given, --concat is assumed, and all filters are input filters.

       -c, --concat
              Concatenate all input streams in the order they appear on the command line.

       -m, --merge
              Merge sorted input streams, producing a sorted result.  All inputs must be sorted in the same way.

       -j, --join
              Join input streams and retain the single best hits to each genome.  Every input stream must contain a record for every read, reads are buffered in memory until all of their hits are  collected.
              This way, joining works well if all inputs are nearly in the same order.  If reads are missing from some streams, joining them will waste memory.

       --mega-merge
              Merge many streams such as those produced by running anfo-sge.  Streams that operated on the same reads are joined, then everything is merged.

   Output Options
       If  an  output  option  is  given on the command line, the current output filter chain is ended and a new one is started.  If no output option is given, a textual representation of the final stream is
       written to stdout.  All output options accept - to write to stdout.

       -o, --output FILE
              Write native binary stream (a compressed protobuf message) to FILE.  Writing a binary stream and reading it back in is lossless.

       --output-text FILE
              Write protobuf text stream to FILE.  If the necessary genomes are available, a textual representation of the alignments is included.  If the context parameter is set, that many additional bases
              of the reference upstream and downstream from the alignment are included.

       --output-sam=FILE
              Write alignments in SAM format to FILE.

       --output-glz FILE
              Write contigs in GLZ 0.9 format to FILE.  Generating GLZ only works after application of --duct-tape, every contigs becomes a GLZ record.

       --output-3aln FILE
              Write contigs in a table based format to FILE.  The format is still subject to change, see the source code for detailed documentation.

       --output-fasta FILE
              Write  alignments(!) in FastA format to FILE.  Alignments are writte as pair of reference and query sequence, aligned coordinates are indicated in the description of the query sequence.  If the
              context parameter is set, that many additional bases of the reference upstream and downstream from the alignment are included.  This format is not suggested for any serious use,  it  exists  to
              support legacy applications.

       --output-fastq FILE
              Write sequences(!) in FastQ format to FILE.  Writing FastQ effectively reconstitutes the input to ANFO if no filtering was done on the results.

       --output-table FILE
              Write  per-alignment statistics to FILE.  The file has three colums:Âsequence length, alignment score, difference to next best alignment.  It is mainly useful to analyze/visualize the distribu‐
              tion of alignment scores.

       --stats FILE
              Write simple statistics to FILE.  This results in some simple summary statistics of a whole stream: number of aligned sequences, average length, GC content.

ENVIRONMENT
       ANFO_PATH
              Colon separated list of directories searched for genome and index files.

       ANFO_TEMP
              Temporary space used for sorting of large files.

FILES
       /etc/popt
              The system wide configuration file for popt(3).  anfo-tool identifies itself as "anfo-tool" to popt.

       ~/.popt
              Per user configuration file for popt(3).

BUGS
       The command line of this tools is way too complicated and its semantics are counterintuitive.  Using anfo-tool is probably best avoided in most cases, the guile bindings should  provide  a  much  more
       scalable and easier to understand interface.

AUTHOR
       Udo Stenzel <udo_stenzel@eva.mpg.de>

SEE ALSO
       anfo(1), fa2dna(1) popt(3), fasta(5)

Applications                                                                                      OCTOBER 2009                                                                                     ANFO-TOOL(1)
