ANTLR(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  ANTLR(1)

NAME
       ANTLR - ANother Tool for Language Recognition, version 4

SYNOPSIS
       antlr4 [options] file.g4 [ file2.g4 file3.g4 ...]

DESCRIPTION
       ANTLR  (ANother Tool for Language Recognition) is a parser generator for reading, processing, executing, or translating structured text or binary files. It's widely used to build languages, tools,
       and frameworks. From a grammar, ANTLR generates a parser that can build and walk parse trees.

OPTIONS
       -o outdir
              Specify output directory where all output is generated.

              ANTLR generates output files in the current directory by default. This option specifies the output directory where ANTLR should generate parsers, listeners, visitors, and tokens files.

       -lib dir
              Specify location of grammars, tokens files.

              When looking for tokens files and imported grammars, ANTLR normally looks in the current directory. This option specifies which directory to look in instead.  It is only used for  resolving
              grammar references for the import statement and the tokenVocab option. The path to the primary grammar must always be fully specified.

       -atn   Generate rule augmented transition network diagrams.

              This  option  generates  DOT  graph  files  that represent the internal ATN (augmented transition network) data structures that ANTLR uses to represent grammars. The files come out as Gram‐
              mar.rule .dot. If the grammar is a combined grammar, the lexer rules are named Grammar Lexer.rule .dot.

       -encoding encodingname
              Specify grammar file encoding; e.g., euc-jp.

              By default ANTLR loads grammar files using the UTF-8 encoding, which is a very common character file encoding that degenerates to ASCII for characters that fit in one byte. If that  grammar
              file  is not the default encoding for your locale, you need this option so that ANTLR can properly interpret grammar files. This does not affect the input to the generated parsers, just the
              encoding of the grammars themselves.

       -message-format format
              Specify output style for messages in antlr, gnu, vs2005.

              ANTLR generates warning and error messages using templates from directory tool/resources/org/antlr/v4/tool/templates/messages/formats.  By default, ANTLR uses the antlr.stg  (StringTemplate
              group)  file.  You  can  change  this  to  'gnu'  or  'vs2005'  to  have  ANTLR  generate  messages  appropriate  for  Emacs  or  Visual  Studio.  To make your own called X, create resource
              org/antlr/v4/tool/templates/messages/formats/X and place it in the CLASSPATH.

       -long-messages
              Show exception details when available for errors and warnings.

       -listener
              Generate parse tree listener (default).

       -no-listener
              Don't generate parse tree listener.

       -visitor
              Generate parse tree visitor.

              ANTLR can generate both parse tree listeners and visitors; this option and -listener aren’t mutually exclusive.

       -no-visitor
              Don't generate parse tree visitor (default).

       -package packagename
              Specify a package/namespace for the generated code.

              Use this option to specify a package or namespace for ANTLR-generated files.  Alternatively, you can add a @header {...} action but that ties the grammar to a specific language. If you  use
              this option and @header, make sure that the header action does not contain a package specification otherwise the generated code will have two of them.

       -depend
              Generate file dependencies.

              Instead  of  generating  a  parser  and/or lexer, generate a list of file dependencies, one per line. The output shows what each grammar depends on and what it generates. This is useful for
              build tools that need to know ANTLR grammar dependencies.

              If you use -lib libdir with -depend and grammar option tokenVocab=A, then the dependencies include the library path as well.

               -Xforce-atn         use the ATN simulator for all predictions
               -Xlog               dump lots of logging info to antlr-timestamp.log

       -D<option>=<value>
              Set or override a grammar-level option.

              This option is useful for generating parsers in different languages without altering the grammar itself (with --Dlanguage=CSharp for example).

       -Werror
              Treat warnings as errors.

              As part of a large build, ANTLR warning messages could go unnoticed. Turn on this option to have warnings treated as errors, causing the ANTLR tool to report failure back  to  the  invoking
              commandline shell.

       -XdbgST
              Launch StringTemplate visualizer on generated code.

              For those building a code generation target, this option brings up a window showing the generated code and the templates used to generate that code.  It invokes the StringTemplate inspector
              window.

       -XdbgSTWait
              Wait for STViz to close before continuing.

       -Xforce-atn
              Use the ATN simulator for all predictions.

              ANTLR normally builds traditional “switch on token type” decisions where possible (one token of lookahead is sufficient to distinguish between all alternatives in a decision). To force even
              these simple decisions into the adaptive LL(*) mechanism, use this option.

       -Xlog  Dump lots of logging info to antlr-timestamp.log.

              This option creates a log file containing lots of information messages from ANTLR as it processes your grammar. If you would like to see how ANTLR translates your left-recursive rules, turn
              on this option and look in the resulting log file.

SEE ALSO
       http://www.antlr4.org

                                                                                                                                                                                                   ANTLR(1)
