aoecfg(8)                                                                                   System Manager's Manual                                                                                   aoecfg(8)

NAME
       aoecfg - manipulate AoE configuration strings

SYNOPSIS
       aoecfg [-c cmd] [-s cfgstr] [-t timeout] [shelf slot] [netif]

DESCRIPTION
       Aoecfg(8)  sends  AoE  configuration  commands that control the retrivial, conditional or unconditional setting of AoE configuration strings.  Since configuration happens before the MAC address of the
       target is known, the packet is broadcast.  AoE targets with a matching shelf and slot respond.  Since the default shelf and slot are the wildcard values 0xffff and 0xff, with  no  arguments  aoecfg(8)
       will return configuration strings from all targets visible on the default interface, eth0.

OPTIONS
       -c cmd  specify the AoE configuration command.  The default is read.  The available commands are

       read Read the server config string without performing any test and respond.

       test Respond only if the specified string exactly matches the server configuration string.

       prefix Respond only if the specified string is a prefix of the server configuration string.

       set If the current server config string is empty, set the server config string to the argument string and respond.  If the current server config string is not empty, return a response with Flags bit E
               set and Error set to 4.

       fset Force set the server config string to the argument string and respond.

       -s cfgstr
               specify the config string.

       -t timeout
               specify the timeout in seconds.  The default is no timeout.  If neither the shelf nor the slot are specified, aoecfg(8) will exit after the first result.  Otherwise, aoecfg(8) will  exit  only
               after the timeout has expired since it does not know how many responses to expect.

       shelf slot
               specify the shelf and slot used in the query.  If unspecified, they default to broadcast.

       netif   specify the network interface.  The default is eth0.

SEE ALSO
       aoe-discover(8), aoe-interfaces(8), aoe-mkdevs(8), aoe-mkshelf(8), aoe-stat(8), aoeping(8), AoE (ATA over Ethernet): http://support.coraid.com/documents/AoEr10.txt, ATA specification

AUTHOR
       Erik Quanstrom (quanstro@coraid.com)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      aoecfg(8)
