APM(1)                                                                  APM(1)

NAME
       apm - interface with the APM subsystem

SYNOPSIS
       apm [ -VvmMsSdin ]

DESCRIPTION
       This  command requires the Advanced Power Management subsystem.  If run
       without arguments it reads /proc/apm and presents the output in  a  hu‐
       man-readable format.

       Given  a  -S  or -s option it requests that the machine be put into the
       APM standby or the APM suspend state, respectively.  For  a  brief  de‐
       scription of these states, see apmd(8).

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Print the version of the program and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Also  print  version information for the APM subsystem.  The APM
              subsystem consists of power-management hardware,  firmware  usu‐
              ally  referred  to as the APM BIOS and a driver in the operating
              system kernel.

       -m, --minutes
              Print the time remaining as a number of minutes.  The default is
              to print the time remaining in "hours:minutes" format.

       -M, --monitor
              Continuously monitor and update the status information.  Assumes
              that the standard output is a terminal.

       -S, --standby
              Request that the machine be put into the APM standby state.

       -s, --suspend
              Request that the machine be put into the APM suspend state.

       -d, --debug
              Print APM status information in a format more useful for  debug‐
              ging.  Implies -v.

FILES
       /proc/apm

AUTHOR
       This  program  was  written  by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) and may be
       freely distributed under the terms of the GNU General  Public  License.
       There  is  ABSOLUTELY  NO WARRANTY for this program.  The current main‐
       tainer is Avery Pennarun (apenwarr@worldvisions.ca).

SEE ALSO
       xapm(1), apmd(8).

                                 January 2004                           APM(1)
