apt-suggest-auto(1)                                                                       General Commands Manual                                                                       apt-suggest-auto(1)

NAME
     apt-suggest-auto - identify packages safe to mark as automatically installed

SYNOPSIS
     apt-suggest-auto [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
     Over  time, packages installed as dependencies of manually-installed packages remain marked as manual in the APT database, preventing their autoremoval when no longer needed.  apt-suggest-auto iden‐
     tifies such packages by simulating the effect of marking each one as automatically installed and checking whether it would become eligible for autoremoval.  Only packages  that  remain  required  by
     other installed packages are suggested for reclassification.  It serves as a modern replacement for debfoster(8) and deborphan(1).

     By default, the tool runs in simulation mode and makes no changes to the system.

OPTIONS
     –apply
            Apply the suggested changes by marking the identified packages as automatically installed.  Requires root privileges.

     -r, –raw
            Output only the list of safely markable package names, one per line.  Suitable for use in scripts.

     -o KEY=VALUE, –apt-option KEY=VALUE
            Set an APT configuration option.  Can be used multiple times.  Must be specified before cache initialization takes effect.

     -h, –help
            Show help message and exit.

EXAMPLES
     Simulate and display packages that can be safely marked as automatic:

            apt-suggest-auto

     Apply the changes, marking packages as automatically installed:

            sudo apt-suggest-auto --apply

     Get a plain list of markable packages for scripting:

            apt-suggest-auto --raw

SEE ALSO
     apt-mark(8), apt(8), apt-get(8)

                                                                                                                                                                                        apt-suggest-auto(1)
