APULSE(1)                                                                                          apulse                                                                                         APULSE(1)

NAME
       apulse - The PulseAudio emulator for ALSA

SYNOPSIS
       apulse <program-name> [program-parameters]...

DESCRIPTION
       The  program  provides an alternative partial implementation of the PulseAudio API. It consists of a loader script and a number of shared libraries with the same names as from original PulseAudio,
       so applications could dynamically load them and think they are talking to PulseAudio. Internally, no separate sound mixing daemon is used. Instead, apulse relies on ALSA's dmix, dsnoop,  and  plug
       plugins to handle multiple sound sources and capture streams running at the same time. dmix plugin muxes multiple playback streams; dsnoop plugin allow multiple applications to capture from a sin‐
       gle microphone; and plug plugin transparently converts audio between various sample formats, sample rates and channel numbers. For more than a decade now, ALSA comes with these plugins enabled and
       configured by default.

       apulse  wasn't  designed  to  be a drop-in replacement of PulseAudio. It's pointless, since that will be just reimplementation of original PulseAudio, with the same client-daemon architecture, re‐
       quired by the complete feature set.  Instead, only parts of the API that are crucial to specific applications are implemented. That's why there is a loader script, named apulse. It  updates  value
       of LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to point also to the directory where apulse's libraries are installed, making them available to the application.

       Name  comes  from  names of both ALSA and PulseAudio. As aoss was a compatibility layer between OSS programs and ALSA, apulse was designed to be compatibility layer between PulseAudio applications
       and ALSA.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables can be used to configure the devices used by apulse. Try hw:0,0, plughw:0,0 and the like.  Refer to the ALSA user guide for a full list of device names.

       APULSE_CAPTURE_DEVICE: Can be used to configure the capture device.

       APULSE_PLAYBACK_DEVICE: Can be used to configure the playback device.

RETURN VALUE
       apulse is a simple shell wrapper script that calls exec on the program given in parameters. Except for cases when the wrapper itself fails to load, return value is the return value  of  that  pro‐
       gram.

EXAMPLE
       Run a newer Firefox browser with fake PulseAudio:

            apulse firefox

AUTHORS
       apulse was written by Rinat Ibragimov in 2014-2017.

apulse                                                                                           2017-10-23                                                                                       APULSE(1)
