ARCCP(1)                                                                                     NorduGrid Users Manual                                                                                    ARCCP(1)

NAME
       arccp - copy files

DESCRIPTION
       The arccp command copies files to, from and between grid storage elements.

SYNOPSIS
       arccp [options] source destination

OPTIONS
       -p, --passive
              use passive transfer (off by default if secure is on, on by default if secure is not requested)

       -n, --nopassive
              do not try to force passive transfer

       -f, --force
              if  the destination is an indexing service and not the same as the source and the destination is already registered, then the copy is normally not done. However, if this option is specified the
              source is assumed to be a replica of the destination created in an uncontrolled way and the copy is done like in case of replication. Using this option also skips validation of completed trans‐
              fers.

       -i, --indicate
              show  progress  indicator. Using this option forces a check of the source file before trying to transfer it, in order to find its size. Depending on other information obtained about the source,
              there may be side-effects of using this option, for example checksum verification or pre-staging data from tape.

       -T, --notransfer
              do not transfer, but register source into destination. destination must be a meta-url. If destination already exists then meta-information of source must match meta-information of  destination.
              This can be overridden using the --force option.

       -3, --thirdparty
              perform third party transfer, where the destination pulls from the source (only available with GFAL plugin)

       -u, --secure
              use secure transfer (insecure by default)

       -y, --cache=path
              path to local cache (use to put file into cache)

       -r, --recursive
              operate recursively

       -D, --depth=level
              operate recursively up to specified level

       -R, --retries=number
              number of retries before failing file transfer

       -L, --location=URL
              physical  file  to  write  to  when destination is an indexing service. Must be specified for indexing services which do not automatically generate physical locations. Can be specified multiple
              times - locations will be tried in order until one succeeds.

       -P, --listplugins
              list the available plugins (protocols supported)

       -t, --timeout=seconds
              timeout in seconds (default 20). This timeout applies to connections to remote services and indicates the maximum allowed idle time of the transfer.

       -z, --conffile=filename
              configuration file (default ~/.arc/client.conf)

       -d, --debug=debuglevel
              FATAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, VERBOSE or DEBUG

       -v, --version
              print version information

       -?, --help
              print help

ARGUMENTS
       source the source of the transfer

       destination
              the destination of the transfer

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       The arccp command copies files to, from and between grid storage elements. It can also be used to register files in file index catalogues, either automatically as the result of a file transfer, or  by
       using the --notransfer option. For more information on ARC URL syntax please read "Protocols, Uniform Resource Locators (URL) and Extensions Supported in ARC" [NORDUGRID-TECH-7].

       If  source  and/or  destination start from '@', the remaining argument is assumed to be a path to a local file containing a list of URLs, one per line.  In this case arccp performs like it were called
       multiple times - once for every URL.

       When copying directories both the source and destination must end with the directory separator character and a recursion option -r or -D must be specified.

       All data transfer goes through the machine of the caller of arccp, even in the case of two remote endpoints, unless the --thirdparty option is used. With this option credentials are delegated  to  the
       destination and it pulls the data directly from the source. The timeout option in this case applies to the entire transfer itself and default timeouts are used for connections to the remote endpoints.
       Note that third-party transfer is only possible if the GFAL2 plugin is installed.

       Depending on the installed libraries (check with -P ), the following protocols may be used: file  (file://  prefix  may  be omitted), http, https, httpg, ftp, gsiftp, srm, root. To connect  source  or
       destination to standard input/output use '-' instead of URL.

FILES
       ~/.arc/client.conf
              Some options can be given default values by specifying them in the ARC client configuration file. By using the --conffile option a different configuration file can be used than the default.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       X509_USER_PROXY
              The location of the user's Grid proxy file. Shouldn't be set unless the proxy is in a non-standard location.

       ARC_LOCATION
              The  location where ARC is installed can be specified by this variable. If not specified the install location will be determined from the path to the command being executed, and if this fails a
              WARNING will be given stating the location which will be used.

       ARC_PLUGIN_PATH
              The location of ARC plugins can be specified by this variable. Multiple locations can be specified by separating them by : (; in Windows). The default location is  $ARC_LOCATION/lib/arc  (\  in
              Windows).

EXAMPLE
       arccp -i gsiftp://example.com/grid/file1.dat /tmp/file1.dat

COPYRIGHT
       APACHE LICENSE Version 2.0

AUTHOR
       ARC  software  is  developed  by  the  NorduGrid  Collaboration  (http://www.nordugrid.org),  please  consult  the  AUTHORS  file  distributed  with  ARC.  Please  report  bugs and feature requests to
       http://bugzilla.nordugrid.org

SEE ALSO
       arcls(1), arcmkdir(1), arcrename(1), arcrm(1),

NorduGrid ARC 6.14.0                                                                               2021-12-04                                                                                          ARCCP(1)
