ARCRESUB(1)                                                                                  NorduGrid Users Manual                                                                                 ARCRESUB(1)

NAME
       arcresub - ARC Resubmission

DESCRIPTION
       The arcresub command is used for resubmitting jobs to grid enabled computing resources.

SYNOPSIS
       arcresub [options] [jobid ...]

OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              all jobs

       -j, --joblist=filename
              the file storing information about active jobs (default ~/.arc/jobs.xml)

       -i, --jobids-from-file=filename
              a file containing a list of job IDs

       -o, --jobids-to-file=filename
              the IDs of the submitted jobs will be appended to this file

       -c, --cluster=name
              select one or more computing elements: name can be an alias for a single CE, a group of CEs or a URL

       -q, --qluster=name
              select one or more computing elements for the new jobs: name can be an alias for a single CE, a group of CEs or a URL

       -g, --index=name
              select one or more registries: name can be an alias for a single registry, a group of registries or a URL

       -r, --rejectmanagement=URL
              skip jobs which are on a computing element with a given URL

       -R, --rejectdiscovery=URL
              skip the service with the given URL during service discovery

       -S, --submissioninterface=InterfaceName
              only use this interface for submitting (e.g. org.nordugrid.gridftpjob, org.ogf.glue.emies.activitycreation, org.ogf.bes)

       -I, --infointerface=InterfaceName
              the computing element specified by URL at the command line should be queried using this information interface (possible options: org.nordugrid.ldapng, org.nordugrid.ldapglue2, org.nordugrid.ws‐
              rfglue2, org.ogf.glue.emies.resourceinfo)

       -k, --keep
              keep the files on the server (do not clean)

       -m, --same
              resubmit to the same cluster

       -M, --not-same
              do not resubmit to the same cluster

       -s, --status=statusstr
              only select jobs whose status is statusstr

       -P, --listplugins
              list the available plugins

       -t, --timeout=seconds
              timeout in seconds (default 20)

       -z, --conffile=filename
              configuration file (default ~/.arc/client.conf)

       -d, --debug=debuglevel
              FATAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, VERBOSE or DEBUG

       -b, --broker=broker
              selected broker: Random (default), FastestQueue or custom

       -v, --version
              print version information

       -?, --help
              print help

ARGUMENTS
       jobid ...
              job ID or job name of jobs to be resubmitted

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       The arcresub command is used for resubmitting jobs on grid enabled computing resources.  The job can be referred to either by the job ID that was returned by arcsub(1) at submission  time  or  by  its
       jobname if the job description that was submitted contained a jobname attribute.

       More than one job ID and/or jobname can be given. If several jobs were submitted with the same jobname all those jobs will be resubmitted.

       If  the job description of a job to be resubmitted, contained any local input files, checksums of these was calculated and stored in the job list, and those will be used to check whether the files has
       changed.  If local input files has changed the job will not be resubmitted.

       In case the job description is not found in the job list, it will be retrieved from the cluster holding the job. This description however might differ from the one originally used to submit  the  job,
       since both the submission client and the cluster can have made modifications to the job description.

       Upon resubmision the job will receive a new job ID, and the old job ID will be stored in the local job list file, enabling future back tracing of the resubmitted job.

       The name of the local job list file can used specified by the --joblist option. By specifying the --all option, all active jobs appearing the in job list file will be resubmitted.

       The --cluster option can be used to select or reject jobs at specific clusters to be resubmitted. See arcsub(1) for a discussion of the format of arguments to this option.  The --qluster option can be
       used to force the jobs to be resubmitted to a particular cluster, or to reject resubmission to a particular cluster. Again see arcsub(1) for a discussion of the format of  arguments  to  this  option.
       The  --status  option  can be used to select jobs in a specific state. These options can be repeated several times. See arstat(1) for possible state values.  Which servers to query can be specified by
       giving the --index option to the command. See arcsub(1) for a discussion of the format of arguments to this option.

       The default behaviour of arcresub is to resubmit to any cluster. This behaviour can be changed by specifying the --same or --not-same options. The former will resubmit a job to the same cluster as the
       job  resides,  and  thus the --qluster and --index options is ignored.  The latter will resubmit a job to any cluster except to the cluster it resides. Note the --same and --not-same options cannot be
       specified together.

       If the old job was successfully killed the job will be removed from the remote cluster unless the --keep option was specified.

FILES
       ~/.arc/client.conf
              Some options can be given default values by specifying them in the ARC client configuration file. By using the --conffile option a different configuration file can be used than the default.

       ~/.arc/jobs.xml
              This a local list of the user's active jobs. When a job is successfully submitted it is added to this list and when it is removed from the remote cluster it is removed from this list. This list
              is used as the list of all active jobs when the user specifies the

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       X509_USER_PROXY
              The location of the user's Grid proxy file. Shouldn't be set unless the proxy is in a non-standard location.

       ARC_LOCATION
              The  location where ARC is installed can be specified by this variable. If not specified the install location will be determined from the path to the command being executed, and if this fails a
              WARNING will be given stating the location which will be used.

       ARC_PLUGIN_PATH
              The location of ARC plugins can be specified by this variable. Multiple locations can be specified by separating them by : (; in Windows). The default location is  $ARC_LOCATION/lib/arc  (\  in
              Windows).

COPYRIGHT
       APACHE LICENSE Version 2.0

AUTHOR
       ARC  software  is  developed  by  the  NorduGrid  Collaboration  (http://www.nordugrid.org),  please  consult  the  AUTHORS  file  distributed  with  ARC.  Please  report  bugs and feature requests to
       http://bugzilla.nordugrid.org

SEE ALSO
       arccat(1), arcclean(1), arccp(1), arcget(1), arcinfo(1), arckill(1), arcls(1), arcmkdir(1), arcproxy(1), arcrenew(1), arcresume(1), arcrm(1), arcstat(1), arcsub(1), arcsync(1), arctest(1)

NorduGrid ARC 6.14.0                                                                               2021-12-04                                                                                       ARCRESUB(1)
