ARCSTAT(1)                                                                                   NorduGrid Users Manual                                                                                  ARCSTAT(1)

NAME
       arcstat - ARC Status

DESCRIPTION
       The arcstat command is used for obtaining the status of jobs that have been submitted to grid enabled resources.

SYNOPSIS
       arcstat [options] [job ...]

OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              all jobs

       -j, --joblist=filename
              the file storing information about active jobs (default ~/.arc/jobs.xml)

       -i, --jobids-from-file=filename
              a file containing a list of jobIDs

       -c, --cluster=name
              select one or more computing elements: name can be an alias for a single CE, a group of CEs or a URL

       -r, --rejectmanagement=URL
              skip jobs which are on a computing element with a given URL

       -s, --status=statusstr
              only select jobs whose status is statusstr

       -l, --long
              long format (more information)

       -J, --json
              output information about jobs in JSON format

       -S, --sort
              sort jobs according to jobid, submissiontime or jobname

       -R, --rsort
              reverse sorting of jobs according to jobid, submissiontime or jobname

       -u, --show-unavailable
              show jobs where status information is unavailable

       -p, --print-jobids
              instead of the status only the IDs of the selected jobs will be printed

       -P, --listplugins
              list the available plugins

       -t, --timeout=seconds
              timeout in seconds (default 20)

       -z, --conffile=filename
              configuration file (default ~/.arc/client.conf)

       -d, --debug=debuglevel
              FATAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, VERBOSE or DEBUG

       -v, --version
              print version information

       -?, --help
              print help

ARGUMENTS
       job ...
              list of jobids and/or jobnames

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       The arcstat command gives the status of a job submitted to a ARC enabled resource. The job can be referred to either by the jobid that was returned by arcsub(1) at submission time or by its jobname if
       the job description that was submitted contained a jobname attribute.

       More than one jobid and/or jobname can be given. If several jobs were submitted with the same jobname the status of all those jobs are shown. If the --joblist option is used the list of jobs  is  read
       from a file with the specified filename. By specifying the --all option, the status of all active jobs will be shown.

       By default arcstat presents job states as defined internally followed by middleware specific representation of job state in brackets. The following internal job states are defined:

       Accepted - job accepted on cluster but not being processed yet

       Preparing - job is in phase of preparing for submission to batch system

       Submitting - communication with batch system in ongoing

       Hold - job's processing is suspended dueto internal reason or user request

       Queuing - job is passed to batch system but not being executed yet

       Running - job being execcuted in batch system

       Finishing - job in phase of post-execution procedures being run

       Finished - job successfully completed all processing phases

       Killed - job processing was interrupted by user request

       Failed - job processing was interrupted due to detected failure

       Deleted - job was removed from cluster (usually because it stayed there too long)

       Other - middleware specific job state could not be adequately mappped to internal state

       Those are also states which are used by arccat(1), arcclean(1), arcget(1), arckill(1), arcrenew(1), arcresub(1), arcresume(1) to perform job filtering.

       If the --long option is given more detailed information is shown.

       Jobs  can  be sorted according to the jobid, submissiontime or jobname, either in normal or reverse order. By using the --sort or --rsort option followed by the desired ordering ('jobid', 'submission‐
       time' or 'jobname'), jobs will be sorted in normal or reverse order. Note that the options --sort and --rsort cannot be used at the same time.

       The --cluster option can be used to select or reject jobs at specific clusters. See arcsub(1) for a discussion of the format of arguments to this option. The --status option can be used to select jobs
       in a specific state. These options can be repeated several times.

       The  arcstat command locates the available clusters by querying information index servers. Which servers to query can be specified by giving the --index option to the command. See arcsub(1) for a dis‐
       cussion of the format of arguments to this option.

       Also in this case the --long option can be used to obtain more detailed information.

       Previously the arcstat command was also used to query information of clusters and/or index servers.  This functionality have been moved to the new command arcinfo

FILES
       ~/.arc/client.conf
              Some options can be given default values by specifying them in the ARC client configuration file. By using the --conffile option a different configuration file can be used than the default.

       ~/.arc/jobs.xml
              This a local list of the user's active jobs. When a job is successfully submitted it is added to this list and when it is removed from the remote cluster it is removed from this list. This list
              is  used as the list of all active jobs when the user specifies the --all option to the various NorduGrid ARC user interface commands. By using the --joblist option a different file can be used
              than the default.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       X509_USER_PROXY
              The location of the user's Grid proxy file. Shouldn't be set unless the proxy is in a non-standard location.

       ARC_LOCATION
              The location where ARC is installed can be specified by this variable. If not specified the install location will be determined from the path to the command being executed, and if this fails  a
              WARNING will be given stating the location which will be used.

       ARC_PLUGIN_PATH
              The  location  of  ARC plugins can be specified by this variable. Multiple locations can be specified by separating them by : (; in Windows). The default location is $ARC_LOCATION/lib/arc (\ in
              Windows).

COPYRIGHT
       APACHE LICENSE Version 2.0

AUTHOR
       ARC software is developed by  the  NorduGrid  Collaboration  (http://www.nordugrid.org),  please  consult  the  AUTHORS  file  distributed  with  ARC.  Please  report  bugs  and  feature  requests  to
       http://bugzilla.nordugrid.org

SEE ALSO
       arccat(1), arcclean(1), arccp(1), arcget(1), arcinfo(1), arckill(1), arcls(1), arcmkdir(1), arcproxy(1), arcrenew(1), arcresub(1), arcresume(1), arcrm(1), arcsub(1), arcsync(1), arctest(1)

NorduGrid ARC 6.14.0                                                                               2021-12-04                                                                                        ARCSTAT(1)
