ARDUINO-BUILDER(1)                                                                        General Commands Manual                                                                        ARDUINO-BUILDER(1)

NAME
       arduino-builder - compiles Arduino sketches

SYNOPSIS
       arduino-builder mandatory-arguments [options] sketch

DESCRIPTION
       A command line tool for compiling Arduino sketches

       This tool is able to parse Arduino Hardware specifications, properly run gcc and produce compiled sketches.

       An  Arduino  sketch differs from a standard C program in that it misses a main (provided by the Arduino core), function prototypes are not mandatory, and libraries inclusion is automagic (you just
       have to #include them). This tool generates function prototypes and gathers library paths, providing gcc with all the needed -I params.

OPTIONS
       Every time you run this tool, it will create a 'build.options.json' file in build path. It's used to understand if build options (such as hardware folders, fqbn and so on) were changed  when  com‐
       piling  the  same sketch. If they changed, the whole build path is wiped out. If they didn't change, previous compiled files will be reused if the corresponding source files didn't change as well.
       You can save this file locally and use it instead of specifying -hardware, -tools, -libraries, -fqbn, -pref and -ide-version.

   Mandatory
       -hardware folder
              folder containing Arduino platforms. An example is the 'hardware' folder shipped with the Arduino IDE, or the packages folder created by Arduino Boards Manager. Can  be  specified  multiple
              times. If conflicting hardware definitions are specified, the last one wins.

       -tools folder
              folder  containing  Arduino tools (gcc, avrdude...). An example is the 'hardware/tools' folder shipped with the Arduino IDE, or the packages folder created by Arduino Boards Manager. Can be
              specified multiple times.

       -fqbn name
              Fully Qualified Board Name, e.g.: arduino:avr:uno.

   Optional
       -compile | -dump-prefs | -preprocess
              If omitted, defaults to -compile. dump-prefs will just print all build preferences used, -compile will use those preferences to run the actual compiler, -preprocess  will  only  print  pre‐
              processed code to stdout.

       -libraries folder
              folder containing Arduino libraries. An example is the 'libraries' folder shipped with the Arduino IDE. Can be specified multiple times.

       -build-path folder
              folder where to save compiled files. If omitted, a folder will be created in the temporary folder specified by your OS.

       -prefs=key=value
              It allows you to override some build properties.

       -warnings
              Can be "none", "default", "more" and "all". Defaults to "none". Used to tell gcc which warning level to use (-W flag).

       -verbose
              Turns on verbose mode.

       -quiet Suppresses almost every output.

       -debug-level
              Ddefaults to "5". Used for debugging. Set it to 10 when submitting an issue.

       -core-api-version
              Defaults to "10600". The version of the Arduino IDE which is using this tool.

       -logger
              Can  be  "human",  "humantags" or "machine". Defaults to "human". If "humantags" the messages are qualified with a prefix that indicates their level (info, debug, error). If "machine", mes‐
              sages emitted will be in a format which the Arduino IDE understands and that it uses for I18N.

       -version
              If specified, prints version and exits.

       -build-options-file path
              path to a local build.options.json file, which allows you to omit specifying params such as -hardware, -tools, -libraries, -fqbn, -pref and -ide-version.

       -vid-pid
              When specified, VID/PID specific build properties are used, if boards supports them.

SEE ALSO
       arduino(1)

Arduino AG                                                                                       March 2018                                                                              ARDUINO-BUILDER(1)
