ASCIIDOCTOR(1)                                                                               Asciidoctor Manual                                                                              ASCIIDOCTOR(1)

NAME
       asciidoctor - converts AsciiDoc source files to HTML, DocBook, and other formats

SYNOPSIS
       asciidoctor [OPTION]... FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       The asciidoctor(1) command converts the AsciiDoc source file(s) FILE to HTML5, DocBook 5, man(ual) page, and other custom output formats.

       If FILE is - then the AsciiDoc source is read from standard input.

OPTIONS
   Security Settings
       -B, --base-dir=DIR
           Base directory containing the document and resources. Defaults to the directory containing the source file or, if the source is read from a stream, the working directory. When combined with
           the safe mode setting, can be used to chroot the execution of the program.

       -S, --safe-mode=SAFE_MODE
           Set safe mode level: unsafe, safe, server, or secure. Disables potentially dangerous macros in source files, such as include::[]. If not set, the safe mode level defaults to unsafe when
           Asciidoctor is invoked using this script.

       --safe
           Set safe mode level to safe. Enables include directives, but prevents access to ancestor paths of source file. Provided for compatibility with the asciidoc command. If not set, the safe mode
           level defaults to unsafe when Asciidoctor is invoked using this script.

   Document Settings
       -a, --attribute=ATTRIBUTE
           Define, override, or unset a document attribute. Command-line attributes take precedence over attributes defined in the source file unless either the name or value ends in @. No substitutions
           are applied to the value.

           ATTRIBUTE is normally formatted as a key-value pair, in the form NAME=VALUE. Alternate forms are NAME (where the VALUE defaults to an empty string), NAME! (unsets the NAME attribute), and
           NAME=VALUE@ (or NAME@=VALUE) (where VALUE does not override the NAME attribute if it’s already defined in the source document). A value containing spaces must be enclosed in quotes, in the
           form NAME="VALUE WITH SPACES".

           This option may be specified more than once.

       -b, --backend=BACKEND
           Backend output file format: html5, docbook5, and manpage are supported out of the box. You can also use the backend alias names html (aliased to html5) or docbook (aliased to docbook5). Other
           values can be passed, but if Asciidoctor cannot resolve the backend to a converter, it will fail. Defaults to html5.

       -d, --doctype=DOCTYPE
           Document type: article, book, manpage, or inline. Sets the root element when using the docbook backend and the style class on the HTML body element when using the html backend. The book
           document type allows multiple level-0 section titles in a single document. The manpage document type enables parsing of metadata necessary to produce a man page. The inline document type
           allows the content of a single paragraph to be formatted and returned without wrapping it in a containing element. Defaults to article.

   Document Conversion
       -D, --destination-dir=DIR
           Destination output directory. Defaults to the directory containing the source file or, if the source is read from a stream, the working directory. If specified, the directory is resolved
           relative to the working directory.

       -E, --template-engine=NAME
           Template engine to use for the custom converter templates. The gem with the same name as the engine will be loaded automatically. This name is also used to build the full path to the custom
           converter templates. If a template engine is not specified, it will be auto-detected based on the file extension of the custom converter templates found.

       -e, --embedded
           Output an embeddable document, which excludes the header, the footer, and everything outside the body of the document. This option is useful for producing documents that can be inserted into
           an external template.

       -I, --load-path=DIRECTORY
           Add the specified directory to the load path, so that -r can load extensions from outside the default Ruby load path. This option may be specified more than once.

       -n, --section-numbers
           Auto-number section titles. Synonym for --attribute sectnums.

       -o, --out-file=OUT_FILE
           Write output to file OUT_FILE. Defaults to the base name of the input file suffixed with backend extension. The file is resolved relative to the working directory. If the input is read from
           standard input or a named pipe (fifo), then the output file defaults to stdout. If OUT_FILE is -, then the output file is written to standard output.

       -R, --source-dir=DIR
           Source directory. Currently only used if the destination directory is also specified. Used to preserve the directory structure of files converted within this directory in the destination
           directory. If specified, the directory is resolved relative to the working directory.

       -r, --require=LIBRARY
           Require the specified library before executing the processor, using the standard Ruby require. This option may be specified more than once.

       -s, --no-header-footer
           Output an embeddable document, which excludes the header, the footer, and everything outside the body of the document. This option is useful for producing documents that can be inserted into
           an external template.

       -T, --template-dir=DIR
           A directory containing custom converter templates that override one or more templates from the built-in set. (requires tilt gem)

           If there is a subfolder that matches the engine name (if specified), that folder is appended to the template directory path. Similarly, if there is a subfolder in the resulting template
           directory that matches the name of the backend, that folder is appended to the template directory path.

           This option may be specified more than once. Matching templates found in subsequent directories override ones previously discovered.

   Processing Information
       --failure-level=LEVEL
           Set the minimum logging level (default: FATAL) that yields a non-zero exit code (i.e., failure). If this option is not set, the program exits with a zero exit code even if warnings or errors
           have been logged.

       -q, --quiet
           Silence application log messages and script warnings.

       --trace
           Include backtrace information when reporting errors.

       -v, --verbose
           Sets log level to DEBUG so application messages logged at INFO or DEBUG level are printed to stderr.

       -w, --warnings
           Turn on script warnings (applies to executed code).

       -t, --timings
           Print timings report to stderr (time to read, parse, and convert).

   Program Information
       -h, --help [TOPIC]
           Print a help message. Show the command usage if TOPIC is not specified or recognized. Dump the Asciidoctor man page (in troff/groff format) if TOPIC is manpage. Print an AsciiDoc syntax crib
           sheet (in AsciiDoc) if TOPIC is syntax.

       -V, --version
           Print program version number.

           -v can also be used if no source files are specified.

ENVIRONMENT
       Asciidoctor honors the SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH environment variable. If this variable is assigned an integer value, that value is used as the epoch of all input documents and as the local date and time.
       See https://reproducible-builds.org/specs/source-date-epoch/ for more information about this environment variable.

EXIT STATUS
       0
           Success.

       1
           Failure (syntax or usage error; configuration error; document processing failure; unexpected error).

BUGS
       Refer to the Asciidoctor issue tracker at https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor/issues?q=is%3Aopen.

AUTHORS
       Asciidoctor is led and maintained by Dan Allen and Sarah White and has received contributions from many individuals in the Asciidoctor community. The project was started in 2012 by Ryan Waldron
       based on a prototype written by Nick Hengeveld for the Git website. Jason Porter wrote the first implementation of the CLI interface provided by this command.

       AsciiDoc.py was created by Stuart Rackham and has received contributions from many individuals in the AsciiDoc.py community.

RESOURCES
       Project website: https://asciidoctor.org

       Project documentation: https://docs.asciidoctor.org

       Community chat: https://chat.asciidoctor.org

       Source repository: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor

       Mailing list archive: https://discuss.asciidoctor.org

COPYING
       Copyright (C) 2012-present Dan Allen, Sarah White, Ryan Waldron, and the individual contributors to Asciidoctor. Use of this software is granted under the terms of the MIT License.

Asciidoctor 2.0.23                                                                               2018-03-20                                                                                  ASCIIDOCTOR(1)
