asl(1)                      General Commands Manual                     asl(1)

NAME
       asl - cross assembler for microprocessors and -controllers

SYNTAX
       asl [ option(s) ] file(s) [ option(s) ] file(s) ...

DESCRIPTION
       AS  is  a  cross assembler that can be used to write assembler programs
       for a variety of different microprocessors and  -controllers.   asl  is
       the  UNIX/C  implementation of AS.  A complete description of AS is far
       beyond the scope of this manual page, which is only intended as a quick
       reference  for AS's command line interface.  For a more detailed intro‐
       duction into the usage of AS, see the user's manual.

COMMAND-LINE PARAMETERS
       Every argument that starts with a slash (/), plus (+) or minus (-) sign
       is  regarded as a command-line parameter.  Some command-line parameters
       take an argument as additional parameter.  Every argument that  is  not
       recognized  as  a  command-line  parameter  is regarded as an assembler
       source file to be assembled.  A source file name that does not have  an
       extension  is automatically extended with the default extension '.asm'.
       Options are turned on with a parameter starting with a slash (/) or mi‐
       nus sign (-), whereas a parameter with a leading plus sign (+) turns an
       option off.  In the following list, all options will be  shown  in  the
       form  that  is needed to change the default behaviour, which might be a
       plus or minus sign, depening on wether the option is on or off  by  de‐
       fault.

       asl accepts the following command-line parameters:

       -A

              Change  the  data structure that is internally used to store the
              symbol table.  By default, AS uses binary trees to  store  macro
              and symbol definitions.  Turning this option on will change this
              to AVL-balanced trees.  Depending on the ratio of symbol entries
              and  lookups,  this might speed up assembly.  Using AVL-balanced
              trees helps also reducing the stack usage, which is however  ir‐
              relevant for the C version of AS.

       -a

              Instruct AS to write out the shared symbol definitions in a for‐
              mat suitable for including into an AS  assembler  program.   The
              file's name is constructed by replacing the source file's exten‐
              sion with '.inc'.  See the  user  manual  for  more  information
              about symbol sharing.

       -cpu <name>
              Set  the  target  processor  to  <name>.  Use this option if the
              source file does not contain a CPU statement.

       -alias <new name=old name>
              Define a CPU alias.  An alias is a name that can be used  as  an
              argument  to  the  CPU pseudo-instruction just like an intrinsic
              CPU type.  Its usage will set the same target as the  old  name,
              however the predefined symbols MOMCPU and MOMCPUNAME will be set
              to the new name.  This option is primarily useful for  adding  a
              new  member to a processor family that has the same core, but is
              different in its internal peripherals, thus allowing to  distin‐
              guish between them.

       -C

              Add  a  cross reference table to the assembler listing.  A cross
              reference table lists all symbols that have been  referenced  at
              least  once during assembly, including the source line number(s)
              and count of every reference.  This option only makes sense when
              the generation of an assembly listing has been turned on via the
              -L or -l parameters.

       -c

              Instruct AS to write out the shared symbol definitions in a for‐
              mat suitable for including into a C program.  The file's name is
              constructed by replacing the source file's extension with  '.h'.
              See the user manual for more information about symbol sharing.

       -D <name[=value]>[,...]
              Pre-define  symbols.   Predefined  symbols  are entered into the
              global symbol table prior to assembly of the source file(s).  If
              no value is given for a symbol, it is assigned the integer value
              1.  Value expressions may contain arithmetic expressions as  de‐
              scribed in the user manual, but they may not reference any other
              predefined or internal symbols.

       -E [file]
              Force AS to send warning and error messages to file rather  than
              to  the standard error output.  The file names !0 to !4 are used
              to refer to the standard input, output, error,  auxilliary,  and
              printer  channels  predefined  by  the operating system (on some
              systems, some of these handles might not exist).  If the  [file]
              specification is omitted, a name is constructed by replacing the
              source file's extension with '.log'.

       +G     Supress code generation, reducing the  functionality  of  AS  to
              macro preprocessing.

       -g [MAP|Atmel|NoICE]

              Instruct  AS to write an additional file containing debug infor‐
              mation. This information covers the symbol table and  the  rela‐
              tion between source line numbers and machine addresses.  The ar‐
              gument specifies whether debug info shall be written in AS's own
              MAP  format,  the object format for Atmel's AVR tools, or a com‐
              mand file suitable for John Hartman's NoICE.  If no argument  is
              given,  MAP  will  be chosen.  The file's name is constructed by
              replacing the source file's extension with  '.map',  '.obj',  or
              '.noi' respectively.

       -gnuerrors

              Output  errors and their location in the source code in a format
              similar to the GNU C compiler, thus making it  easier  to  inte‐
              grate  AS into environments designed for this format.  Note that
              in contrast to the standard format used by AS, locations  inside
              are not reported!

       -h

              Force  AS to print all hexadecimal constants with lowercase let‐
              ters, rather than with uppercase letters A..F which is  the  de‐
              fault.

       -i <path[:path...]>
              Add  new  entries to the list of paths that are searched for in‐
              clude files.  New entries are prepended to the  current  include
              path  list, so if multiple paths are given with one command-line
              parameter, they will be entered into the path  list  in  reverse
              order.

       -I

              Add  an  include  file list to the assembly listing.  An include
              file list contains all files that have been included  while  as‐
              sembling  the source files, including multiple and nested inclu‐
              sion.  Nesting of inclusion is identified  by  different  inden‐
              tion.   This  option  only makes sense when the generation of an
              assembly listing has been turned on via the -L or -l parameters.

       -L

              Turn on generation of an assembly listing and send it to a  file
              whose  name is constructed by replacing the source file's exten‐
              sion with '.lst'.

       -l

              Turn on generation of an assembly listing and  send  it  to  the
              console.

       -M

              Turn  on generation of a macro definition file.  A macro defini‐
              tion file is a file that contains  all  macro  definitions  that
              have  been detected during assembly, in a format suitable for an
              inclusion into another file.  The macro definition  file's  name
              is  constructed  by  replacing  the source file's extension with
              '.mac'.

       -n

              Force AS to extend all error and warning messages with their in‐
              ternal error resp. warning number.

       -noicemask [mask]
              By  default,  AS will only write symbols to the NoICE debug info
              that are located in the code segment.  By changing  this  binary
              mask, more and/or different masks may be chosen.  The assignment
              is bit 1=code, 2=data,  3=idata,  4=xdata,  5=ydata,  6=bitdata,
              7=io,  8=reg, 9=romdata .  Negating this option reverts the mask
              to code-only.

       -o <name>
              Tell AS to write the code output to a file <name>.  By  default,
              the  code  output  file's  name  is constructed by replacing the
              source file's extension with '.p'.  If multiple files are assem‐
              bled  with  one command, this parameter may also be given multi‐
              ply.  If there are less output specifications than  source  file
              names,  AS will switch back to the default naming convention af‐
              ter all output specifications have been used up.

       -olist <name>

              Tell AS to write the assembly lsting to a file  <name>,  instead
              of a file with the standard name in the source file's directory.
              This option only makes sense when an assembly listing  has  been
              requested via the '-L' option.

       -shareout <name>

              Tell AS to write shared symbol definitions to a file <name>, in‐
              stead of constructing the name from the source file's name.  See
              the user manual for more information about symbol sharing.

       -P

              Turn  on generation of a macro output file.  A macro output file
              contains the intermediate source code that remains  after  macro
              expansion  and  conditional  assembly.   The macro output file's
              name is constructed by replacing  the  source  file's  extension
              with '.i'.

       -p

              Instruct AS to write out the shared symbol definitions in a for‐
              mat suitable for including into a Pascal  or  Modula-2  program.
              The  file's  name  is constructed by replacing the source file's
              extension with '.inc'. See the user manual for more  information
              about symbol sharing.

       -q or -quiet
              Turn  on  silent  assembly mode.  In silent compilation mode, AS
              will not do any console output except for warning and error mes‐
              sages.

       -r [pass number]
              Tell  AS to output warnings when a situation appears in a source
              file that forces another pass of assembly.  Such situations  ei‐
              ther  take place when a symbol is undefined in the first pass or
              a symbol's value has changed  compared  to  the  previous  pass.
              This  option is useful to track down sources of excessive multi-
              passing, but be aware that it might yield a fairly large  number
              of  warnings,  especially in the first pass.  Optionally, a pass
              number may be added to this option to  inhibit  output  until  a
              certain pass is reached.

       -s

              Add a section list to the assembly listing.  A section list con‐
              tains all sections that have been defined in the  source  files,
              marking  their nesting level by different levels of indentation.
              This option only makes sense when the generation of an  assembly
              listing has been turned on via the -L or -l parameters.

       -t <mask>
              Turn  on or off parts of the assembly listing that have no indi‐
              vidual command line parameter.  AS internally keeps  an  integer
              value whose bits represent certain components of the listing.  A
              positive command line parameter (-t or /t) sets the bits set  in
              <mask>,  whereas a negated parameter (+t) resets the bits set in
              <mask>.  The individual bits have the following meaning: bit 0 =
              source  lines  and generated machine code, bit 1 = symbol table,
              bit 2 = macro table, bit 3 = function table, bit 4 =  line  num‐
              bering.

       -u

              Tell  AS to do additional bookkeeping about which address ranges
              have been used by the assembled program.   This  option  enables
              the detection of overlapping memory usage.  If an assembly list‐
              ing has been turned on via the -L or -l parameters, it will also
              contain a list of all used memory areas.

       -U

              Force  AS  to operate in case-sensitive mode.  By default, names
              of symbols, macros,  user-defined  functions  and  sections  are
              treated in a case-insensitive manner.

       -w

              Suppress output of warnings.

       -x

              Turn  on  extended error reporting.  With extended error report‐
              ing, several error and warning messages will also print the item
              that  created  the message, e.g. the name of an unknown instruc‐
              tion.  When this option is given  twice,  the  erroneous  source
              line is additinally printed.

PRESETTING PARAMETERS
       Parameters  need  not neccessarily be given in the command line itself.
       Before processing of command line parameters starts, AS  will  look  if
       the  ASCMD environment variable is defined.  If it exists, its contents
       will be treated as additional command line parameters whose  syntax  is
       absolutely  equal  to  normal command line parameters.  An exception is
       made if the variable's contents start with a '@' sign; in such a  case,
       the  string  after  the  '@' sign is treated as the name of a file that
       contains the options.  Such a file (also called a 'key file')  has  the
       advantage  that it allows the options to be written in different lines,
       and it does not have a size limit.  Some operating  systems  (like  MS-
       DOS) have a length limit on command lines and environment variable con‐
       tents, so the key file may be your only option if you  have  a  lot  of
       lengthy parameters for AS.

       As parameters given in the ASCMD environment variable or a key file are
       processed prior to the command line itself, and can therefore be  over‐
       ridden by command line parameters.

NATIONAL LANGUAGE SUPPORT
       AS supports the needs of different languages and countries in the sense
       that it will try to adapt to the language and date/time  formats  valid
       for the current environment.  Upon startup, the COUNTRY setting made in
       the CONFIG.SYS file is queried for DOS and OS/2 implementations of  AS.
       For  UNIX systems, AS tries to read the LC_TIME resp. LC_MESSAGES envi‐
       ronment variables to find out the correct format for date/time  outputs
       resp.  the  local language.  If this fails, the LC_ALL and finally LANG
       variables are probed.  If none of these environment variables points to
       a  specific local environment resp. contains a locale specification un‐
       known to AS, the standard english/C locale is used.

       The messages AS can output in different languages are stored  in  sepa‐
       rate  files with the extension '.msg' .  AS will search for these files
       in the following directories:

       - The current directory

       - The directory the executable of AS was loaded from (only on DOS plat‐
       forms version >=3.0 or if path was explicitly specified)

       -  The directory specified in the AS_MSGPATH environment variable resp.
       the directories listed in the PATH environment variable  if  AS_MSGPATH
       does not exist.

       - The LIBDIR directory set at compile time from the Makefile.

RETURN CODES
       Depending on the assembly's turnout, asl will generate different return
       codes:

       0      No errors, warnings might have occured.

       1      No command line parameters were given, AS printed a  short  list
              of possible command line parameters and terminated thereafter.

       2      Errors  occured  during assembly of at least one source file, no
              code file was generated for the corresponding source file(s).

       3      A fatal error occured during assembly that forced immediate pro‐
              gram termination.  Code files may be generated, but are probably
              unusuable.

       4      Program termination already occured during initialization.  This
              might  be either due to a incorrect command line parameter or an
              error during loading the program's overlay file  (only  possible
              on MS-DOS).

       255    During  initialization,  an  internal error happened that should
              not occur.  If the reaction is reproducable, note down the situ‐
              ation and send a bug report to the author.

EXAMPLES
       To  assemble  a  source file file1.asm without any additional bells and
       whistles, use:

       asl file1

       which will create an output file file1.p given that there  are  no  er‐
       rors.  If you additionally want a listing and rename the output file to
       a.out, use

       asl -L file1 -o a.out

       To make the listing as comprehensive as possible and to  get  more  de‐
       tailed error messages, use:

       asl -LuCIs -t 16 -nx file1

TIPS
       calling  AS  without  any parameters will print a short help containing
       all command line parameters and implemented  target  processors,  while
       calling  with  command line parameters but without any source file name
       will result in AS asking for a source file name on the console.

SEE ALSO
       plist(1), pbind(1), p2hex(1), p2bin(1)

HISTORY
       AS originally appeared as a DOS program in 1989,  written  in  Borland-
       Pascal, and was ported to C and UNIX in 1996.

BUGS
       There are too many options.

       Command  line interpreters of some operating systems reserve some char‐
       acters for their own use, so it might be necessary to give command line
       parameters  with  certain tricks (e.g., with the help of escape charac‐
       ters).

AUTHOR(S)
       Alfred Arnold (alfred@ccac.rwth-aachen.de), and a few others...

                                                                        asl(1)
