aspcud(1)                                                                                      USER COMMANDS                                                                                      aspcud(1)

NAME
       aspcud - solve dependencies between packages

SYNOPSIS
       aspcud [OPTION]... [INPUT-FILE] [OUTPUT-FILE] [CRITERION]

DESCRIPTION
       aspcud solves package installation/removal/upgrade problems expressed in the CUDF format.  It is intended to be called by package installers, but may also be used independently.

       If the tool is not able to find a solution, then it writes "FAIL" to the output file.

ARGUMENTS
       The following command-line arguments are accepted:

       INPUT-FILE
              is the pathname of the file containing the problem specification in CUDF format (both the universe and the request).  If absent, the specification is read from stdin.

       OUTPUT-FILE
              is  the  pathname  of the file into which the solution will be written in CUDF output format.  If the file does not exist it will be created, if it does already exist it will be overwritten
              without warning.  If absent, output is written to stdout.

       CRITERION
              selects the optimization criterion. To get a list of supported criteria, see the -c option of cudf2lp(1). If absent, the paranoid criterion is used. Note that the criterion  can  be  passed
              via option --criterion as well.

OPTIONS
       aspcud supports the following options:

       -h, --help
              print help text, and default configurations and paths

       -v, --version
              print version and license information

       -c, --criterion CRIT
              set the optimization criterion

       -s, --solver-option OPT
              append clasp option OPT (can be given multiple times); if at least one clasp option is given, then default search options are not used

       -g, --grounder-option OPT
              append gringo option OPT (can be given multiple times)

       -e, --encoding ENC
              append encoding ENC (can be given multiple times); if at least one encoding is given, then the default encoding is not used

       -p, --preprocessor-option OPT
              append cudf2lp option OPT (can be given multiple times)

       -S, --solver SOL
              path to solver (clasp)

       -G, --grounder GRD
              path to grounder (gringo)

       -P, --preprocessor PRE
              path to cudf preprocessor (cudf2lp)

       -V, --verbosity N
              set the verbosity level

       -d, --debug
              do not cleanup temporary files

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       aspcud uses temporary files. These are put into the folder indicated by the environment variable TMPDIR or, if not set, by the POSIX constant P_tmpdir.

AUTHOR
       aspcud has been written by Roland Kaminski and Martin Gebser.

SEE ALSO
       cudf2lp(1), gringo(1), clasp(1), and <http://www.mancoosi.org/cudf/> for the specification of the CUDF format.

Version 1.9.6                                                                                   May 01, 2022                                                                                      aspcud(1)
