fitsdiff(1)                                                             astropy 1.0.2                                                             fitsdiff(1)

NAME
       fitsdiff - compare two FITS image files and report the differences in header keywords and data.

SYNOPSIS
       fitsdiff [OPTION]... FILE1 FILE2

DESCRIPTION
       fitsdiff is a command line script based on pyfits to compare two FITS image files and report the differences in header keywords and data.

       FILE1  and  FILE2  are  the two files to be compared. They may also be wild cards, in such cases, they must be enclosed by double or single quotes, or
       they may be directory names. If both are directory names, all files in each of the directories will be included; if only one is directory  name,  then
       the directory name will be prefixed to the file name(s) specified by the other argument. For example:

       % fitsdiff "*.fits" "/machine/data1"

       will compare all FITS files in the current directory to the corresponding files in the directory /machine/data1.

       If  the  two files are identical within the specified conditions, it will report "No difference is found." If the value(s) of -c and -k takes the form
       @filename, list is in the text file filename, and each line in that text file contains one keyword.

       fitsdiff commandline arguments can also be set using the environment variable FITSDIFF_SETTINGS. If  the  FITSDIFF_SETTINGS  environment  variable  is
       present,  each  argument  present  will  override the corresponding argument on the commandline. This environment variable exists to make it easier to
       change the behavior of fitsdiff on a global level, such as in a set of regression tests.

GENERIC OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display terse usage information (help).

       -q, --quiet
              Produce no output and just return a status code.

       -n INTEGER, --num-diffs=INTEGER
              Max number of data differences (image pixel or table element) to report per extension (default 10).

       -d NUMBER, --difference-tolerance=NUMBER
              The relative tolerance for comparison of two numbers, specifically two floating point numbers.  This applies to data in both images and tables,
              and to floating point keyword values in headers (default 0.0).

       -b, --no-ignore-blanks
              Don't ignore trailing blanks (whitespace) in string values. Otherwise trailing blanks both in header keywords/values and in table  column  val‐
              ues) are not treated as significant i.e. without this option 'ABC ' and 'ABC' are considered equivalent.

       --no-ignore-blank-cards
              Don't ignore entirely blank cards in headers. Normally fitsdiff does not consider blank cards when comparing headers, but this will ensure that
              even blank cards match up.

       -o FILE, --output-file=FILE
              Output results to this file; otherwise results are printed to stdout.

HEADER COMPARISON OPTIONS
       -k KEYWORDS, --ignore-keywords=KEYWORDS
              Comma-separated  list  of keywords not to be compared.  Keywords may contain wildcard patterns.  To exclude all keywords, use "*"; make sure to
              have double or single quotes around the asterisk.

       -c KEYWORDS, --ignore-comments=KEYWORDS
              Comma-separated list of keywords whose comments will not be compared.  Wildcards may be used as with --ignore-keywords.

TABLE COMPARISON OPTIONS
       -f COLUMNS, --ignore-fields=COLUMNS
              Comma-separated list of fields (i.e. columns) not to be compared.  All columns may be excluded using "*" as with --ignore-keywords.

EXAMPLES
       % fitsdiff -k filename,filtnam1 -n 5 -d 1.e-6 test1.fits test2
       This command will compare files test1.fits and test2.fits, report maximum of 5 different pixels values per extension, only report data  values  larger
       than 1.e-6 relative to each other, and will neglect the different values of keywords FILENAME and FILTNAM1 (or their very existence).

fitsdiff                                                                  April 2015                                                              fitsdiff(1)
