ATAQV(1)                                                                                     User Commands                                                                                    ATAQV(1)

NAME
       ataqv - QC metrics for ATAC-seq data

DESCRIPTION
       ataqv 1.3.1: QC metrics for ATAC-seq data

       Usage:

       ataqv [options] organism alignment-file

   where:
              organism is the subject of the experiment, which determines the list of autosomes (see "Reference Genome Configuration" below).

              alignment-file is a BAM file with duplicate reads marked.

       Basic options -------------

       --help:  show this usage message.  --verbose: show more details and progress updates.  --version: print the version of the program.  --threads <n>: the maximum number of threads to use (right
       now, only for calculating TSS enrichment).

       Optional Input --------------

       --peak-file "file name"

              A BED file of peaks called for alignments in the BAM file. Specify "auto" to use the BAM file name with ".peaks" appended, or if the BAM file contains read groups, to assume each  read
              group  has  a peak file whose name is the read group ID with ".peaks" appended. If you specify a single filename instead of "auto" with read groups, the same peaks will be used for all
              reads -- be sure this is what you want.

       --tss-file "file name"

              A BED file of transcription start sites for the experiment organism. If supplied, a TSS enrichment score will be calculated according to the ENCODE data  standards.   This  calculation
              requires that the BAM file of alignments be indexed.

       --tss-extension "size"

              If a TSS enrichment score is requested, it will be calculated for a region of "size" bases to either side of transcription start sites. The default is 1000bp.

       --excluded-region-file "file name"

              A BED file containing excluded regions. Peaks or TSS overlapping these will be ignored.  May be given multiple times.

       Output ------

       --metrics-file "file name"

              The JSON file to which metrics will be written. The default filename will be based on the BAM file, with the suffix ".ataqv.json".

       --log-problematic-reads

              If  given, problematic reads will be logged to a file per read group, with names derived from the read group IDs, with ".problems" appended. If no read groups are found, the reads will
              be written to one file named after the BAM file.

       --less-redundant

              If given, output a subset of metrics that should be less redundant. If this flag is used, the same flag should be passed to mkarv when making the viewer.

       Metadata --------

       The following options provide metadata to be included in the metrics JSON file.  They make it easier to compare results in the ataqv web interface.

       --name "name"

              A label to be used for the metrics when there are no read groups. If there are read groups, each will have its metrics named using its ID field. With  no  read  groups  and  no  --name
              given, your metrics will be named after the alignment file.

       --ignore-read-groups

              Even  if read groups are present in the BAM file, ignore them and combine metrics for all reads under a single sample and library named with the --name option. This also implies that a
              single peak file will be used for all reads; see the --peak option.

       --nucleus-barcode-tag "nucleus_barcode_tag"

              Data is single-nucleus, with the barcode stored in this BAM tag.  In this case, metrics will be collected per barcode.

       --description "description"

              A short description of the experiment.

       --url "URL"

              A URL for more detail on the experiment (perhaps using a DOI).

       --library-description "description"

              Use this description for all libraries in the BAM file, instead of using the DS field from each read group.

       Reference Genome Configuration ------------------------------

       ataqv includes lists of autosomes for several organisms:

       Organism
              Autosomal References

       -------  ------------------

       fly    2R 2L 3R 3L 4

       human  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22

       mouse  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19

       rat    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

       worm   I II III IV V

       yeast  I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV XVI

              The default autosomal reference lists contain names with "chr" prefixes ("chr1") and without ("1"). If you need a different set of autosomes, you  can  supply  a  list  with  --autoso‐
              mal-reference-file.

       --autosomal-reference-file "file name"

              A  file  containing  autosomal reference names, one per line. The names must match the reference names in the alignment file exactly, or the metrics based on counts of autosomal align‐
              ments will be wrong.

       --mitochondrial-reference-name "name"

              If the reference name for mitochondrial DNA in your alignment file is not "chrM",.  use this option to supply the correct name. Again, if this name is wrong, all the  measurements  in‐
              volving mitochondrial alignments will be wrong.

ataqv 1.3.1                                                                                   April 2024                                                                                      ATAQV(1)
