JOT(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    JOT(1)

NAME
       jot - print sequential or random data

SYNOPSIS
       jot [ options ] [ reps [ begin [ end [ s ] ] ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       Jot is used to print out increasing, decreasing, random, or redundant data, usually numbers, one per line.  The options are understood as follows.

       -r     Generate random data instead of sequential data, the default.

       -b word
              Just print word repetitively.

       -w word
              Print  word  with the generated data appended to it.  Octal, hexadecimal, exponential, ASCII, zero padded, and right-adjusted representations are possible by using the appropriate printf(3)
              conversion specification inside word, in which case the data are inserted rather than appended.

       -c     This is an abbreviation for -w %c.

       -s string
              Print data separated by string.  Normally, newlines separate data.

       -n     Do not print the final newline normally appended to the output.

       -p precision
              Print only as many digits or characters of the data as indicated by the integer precision.  In the absence of -p, the precision is the greater of the precisions of begin and  end.   The  -p
              option is overridden by whatever appears in a printf(3) conversion following -w.

       The  last four arguments indicate, respectively, the number of data, the lower bound, the upper bound, and the step size or, for random data, the seed.  While at least one of them must appear, any
       of the other three may be omitted, and will be considered as such if given as -.  Any three of these arguments determines the fourth.  If four are specified and the given and  computed  values  of
       reps conflict, the lower value is used.  If fewer than three are specified, defaults are assigned left to right, except for s, which assumes its default unless both begin and end are given.

       Defaults  for  the four arguments are, respectively, 100, 1, 100, and 1, except that when random data are requested, s defaults to a seed depending upon the time of day.  Reps is expected to be an
       unsigned integer, and if given as zero is taken to be infinite.  Begin and end may be given as real numbers or as characters representing the corresponding value in ASCII.  The last argument  must
       be a real number.

       Random numbers are obtained through random(3).  The name jot derives in part from iota, a function in APL.

EXAMPLES
       The command

              jot   21   -1   1.00

       prints 21 evenly spaced numbers increasing from -1 to 1.  The ASCII character set is generated with

              jot   -c   128   0

       and the strings xaa through xaz with

              jot   -w   xa%c   26   a

       while 20 random 8-letter strings are produced with

              jot   -r   -c   160   a   z   |   rs   -g   0   8

       Infinitely many yes's may be obtained through

              jot   -b   yes   0

       and thirty ed(1) substitution commands applying to lines 2, 7, 12, etc. is the result of

              jot   -w   %ds/old/new/   30   2   -   5

       The stuttering sequence 9, 9, 8, 8, 7, etc. can be produced by suitable choice of precision and step size, as in

              jot   0   9   -   -.5

       and a file containing exactly 1024 bytes is created with

              jot   -b   x   512   >   block

       Finally, to set tabs four spaces apart starting from column 10 and ending in column 132, use

              expand   -`jot   -s,   -   10   132   4`

       and to print all lines 80 characters or longer,

              grep   `jot   -s   ""   -b   .   80`

SEE ALSO
       ed(1), expand(1), rs(1), yes(1), printf(3), random(3), expand(1)

4th Berkeley Distribution                                                                       June 6, 1993                                                                                         JOT(1)
