ATMSIGD.CONF(4)                                                          File Formats                                                         ATMSIGD.CONF(4)

NAME
       atmsigd.conf - configuration file for the ATM signaling demon

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/atmsigd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       atmsigd.conf contains configuration data for atmsigd.  atmsigd reads atmsigd.conf after parsing the command line options, before connecting to the ATM
       network.

       Configuration parameters are arranged in functional groups. In order to set a parameter, the name of the group, the name of the parameter, and the pa‐
       rameter value(s) have to be specified, e.g.

            sig level debug

       decreases the logging threshold for messages related to signaling to the debug level. The following options are recognized:

       debug dump path
              Specifies  the directory to which atmsigd will write status and trace dumps. If tracing is not yet enabled, the trace size is automatically set
              to a (small) default value.

       debug level level
              Sets the default debug level to level. level can be any of debug, info, warn, error, and fatal. Only messages with the same or a higher  prior‐
              ity  than  the  debug level are printed.  Note that the command-line option -d generates even more output (e.g. hexdumps of all packets passing
              between atmsigd and the network) than debug level debug.

       debug log path
              Specifies the file to which atmsigd writes logging messages. When using the special file name syslog, messages are send to  the  system  logger
              instead.  Log  messages are written to standard output if no log file is specified. Writing to standard output can also be explicitly requested
              by using the special file name stderr.

       debug trace [number]
              Enables tracing and optionally sets the number of entries that should be kept in the trace buffer. A (small) default is used if the  number  is
              omitted.

       io level level
              Sets the debug level for IO-related messages to level.

       io max_rate rate
              Sets the rate to signal if an application requests the "maximum". See qos(7) for the syntax to use for expressing the rate. The default maximum
              rate is 353207 cells/second (OC3). (Note that the value of max_rate does not constrain the rates an application can explicitly request.)

       io qos qos
              Configures the signaling VC to use the specified QOS (see qos(7) for the syntax). By default, UBR at link speed is used on the signaling VC.

       io vc [itf.]vpi.vci
              Uses the specified VC for signaling messages instead of the usual 0.0.5.

       saal level level
              Sets the debug level for messages related to SAAL (i.e. SSCF and SSCOP) to level.

       sig level level
              Sets the debug level for messages related to signaling (Q.2931 or ISP) to level.

       sig mode mode
              Set the mode of operation. The following modes are available: user for the user side, network for the network side, and switch for operation in
              a switch. The default behaviour is user.

       sig uni30
              Use UNI 3.0 signaling. If specified together with sig uni31, this option sets UNI 3.1 signaling with a few backwards-compatibility extensions.

       sig uni31
              Use UNI 3.1 signaling. This option can be combined with sig uni30 (see above).

       sig uni40
              Use UNI 4.0 signaling. This option can be combined with sig q.2963.1 (see below).

       sig q.2963.1
              Enable peak cell rate renegotiation. This option is only available with UNI 4.0 signaling.

       sig vpci vpci itf itf
              Sets up a very simplistic type of routing. All calls with VPCI values equal to or greater than vpci will be routed to itf, and their VPI values
              will be set to the signaled VPCI minus vpci. Multiple sig vpci entries can be used to support an arbitrary number of interfaces.  Example: with
              sig vpci 4 itf 1, a call signaled for VPCI/VCI 0.x is routed to 0.0.x, a call signaled for 6.y is routed to 1.2.y, etc.

       policy level level
              Sets the debug level for messages related to policy decisions to level.

       policy decision direction address
              Takes the specified decision for calls from or to address.  decision can be either allow or reject. direction is either from or to. The address
              may  be  wildcarded  by prepending a slash and the number of significant bits (NSAP) or digits (E.164).  The rules are searched in the order in
              which they appear in atmsigd.conf until the first match. If no rule matches, the call is allowed.

       entity [itf.]vpi.vci { options ... }
              Activates a signaling entity on that specific VC. Multiple entity clauses can appear in the same configuration. When using entity,  the  option
              io vc is not available.  entity is optionally followed by the following options, enclosed in curly braces: vpci (corresponds to sig vpci), mode
              (corresponds  to  sig mode), qos (corresponds to vc qos), route, and default. The last two options determine how outbound calls are routed. The
              route option is followed by an address in the format used for addresses in policy. If no route entry matches the called party number of an out‐
              bound call, the entry marked with default is selected.

       When setting multiple parameters in the same group, the group name doesn't have to be repeated if it is followed by the parameters  in  curly  braces.
       Example:

           debug {
               level warn
               dump /var/tmp
               log syslog
               trace 100
           }

       Line breaks can be inserted in atmsigd.conf wherever spaces or tabs are allowed. Everything between a `#' and the end of the line is considered a com‐
       ment. The `#' character cannot be escaped.

       If an option is specified in atmsigd.conf and on the command line, the command line has priority.

COMPATIBILITY
       Certain  options  used  by past versions of atmsigd but no longer documented on the man page are still recognized and supported, but they also yield a
       warning message. Future versions of atmsigd will not recognize those options.

AUTHOR
       Werner Almesberger, EPFL ICA <Werner.Almesberger@epfl.ch>

SEE ALSO
       atmsigd(8), qos(7), syslogd(8)

Linux                                                                   March 19, 2000                                                        ATMSIGD.CONF(4)
