AUBIOPITCH(1)                 aubio User's manual                AUBIOPITCH(1)

NAME
       aubiopitch - a command line tool to extract musical pitch

SYNOPSIS
       aubiopitch source
       aubiopitch [[-i] source] [-o sink]
                  [-r rate] [-B win] [-H hop]
                  [-p method] [-u unit] [-l thres]
                  [-T time-format]
                  [-s sil] [-f]
                  [-v] [-h] [-j]

DESCRIPTION
       aubiopitch  attempts to detect the pitch, the perceived height of a mu‐
       sical note.

       When started with an input source (-i/--input), the detected pitch  are
       printed on the console, prefixed by a timestamp in seconds. If no pitch
       candidate is found, the output is 0.

       When  started  without  an  input  source,  or  with  the  jack  option
       (-j/--jack), aubiopitch starts in jack mode.

OPTIONS
       This  program  follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long op‐
       tions starting with two dashes (--). A summary of options  is  included
       below.

       -i, --input source
              Run  analysis  on  this  audio  file. Most uncompressed and com‐
              pressed are supported, depending on how aubio was built.

       -o, --output sink
              Save results in this file. The file will be created on the model
              of  the  input file. The detected frequency is played at the de‐
              tected loudness.

       -r, --samplerate rate
              Fetch the input source, resampled at the  given  sampling  rate.
              The  rate  should be specified in Hertz as an integer. If 0, the
              sampling rate of the original source will be used.  Defaults  to
              0.

       -B, --bufsize win
              The  size  of  the  buffer to analyze, that is the length of the
              window used for spectral and temporal computations. Defaults  to
              2048.

       -H, --hopsize hop
              The  number  of  samples  between two consecutive analysis.  De‐
              faults to 256.

       -p, --pitch method
              The pitch detection method to use. See PITCH METHODS below.  De‐
              faults to 'default'.

       -u, --pitch-unit unit
              The  unit  to  be used to print frequencies. Possible values in‐
              clude midi, bin, cent, and Hz. Defaults to 'Hz'.

       -l, --pitch-tolerance thres
              Set the tolerance for the  pitch  detection  algorithm.  Typical
              values  range between 0.2 and 0.9. Pitch candidates found with a
              confidence less than this threshold will not  be  selected.  The
              higher the threshold, the more confidence in the candidates. De‐
              faults to unset.

       -s, --silence sil
              Set the silence threshold, in dB, under which the onset will not
              be  detected.  A  value of -20.0 would eliminate most onsets but
              the loudest ones. A value of -90.0 would select all onsets.  De‐
              faults to -90.0.

       -T, --timeformat format
              Set time format (samples, ms, seconds). Defaults to seconds.

       -m, --mix-input
              Mix source signal to the output signal before writing to sink.

       -f, --force-overwrite
              Overwrite output file if it already exists.

       -j, --jack
              Use  Jack  input/output.  You  will  need a Jack connection con‐
              troller to feed aubio some signal and listen to its output.

       -h, --help
              Print a short help message and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose.

PITCH METHODS
       Available methods are:

       default
              use the default method

       Currently, the default method is set to yinfft.

       schmitt
              Schmitt trigger

       This pitch extraction method implements a Schmitt trigger  to  estimate
       the  period  of  a  signal. It is computationally very inexpensive, but
       also very sensitive to noise.

       fcomb  a fast harmonic comb filter

       This pitch extraction method implements a fast harmonic comb filter  to
       determine the fundamental frequency of a harmonic sound.

       mcomb  multiple-comb filter

       This  fundamental  frequency  estimation  algorithm implements spectral
       flattening, multi-comb filtering and peak histogramming.

       specacf
              Spectral auto-correlation function

       yin    YIN algorithm

       This algorithm was developed by A. de Cheveigne and H. Kawahara and was
       first published in:

       De Cheveigné, A., Kawahara, H. (2002) "YIN, a fundamental frequency es‐
       timator for speech and music", J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 111, 1917-1930.

       yinfft Yinfft algorithm

       This algorithm was derived from the YIN algorithm. In this  implementa‐
       tion,  a  Fourier transform is used to compute a tapered square differ‐
       ence function, which allows spectral weighting. Because the  difference
       function is tapered, the selection of the period is simplified.

       Paul  Brossier,  Automatic  annotation of musical audio for interactive
       systems, Chapter 3, Pitch Analysis, PhD thesis, Centre for Digital  mu‐
       sic, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK, 2006.

       yinfast
              YIN algorithm (accelerated)

       An  optimised  implementation  of  the  YIN algorithm, yielding results
       identical to the original YIN algorithm, while  reducing  its  computa‐
       tional cost from O(n^2) to O(n log(n)).

SEE ALSO
       aubioonset(1),  aubiotrack(1),  aubionotes(1),  aubioquiet(1),  aubiom‐
       fcc(1), and aubiocut(1).

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Paul Brossier <piem@aubio.org>. Permis‐
       sion  is  granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
       the terms of the GNU General Public License as published  by  the  Free
       Software  Foundation,  either version 3 of the License, or (at your op‐
       tion) any later version.

aubio 0.4.9                      21 July 2021                    AUBIOPITCH(1)
