ZOS-REMOTE.CONF(5)                                                                    System Administration Utilities                                                                    ZOS-REMOTE.CONF(5)

NAME
       zos-remote.conf - the audisp-racf plugin configuration file

DESCRIPTION
       zos-remote.conf controls the configuration for the audispd-zos-remote(8) Audit dispatcher plugin. The default location for this file is /etc/audit/zos-remote.conf, however, a different file can be
       specified as the first argument to the audispd-zos-remote plugin. See audispd-zos-remote(8) and auditd(8).  The options available are as follows:

       server This is the IBM z/OS ITDS server hostname or IP address

       port   The port number where ITDS is running on the z/OS server. Default is 389 (ldap port)

       user   The  z/OS  RACF user ID which the audispd-zos-remote plugin will use to perform Remote Audit requests. This user needs READ access to FACILITY Class resource IRR.LDAP.REMOTE.AUDIT (See aud‐
              ispd-zos-remote(8)).

       password
              The password associated the the z/OS user ID configured above.

       timeout
              The number in seconds that audispd-zos-remote plugin will wait before giving up in connection attempts and event submissions. The default value is 15

       q_depth
              The audispd-zos-remote plugin will queue inputted events to the maximum of q_depth events while trying to submit those remotely. This can handle burst of events or in case of a slow network
              connection. However, the audispd-zos-remote plugin will drop events in case the queue is full. The default queue depth is 64 - Increase this value in case you are  experiencing  event  drop
              due to full queue (audispd-zos-remote will log this to syslog).

SEE ALSO
       audispd-zos-remote(8)

AUTHOR
       Klaus Heinrich Kiwi <klausk@br.ibm.com>

IBM                                                                                               Oct 2007                                                                               ZOS-REMOTE.CONF(5)
