AUDIAL(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   AUDIAL(1)

NAME
       audial - generate or recognize touch tones for North American telephones

SYNOPSIS
       audial [-audio servername] [-volume 0-100] [-spacing milliseconds] [-pause milliseconds] [-duration milliseconds] dialstring

       audial -recognize [-microphone] [-gain 0-100] [-time seconds]

DESCRIPTION
       The audial program generates touch tones suitable for dialing a North American telephone.  audial can also recognize touch tones and produce the corresponding string.

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options may be used in either dial or recognition mode:

       -audio servername
               This option specifies the Network Audio System server on which the files should be played.

DIAL OPTIONS
       The following options may be used in dial mode:

       -volume 0-100
               This option specifies the volume at which the data should be played as a percentage of the maximum possible volume.  The default is 100 percent.

       -spacing milliseconds
               This option specifies the number of milliseconds to wait in between each digit.  The default is 100.

       -pause milliseconds
               This option specifies the number of milliseconds to wait whenever a comma (,) is used in a dial string.  The default is 400.

       -duration milliseconds
               This option specifies the duration of each tone in milliseconds.  The default is 100.

DIALING STRING
       The following characters may be used in a dialing string:

       0123456789*#
               The corresponding touch tone is generated.

       abcd    Tones representing the 4 "function" keys often found on a keypad are generated.

       ,       A blank tone whose length is specified by the -pause option is generated.

       Any other characters are ignored.

RECOGNITION OPTIONS
       -recognize
               Enables recognition mode.  audial will attempt to recognize touch tones from the input device and output the corresponding character.

       -microphone
               Use microphone gain levels on the audio input device.  If a microphone is plugged into the audio input jack, this option should be used.

       -gain 0-100
               This option specifies the input gain level.  The default is 95.

       -time seconds
               This option specifies how long to attempt the recognition.  The default is forever.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables are used by audial:

       AUDIOSERVER
               This specifies the name of default audio server to contact if no name is explicitly given on the command line.

       DISPLAY This specifies the name of an X Window System display that should be assumed to also have a corresponding Network Audio System server.

SEE ALSO
       nas(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1993, 1994 Network Computing Devices, Inc.

AUTHORS
       Greg Renda, Network Computing Devices, Inc.
       Kevin Martin, Network Computing Devices, Inc.

                                                                                                     1.9.4                                                                                            AUDIAL(1)
