AUPANEL(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  AUPANEL(1)

NAME
       aupanel - allows user adjustment of Network Audio System device attributes

SYNOPSIS
       aupanel [-audio servername] [-device id] [-interval seconds]

DESCRIPTION
       aupanel provides an X-based window-oriented interface allowing the user to adjust the attributes of the devices provided by the Network Audio System service.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be used with aupanel:

       -audio servername
               This option specifies the Network Audio System server to contact.

       -device id
               This option specifies the initially activated audio device on the server.  If the id is a decimal number n, the nth device returned by the server is used. If it is a hexadecimal number (start‐
               ing with 0x) it is used as the resource identifier of the desired device. Otherwise, id should be the exact device name (e.g. Stereo Channel Output).  You  can  use  auinfo  to  query  an  au‐
               dioserver for this information.

       -interval seconds
               aupanel  queries  the  device  attributes in regular intervals with a default length of 10 seconds. With this option a different interval length can be specified. Using an interval length of 0
               disables the automatic querying.

       Additionally, options from the Athena Widget Set can be used.

AUPANEL AND THE ATHENA WIDGET SET
       aupanel uses the X Toolkit Intrinsics and the Athena Widget Set.  For more information, see the Athena Widget Set documentation.

ADJUSTING DEVICE ATTRIBUTES
       To adjust the attributes of a device, select the desired device from the Devices menu.  The device gain may be adjusted using the Gain slider.  If applicable, the device input mode can be toggled  be‐
       tween  Line-In and Microphone by clicking on the appropriate box.  If applicable, the device output mode can be selected by clicking on the Speaker, Headphone, and Line-Out boxes.  Some output devices
       may support combinations of these selections.

       To query the current device attributes, click on the Query button.

       To mute (resp. unmute) the current device, click on the Mute button.

ENVIRONMENT
       In addition to the standard toolkit environment variables, the following environment variables are used by aupanel:

       AUDIOSERVER
               This variable specifies the default audio server to contact if -audio is not specified on the command line.  If this variable is not set and the -audio is not specified on  the  command  line,
               aupanel will attempt to connect to the audio server running on the X Window System display.

SEE ALSO
       nas(1), auctl(1), auinfo(1), X(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1993, 1994 Network Computing Devices, Inc.

AUTHOR
       Greg Renda, Network Computing Devices, Inc.

                                                                                                     1.9.4                                                                                           AUPANEL(1)
