AUPHONE(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  AUPHONE(1)

NAME
       auphone - a simple telephone client

SYNOPSIS
       auphone [-a servername] [-v volume] [-l latency] [-r filename]

DESCRIPTION
       auphone allows two-way real time voice communication between two audio servers.

OPTIONS
       The following options can be used with auphone:

       -a servername
               This option specifies the audio server to which auphone should connect.

       -v volume
               This is the volume, in percent, for the incoming ring sound.  The default is 15 percent.

       -l latency
               This  is  the latency, in seconds, of the auphone connection.  A lower value will result in better real-time communications at the expense of possibly overloading the server (causing dropouts)
               and a greater network duty cycle.  A higher value will lessen the load on the server and decrease the network duty cycle but will increase the communications delay.  The default value  is  .25
               seconds.

       -r filename
               You can personalize your incoming ringing sound using the -r option.  Simply specify the filename of an audio file to use for the incoming ring sound.  Note that this sound will be looped.

USAGE
       To  place a call, enter the address of the audio server that you wish to connect with in the Who text field.  Then hit RETURN or click on the Call button.  If the callee is accepting calls, you should
       hear a ringing sound.  If the callee answers, the username and server address of the callee will be displayed.  To disconnect, click on the Hangup button.

       To receive incoming calls, you must already be running auphone.  To answer an incoming call, click on the Answer button.  You may also determine who's calling before you  answer  by  clicking  on  the
       Caller ID button.

       Once you're connected, the Volume slider controls the volume of the speaker output and the Input Gain slider and Input Mode toggle control the gain and mode of the microphone or line input.

AUPHONE AND THE ATHENA WIDGET SET
       auphone uses the X Toolkit Intrinsics and the Athena Widget Set.  For more information, see the Athena Widget Set documentation.

ENVIRONMENT
       In addition to the standard toolkit environment variables, the following environment variables are used by auphone:

       AUDIOSERVER
               This  variable  specifies  the default audio server to contact if -a is not specified on the command line.  If this variable is not set and the -a is not specified on the command line, auphone
               will attempt to connect to the audio server running on the X Window System display.

SEE ALSO
       nas(1), X(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1993 Network Computing Devices, Inc.

AUTHOR
       Greg Renda, Network Computing Devices, Inc.

                                                                                                     1.9.4                                                                                           AUPHONE(1)
