AUTOCONF(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 AUTOCONF(1)

NAME
       autoscan2.13 - help to create a configure.in file for a software package

SYNOPSIS
       autoscan2.13 [ --help ] [ --macrodir=dir ] [ --verbose ] [ --version ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  autoscan2.13  program can help you create a configure.in file for a software package.  autoscan2.13 examines source files in the directory tree rooted at a directory given as a command line argu‐
       ment, or the current directory if none is given.  It searches the source files for common portability problems and creates a file configure.scan which is a preliminary configure.in for that package.

       You should manually examine configure.scan before renaming it to configure.in; it will probably need some adjustments.  Occasionally autoscan2.13 outputs a macro in the wrong order relative to another
       macro,  so that autoconf2.13 produces a warning; you need to move such macros manually.  Also, if you want the package to use a configuration header file, you must add a call to AC_CONFIG_HEADER.  You
       might also have to change or add some #if directives to your program in order to make it work with Autoconf (see ifnames2.13(1)), for information about a program that can help with that job).

       autoscan2.13 uses several data files, which are installed along with the distributed Autoconf macro files, to determine which macros to output when it finds particular symbols in  a  package's  source
       files.  These files all have the same format.  Each line consists of a symbol, whitespace, and the Autoconf macro to output if that symbol is encountered.  Lines starting with # are comments.

       autoscan2.13 requires that a Perl interpreter is installed.

       autoscan2.13 accepts the following options:

       --help

       -h     Print a summary of the command line options and exit.

       --macrodir=DIR

       -m DIR Look for the installed macro files in directory DIR.  You can also set the AC_MACRODIR environment variable to a directory; this option overrides the environment variable.

       --verbose
              Print the names of the fiels it examines and the potentially interesting symbols it finds in them.  This output can be voluminous.

       --version
              Print the version number of Autoconf and exit.

SEE ALSO
       autoconf2.13(1), autoheader2.13(1), autoreconf2.13(1), autoupdate2.13(1), ifnames2.13(1)

AUTHORS
       David  MacKenzie,  with  help  from  Franc,ois  Pinard,  Karl Berry, Richard Pixley, Ian Lance Taylor, Roland McGrath, Noah Friedman, David D. Zuhn, and many others.  This manpage written by Ben Pfaff
       <pfaffben@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux autoconf2.13 package.

                                                                                                    Autoconf                                                                                        AUTOCONF(1)
