autopkgtest-schroot(1)                                                                     Linux Programmer's Manual                                                                     autopkgtest-schroot(1)

NAME
       autopkgtest-schroot - autopkgtest virtualisation server using a schroot

SYNOPSIS
       autopkgtest [...] -- schroot [options] schroot-name

DESCRIPTION
       autopkgtest-schroot provides an autopkgtest virtualisation server using a schroot.  Normally autopkgtest-schroot will be invoked by autopkgtest.

       The  schroot  name to use must be specified.  Only use this with schroots that provide temporary sessions, i. e. with type=file or type=directory and a configured union-type.  autopkgtest-schroot will
       refuse to work with a static "directory" type schroot.

       You can use mk-sbuild(1) to conveniently create schroots.

PERMISSIONS
       If you can access the schroot as your user (according to the schroot's users/groups configuration), you should run autopkgtest-schroot (and autopkgtest itself) as normal user, too.

       autopkgtest-schroot reads the schroot configuration (root-users/root-groups) to determine whether it can enter the schroot as root user; if so, it sets the root-on-testbed capability and you  can  run
       tests which require building or running as root. If your user is not allowed to do that, you need to run autopkgtest as root instead.

OPTIONS
       -s ID | --session-id=ID
              Use a custom schroot session ID. This allows the user to easily identify hung sessions in schroot --list --all-sessions.

       -d | --debug
              Enables debugging output.

INPUT, OUTPUT AND EXIT STATUS
       The behaviour of autopkgtest-schroot is as described by the AutomatedTesting virtualisation regime specification.

SEE ALSO
       autopkgtest(1), autopkgtest-virt-null(1), schroot(1), mk-sbuild(1).

AUTHORS AND COPYRIGHT
       This manpage is part of autopkgtest, a tool for testing Debian binary packages.  autopkgtest is Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Canonical Ltd and others.

       See /usr/share/doc/autopkgtest/CREDITS for the list of contributors and full copying conditions.

autopkgtest                                                                                           2013                                                                               autopkgtest-schroot(1)
