AUTO.MASTER(5)                                                       File Formats Manual                                                       AUTO.MASTER(5)

NAME
       auto.master - Master Map for automounter consulted by autofs

DESCRIPTION
       The  auto.master  map  is  consulted to set up automount managed mount points when the autofs(8) script is invoked or the automount(8) program is run.
       Each line describes a mount point and refers to an autofs map describing file systems to be mounted under the mount point.

       The default location of the master map is /etc/auto.master but an alternate name may be given on the command line when running the automounter and the
       default master map may changed by setting the MASTER_MAP_NAME configuration variable in /etc/default/autofs.  If the master map name has no path  then
       the  system  Name  Service  Switch  configuration  will be consulted and each of the sources searched in line with the rules given in the Name Service
       Switch configuration.

       Access to mounts in maps is governed by a key.

       For direct maps the mount point is always specified as:

       /-

       and the key used within the direct map is the full path to the mount point. The direct map may have multiple entries in the master map.

       For indirect maps access is by using the path scheme:

       /mount-point/key

       where mount-point is one of the entries listed in the master map. The key is a single directory component and is matched against entries  in  the  map
       given in the entry (See autofs(5)).

       Additionally, a map may be included from its source as if it were itself present in the master map by including a line of the form:

       +[maptype[,format]:]map [options]

       and automount(8) will process the map according to the specification described below for map entries. Plus map inclusion is only permitted in file map
       sources.   Indirect  map  entries  must  be unique in the master map so second and subsequent entries for an indirect mount point are ignored by auto‐
       mount(8).

       NOTE:  autofs currently does not collapse multiple slashes in paths, so it is important to ensure paths used in maps are correct. If unnecessary  mul‐
              tiple  slashes  are  present  in a path it can lead to unexpected failures such as an inability to expire automounts. An exception to this is a
              trailing slash at the end of the automount point path in the master map which will be removed if present.

FORMAT
       Master map entries have three fields separated by an arbitrary number of spaces or tabs. Lines beginning with # are comments. The first field  is  the
       mount point described above and the second field is the name of the map to be consulted for the mount point followed by the third field which contains
       options to be applied to all entries in the map.

       The format of a master map entry is:

       mount-point [map-type[,format]:]map [options]

       mount-point
              Base location for the autofs filesystem to be mounted.  For indirect maps this directory will be created (as with mkdir -p) and is removed when
              the autofs filesystem is umounted.

       map-type
              Type of map used for this mount point.  The following are valid map types:

              file   The map is a regular text file.

              program
                     The  map is an executable program, which is passed a key on the command line and returns an entry (everything besides the key) on stdout
                     if successful.  Optionally, the keyword exec may be used as a synonym for program to avoid confusion with amd formatted maps mount  type
                     program.

              yp     The map is a NIS (YP) database.

              nisplus
                     The map is a NIS+ database.

              hesiod The map is a hesiod database whose filsys entries are used for maps.

              ldap or ldaps
                     The map is stored in an LDAP directory. If ldaps is used the appropriate certificate must be configured in the LDAP client.

              multi  This map type allows the specification of multiple maps separated by "--". These maps are searched in order to resolve key lookups.

              dir    This  map  type  can  be used at + master map including notation. The contents of files under given directory are included to the master
                     map. The name of file to be included must be ended with ".autofs". A file will be ignored if its name is not ended with the  suffix.  In
                     addition a dot file, a file which name is started with "." is also ignored.

       format
              Format  of  the  map  data;  currently  the formats recognized are sun, which is a subset of the Sun automounter map format, hesiod, for hesiod
              filesys entries and amd for amd formatted map entries.  If the format is left unspecified, it defaults to sun for all map types  except  hesiod
              unless it is a top level amd mount that has a configuration entry for the mount point path, in which case the format used is amd.

       map
              Name  of the map to use.  This is an absolute UNIX pathname for maps of types file, dir, or program, and the name of a database in the case for
              maps of type yp, nisplus, or hesiod or the dn of an LDAP entry for maps of type ldap.

       options
              Any remaining command line arguments without leading dashes (-) are taken as options (-o) to mount.  Arguments with leading dashes are  consid‐
              ered options for the maps and are passed to automount (8).

              The sun format supports the following options:

              -Dvariable=value
                     Replace variable with value in map substitutions.

              -strict
                     Treat  errors  when  mounting  file systems as fatal. This is important when multiple file systems should be mounted (`multimounts'). If
                     this option is given, no file system is mounted at all if at least one file system can't be mounted.

              [no]browse
                     This is an autofs specific option that is a pseudo mount option and so is given without a leading dash. Use of the  browse  option  pre-
                     creates mount point directories for indirect mount maps so the map keys can be seen in a directory listing without being mounted. Use of
                     this  option  can cause performance problem if the indirect map is large so it should be used with caution. The internal program default
                     is to enable browse mode for indirect mounts but the default installed configuration overrides this by setting BROWSE_MODE to  "no"  be‐
                     cause  of  the potential performance problem. This option does the same as the deprecated --ghost option, the browse option is preferred
                     because it is used by other autofs implementations.

              nobind This is an autofs specific option that is a pseudo mount option and so is given without a leading dash. It may be  used  either  in  the
                     master  map  entry (so it effects all the map entries) or with individual map entries to prevent bind mounting of local NFS filesystems.
                     For direct mount maps the option is only effective if specified on the first direct map entry and is applied to all direct mount maps in
                     the master map. It is ignored if given on subsequent direct map entries. It may be used on individual map entries of  both  types.  Pre‐
                     venting bind mounts of NFS file systems can no longer be done by using the "port=" option, the nobind option must be used instead.

              symlink
                     This  option  makes  bind mounting use a symlink instead of an actual bind mount. It is an autofs specific option that is a pseudo mount
                     option and so is given without a leading dash. It may be used with indirect map entries only, either in the master map  (so  it  effects
                     all map entries) or with individual map entries. The option is ignored for direct mounts and non-root offest mount entries.

              strictexpire
                     Use  a  strict  expire  policy for this automount. Using this option means that last use of autofs directory entries will not be updated
                     during path walks so that mounts in an automount won't be kept mounted by applications scanning the mount tree. Note that  this  doesn't
                     completely  resolve  the  problem of expired automounts being immediately re-mounted due to application accesses triggered by the expire
                     itself.

              slave, private or shared
                     This option allows mount propagation of bind mounts to be set to slave, private or shared. This option defaults to slave if no option is
                     given. When using multi-mounts that have bind mounts the bind mount will have the same properties as its parent which is commonly propa‐
                     gation shared. And if the mount target is also propagation shared this can lead to a deadlock  when  attempting  to  access  the  offset
                     mounts.  When this happens an unwanted offset mount is propagated back to the target file system resulting in a deadlock since the auto‐
                     mount target is itself an (unwanted) automount trigger.  This option is an autofs pseudo mount option that can be used in the master map
                     only.

              -r, --random-multimount-selection
                     Enables the use of random selection when choosing a host from a list of replicated servers. This option is applied to this  mount  only,
                     overriding the global setting that may be specified on the command line.

              -w, --use-weight-only
                     Use only specified weights for server selection where more than one server is specified in the map entry. If no server weights are given
                     then each available server will be tried in the order listed, within proximity.

              -t, --timeout <seconds>
                     Set  the  expire  timeout for map entries. This option can be used to override the global default given either on the command line or in
                     the configuration.

              -n, --negative-timeout <seconds>
                     Set the timeout for caching failed key lookups. This option can be used to override the global default given either on the command  line
                     or in the configuration.

              --mode <octal_mode>
                     Set  the directory mode for the base location of the autofs mount point.  If this option is given, autofs will chmod that directory with
                     this mode.

BUILTIN MAP -hosts
       If "-hosts" is given as the map then accessing a key under the mount point which corresponds to a hostname will allow access to the  exports  of  that
       host.  The hosts map cannot be dynamically updated and requires a HUP signal to be sent to the daemon for it to check hosts for an update. Due to pos‐
       sible hierarchic dependencies within a mount tree, it might not be completely updated during the HUP signal processing.

       For example, with an entry in the master map of /net -hosts accessing /net/myserver will mount exports from myserver on directories below /net/myserv‐
       er.

       NOTE: mounts done from a hosts map will be mounted with the "nosuid,nodev" options unless overridden by explicitly specifying the  "suid",  "dev"  op‐
       tions in the master map entry.

BUILTIN MAP -null
       If "-null" is given as the map it is used to tell automount(8) to ignore a subsequent master map entry with the given path.

       It  can  be  used for paths that appear in the master map or in direct mount maps (but not in direct mount maps themselves) or as a key in an indirect
       mount map.

       An indirect mount map key can be nulled. If so the map key is ignored and does not result in a mount attempt (essentially the key lookup is  abandoned
       early on).

       An indirect mount map top level mount point path can be nulled. If so no mounts from the nulled mount are performed (essentially it isn't mounted).

       Direct  mount map path entries can be nulled. Since they must be present at startup they are (notionally) part of the master map so direct mount paths
       that use the -null map may be used in the master map to ignore subsequent direct mount map entries.

       A nulled master map entry path will ignore a single subsequent matching entry. Any matching entry following that will be treated as it normally  would
       be. An example use of this is allowing local master map entries to override remote ones.

       NOTE:  If  a  duplicate master map entry path is seen (excluding paths of null entries) it will be ignored and noted in the log, that is the first en‐
       countered master map entry is used unless there is a corresponding null entry.

LDAP MAPS
       If the map type ldap is specified the mapname is of the form [//servername/]dn, where the optional servername is the name of the LDAP server to query,
       and dn is the Distinguished Name of a subtree to search for map entries.  The old style ldap:servername:mapname is also understood. Alternatively, the
       type can be obtained from the Name Service Switch configuration, in which case the map name alone must be given.

       If no schema is set in the autofs configuration then autofs will check each of the commonly used schema for a valid entry and if one is found it  will
       be used for subsequent lookups.

       There are three common schemas in use:

       nisMap
              Entries  in  the nisMap schema are nisObject objects in the specified subtree, where the cn attribute is the key (the wildcard key is "/"), and
              the nisMapEntry attribute contains the information used by the automounter.

       automountMap
              The automountMap schema has two variations that differ in the attribute used for the map key. Entries in the automountMap schema are  automount
              objects  in  the specified subtree, where the cn or automountKey attribute (depending on local usage) is the key (the wildcard key is "/"), and
              the automountInformation attribute contains the information used by the automounter. Note that the cn attribute is case insensitive.

       The object classes and attributes used for accessing automount maps in LDAP can be changed by setting entries in the autofs configuration  located  in
       /etc/default/autofs.conf.

       NOTE:  If  a  schema  is given in the configuration then all the schema configuration values must be set, any partial schema specification will be ig‐
              nored.

       For amd format maps a different schema is used:

       amdMap
              The amdmap schema contains attributes amdmapName, amdmapKey and amdmapValue where amdmapName contains the name of the containing map, amdmapKey
              contains the map key and amdmapValue contains the map entry.

LDAP AUTHENTICATION, ENCRYPTED AND CERTIFIED CONNECTIONS
       LDAP authenticated binds, TLS encrypted connections and certification may be used by setting appropriate values in the autofs authentication  configu‐
       ration file and configuring the LDAP client with appropriate settings.  The default location of this file is /etc/autofs_ldap_auth.conf.

       If this file exists it will be used to establish whether TLS or authentication should be used.

       An example of this file is:

         <?xml version="1.0" ?>
         <autofs_ldap_sasl_conf
                 usetls="yes"
                 tlsrequired="no"
                 authrequired="no"
                 authtype="DIGEST-MD5"
                 user="xyz"
                 secret="abc"
         />

       If  TLS  encryption  is  to be used the location of the Certificate Authority certificate must be set within the LDAP client configuration in order to
       validate the server certificate. If, in addition, a certified connection is to be used then the client certificate and private key file locations must
       also be configured within the LDAP client.

       In OpenLDAP these may be configured in the ldap.conf file or in the per-user configuration. For example, it may be sensible to  use  the  system  wide
       configuration for the location of the Certificate Authority certificate and set the location of the client certificate and private key in the per-user
       configuration.  The  location  of  these files and the configuration entry requirements is system dependent so the documentation for your installation
       will need to be consulted to get further information.

       See autofs_ldap_auth.conf (5) for more information.

EXAMPLE
         /-        auto.data
         /home     /etc/auto.home
         /mnt      yp:mnt.map

       This will generate two mountpoints for /home and /mnt and install direct mount triggers for each entry in the direct mount map auto.data.  All access‐
       es to /home will lead to the consultation of the map in /etc/auto.home and all accesses to /mnt will consult the NIS map  mnt.map.   All  accesses  to
       paths  in  the map auto.data will trigger mounts when they are accessed and the Name Service Switch configuration will be used to locate the source of
       the map auto.data.

       To avoid making edits to /etc/auto.master, /etc/auto.master.d may be used.  Files in that directory must have a ".autofs" suffix, e.g.  /etc/auto.mas‐
       ter.d/extra.autofs.  Such files contain lines of the same format as the auto.master file, e.g.

         /foo    /etc/auto.foo
         /baz    yp:baz.map

SEE ALSO
       automount(8), autofs(5), autofs(8), autofs.conf(5), autofs_ldap_auth.conf(5).

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Christoph Lameter <chris@waterf.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system. Edited  by  <hpa@transmeta.com>  and  Ian  Kent
       <raven@themaw.net> .

                                                                         11 Apr 2006                                                           AUTO.MASTER(5)
