BACKUP-MANAGER-UPLOAD(8)     backup-manager-upload    BACKUP-MANAGER-UPLOAD(8)

NAME
       backup-manager-upload - Multiprotocol uploader for backup-manager.

SYNOPSIS
       backup-manager-upload [options] date

DESCRIPTION
       backup-manager-upload will upload all the archives generated on the
       given date to the specified host with either ftp or scp.  It's also
       possible to use this program for uploading data to an Amazon S3
       account.  Some metadates are available like "today" or "yesterday".

REQUIRED ARGS
       --mode=transfer-mode
           Select the transfer mode to use : ftp, scp, or s3.

       --host=hostname1,hostname2,...,hostnameN
           Select a list of remote hosts to connect to.

       --user=username
           Select the user to use for connection.

OPTIONAL ARGS
       --password=password
           Select the ftp user's password (only needed for ftp transfers).

       --key=path_to_private_key
           Select the ssh private key file to use when opening the ssh session
           for scp transfer.  Obviously, this is only needed for scp transfer
           mode.  If you don't specify a key file, the user's default private
           key will be used.

       --directory=directory
           Select the location on the remote host where files will be
           uploaded.  Default is /backup/uploads.

       --bucket=bucket
           Sets the bucket name for the Amazon S3 service backup into.

       --root=directory
           Select the local directory where files are.  Default is
           /var/archives

       --gpg-recipient=gpg-recipient
           Select the gpg public key for encryptiong the archives when
           uploading with the method ssh-gpg. This can be a short or long key
           id or a descriptive name. The precise syntax is described in the
           gpg man page.

       --list
           Just list the files to upload.

       --ftp-purge
           Purge the remote directory before uploading files in FTP mode.

       --s3-purge
           Purge the remote directory before uploading files in FTP mode.

       --ssh-purge
           Purge the remote directory before uploading files in SSH mode.

       --verbose
           Flag to enable verbose mode.

       date
           Date pattern to select some files to upload, can be a valid date
           (YYYYMMDD) or 'today' or 'yesterday'.

ERROR CODES
       If something goes wrong during an upload, backup-manager-upload will
       exit with a non null value. In such a case every error messages are
       sent to STDERR.

       Here are the possible error codes:

       bad command line (wrong arguments) : 10
       FTP transfer failure : 20
       SCP transfer failure : 21
       S3 transfer failure : 22
       Unknown upload method: 23

SEE ALSO
       backup-manager(3)

AUTHORS
       Alexis Sukrieh - main code and design

       Brad Dixon - Amazon S3 upload method

       Jan Metzger - ssh-gpg upload method

perl v5.10.0                      2009-02-01          BACKUP-MANAGER-UPLOAD(8)
