bannergrab(1)               General Commands Manual              bannergrab(1)

NAME
       bannergrab - a network service banner grabbing tool

SYNOPSIS
       bannergrab [options] host port

DESCRIPTION
       bannergrab  performs  connection, trigger and basic service information
       collection. There are basic banner grabbing modes, the first mode  (the
       default one) sends triggers to the services and performs basic informa‐
       tion collection. The second mode (--no-triggers), only connects to  the
       service and returns the connection banner.
       By  default,  if  bannergrab  has a trigger for the port number that is
       specified, the trigger for that port is used. If no trigger  is  listed
       for  a  port,  the default one is used. No attempt is made to determine
       the type of service operating on a port.

OPTIONS
       --help
              Show summary of options.

       --version
              Show version of program.

       --show-triggers
              Lists the triggers used by bannergrab.

       --trigger=<trigger>
              Specify the trigger to use. Specify DEFAULT to use  the  default
              trigger.

       --no-triggers
              Collect  only the connection banner, no triggers are sent and no
              SSL.

       --udp
              Connect to a port using UDP. The default is to use TCP.

       --no-ssl
              Prevent SSL connection creation.

       --no-hex
              Output containing non-printable characters are converted to hex.
              This option prevents the conversion.

       --conn-time=<secs>
              Connection timeout (default is 5s).

       --read-time=<secs>
              Read timeout (default is 3s).

       --verbose
              Show additional program details such as any errors.

EXAMPLES
       bannergrab 127.0.0.1 80

AUTHOR
       bannergrab was written by Ian Ventura-Whiting <fizz@titania.co.uk>.

                                April 18, 2008                   bannergrab(1)
