BASH-BUILTINS(7)                                                                      Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                     BASH-BUILTINS(7)

NAME
       bash-builtins - bash built-in commands, see bash(1)

SYNOPSIS
       bash  defines  the following built-in commands: :, ., [, alias, bg, bind, break, builtin, case, cd, command, compgen, complete, continue, declare, dirs, disown, echo, enable, eval, exec, exit, ex‐
       port, fc, fg, getopts, hash, help, history, if, jobs, kill, let, local, logout, popd, printf, pushd, pwd, read, readonly, return, set, shift, shopt, source, suspend, test, times, trap, type, type‐
       set, ulimit, umask, unalias, unset, until, wait, while.

BASH BUILTIN COMMANDS
       Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options.  The :, true, false, and test/[ builtins do
       not accept options and do not treat -- specially.  The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process arguments beginning with -  without  requiring  --.   Other
       builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning with - as invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation.

       : [arguments]
              No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing any specified redirections.  The return status is zero.

       . [-p path] filename [arguments]
       source [-p path] filename [arguments]
              The . command (source) reads and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and returns the exit status of the last command executed from filename.

              If  filename  does not contain a slash, . searches for it.  If the -p option is supplied, . treats path as a colon-separated list of directories in which to find filename; otherwise, . uses
              the entries in PATH to find the directory containing filename.  filename does not need to be executable.  When bash is not in posix mode, it searches the current directory  if  filename  is
              not found in PATH, but does not search the current directory if -p is supplied.  If the sourcepath option to the shopt builtin command is turned off, . does not search PATH.

              If any arguments are supplied, they become the positional parameters when filename is executed.  Otherwise the positional parameters are unchanged.

              If the -T option is enabled, . inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to ., and . unsets the DEBUG trap while it executes.  If
              -T  is  not  set, and the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the new value persists after . completes.  The return status is the status of the last command executed from filename (0 if no
              commands are executed), and non-zero if filename is not found or cannot be read.

       alias [-p] [name[=value] ...]
              With no arguments or with the -p option, alias prints the list of aliases in the form alias name=value on standard output.  When arguments are supplied, define an alias for each name  whose
              value  is  given.  A trailing space in value causes the next word to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded during command parsing.  For each name in the argument list
              for which no value is supplied, print the name and value of the alias name.  alias returns true unless a name is given (without a corresponding =value) for which no alias has been defined.

       bg [jobspec ...]
              Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it had been started with &.  If jobspec is not present, the shell uses its notion of the current job.  bg jobspec returns 0 unless
              run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started without job control.

       bind [-m keymap] [-lsvSVX]
       bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq]
       bind [-m keymap] -f filename
       bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq[:] shell-command
       bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name
       bind [-m keymap] -p|-P [readline-command]
       bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command
       bind readline-command-line
              Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro or to a shell command, or set a readline variable.  Each non-option argument is a key
              binding or command as it would appear in a readline initialization file  such  as  .inputrc,  but  each  binding  or  command  must  be  passed  as  a  separate  argument;  e.g.,  \C-x\C-r:
              re-read-init-file.   In  the following descriptions, output available to be re-read is formatted as commands that would appear in a readline initialization file or that would be supplied as
              individual arguments to a bind command.  Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -m keymap
                     Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings.  Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move,  vi-command,  and  vi-in‐
                     sert.  vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard.
              -l     List the names of all readline functions.
              -p     Display  readline  function names and bindings in such a way that they can be used as an argument to a subsequent bind command or in a readline initialization file.  If arguments re‐
                     main after option processing, bind treats them as readline command names and restricts output to those names.
              -P     List current readline function names and bindings.  If arguments remain after option processing, bind treats them as readline command names and restricts output to those names.
              -s     Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can be used as an argument to a subsequent bind command or in a  readline  initial‐
                     ization file.
              -S     Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output.
              -v     Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be used as an argument to a subsequent bind command or in a readline initialization file.
              -V     List current readline variable names and values.
              -f filename
                     Read key bindings from filename.
              -q function
                     Display key sequences that invoke the named readline function.
              -u function
                     Unbind all key sequences bound to the named readline function.
              -r keyseq
                     Remove any current binding for keyseq.
              -x keyseq[: ]shell-command
                     Cause  shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered.  The separator between keyseq and shell-command is either whitespace or a colon optionally followed by whitespace.  If
                     the separator is whitespace, shell-command must be enclosed in double quotes and readline expands any of its special backslash-escapes in shell-command before saving it.  If the sep‐
                     arator is a colon, any enclosing double quotes are optional, and readline does not expand the command string before saving it.  Since the entire key binding expression must be a sin‐
                     gle argument, it should be enclosed in single quotes.  When shell-command is executed, the shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the readline line buffer  and  the
                     READLINE_POINT and READLINE_MARK variables to the current location of the insertion point and the saved insertion point (the mark), respectively.  The shell assigns any numeric argu‐
                     ment  the  user  supplied  to the READLINE_ARGUMENT variable.  If there was no argument, that variable is not set.  If the executed command changes the value of any of READLINE_LINE,
                     READLINE_POINT, or READLINE_MARK, those new values will be reflected in the editing state.
              -X     List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that can be reused as an argument to a subsequent bind command.

              The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is supplied or an error occurred.

       break [n]
              Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop.  If n is specified, break exits n enclosing loops.  n must be ≥ 1.  If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops,  all  enclosing
              loops are exited.  The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1.

       builtin shell-builtin [arguments]
              Execute  the specified shell builtin shell-builtin, passing it arguments, and return its exit status.  This is useful when defining a function whose name is the same as a shell builtin, re‐
              taining the functionality of the builtin within the function.  The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way.  The return status is false if shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command.

       caller [expr]
              Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins).

              Without expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of the current subroutine call.  If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine
              name, and source file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack.  This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace.   The  current  frame  is
              frame 0.

              The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack.

       cd [-L] [-@] [dir]
       cd -P [-e] [-@] [dir]
              Change  the  current directory to dir.  if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is used as dir.  The variable CDPATH exists, and dir does not begin with a slash (/), cd
              uses it as a search path: the shell searches each directory name in CDPATH for dir.  Alternative directory names in CDPATH are separated by a colon (:).  A null directory name in CDPATH  is
              the same as the current directory, i.e.,

              The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances of in dir (see also the -P option to the set
              builtin command).

              The  -L  option forces cd to follow symbolic links by resolving the link after processing instances of in dir.  If appears in dir, cd processes it by removing the immediately previous path‐
              name component from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of dir, and verifying that the portion of dir it has processed to that point is still a valid directory  name  after  removing  the
              pathname component.  If it is not a valid directory name, cd returns a non-zero status.  If neither -L nor -P is supplied, cd behaves as if -L had been supplied.

              If the -e option is supplied with -P, and cd cannot successfully determine the current working directory after a successful directory change, it returns a non-zero status.

              On systems that support it, the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a file as a directory.

              An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD before attempting the directory change.

              If cd uses a non-empty directory name from CDPATH, or if - is the first argument, and the directory change is successful, cd writes the absolute pathname of the new working directory to the
              standard output.

              If  the  directory  change  is  successful, cd sets the value of the PWD environment variable to the new directory name, and sets the OLDPWD environment variable to the value of the current
              working directory before the change.

              The return value is true if the directory was successfully changed; false otherwise.

       command [-pVv] command [arg ...]
              The command builtin runs command with args suppressing the normal shell function lookup for command.  Only builtin commands or commands found in the PATH named command are executed.  If the
              -p option is supplied, the search for command is performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities.

              If either the -V or -v option is supplied, command prints a description of command.  The -v option displays a single word indicating the command or filename used to invoke command;  the  -V
              option produces a more verbose description.

              If  the  -V or -v option is supplied, the exit status is zero if command was found, and non-zero if not.  If neither option is supplied and an error occurred or command cannot be found, the
              exit status is 127.  Otherwise, the exit status of the command builtin is the exit status of command.

       compgen [-V varname] [option] [word]
              Generate possible completion matches for word according to the options, which may be any option accepted by the complete builtin with the exceptions of -p, -r, -D, -E, and -I, and write the
              matches to the standard output.

              If the -V option is supplied, compgen stores the generated completions into the indexed array variable varname instead of writing them to the standard output.

              When using the -F or -C options, the various shell variables set by the programmable completion facilities, while available, will not have useful values.

              The matches will be generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated them directly from a completion specification with the same flags.  If word is  specified,
              only those completions matching word will be displayed or stored.

              The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, or no matches were generated.

       complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DEI] [-A action]
              [-G globpat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command]
              [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...]
       complete -pr [-DEI] [name ...]
              Specify how arguments to each name should be completed.

              If the -p option is supplied, or if no options or names are supplied, print existing completion specifications in a way that allows them to be reused as input.  The -r option removes a com‐
              pletion specification for each name, or, if no names are supplied, all completion specifications.

              The  -D  option  indicates  that other supplied options and actions should apply to the command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion has previously
              been defined.  The -E option indicates that other supplied options and actions should apply to command completion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line.  The  -I  option  indicates
              that other supplied options and actions should apply to completion on the initial non-assignment word on the line, or after a command delimiter such as ; or |, which is usually command name
              completion.   If multiple options are supplied, the -D option takes precedence over -E, and both take precedence over -I.  If any of -D, -E, or -I are supplied, any other name arguments are
              ignored; these completions only apply to the case specified by the option.

              The process of applying these completion specifications when attempting word completion  is described in bash(1).

              Other options, if specified, have the following meanings.  The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them  from  ex‐
              pansion before the complete builtin is invoked.

              -o comp-option
                      The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions.  comp-option may be one of:
                      bashdefault
                              Perform the rest of the default bash completions if the compspec generates no matches.
                      default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches.
                      dirnames
                              Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches.
                      filenames
                              Tell  readline  that the compspec generates filenames, so it can perform any filename-specific processing (such as adding a slash to directory names, quoting special charac‐
                              ters, or suppressing trailing spaces).  This is intended to be used with shell functions.
                      fullquote
                              Tell readline to quote all the completed words even if they are not filenames.
                      noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words if they are filenames (quoting filenames is the default).
                      nosort  Tell readline not to sort the list of possible completions alphabetically.
                      nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line.
                      plusdirs
                              After generating any matches defined by the compspec, attempt directory name completion and add any matches to the results of the other actions.
              -A action
                      The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions:
                      alias   Alias names.  May also be specified as -a.
                      arrayvar
                              Array variable names.
                      binding Readline key binding names.
                      builtin Names of shell builtin commands.  May also be specified as -b.
                      command Command names.  May also be specified as -c.
                      directory
                              Directory names.  May also be specified as -d.
                      disabled
                              Names of disabled shell builtins.
                      enabled Names of enabled shell builtins.
                      export  Names of exported shell variables.  May also be specified as -e.
                      file    File and directory names, similar to readline's filename completion.  May also be specified as -f.
                      function
                              Names of shell functions.
                      group   Group names.  May also be specified as -g.
                      helptopic
                              Help topics as accepted by the help builtin.
                      hostname
                              Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable.
                      job     Job names, if job control is active.  May also be specified as -j.
                      keyword Shell reserved words.  May also be specified as -k.
                      running Names of running jobs, if job control is active.
                      service Service names.  May also be specified as -s.
                      setopt  Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin.
                      shopt   Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin.
                      signal  Signal names.
                      stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active.
                      user    User names.  May also be specified as -u.
                      variable
                              Names of all shell variables.  May also be specified as -v.
              -C command
                      command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions.  Arguments are passed as with the -F option.
              -F function
                      The shell function function is executed in the current shell environment.  When the function is executed, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are  be‐
                      ing  completed,  the  second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being completed on the current command line.  When
                      function finishes, programmable completion retrieves the possible completions from the value of the COMPREPLY array variable.
              -G globpat
                      Expand the pathname expansion pattern globpat to generate the possible completions.
              -P prefix
                      Add prefix to the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been applied.
              -S suffix
                      Append suffix to each possible completion after all other options have been applied.
              -W wordlist
                      Split the wordlist using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and expand each resulting word.  Shell quoting is honored within wordlist, in order to  provide  a
                      mechanism  for  the  words to contain shell metacharacters or characters in the value of IFS.  The possible completions are the members of the resultant list which match a prefix of
                      the word being completed.
              -X filterpat
                      filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion.  It is applied to the list of possible completions generated by the preceding  options  and  arguments,  and  each  completion
                      matching filterpat is removed from the list.  A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed.

              The  return  value  is  true  unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than -p, -r, -D, -E, or -I is supplied without a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a completion
              specification for a name for which no specification exists, or an error occurs adding a completion specification.

       compopt [-o option] [-DEI] [+o option] [name]
              Modify completion options for each name according to the options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names are supplied.  If no options are supplied, display the completion op‐
              tions for each name or the current completion.  The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above.

              The -D option indicates that other supplied options should apply to the command completion; the -E option indicates that other supplied options should apply to command completion;  and  the
              -I option indicates that other supplied options should apply to completion on the initial word on the line.  These are determined in the same way as the complete builtin.

              If multiple options are supplied, the -D option takes precedence over -E, and both take precedence over -I.

              The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or an output error occurs.

       continue [n]
              continue  resumes  the  next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or select loop.  If n is specified, bash resumes the nth enclosing loop.  n must be ≥ 1.  If n is greater than the
              number of enclosing loops, the shell resumes the last enclosing loop (the loop).  The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1.

       declare [-aAfFgiIlnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...]
       typeset [-aAfFgiIlnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...]
              Declare variables and/or give them attributes.  If no names are given then display the values of variables or functions.  The -p option will display the attributes and values of each  name.
              When -p is used with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored.

              When  -p  is supplied without name arguments, declare will display the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options.  If no other options
              are supplied with -p, declare will display the attributes and values of all shell variables.  The -f option restricts the display to shell functions.

              The -F option inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function name and attributes are printed.  If the extdebug shell option is enabled using shopt, the source file name and
              line number where each name is defined are displayed as well.  The -F option implies -f.

              The -g option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is executed in a shell function.  It is ignored when declare is not executed in a shell func‐
              tion.

              The -I option causes local variables to inherit the attributes (except the nameref attribute) and value of any existing variable with the same name at a surrounding scope.  If there  is  no
              existing variable, the local variable is initially unset.

              The following options can be used to restrict output to variables with the specified attribute or to give variables attributes:
              -a     Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays in bash(1)).
              -A     Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays in bash(1)).
              -f     Each name refers to a shell function.
              -i     The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION in bash(1)) is performed when the variable is assigned a value.
              -l     When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case characters are converted to lower-case.  The upper-case attribute is disabled.
              -n     Give  each  name  the  nameref  attribute, making it a name reference to another variable.  That other variable is defined by the value of name.  All references, assignments, and at‐
                     tribute modifications to name, except those using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed on the variable referenced by name's value.  The nameref attribute cannot be  ap‐
                     plied to array variables.
              -r     Make names readonly.  These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset.
              -t     Give each name the trace attribute.  Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell.  The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables.
              -u     When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case characters are converted to upper-case.  The lower-case attribute is disabled.
              -x     Mark each name for export to subsequent commands via the environment.

              Using instead of turns off the specified attribute instead, with the exceptions that +a and +A may not be used to destroy array variables and +r will not remove the readonly attribute.

              When  used  in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied.  If a variable name is followed by =value, the value of the
              variable is set to value.  When using -a or -A and the compound assignment syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not take effect until subsequent assignments.

              The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function using an attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is  made
              to  assign a value to an array variable without using the compound assignment syntax (see Arrays in bash(1)), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn
              off readonly status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display a non-existent function with -f.

       dirs [-clpv] [+n] [-n]
              Without options, display the list of currently remembered directories.  The default display is on a single line with directory names separated by spaces.  Directories are added to the  list
              with the pushd command; the popd command removes entries from the list.  The current directory is always the first directory in the stack.

              Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -c     Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries.
              -l     Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default listing format uses a tilde to denote the home directory.
              -p     Print the directory stack with one entry per line.
              -v     Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack.
              +n     Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero.
              -n     Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero.

              The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack.

       disown [-ar] [-h] [id ...]
              Without  options,  remove  each id from the table of active jobs.  Each id may be a job specification jobspec or a process ID pid; if id is a pid, disown uses the job containing pid as job‐
              spec.

              If the -h option is supplied, disown does not remove the jobs corresponding to each id from the jobs table, but rather marks them so the shell does not send SIGHUP to the job if  the  shell
              receives a SIGHUP.

              If  no  id is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without an id argument removes or marks running jobs.  If no id is supplied, and neither the -a nor the
              -r option is supplied, disown removes or marks the current job.

              The return value is 0 unless an id does not specify a valid job.

       echo [-neE] [arg ...]
              Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline.  The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs.  If -n is specified, the trailing newline is not printed.

              If the -e option is given, echo interprets the following backslash-escaped characters.  The -E option disables interpretation of these escape characters, even on systems where they are  in‐
              terpreted  by  default.   The xpg_echo shell option determines whether or not echo interprets any options and expands these escape characters.  echo does not interpret -- to mean the end of
              options.

              echo interprets the following escape sequences:
              \a     alert (bell)
              \b     backspace
              \c     suppress further output
              \e
              \E     an escape character
              \f     form feed
              \n     new line
              \r     carriage return
              \t     horizontal tab
              \v     vertical tab
              \\     backslash
              \0nnn  The eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits).
              \xHH   The eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits).
              \uHHHH The Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits).
              \UHHHHHHHH
                     The Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits).

              echo writes any unrecognized backslash-escaped characters unchanged.

       enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...]
              Enable and disable builtin shell commands.  Disabling a builtin allows an executable file which has the same name as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname,  even
              though the shell normally searches for builtins before files.

              If -n is supplied, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are enabled.  For example, to use the test binary found using PATH instead of the shell builtin version, run

              If  no name arguments are supplied, or if the -p option is supplied, print a list of shell builtins.  With no other option arguments, the list consists of all enabled shell builtins.  If -n
              is supplied, print only disabled builtins.  If -a is supplied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indication of whether or not each is enabled.  The -s option means to restrict
              the output to the POSIX special builtins.

              The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading.  If filename does not contain a slash, Bash will use the value
              of the BASH_LOADABLES_PATH variable as a colon-separated list of directories in which to search for filename.  The default for BASH_LOADABLES_PATH is system-dependent, and  may  include  to
              force a search of the current directory.  The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f.  If -s is used with -f, the new builtin becomes a POSIX special builtin.

              If no options are supplied and a name is not a shell builtin, enable will attempt to load name from a shared object named name, as if the command were

              The return value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object.

       eval [arg ...]
              Concatenate  the  args  together into a single command, separating them with spaces.  Bash then reads and execute this command, and returns its exit status as the return status of eval.  If
              there are no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0.

       exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]]
              If command is specified, it replaces the shell without creating a new process.  command cannot be a shell builtin or function.  The arguments become the arguments to command.  If the -l op‐
              tion is supplied, the shell places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command.  This is what login(1) does.  The -c option causes command to be executed with an  empty
              environment.  If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command.

              If command cannot be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, unless the execfail shell option is enabled.  In that case, it returns a non-zero status.  An interactive shell
              returns a non-zero status if the file cannot be executed.  A subshell exits unconditionally if exec fails.

              If command is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current shell, and the return status is 0.  If there is a redirection error, the return status is 1.

       exit [n]
              Cause the shell to exit with a status of n.  If n is omitted, the exit status is that of the last command executed.  Any trap on EXIT is executed before the shell terminates.

       export [-fn] [name[=value]] ...
       export -p [-f]
              The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands.  If the -f option is given, the names refer to functions.

              The -n option unexports, or removes the export attribute, from each name.  If no names are given, or if only the -p option is supplied, export displays a list of names of all exported vari‐
              ables on the standard output.  Using -p and -f together displays exported functions.  The -p option displays output in a form that may be reused as input.

              export  allows  the value of a variable to be set when it is exported or unexported by following the variable name with =value.  This sets the value of the variable to value while modifying
              the export attribute.  export returns an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is
              not a function.

       false  Does nothing; returns a non-zero status.

       fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last]
       fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd]
              The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes them.  First and last may be specified as a string (to  locate  the
              last command beginning with that string) or as a number (an index into the history list, where a negative number is used as an offset from the current command number).

              When  listing,  a first or last of 0 is equivalent to -1 and -0 is equivalent to the current command (usually the fc command); otherwise 0 is equivalent to -1 and -0 is invalid.  If last is
              not specified, it is set to the current command for listing (so that prints the last 10 commands) and to first otherwise.  If first is not specified, it is set to the previous  command  for
              editing and -16 for listing.

              If the -l option is supplied, the commands are listed on the standard output.  The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing.  The -r option reverses the order of the commands.

              Otherwise,  fc  invokes the editor named by ename on a file containing those commands.  If ename is not supplied, fc uses the value of the FCEDIT variable, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT
              is not set.  If neither variable is set, fc uses When editing is complete, fc reads the file containing the edited commands and echoes and executes them.

              In the second form, fc re-executes command after replacing each instance of pat with rep.  Command is interpreted the same as first above.

              A useful alias to use with fc is so that typing runs the last command beginning with and typing re-executes the last command.

              If the first form is used, the return value is zero unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range.  When editing and  re-executing  a  file  of
              commands, the return value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file.  If the second form is used, the return status is that of the re-
              executed command, unless cmd does not specify a valid history entry, in which case fc returns a non-zero status.

       fg [jobspec]
              Resume  jobspec  in  the  foreground, and make it the current job.  If jobspec is not present, fg uses the shell's notion of the current job.  The return value is that of the command placed
              into the foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if jobspec does not specify a valid job  or  jobspec  specifies  a  job  that  was
              started without job control.

       getopts optstring name [arg ...]
              getopts  is used by shell scripts and functions to parse positional parameters and obtain options and their arguments.  optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a char‐
              acter is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it by white space.  The colon and question mark characters may not be used as option
              characters.

              Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to be processed into the vari‐
              able OPTIND.  OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked.  When an option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into the variable OPTARG.

              The shell does not reset OPTIND automatically; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to getopts within the same shell invocation to use a new set of parameters.

              When it reaches the end of options, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero.  OPTIND is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?.

              getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are supplied as arg values, getopts parses those instead.

              getopts can report errors in two ways.  If the first character of optstring is a colon, getopts uses silent error reporting.  In normal operation, getopts prints diagnostic messages when it
              encounters invalid options or missing option arguments.  If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, getopts does not display any error messages, even if the first character of optstring is  not  a
              colon.

              If  getopts  detects  an invalid option, it places ? into name and, if not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG.  If getopts is silent, it assigns the option character found to
              OPTARG and does not print a diagnostic message.

              If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, it sets the value of name to a question mark (?), unsets OPTARG, and prints a diagnostic message.  If getopts is  silent,  it
              sets the value of name to a colon (:) and sets OPTARG to the option character found.

              getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is found.  It returns false if the end of options is encountered or an error occurs.

       hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name]
              Each  time  hash is invoked, it remembers the full pathname of the command name as determined by searching the directories in $PATH.  Any previously-remembered pathname associated with name
              is discarded.  If the -p option is supplied, hash uses filename as the full pathname of the command.

              The -r option causes the shell to forget all remembered locations.  Assigning to the PATH variable also clears all hashed filenames.  The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered
              location of each name.

              If the -t option is supplied, hash prints the full pathname corresponding to each name.  If multiple name arguments are supplied with -t, hash  prints  the  name  before  the  corresponding
              hashed full pathname.  The -l option displays output in a format that may be reused as input.

              If  no  arguments are given, or if only -l is supplied, hash prints information about remembered commands.  The -t, -d, and -p options (the options that act on the name arguments) are mutu‐
              ally exclusive.  Only one will be active.  If more than one is supplied, -t has higher priority than -p, and both have higher priority than -d.

              The return status is zero unless a name is not found or an invalid option is supplied.

       help [-dms] [pattern]
              Display helpful information about builtin commands.  If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching pattern as described below; otherwise it displays a  list  of
              all the builtins and shell compound commands.

              Options, if supplied, have the follow meanings:

              -d     Display a short description of each pattern
              -m     Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like format
              -s     Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern

              If pattern contains pattern matching characters (see Pattern Matching above) it's treated as a shell pattern and help prints the description of each help topic matching pattern.

              If  not,  and pattern exactly matches the name of a help topic, help prints the description associated with that topic.  Otherwise, help performs prefix matching and prints the descriptions
              of all matching help topics.

              The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern.

       history [n]
       history -c
       history -d offset
       history -d start-end
       history -anrw [filename]
       history -p arg [arg ...]
       history -s arg [arg ...]
              With no options, display the command history list with numbers.  Entries prefixed with a * have been modified.  An argument of n lists only the last n entries.  If the shell variable  HIST‐
              TIMEFORMAT  is  set  and  not null, it is used as a format string for strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each displayed history entry.  If history uses HISTTIMEFORMAT, it
              does not print an intervening space between the formatted time stamp and the history entry.

              If filename is supplied, history uses it as the name of the history file; if not, it uses the value of HISTFILE.  If filename is not supplied and HISTFILE is unset or null, the -a, -n,  -r,
              and -w options have no effect.

              Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -c     Clear the history list by deleting all the entries.  This can be used with the other options to replace the history list.
              -d offset
                     Delete  the history entry at position offset.  If offset is negative, it is interpreted as relative to one greater than the last history position, so negative indices count back from
                     the end of the history, and an index of -1 refers to the current history -d command.
              -d start-end
                     Delete the range of history entries between positions start and end, inclusive.  Positive and negative values for start and end are interpreted as described above.
              -a     Append the history lines to the history file.  These are history lines entered since the beginning of the current bash session, but not already appended to the history file.
              -n     Read the history lines not already read from the history file and add them to the current history list.  These are lines appended to the history file since the beginning of the  cur‐
                     rent bash session.
              -r     Read the history file and append its contents to the current history list.
              -w     Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file.
              -p     Perform history substitution on the following args and display the result on the standard output, without storing the results in the history list.  Each arg must be quoted to disable
                     normal history expansion.
              -s     Store the args in the history list as a single entry.  The last command in the history list is removed before adding the args.

              If  the  HISTTIMEFORMAT  variable  is set, history writes the time stamp information associated with each history entry to the history file, marked with the history comment character as de‐
              scribed above.  When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the following history en‐
              try.

              The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset or range is supplied as an argument to -d, or the
              history expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails.

       jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ]
       jobs -x command [ args ... ]
              The first form lists the active jobs.  The options have the following meanings:
              -l     List process IDs in addition to the normal information.
              -n     Display information only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified of their status.
              -p     List only the process ID of the job's process group leader.
              -r     Display only running jobs.
              -s     Display only stopped jobs.

              If jobspec is supplied, jobs restricts output to information about that job.  The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied.

              If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command, passing it args, returning its exit status.

       kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] id [ ... ]
       kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status]
              Send the signal specified by sigspec or signum to the processes named by each id.  Each id may be a job specification jobspec or a process ID pid.  sigspec is either a case-insensitive sig‐
              nal name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or a signal number; signum is a signal number.  If sigspec is not supplied, then kill sends SIGTERM.

              The -l option lists the signal names.  If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, kill lists the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments, and the return status is  0.   The
              exit_status  argument  to -l is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit status of a process terminated by a signal; if it is supplied, kill prints the name of the signal that
              caused the process to terminate.  kill assumes that process exit statuses are greater than 128; anything less than that is a signal number.  The -L option is equivalent to -l.

              kill returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered.

       let arg [arg ...]
              Each arg is evaluated as an arithmetic expression (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION in bash(1)).  If the last arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; otherwise let returns 0.

       local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ]
              For each argument, create a local variable named name and assign it value.  The option can be any of the options accepted by declare.  When local is used within a function,  it  causes  the
              variable name to have a visible scope restricted to that function and its children.  It is an error to use local when not within a function.

              If  name is -, it makes the set of shell options local to the function in which local is invoked: any shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function after the call to local
              are restored to their original values when the function returns.  The restore is performed as if a series of set commands were executed to restore the values that were in place  before  the
              function.

              With no operands, local writes a list of local variables to the standard output.

              The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly variable.

       logout [n]
              Exit a login shell, returning a status of n to the shell's parent.

       mapfile [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array]
       readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array]
              Read  lines from the standard input, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is supplied, into the indexed array variable array.  The variable MAPFILE is the default array.  Options, if
              supplied, have the following meanings:
              -d     Use the first character of delim to terminate each input line, rather than newline.  If delim is the empty string, mapfile will terminate a line when it reads a NUL character.
              -n     Copy at most count lines.  If count is 0, copy all lines.
              -O     Begin assigning to array at index origin.  The default index is 0.
              -s     Discard the first count lines read.
              -t     Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read.
              -u     Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input.
              -C     Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read.  The -c option specifies quantum.
              -c     Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback.

              If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000.  When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the line  to  be  assigned  to
              that element as additional arguments.  callback is evaluated after the line is read but before the array element is assigned.

              If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it.

              mapfile returns zero unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if array is not an indexed array.

       popd [-n] [+n] [-n]
              Remove  entries  from the directory stack.  The elements are numbered from 0 starting at the first directory listed by dirs, so popd is equivalent to With no arguments, popd removes the top
              directory from the stack, and changes to the new top directory.  Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -n     Suppress the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, only manipulate the stack.
              +n     Remove the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero, from the stack.  For example: removes the first directory, the second.
              -n     Remove the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero.  For example: removes the last directory, the next to last.

              If the top element of the directory stack is modified, and the -n option was not supplied, popd uses the cd builtin to change to the directory at the top of the stack.   If  the  cd  fails,
              popd returns a non-zero value.

              Otherwise, popd returns false if an invalid option is supplied, the directory stack is empty, or n specifies a non-existent directory stack entry.

              If the popd command is successful, bash runs dirs to show the final contents of the directory stack, and the return status is 0.

       printf [-v var] format [arguments]
              Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the control of the format.  The -v option assigns the output to the variable var rather than printing it to the standard output.

              The  format  is  a  character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, which are converted and
              copied to the standard output, and format specifications, each of which causes printing of the next successive argument.  In addition to  the  standard  printf(3)  format  characters  cCsS‐
              ndiouxXeEfFgGaA, printf interprets the following additional format specifiers:
              %b     causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e.
              %q     causes  printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input.  %q and %Q use the $ quoting style if any characters in the argument string require
                     it, and backslash quoting otherwise.  If the format string uses the printf alternate form, these two formats quote the argument string using single quotes.
              %Q     like %q, but applies any supplied precision to the argument before quoting it.
              %(datefmt)T
                     causes printf to output the date-time string resulting from using datefmt as a format string for strftime(3).  The corresponding argument is an integer  representing  the  number  of
                     seconds since the epoch.  This format specifier recognizes two special argument values: -1 represents the current time, and -2 represents the time the shell was invoked.  If no argu‐
                     ment is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been supplied.  This is an exception to the usual printf behavior.

              The %b, %q, and %T format specifiers all use the field width and precision arguments from the format specification and write that many bytes from (or use that wide a field for) the expanded
              argument, which usually contains more characters than the original.

              The %n format specifier accepts a corresponding argument that is treated as a shell variable name.

              The  %s and %c format specifiers accept an l (long) modifier, which forces them to convert the argument string to a wide-character string and apply any supplied field width and precision in
              terms of characters, not bytes.  The %S and %C format specifiers are equivalent to %ls and %lc, respectively.

              Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and if the leading character is a  single  or  double  quote,  the
              value is the numeric value of the following character, using the current locale.

              The  format  is  reused  as necessary to consume all of the arguments.  If the format requires more arguments than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or
              null string, as appropriate, had been supplied.  The return value is zero on success, non-zero if an invalid option is supplied or a write or assignment error occurs.

       pushd [-n] [+n] [-n]
       pushd [-n] [dir]
              Add a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotate the stack, making the new top of the stack the current working directory.  With no arguments, pushd exchanges the top  two  ele‐
              ments of the directory stack.  Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -n     Suppress the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, only manipulate the stack.
              +n     Rotate the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top.
              -n     Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top.
              dir    Adds dir to the directory stack at the top.

              After  the  stack  has been modified, if the -n option was not supplied, pushd uses the cd builtin to change to the directory at the top of the stack.  If the cd fails, pushd returns a non-
              zero value.

              Otherwise, if no arguments are supplied, pushd returns zero unless the directory stack is empty.  When rotating the directory stack, pushd returns zero unless the directory stack  is  empty
              or n specifies a non-existent directory stack element.

              If the pushd command is successful, bash runs dirs to show the final contents of the directory stack.

       pwd [-LP]
              Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory.  The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option to the set builtin com‐
              mand  is  enabled.  If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links.  The return status is 0 unless an error occurs while reading the name of the current directory
              or an invalid option is supplied.

       read [-Eers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...]
              Read one line from the standard input, or from the file descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split it into words as described in bash (1) under Word Splitting, and assign
              the first word to the first name, the second word to the second name, and so on.  If there are more words than names, the remaining words and their intervening delimiters  are  assigned  to
              the  last  name.  If there are fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty values.  The characters in the value of the IFS variable are used to
              split the line into words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion (described in bash (1) under Word Splitting).  The backslash character (\) removes any special  meaning  for  the
              next character read and is used for line continuation.

              Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -a aname
                     The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array variable aname, starting at 0.  aname is unset before any new values are assigned.  Other name arguments are ignored.
              -d delim
                     The first character of delim terminates the input line, rather than newline.  If delim is the empty string, read will terminate a line when it reads a NUL character.
              -e     If the standard input is coming from a terminal, read uses readline (see READLINE in bash(1)) to obtain the line.  Readline uses the current (or default, if line editing was not pre‐
                     viously active) editing settings, but uses readline's default filename completion.
              -E     If the standard input is coming from a terminal, read uses readline (see READLINE in bash(1)) to obtain the line.  Readline uses the current (or default, if line editing was not pre‐
                     viously active) editing settings, but uses bash's default completion, including programmable completion.
              -i text
                     If readline is being used to read the line, read places text into the editing buffer before editing begins.
              -n nchars
                     read  returns  after  reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless it encounters EOF or read times out, but honors a delimiter if it reads fewer
                     than nchars characters before the delimiter.
              -N nchars
                     read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless it encounters EOF or read times out.  Any delimiter  characters  in  the
                     input  are  not treated specially and do not cause read to return until it has read nchars characters.  The result is not split on the characters in IFS; the intent is that the vari‐
                     able is assigned exactly the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below).
              -p prompt
                     Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing newline, before attempting to read any input, but only if input is coming from a terminal.
              -r     Backslash does not act as an escape character.  The backslash is considered to be part of the line.  In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not then be used as a line  continua‐
                     tion.
              -s     Silent mode.  If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed.
              -t timeout
                     Cause  read to time out and return failure if it does not read a complete line of input (or a specified number of characters) within timeout seconds.  timeout may be a decimal number
                     with a fractional portion following the decimal point.  This option is only effective if read is reading input from a terminal, pipe, or other special file; it  has  no  effect  when
                     reading  from regular files.  If read times out, it saves any partial input read into the specified variable name, and the exit status is greater than 128.  If timeout is 0, read re‐
                     turns immediately, without trying to read any data.  In this case, the exit status is 0 if input is available on the specified file descriptor, or the read will return EOF,  non-zero
                     otherwise.
              -u fd  Read input from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input.

              Other than the case where delim is the empty string, read ignores any NUL characters in the input.

              If no names are supplied, read assigns the line read, without the ending delimiter but otherwise unmodified, to the variable REPLY.

              The exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in which case the status is greater than 128), a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a readonly vari‐
              able) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the argument to -u.

       readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...]
              The  given  names  are  marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment or unset.  If the -f option is supplied, each name refers to a shell function.
              The -a option restricts the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays.  If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence.  If no  name  argu‐
              ments are supplied, or if the -p option is supplied, print a list of all readonly names.  The other options may be used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly names.  The
              -p option displays output in a format that may be reused as input.

              readonly  allows  the value of a variable to be set at the same time the readonly attribute is changed by following the variable name with =value.  This sets the value of the variable is to
              value while modifying the readonly attribute.

              The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function.

       return [n]
              Stop executing a shell function or sourced file and return the value specified by n to its caller.  If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed.   If  return  is
              executed  by a trap handler, the last command used to determine the status is the last command executed before the trap handler.  If return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command
              used to determine the status is the last command executed by the trap handler before return was invoked.

              When return is used to terminate execution of a script being executed by the .  (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return either n or the exit status of
              the last command executed within the script as the exit status of the script.  If n is supplied, the return value is its least significant 8 bits.

              Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script.

              The return status is non-zero if return is supplied a non-numeric argument, or is used outside a function and not during execution of a script by . or source.

       set [-abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [--] [-] [arg ...]
       set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [--] [-] [arg ...]
       set -o
       set +o Without options, display the name and value of each shell variable in a format that can be reused as input for setting or resetting the currently-set variables.  Read-only variables  cannot
              be reset.  In posix mode, only shell variables are listed.  The output is sorted according to the current locale.  When options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes.  Any argu‐
              ments  remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to $1, $2, ..., $n.  Options, if specified, have the following mean‐
              ings:
              -a      Each variable or function that is created or modified is given the export attribute and marked for export to the environment of subsequent commands.
              -b      Report the status of terminated background jobs immediately, rather than before the next primary prompt or after a foreground command terminates.  This is effective  only  when  job
                      control is enabled.
              -e      Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR in bash(1)), exits with a non-zero status.  The shell
                      does  not  exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until reserved word, part of the test following the if or elif reserved words,
                      part of any command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last (subject to the state of the  pipefail  shell
                      option),  or if the command's return value is being inverted with !.  If a compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because a command failed while -e was be‐
                      ing ignored, the shell does not exit.  A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits.  This option applies to the shell environment and each subshell  environment  sepa‐
                      rately (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT in bash(1)), and may cause subshells to exit before executing all the commands in the subshell.

                      If  a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands executed within the compound command or function body will be affected
                      by the -e setting, even if -e is set and a command returns a failure status.  If a compound command or shell function sets -e while executing in a context where -e is ignored,  that
                      setting will not have any effect until the compound command or the command containing the function call completes.
              -f      Disable pathname expansion.
              -h      Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution.  This is enabled by default.
              -k      All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name.
              -m      Monitor mode.  Job control is enabled.  This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems that support it (see JOB CONTROL in bash(1)).  All processes run in a separate
                      process group.  When a background job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status.
              -n      Read commands but do not execute them.  This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors.  This is ignored by interactive shells.
              -o option-name
                      The option-name can be one of the following:
                      allexport
                              Same as -a.
                      braceexpand
                              Same as -B.
                      emacs   Use  an emacs-style command line editing interface.  This is enabled by default when the shell is interactive, unless the shell is started with the --noediting option.  This
                              also affects the editing interface used for read -e.
                      errexit Same as -e.
                      errtrace
                              Same as -E.
                      functrace
                              Same as -T.
                      hashall Same as -h.
                      histexpand
                              Same as -H.
                      history Enable command history, as described in bash(1) under HISTORY.  This option is on by default in interactive shells.
                      ignoreeof
                              The effect is as if the shell command had been executed (see Shell Variables in bash(1)).
                      keyword Same as -k.
                      monitor Same as -m.
                      noclobber
                              Same as -C.
                      noexec  Same as -n.
                      noglob  Same as -f.
                      nolog   Currently ignored.
                      notify  Same as -b.
                      nounset Same as -u.
                      onecmd  Same as -t.
                      physical
                              Same as -P.
                      pipefail
                              If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in  the  pipeline  exit  success‐
                              fully.  This option is disabled by default.
                      posix   Enable posix mode; change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard.  See SEE ALSO in bash(1) for a reference to
                              a document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior.
                      privileged
                              Same as -p.
                      verbose Same as -v.
                      vi      Use a vi-style command line editing interface.  This also affects the editing interface used for read -e.
                      xtrace  Same as -x.
                      If -o is supplied with no option-name, set prints the current shell option settings.  If +o is supplied with no option-name, set prints a series of set commands to recreate the cur‐
                      rent option settings on the standard output.
              -p      Turn  on  privileged  mode.  In this mode, the shell does not read the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, BASHOPTS,
                      CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored.  If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group)  id,
                      and  the  -p option is not supplied, these actions are taken and the effective user id is set to the real user id.  If the -p option is supplied at startup, the effective user id is
                      not reset.  Turning this option off causes the effective user and group ids to be set to the real user and group ids.
              -r      Enable restricted shell mode.  This option cannot be unset once it has been set.
              -t      Exit after reading and executing one command.
              -u      Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters and or array variables subscripted with or as an error when performing parameter expansion.  If  expansion  is
                      attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero status.
              -v      Print shell input lines as they are read.
              -x      After  expanding  each  simple  command, for command, case command, select command, or arithmetic for command, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command and its ex‐
                      panded arguments or associated word list, to the standard error.
              -B      The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion in bash(1)).  This is on by default.
              -C      If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the >, >&, and <> redirection operators.  Using the redirection operator >| instead of > will override this and force the  cre‐
                      ation of an output file.
              -E      If  set,  any  trap  on  ERR is inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment.  The ERR trap is normally not inherited in such
                      cases.
              -H      Enable !  style history substitution.  This option is on by default when the shell is interactive.
              -P      If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing commands such as cd that change the current working directory.  It uses the physical  directory  structure  instead.
                      By default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory.
              -T      If  set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment.  The DEBUG and RETURN traps are nor‐
                      mally not inherited in such cases.
              --      If no arguments follow this option, unset the positional parameters.  Otherwise, set the positional parameters to the args, even if some of them begin with a -.
              -       Signal the end of options, and assign all remaining args to the positional parameters.  The -x and -v options are turned off.  If there are no args, the positional parameters remain
                      unchanged.

              The options are off by default unless otherwise noted.  Using + rather than - causes these options to be turned off.  The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of  the
              shell.  The current set of options may be found in $-.  The return status is always zero unless an invalid option is encountered.

       shift [n]
              Rename  positional parameters from n+1 ... to $1 ....  Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are unset.  n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to $#.  If n is
              0, no parameters are changed.  If n is not given, it is assumed to be 1.  If n is greater than $#, the positional parameters are not changed.  The return status is greater than zero if n is
              greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0.

       shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...]
              Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behavior.  The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the -o option is used, those available with the -o  option  to  the
              set builtin command.

              With  no  options, or with the -p option, display a list of all settable options, with an indication of whether or not each is set; if any optnames are supplied, the output is restricted to
              those options.  The -p option displays output in a form that may be reused as input.

              Other options have the following meanings:
              -s     Enable (set) each optname.
              -u     Disable (unset) each optname.
              -q     Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status indicates whether the optname is set or unset.  If multiple optname arguments are supplied with -q, the return status is zero
                     if all optnames are enabled; non-zero otherwise.
              -o     Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin.

              If either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively.  Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) by
              default.

              The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise.  When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless  an  optname  is  not  a
              valid shell option.

              The list of shopt options is:

              array_expand_once
                      If set, the shell suppresses multiple evaluation of associative and indexed array subscripts during arithmetic expression evaluation, while executing builtins that can perform vari‐
                      able assignments, and while executing builtins that perform array dereferencing.
              assoc_expand_once
                      Deprecated; a synonym for array_expand_once.
              autocd  If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the cd command.  This option is only used by interactive shells.
              bash_source_fullpath
                      If set, filenames added to the BASH_SOURCE array variable are converted to full pathnames (see Shell Variables above).
              cdable_vars
                      If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to.
              cdspell If  set,  the  cd  command attempts to correct minor errors in the spelling of a directory component.  Minor errors include transposed characters, a missing character, and one extra
                      character.  If cd corrects the directory name, it prints the corrected filename, and the command proceeds.  This option is only used by interactive shells.
              checkhash
                      If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it.  If a hashed command no longer exists, bash performs a normal path search.
              checkjobs
                      If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell.  If any jobs are running, bash defers the exit until a second  exit  is  attempted
                      without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL in bash(1)).  The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are stopped.
              checkwinsize
                      If  set,  bash checks the window size after each external (non-builtin) command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS, using the file descriptor associated with
                      the standard error if it is a terminal.  This option is enabled by default.
              cmdhist If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple-line command in the same history entry.  This allows easy re-editing of multi-line commands.  This option  is  enabled  by  de‐
                      fault, but only has an effect if command history is enabled, as described in bash(1) under HISTORY.
              compat31
              compat32
              compat40
              compat41
              compat42
              compat43
              compat44
                      These control aspects of the shell's compatibility mode (see SHELL COMPATIBILITY MODE in bash(1)).
              complete_fullquote
                      If  set,  bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when performing completion.  If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as the dollar sign from the
                      set of characters that will be quoted in completed filenames when these metacharacters appear in shell variable references in words to be completed.  This means that dollar signs in
                      variable names that expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be quoted, either.  This is active only when  bash  is  using
                      backslashes to quote completed filenames.  This variable is set by default, which is the default bash behavior in versions through 4.2.
              direxpand
                      If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing filename completion.  This changes the contents of the readline editing buffer.  If not set,
                      bash attempts to preserve what the user typed.
              dirspell
                      If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist.
              dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a in the results of pathname expansion.  The filenames and must always be matched explicitly, even if dotglob is set.
              execfail
                      If set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it cannot execute the file specified as an argument to the exec builtin.  An interactive shell does not exit if exec fails.
              expand_aliases
                      If set, aliases are expanded as described in bash(1) under ALIASES.  This option is enabled by default for interactive shells.
              extdebug
                      If  set  at  shell invocation, or in a shell startup file, arrange to execute the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to the --debugger option.  If set after invoca‐
                      tion, behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled:
                      1.     The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number corresponding to each function name supplied as an argument.
                      2.     If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a non-zero value, the next command is skipped and not executed.
                      3.     If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a value of 2, and the shell is executing in a subroutine (a shell function or  a  shell  script  executed  by  the  .  or  source
                             builtins), the shell simulates a call to return.
                      4.     BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions in bash(1)).
                      5.     Function tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps.
                      6.     Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the ERR trap.
              extglob If set, enable the extended pattern matching features described in bash(1) under Pathname Expansion.
              extquote
                      If set, $string and $string quoting is performed within ${parameter} expansions enclosed in double quotes.  This option is enabled by default.
              failglob
                      If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error.
              force_fignore
                      If  set,  the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible completions.
                      See Shell Variables in bash(1) for a description of FIGNORE.  This option is enabled by default.
              globasciiranges
                      If set, range expressions used in pattern matching bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching in bash(1)) behave as if in the traditional C locale when performing comparisons.   That
                      is,  pattern  matching does not take the current locale's collating sequence into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case ASCII characters will
                      collate together.
              globskipdots
                      If set, pathname expansion will never match the filenames and even if the pattern begins with a This option is enabled by default.
              globstar
                      If set, the pattern ** used in a pathname expansion context will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories.  If the pattern is followed by a /,  only  directo‐
                      ries and subdirectories match.
              gnu_errfmt
                      If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format.
              histappend
                      If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell exits, rather than overwriting the file.
              histreedit
                      If set, and readline is being used, the user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution.
              histverify
                      If  set,  and  readline  is  being used, the results of history substitution are not immediately passed to the shell parser.  Instead, the resulting line is loaded into the readline
                      editing buffer, allowing further modification.
              hostcomplete
                      If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ is being completed (see Completing under READLINE in bash(1)).   This
                      is enabled by default.
              huponexit
                      If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits.
              inherit_errexit
                      If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell environment.  This option is enabled when posix mode is enabled.
              interactive_comments
                      In  an  interactive shell, a word beginning with # causes that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored, as in a non-interactive shell (see COMMENTS in bash(1)).
                      This option is enabled by default.
              lastpipe
                      If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment.
              lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where possible.
              localvar_inherit
                      If set, local variables inherit the value and attributes of a variable of the same name that exists at a previous scope before any new value is assigned.  The nameref  attribute  is
                      not inherited.
              localvar_unset
                      If set, calling unset on local variables in previous function scopes marks them so subsequent lookups find them unset until that function returns.  This is identical to the behavior
                      of unsetting local variables at the current function scope.
              login_shell
                      The shell sets this option if it is started as a login shell (see INVOCATION in bash(1)).  The value may not be changed.
              mailwarn
                      If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was checked, bash displays the message
              no_empty_cmd_completion
                      If set, and readline is being used, bash does not search PATH for possible completions when completion is attempted on an empty line.
              nocaseglob
                      If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname Expansion in bash(1)).
              nocasematch
                      If  set,  bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing case or [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern substitution word ex‐
                      pansions, or when filtering possible completions as part of programmable completion.
              noexpand_translation
                      If set, bash encloses the translated results of $... quoting in single quotes instead of double quotes.  If the string is not translated, this has no effect.
              nullglob
                      If set, pathname expansion patterns which match no files (see Pathname Expansion in bash(1)) expand to nothing and are removed, rather than expanding to themselves.
              patsub_replacement
                      If set, bash expands occurrences of & in the replacement string of pattern substitution to the text matched by the pattern, as described under Parameter Expansion in bash(1).   This
                      option is enabled by default.
              progcomp
                      If set, enable the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion in bash(1)).  This option is enabled by default.
              progcomp_alias
                      If  set,  and programmable completion is enabled, bash treats a command name that doesn't have any completions as a possible alias and attempts alias expansion.  If it has an alias,
                      bash attempts programmable completion using the command word resulting from the expanded alias.
              promptvars
                      If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in PROMPTING  in  bash(1).   This
                      option is enabled by default.
              restricted_shell
                      The  shell  sets this option if it is started in restricted mode (see RESTRICTED SHELL in bash(1)).  The value may not be changed.  This is not reset when the startup files are exe‐
                      cuted, allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a shell is restricted.
              shift_verbose
                      If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when the shift count exceeds the number of positional parameters.
              sourcepath
                      If set, the . (source) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file supplied as an argument when the -p option is not supplied.  This option  is  enabled
                      by default.
              varredir_close
                      If  set,  the  shell automatically closes file descriptors assigned using the {varname} redirection syntax (see REDIRECTION in bash(1)) instead of leaving them open when the command
                      completes.
              xpg_echo
                      If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default.  If the posix shell option is also enabled, echo does not interpret any options.

       suspend [-f]
              Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal.  A login shell, or a shell without job control enabled, cannot be suspended; the -f option  will  override  this  and
              force the suspension.  The return status is 0 unless the shell is a login shell or job control is not enabled and -f is not supplied.

       test expr
       [ expr ]
              Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression expr.  Each operator and operand must be a separate argument.  Expressions are composed of
              the primaries described in bash(1) under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS.  test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument of -- as signifying the end of options.

              Expressions  may  be  combined  using  the  following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence.  The evaluation depends on the number of arguments; see below.  test uses operator
              precedence when there are five or more arguments.
              ! expr True if expr is false.
              ( expr )
                     Returns the value of expr.  This may be used to override normal operator precedence.
              expr1 -a expr2
                     True if both expr1 and expr2 are true.
              expr1 -o expr2
                     True if either expr1 or expr2 is true.

              test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules based on the number of arguments.

              0 arguments
                     The expression is false.
              1 argument
                     The expression is true if and only if the argument is not null.
              2 arguments
                     If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and only if the second argument is null.  If the first argument is one of the unary conditional operators listed in bash(1)  un‐
                     der CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is true if the unary test is true.  If the first argument is not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is false.
              3 arguments
                     The  following conditions are applied in the order listed.  If the second argument is one of the binary conditional operators listed in bash(1) under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the re‐
                     sult of the expression is the result of the binary test using the first and third arguments as operands.  The -a and -o operators are considered binary operators when there are three
                     arguments.  If the first argument is !, the value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and third arguments.  If the first argument is exactly ( and the third ar‐
                     gument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argument.  Otherwise, the expression is false.
              4 arguments
                     The following conditions are applied in the order listed.  If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of the three-argument expression composed  of  the  remaining  argu‐
                     ments.   If the first argument is exactly ( and the fourth argument is exactly ), the result is the two-argument test of the second and third arguments.  Otherwise, the expression is
                     parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above.
              5 or more arguments
                     The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above.

              When the shell is in posix mode, or if the expression is part of the [[ command, the < and > operators sort using the current locale.  If the shell is not in posix mode, the test and [ com‐
              mands sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering.

              The historical operator-precedence parsing with 4 or more arguments can lead to ambiguities when it encounters strings that look like primaries.  The POSIX standard has  deprecated  the  -a
              and  -o primaries and enclosing expressions within parentheses.  Scripts should no longer use them.  It's much more reliable to restrict test invocations to a single primary, and to replace
              uses of -a and -o with the shell's && and || list operators.

       times  Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and for processes run from the shell.  The return status is 0.

       trap [-lpP] [[action] sigspec ...]
              The action is a command that is read and executed when the shell receives any of the signals sigspec.  If action is absent (and there is a single sigspec) or -, each  specified  sigspec  is
              reset to the value it had when the shell was started.  If action is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes.

              If  no arguments are supplied, trap displays the actions associated with each trapped signal as a set of trap commands that can be reused as shell input to restore the current signal dispo‐
              sitions.  If -p is given, and action is not present, then trap displays the actions associated with each sigspec or, if none are supplied, for all trapped signals, as a set of trap commands
              that can be reused as shell input to restore the current signal dispositions.  The -P option behaves similarly, but displays only the actions associated with each sigspec argument.  -P  re‐
              quires  at least one sigspec argument.  The -P or -p options may be used in a subshell environment (e.g., command substitution) and, as long as they are used before trap is used to change a
              signal's handling, will display the state of its parent's traps.

              The -l option prints a list of signal names and their corresponding numbers.  Each sigspec is either a signal name defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number.  Signal names are case insensi‐
              tive and the SIG prefix is optional.  If -l is supplied with no sigspec arguments, it prints a list of valid signal names.

              If a sigspec is EXIT (0), action is executed on exit from the shell.  If a sigspec is DEBUG, action is executed before every simple command, for command, case command,  select  command,  ((
              arithmetic  command,  [[  conditional command, arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR in bash(1)).  Refer to the description of
              the extdebug shell option (see shopt in bash(1)) for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap.  If a sigspec is RETURN, action is executed each time a shell function  or  a  script  executed
              with the . or source builtins finishes executing.

              If a sigspec is ERR, action is executed whenever a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to the fol‐
              lowing conditions.  The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list immediately following a while or until reserved word, part of the test in an if statement,
              part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last (subject to the state of the pipefail shell option), or
              if the command's return value is being inverted using !.  These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) option.

              When  the  shell  is not interactive, signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or reset.  Interactive shells permit trapping signals ignored on entry.  Trapped signals that
              are not being ignored are reset to their original values in a subshell or subshell environment when one is created.  The return status is false if any sigspec is invalid; otherwise trap re‐
              turns true.

       true   Does nothing, returns a 0 status.

       type [-aftpP] name [name ...]
              Indicate how each name would be interpreted if used as a command name.

              If the -t option is used, type prints a string which is one of alias, keyword, function, builtin, or file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin,  or  executable  file,
              respectively.  If the name is not found, type prints nothing and returns a non-zero exit status.

              If  the -p option is used, type either returns the pathname of the executable file that would be found by searching $PATH for name or nothing if would not return file.  The -P option forces
              a PATH search for each name, even if would not return file.  If name is present in the table of hashed commands, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that ap‐
              pears first in PATH.

              If the -a option is used, type prints all of the places that contain a command named name.  This includes aliases, reserved words, functions, and builtins, but the path search  options  (-p
              and -P) can be supplied to restrict the output to executable files.  type does not consult the table of hashed commands when using -a with -p, and only performs a PATH search for name.

              The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the command builtin.  type returns true if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found.

       ulimit [-HS] -a
       ulimit [-HS] [-bcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPRT [limit]]
              Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes it starts, on systems that allow such control.

              The  -H  and  -S  options  specify whether the hard or soft limit is set for the given resource.  A hard limit cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be in‐
              creased up to the value of the hard limit.  If neither -H nor -S is specified, ulimit sets both the soft and hard limits.

              The value of limit can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard  limit,  the  current  soft
              limit,  and  no  limit, respectively.  If limit is omitted, ulimit prints the current value of the soft limit of the resource, unless the -H option is given.  When more than one resource is
              specified, the limit name and unit, if appropriate, are printed before the value.  Other options are interpreted as follows:
              -a     Report all current limits; no limits are set.
              -b     The maximum socket buffer size.
              -c     The maximum size of core files created.
              -d     The maximum size of a process's data segment.
              -e     The maximum scheduling priority (
              -f     The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children.
              -i     The maximum number of pending signals.
              -k     The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated.
              -l     The maximum size that may be locked into memory.
              -m     The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit).
              -n     The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set).
              -p     The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set).
              -q     The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues.
              -r     The maximum real-time scheduling priority.
              -s     The maximum stack size.
              -t     The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds.
              -u     The maximum number of processes available to a single user.
              -v     The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its children.
              -x     The maximum number of file locks.
              -P     The maximum number of pseudoterminals.
              -R     The maximum time a real-time process can run before blocking, in microseconds.
              -T     The maximum number of threads.

              If limit is supplied, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource.  If no option is supplied, then -f is assumed.

              Values are in 1024-byte increments, except for -t, which is in seconds; -R, which is in microseconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n, and  -u,  which  are  un‐
              scaled  values; and, when in posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte increments.  The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while set‐
              ting a new limit.

       umask [-p] [-S] [mode]
              Set the user file-creation mask to mode.  If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted  by
              chmod(1).   If  mode is omitted, umask prints the current value of the mask.  The -S option without a mode argument prints the mask in a symbolic format; the default output is an octal num‐
              ber.  If the -p option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input.  The return status is zero if the mode was successfully changed or if  no  mode
              argument was supplied, and non-zero otherwise.

       unalias [-a] [name ...]
              Remove each name from the list of defined aliases.  If -a is supplied, remove all alias definitions.  The return value is true unless a supplied name is not a defined alias.

       unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...]
              For  each name, remove the corresponding variable or function.  If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed.  If -f is specified, each name
              refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed.  If the -n option is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will  be  unset  rather  than  the
              variable  it references.  -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied.  Read-only variables and functions may not be unset.  When variables or functions are removed, they are also removed
              from the environment passed to subsequent commands.  If no options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no variable by that name, a function with that name, if any,  is
              unset.   Some shell variables may not be unset.  If any of BASH_ALIASES, BASH_ARGV0, BASH_CMDS, BASH_COMMAND, BASH_SUBSHELL, BASHPID, COMP_WORDBREAKS, DIRSTACK, EPOCHREALTIME, EPOCHSECONDS,
              FUNCNAME, GROUPS, HISTCMD, LINENO, RANDOM, SECONDS, or SRANDOM are unset, they lose their special properties, even if they are subsequently reset.  The exit status is true unless a name  is
              readonly or may not be unset.

       wait [-fn] [-p varname] [id ...]
              Wait  for  each  specified child process id and return the termination status of the last id.  Each id may be a process ID pid or a job specification jobspec; if a jobspec is supplied, wait
              waits for all processes in the job.

              If no options or ids are supplied, wait waits for all running background jobs and the last-executed process substitution, if its process id is the same as $!, and the return status is zero.

              If the -n option is supplied, wait waits for any one of the given ids or, if no ids are supplied, any job or process substitution, to complete and returns its exit status.  If none  of  the
              supplied ids is a child of the shell, or if no ids are supplied and the shell has no unwaited-for children, the exit status is 127.

              If  the  -p  option is supplied, wait assigns the process or job identifier of the job for which the exit status is returned to the variable varname named by the option argument.  The vari‐
              able, which cannot be readonly, will be unset initially, before any assignment.  This is useful only when used with the -n option.

              Supplying the -f option, when job control is enabled, forces wait to wait for each id to terminate before returning its status, instead of returning when it changes status.

              If none of the ids specify one of the shell's active child processes, the return status is 127.  If wait is interrupted by a signal, any varname will remain unset,  and  the  return  status
              will be greater than 128, as described under SIGNALS in bash(1).  Otherwise, the return status is the exit status of the last id.

SHELL COMPATIBILITY MODE
       Bash-4.0  introduced  the concept of a shell compatibility level, specified as a set of options to the shopt builtin (compat31, compat32, compat40, compat41, and so on).  There is only one current
       compatibility level — each option is mutually exclusive.  The compatibility level is intended to allow users to select behavior from previous versions that  is  incompatible  with  newer  versions
       while they migrate scripts to use current features and behavior.  It's intended to be a temporary solution.

       This  section does not mention behavior that is standard for a particular version (e.g., setting compat32 means that quoting the right hand side of the regexp matching operator quotes special reg‐
       exp characters in the word, which is default behavior in bash-3.2 and subsequent versions).

       If a user enables, say, compat32, it may affect the behavior of other compatibility levels up to and including the current compatibility level.  The idea is that each compatibility level  controls
       behavior  that  changed  in that version of bash, but that behavior may have been present in earlier versions.  For instance, the change to use locale-based comparisons with the [[ command came in
       bash-4.1, and earlier versions used ASCII-based comparisons, so enabling compat32 will enable ASCII-based comparisons as well.  That granularity may not be sufficient for all uses, and as a result
       users should employ compatibility levels carefully.  Read the documentation for a particular feature to find out the current behavior.

       Bash-4.3 introduced a new shell variable: BASH_COMPAT.  The value assigned to this variable (a decimal version number like 4.2, or an integer corresponding to the compatNN option, like 42)  deter‐
       mines the compatibility level.

       Starting with bash-4.4, bash began deprecating older compatibility levels.  Eventually, the options will be removed in favor of BASH_COMPAT.

       Bash-5.0 was the final version for which there was an individual shopt option for the previous version.  BASH_COMPAT is the only mechanism to control the compatibility level in versions newer than
       bash-5.0.

       The following table describes the behavior changes controlled by each compatibility level setting.  The compatNN tag is used as shorthand for setting the compatibility level to NN using one of the
       following  mechanisms.  For versions prior to bash-5.0, the compatibility level may be set using the corresponding compatNN shopt option.  For bash-4.3 and later versions, the BASH_COMPAT variable
       is preferred, and it is required for bash-5.1 and later versions.

       compat31
              •      Quoting the rhs of the [[ command's regexp matching operator (=) has no special effect.

       compat32
              •      The < and > operators to the [[ command do not consider the current locale when comparing strings; they use ASCII ordering.

       compat40
              •      The < and > operators to the [[ command do not consider the current locale when comparing strings; they use ASCII ordering.  Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII  collation  and
                     strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the current locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3).

       compat41
              •      In posix mode, time may be followed by options and still be recognized as a reserved word (this is POSIX interpretation 267).
              •      In posix mode, the parser requires that an even number of single quotes occur in the word portion of a double-quoted parameter expansion and treats them specially, so that characters
                     within the single quotes are considered quoted (this is POSIX interpretation 221).

       compat42
              •      The replacement string in double-quoted pattern substitution does not undergo quote removal, as it does in versions after bash-4.2.
              •      In  posix  mode, single quotes are considered special when expanding the word portion of a double-quoted parameter expansion and can be used to quote a closing brace or other special
                     character (this is part of POSIX interpretation 221); in later versions, single quotes are not special within double-quoted word expansions.

       compat43
              •      Word expansion errors are considered non-fatal errors that cause the current command to fail, even in posix mode (the default behavior is to make them fatal  errors  that  cause  the
                     shell to exit).
              •      When executing a shell function, the loop state (while/until/etc.)  is not reset, so break or continue in that function will break or continue loops in the calling context.  Bash-4.4
                     and later reset the loop state to prevent this.

       compat44
              •      The shell sets up the values used by BASH_ARGV and BASH_ARGC so they can expand to the shell's positional parameters even if extended debugging mode is not enabled.
              •      A subshell inherits loops from its parent context, so break or continue will cause the subshell to exit.  Bash-5.0 and later reset the loop state to prevent the exit
              •      Variable  assignments  preceding builtins like export and readonly that set attributes continue to affect variables with the same name in the calling environment even if the shell is
                     not in posix mode.

       compat50
              •      Bash-5.1 changed the way $RANDOM is generated to introduce slightly more randomness.  If the shell compatibility level is set to 50 or lower, it reverts to the method  from  bash-5.0
                     and previous versions, so seeding the random number generator by assigning a value to RANDOM will produce the same sequence as in bash-5.0.
              •      If the command hash table is empty, bash versions prior to bash-5.1 printed an informational message to that effect, even when producing output that can be reused as input.  Bash-5.1
                     suppresses that message when the -l option is supplied.

       compat51
              •      The unset builtin treats attempts to unset array subscripts @ and * differently depending on whether the array is indexed or associative, and differently than in previous versions.
              •      Arithmetic commands ( ((...)) ) and the expressions in an arithmetic for statement can be expanded more than once.
              •      Expressions used as arguments to arithmetic operators in the [[ conditional command can be expanded more than once.
              •      The expressions in substring parameter brace expansion can be expanded more than once.
              •      The expressions in the $((...)) word expansion can be expanded more than once.
              •      Arithmetic expressions used as indexed array subscripts can be expanded more than once.
              •      test  -v,  when  given  an argument of A[@], where A is an existing associative array, will return true if the array has any set elements.  Bash-5.2 will look for and report on a key
                     named @.
              •      The ${parameter[:]=value} word expansion will return value, before any variable-specific transformations have been performed (e.g., converting to lowercase).   Bash-5.2  will  return
                     the final value assigned to the variable.
              •      Parsing  command  substitutions  will behave as if extended globbing (see the description of the shopt builtin above) is enabled, so that parsing a command substitution containing an
                     extglob pattern (say, as part of a shell function) will not fail.  This assumes the intent is to enable extglob before the command is executed and word expansions are performed.   It
                     will fail at word expansion time if extglob hasn't been enabled by the time the command is executed.

       compat52
              •      The test builtin uses its historical algorithm to parse parenthesized subexpressions when given five or more arguments.
              •      If the -p or -P option is supplied to the bind builtin, bind treats any arguments remaining after option processing as bindable command names, and displays any key sequences bound to
                     those commands, instead of treating the arguments as key sequences to bind.

SEE ALSO
       bash(1), sh(1)

GNU Bash-2.05a                                                                                2001 October 29                                                                              BASH-BUILTINS(7)
