BAZEL(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  BAZEL(1)

NAME
       bazel, bazel-4 - tool to automate software builds and tests

SYNOPSIS
       bazel <command> <options> ...

DESCRIPTION
              [bazel release 4.1.0]

   Available commands:
       analyze-profile
              Analyzes build profile data.

       aquery Analyzes the given targets and queries the action graph.

       build  Builds the specified targets.

       canonicalize-flags
              Canonicalizes a list of bazel options.

       clean  Removes output files and optionally stops the server.

       coverage
              Generates code coverage report for specified test targets.

       cquery Loads, analyzes, and queries the specified targets w/ configurations.

       dump   Dumps the internal state of the bazel server process.

       fetch  Fetches external repositories that are prerequisites to the targets.

       help   Prints help for commands, or the index.

       info   Displays runtime info about the bazel server.

       license
              Prints the license of this software.

       mobile-install
              Installs targets to mobile devices.

       print_action
              Prints the command line args for compiling a file.

       query  Executes a dependency graph query.

       run    Runs the specified target.

       shutdown
              Stops the bazel server.

       sync   Syncs all repositories specified in the workspace file

       test   Builds and runs the specified test targets.

       version
              Prints version information for bazel.

   Getting more help:
              bazel help <command>

              Prints help and options for <command>.

              bazel help startup_options

              Options for the JVM hosting bazel.

              bazel help target-syntax

              Explains the syntax for specifying targets.

              bazel help info-keys

              Displays a list of keys used by the info command.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for bazel is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and bazel programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info bazel

       should give you access to the complete manual.

                                                                                                January 2021                                                                                       BAZEL(1)
