bcrypt(1)                   General Commands Manual                  bcrypt(1)

NAME
       bcrypt - blowfish file encryption

SYNOPSIS
       bcrypt [-orc][-sN] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       bcrypt encrypts and decrypts files using the blowfish algorithm.

       Encrypted  files  will  be  saved with an extension of .bfe.  Any files
       ending in .bfe will be assumed to be encrypted with bcrypt and will at‐
       tempt  to  decrypt  them.  Any other input files will be encrypted.  If
       more than one type of file is given,  bcrypt  will  process  all  files
       which are the same as the first filetype given.

       By  default, bcrypt will compress input files before encryption, remove
       input files after they are processed (assuming they are processed  suc‐
       cessfully)  and  overwrite input files with random data to prevent data
       recovery.

       Passphrases may be between 8  and  56  characters.  Regardless  of  the
       passphrase size, the key is hashed internally to 448 bits - the largest
       keysize supported by the blowfish algorithm. However, it is still  wise
       to use a strong passphrase.

OPTIONS
       -o     print output to standard out. Implies -r.

       -c     DO NOT compress files before encryption.

       -r     DO NOT remove input files after processing

       -sN    How  many times to overwrite input files with random data before
              deleting.  The default number of overwrites is  3.  Use  -s0  to
              disable this feature. No effect if -r is supplied.

NOTES
       The -o ,-r ,and -c options each have the opposite effects if the appro‐
       priate settings are altered from the defaults in config.h. To determine
       what  effect  each of these have on your system, run bcrypt without any
       options.

       Encrypted files should be compatible between most systems.  Binary com‐
       patibility has been tested on all supported systems. There is a list of
       supported systems in the README file that was included with this  soft‐
       ware.

BUGS
       Probably.  If you find that it will not compile and run on your system,
       or that encrypted files are not compatible with  other  platforms,  its
       probably  because  I  don't  have  access  to the platform in question.
       Patches or access to an unsupported machine are welcome.

AUTHOR
       johnny shelley
              <jshelley@cahaus.com>, <jshelley@ictransnet.com>

DISTRIBUTION
       bcrypt includes Paul Kocher's implementation of the blowfish algorithm.
       The  version distributed with bcrypt has been altered. Original sources
       are available from http://www.counterpane.com/bfsh-koc.zip

version 1.1                    10 September 2002                     bcrypt(1)
