BGLDEPEND(1)                General Commands Manual               BGLDEPEND(1)

NAME
       bgldepend - create Bigloo dependencies in makefiles

SYNOPSIS
       bgldepend [ options ] sourcefile ...

DESCRIPTION
       bgldepend  program  reads each sourcefile in sequence and  parses it to
       find the module include and import module  directives.  bgldepend  com‐
       putes the transitive closure of the import relationship. That is, it is
       sufficient to provide bgldepend with a single Bigloo file that  imports
       all the project file (e.g. the "main" file.)

       Every   file   that  a  sourcefile includes, directly or indirectly, is
       what bgldepend calls a dependency. These dependencies are then  written
       to  a  makefile in such a way that make(1) will know which object files
       must be recompiled when a dependency has changed.

       By default, bgldepend writes its output on the standard output  device.
       If  bgldepend is provided with a -o makefile option, it will update the
       makefile file. That is, it will search the makefile for the line:
        # bgldepend start (don't edit)
       and
        # bgldepend stop

       Dependencies will be written in between these two lines.

OPTIONS
       file            Is an file implementing a  module.   Afile  reads  that
                       file to discover the name of the implemented module.

       -search-path <path>
                       Add  path  to  the  directory  list  read for searching
                       Bigloo source files.

       -exclude-path <path>
                       Exclude path from the directory list read for searching
                       Bigloo source files.

       -suffix <suf>   Adds  suf  to  the bmake source file suffixes list. De‐
                       fault suffixes are "scm", "sch" and "bgl".

       -v              Verbose mode

       -o <makefile>   The name of the makefile file to be updated

EXAMPLE
       Normally,  bgldepend will be used in a makefile target so  that  typing
       ``make bgldepend'' will bring the dependencies up to date for the make‐
       file.  For example,

          MAIN=foo.scm
          SRCS = $(MAIN) bar.scm gee.scm
          bgldepend:
              bgldepend -o Makefile $(MAIN)

SEE ALSO
       bigloo(1), bglafile(1), bglmake(1), bglpp(1),  bglprof(1),  bgltags(1),
       make(1)

AUTHOR
       Manuel SERRANO, Manuel.Serrano@inria.fr

                                  Aug 15 1998                     BGLDEPEND(1)
