BGPCTL(8)                 BSD System Manager's Manual                BGPCTL(8)

NAME
     bgpctl — control the Border Gateway Protocol daemon

SYNOPSIS
     bgpctl [-jnV] [-s socket] command [argument ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The bgpctl program controls the bgpd(8) daemon.  Commands may be abbrevi‐
     ated to the minimum unambiguous prefix; for example, s su for show
     summary.

     The options are as follows:

     -j      Create output as JSON object.

     -n      Show neighbors' IP addresses instead of their description.

     -s socket
             Use socket to communicate with bgpd(8) instead of the default
             /run/bgpd/bgpd.sock.<rdomain> where <rdomain> is the routing
             domain bgpctl is running in.  To administer bgpd(8) in a differ‐
             ent routing domain, run bgpctl in said routing domain.

     -V      Show the version and exit.

     The commands are as follows:

     fib [table number] couple
             Insert the learned routes into the specified Forwarding Informa‐
             tion Base a.k.a. the kernel routing table.

     fib [table number] decouple
             Remove the learned routes from the specified Forwarding Informa‐
             tion Base a.k.a. the kernel routing table.

     log brief
             Disable verbose debug logging.

     log verbose
             Enable verbose debug logging.

     neighbor peer clear [reason]
             Stop and restart the BGP session to the specified neighbor.  If a
             reason is provided, the reason is sent as Administrative Shutdown
             Communication to the neighbor.  peer may be the neighbor's
             address, description or the word group followed by a group
             description.

     neighbor peer destroy
             Destroy a previously cloned peer.  The peer must be down before
             calling this function.  peer may be the neighbor's address,
             description or the word group followed by a group description.

     neighbor peer down [reason]
             Take the BGP session to the specified neighbor down.  If a reason
             is provided, the reason is sent as Administrative Shutdown Commu‐
             nication to the neighbor.  peer may be the neighbor's address,
             description or the word group followed by a group description.

     neighbor peer refresh
             Request the neighbor to re-send all routes.  Note that the neigh‐
             bor is not obliged to re-send all routes, or any routes at all,
             even if it announced the route refresh capability.  peer may be
             the neighbor's address, description or the word group followed by
             a group description.

     neighbor peer up
             Bring the BGP session to the specified neighbor up.  peer may be
             the neighbor's address, description or the word group followed by
             a group description.

     network add prefix [arguments]
             Add the specified prefix to the list of announced networks.  It
             is possible to set various path attributes with additional
             arguments.  Adding a prefix will replace an existing equal pre‐
             fix, including prefixes loaded from the configuration.

     network bulk [arguments] [add]
             Bulk add specified prefixes to the list of announced networks.
             Prefixes should be sent via stdin.  It is possible to set various
             path attributes with additional arguments.  If neither add or
             delete is given, add is the default.

     network bulk delete
             Bulk remove the specified prefixes from the list of announced
             networks.  Prefixes should be sent via stdin.

     network delete prefix
             Remove the specified prefix from the list of announced networks.

     network flush
             Remove all dynamically (i.e. with bgpctl network add) added pre‐
             fixes from the list of announced networks.

     network mrt file file filter
             Import networks from an MRT table dump for debugging purposes.
             filter can be specified similarly to the show mrt command.  Only
             networks matching the filter will be imported.

     network show family
             Show all announced networks.  family, if given, limits the output
             to the given address family.  The supported families are inet and
             inet6.

     reload [reason]
             Reload the configuration file.  Changes to the following neighbor
             options in bgpd.conf(5) only take effect when the session is
             reset: ipsec and tcp md5sig.

     show fib filter
             Show routes from bgpd(8)'s view of the Forwarding Information
             Base.  filter can be an IP address, in which case the route to
             this address is shown, or a flag:

             connected     Show only connected routes.
             static        Show only static routes.
             bgp           Show only routes originating from bgpd(8) itself.
             nexthop       Show only routes required to reach a BGP nexthop.
             inet          Show only IPv4 routes.
             inet6         Show only IPv6 routes.
             table number  Show the routing table with ID number instead of
                           the default routing table with ID 0.

     show interfaces
             Show the interface states.

     show mrt [options] filter
             Show routes from an MRT table dump file.  filter can be an IP
             address, a CIDR prefix, an AS filter, a combination or nothing:

             address                 Show best matching route for address.
             address/len             Show RIB entry for this CIDR prefix.
             address/len all         Show all entries in the specified range.
             address/len or-shorter  Show all entries covering and including
                                     the specified prefix.
             as as                   Show all entries with as anywhere in the
                                     AS path.
             empty-as                Show all entries that are internal routes
                                     with no AS's in the AS path.
             neighbor ip             Show only entries from the specified
                                     peer.
             peer-as as              Show all entries with as as leftmost AS.
             source-as as            Show all entries with as as rightmost AS.
             transit-as as           Show all entries with as anywhere but
                                     rightmost.

             Additionally, the following options are defined:

             detail     Show more detailed output for matching routes.
             family     Limit the output to the given address family.
             file name  Read the MRT dump from file name instead of using
                        stdin.
             peers      Print the neighbor table of MRT TABLE_DUMP_V2 dumps.
                        Using this on other table dumps will only show the
                        neighbor of the first entry.

             Multiple options and filters can be used at the same time.

     show neighbor peer modifier
             Show detailed information about the neighbor identified by peer,
             according to the given modifier:

             messages  Show statistics about sent and received BGP messages.
             terse     Show statistics in an easily parseable terse format.
                       The printed numbers are the sent and received open,
                       sent and received notifications, sent and received
                       updates, sent and received keepalives, and sent and
                       received route refresh messages plus the current and
                       maximum prefix count, the number of sent and received
                       updates, sent and received withdraws, the neighbor's
                       address (or subnet, for a template), AS number, and
                       finally description.
             timers    Show the BGP timers.
             peer may be the neighbor's address, description or the word group
             followed by a group description.

     show nexthop
             Show the list of BGP nexthops and the result of their validity
             check.

     show rib [options] filter
             Show routes from the bgpd(8) Routing Information Base.  filter
             can be an IP address, a CIDR prefix, an AS filter or nothing:

             address                 Show best matching route for address.
             address/len             Show RIB entry for this CIDR prefix.
             address/len all         Show all entries in the specified range.
             address/len or-shorter  Show all entries covering and including
                                     the specified prefix.
             as as                   Show all entries with as anywhere in the
                                     AS path.
             community community     Show all entries with community
                                     community.
             large-community large-community
                                     Show all entries with large-community
                                     large-community.
             empty-as                Show all entries that are internal routes
                                     with no AS's in the AS path.
             memory                  Show RIB memory statistics.
             neighbor peer           Show only entries from the specified
                                     peer.
             neighbor group description
                                     Show only entries from the specified peer
                                     group.
             path-id pathid          Show only entries which match the speci‐
                                     fied pathid.  Must be used together with
                                     either neighbor or out.
             peer-as as              Show all entries with as as leftmost AS.
             source-as as            Show all entries with as as rightmost AS.
             summary                 This is the same as the show summary com‐
                                     mand.
             table rib               Show only entries from the specified RIB
                                     table.
             transit-as as           Show all entries with as anywhere but
                                     rightmost.
             ovs (valid | not-found | invalid)
                                     Show all entries with matching Origin
                                     Validation State (OVS).

             Additionally, the following options are defined:

             best      Alias for selected.
             error     Show only prefixes which are marked invalid and were
                       treated as withdrawn.
             selected  Show only selected routes.
             ssv       Show each RIB entry as a single line, with fields sepa‐
                       rated by semicolons.  Only works if detail is speci‐
                       fied.
             detail    Show more detailed output for matching routes.
             family    Limit the output to the given address family.
             in        Show routes from the unfiltered Adj-RIB-In.  The
                       neighbor needs to be specified.
             out       Show the filtered routes sent to a neighbor.  The
                       neighbor needs to be specified.

             Options are silently ignored when used together with summary or
             memory.  Multiple options can be used at the same time and the
             neighbor filter can be combined with other filters.

     show rtr
             Show a list of all RTR sessions, including information about the
             session state.

     show sets
             Show a list summarizing all roa-set, as-set, prefix-set, and
             origin-set tables.

     show summary
             Show a list of all neighbors, including information about the
             session state and message counters:

             Neighbor        Description of the neighbor.
             AS              Autonomous system number.
             MsgRcvd         Number of messages received from the neighbor.
             MsgSent         Number of messages sent to the neighbor.
             OutQ            Number of outgoing messages queued.
             Up/Down         Number of days and hours that the session has
                             been up.
             State/PrfRcvd   State of the session / Number of routes received.
                             The session is up if there is no information for
                             the State column (Established is not displayed).

     show summary terse
             Show a list of all neighbors, including information about the
             session state, in a terse format.

     show tables
             Show a list of all currently loaded fib routing tables.

FILES
     /etc/bgpd.conf          default bgpd(8) configuration file
     /run/bgpd/bgpd.sock     default bgpd(8) control socket

SEE ALSO
     bgpd.conf(5), bgpd(8), bgplg(8), bgplgsh(8)

STANDARDS
     C. Alaettinoglu, C. Villamizar, E. Gerich, D. Kessens, D. Meyer, T.
     Bates, D. Karrenberg, and M. Terpstra, Routing Policy Specification
     Language (RPSL), RFC 2622, June 1999.

HISTORY
     The bgpctl program first appeared in OpenBSD 3.5.

BSD                             August 9, 2021                             BSD
