BIB2BIB(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  BIB2BIB(1)

NAME
       BibX2bib - Filter BibTeX data bases

SYNOPSIS
       bib2bib [options] <filename> ...

DESCRIPTION
       bib2bib  is  a  filter  tool that reads one or several bibliography files, filters the entries with respect to a given criterion, and outputs the list of selected keys together with a new bibliography
       file containing only the selected entries. If no input file is given then input is taken from the standard input.

       Additionally, bib2bib may output a file containing all the keys of entries that satisfy the condition. This second file is suitable for input as option -citefile to bibtex2html

OPTIONS
       -ob filename
              specify the filename where the selected entries are output. If not given, it defaults to standard output.

       -oc filename
              specify the filename where the list of selected keys is output. If not given, this file is not created.

       -c condition
              specify a condition for selecting the entries. The output will retain only the entries that satisfy this condition. If several such condition are given, then only the entries that  satisfy  all
              the  conditions  are  selected.  The syntax of conditions is described in the complete documentation, notice that it is better to escape shell expansions in that conditions, in other words, you
              should write conditions between quotes.

       -expand
              expand all abbreviations in the output file. Notice that there is no way to ask for expansion of cross-references, since the meaning of such an expansion is unclear: it's better to  let  bibtex
              (via bibtex2html) handle the cross-references himself, depending on the style considered.

       -s field
              sorts  the  entries  of the bibliography with respect to the given field, which may be $key or $type to refer to the key or to the entry type, as for filter conditions. This options may be used
              several times to specify a lexicographic order, such as by year, then by keys.  When the field is $date then entries are sorted chronologically.

              When sorting, the resulting bibliography will always contain the comments first, then the preambles, then the abbreviations, and finally the regular entries. Be warned that such a sort may  put
              cross-references before entries that refer to them, so be cautious.

       -r     reverses the sort

       -q , --quiet
              be quiet.

       -w , --warn-error
              stop at the first warning.

USAGE WITH BIBTEX2HTML
       Notice that the two output files are suitable for use with bibtex2html. A typical use would be

           bib2bib -oc citefile -ob bibfile.bib -c condition file1.bib file2.bib ...
           bibtex2html -citefile citefile bibfile.bib

       which  will  produce exactly the HTML file for the selected references. Notice finally that bibtex2html will expand the strings (by default, unless you specify the -noexpand option) but not the cross-
       references.

AUTHOR
       Bib2bib has been written by Jean-Christophe Filliâtre and Claude Marché.  This manpage has been compiled by Ralf Treinen from the original bib2bib documentation.

SEE ALSO
       bibtex2html(1),bibtex(1),hevea(1)
       http://www.lri.fr/~filliatr/bibtex2html/

       For complete documentation, please check the bibtex2html manual.  On a Debian system the manual can be found at /usr/share/doc/bibtex2html both in the formats postscript and HTML, or  via  the  Debian
       help system.

                                                                                                                                                                                                     BIB2BIB(1)
