BILLARD-GL(6)                                                                                   Games Manual                                                                                  BILLARD-GL(6)

NAME
       billard-gl - OpenGL billiards game

SYNOPSIS
       billard-gl [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the billard-gl program. This manual page was written for Debian because the original program does not have a manual page.

       billard-gl implements a game of 8- or 9-ball billiards, which you can play against the computer or a friend.  The general idea of billiards is to hit the coloured balls with the cue ball in such a
       way that these balls fall in one of the six pockets of the table.

OPTIONS
       -f  -fullscreen
              switches to fullscreen mode (can currently not be changed from inside billard-gl itself)

       -f  -windowed
              switches to windowed mode (default; can currently not be changed from inside billard-gl itself)

       -t VALUE
              texture size for the balls.  Valid values are 1 for full size textures, 2 for half size textures, 4 for quarter size textures, and 8 for eighth size textures.

       -tt VALUE
              texture size for the table.  Valid values are 1 for full size textures, 2 for half size textures, 4 for quarter size textures, 8 for eighth size textures, and 0 for no textures.

       -at VALUE
              texture size for the display.  Valid values are 1 for full size textures and 2 for halfsized textures.

       -g VALUE
              ball geometry; odd numbers >= 3.  Higher values create more complex geometry.

       To run billard-gl with minimum settings, try

              billard-gl -t 8 -tt 0 -at 2 -g 3

       or for maximum settings, try

              billard-gl -t 1 -tt 1 -at 1 -g 11

       All of the options are configurable from within billard-gl itself, unless stated otherwise.

AUTHOR
       billard-gl was written by Stefan Disch, Tobias Nopper and Martina Welte.

       This manual page was written by Jamie Wilkinson <jaq@debian.org> and updated by Thierry Reding <thierry@doppeltgemoppelt.de> for Debian (but may be used by others).

                                                                                              January 22, 2005                                                                                BILLARD-GL(6)
