RNDC-CONFGEN(8)                                                                                    BIND 9                                                                                   RNDC-CONFGEN(8)

NAME
       rndc-confgen - rndc key generation tool

SYNOPSIS
       rndc-confgen [-a] [-A algorithm] [-b keysize] [-c keyfile] [-h] [-k keyname] [-p port] [-s address] [-t chrootdir] [-u user]

DESCRIPTION
       rndc-confgen  generates  configuration  files  for rndc. It can be used as a convenient alternative to writing the rndc.conf file and the corresponding controls and key statements in named.conf by
       hand. Alternatively, it can be run with the -a option to set up a rndc.key file and avoid the need for a rndc.conf file and a controls statement altogether.

OPTIONS
       -a     This option sets automatic rndc configuration, which creates a file /etc/bind/rndc.key that is read by both rndc and named on startup.  The rndc.key file defines a default  command  channel
              and authentication key allowing rndc to communicate with named on the local host with no further configuration.

              If a more elaborate configuration than that generated by rndc-confgen -a is required, for example if rndc is to be used remotely, run rndc-confgen without the -a option and set up rndc.conf
              and named.conf as directed.

       -A algorithm
              This option specifies the algorithm to use for the TSIG key. Available choices are: hmac-md5, hmac-sha1, hmac-sha224, hmac-sha256, hmac-sha384, and hmac-sha512. The default is hmac-sha256.

       -b keysize
              This option specifies the size of the authentication key in bits. The size must be between 1 and 512 bits; the default is the hash size.

       -c keyfile
              This option is used with the -a option to specify an alternate location for rndc.key.

       -h     This option prints a short summary of the options and arguments to rndc-confgen.

       -k keyname
              This option specifies the key name of the rndc authentication key. This must be a valid domain name. The default is rndc-key.

       -p port
              This option specifies the command channel port where named listens for connections from rndc. The default is 953.

       -q     This option prevets printing the written path in automatic configuration mode.

       -s address
              This option specifies the IP address where named listens for command-channel connections from rndc. The default is the loopback address 127.0.0.1.

       -t chrootdir
              This option is used with the -a option to specify a directory where named runs chrooted. An additional copy of the rndc.key is written relative to this directory, so that it is found by the
              chrooted named.

       -u user
              This option is used with the -a option to set the owner of the generated rndc.key file.  If -t is also specified, only the file in the chroot area has its owner changed.

EXAMPLES
       To allow rndc to be used with no manual configuration, run:

       rndc-confgen -a

       To print a sample rndc.conf file and the corresponding controls and key statements to be manually inserted into named.conf, run:

       rndc-confgen

SEE ALSO
       rndc(8), rndc.conf(5), named(8), BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual.

AUTHOR
       Internet Systems Consortium

COPYRIGHT
       2025, Internet Systems Consortium

9.20.11-4+b1-Debian                                                                              2025-07-04                                                                                 RNDC-CONFGEN(8)
