bist(1)                                                                General Commands Manual                                                               bist(1)

NAME
       bist - a chemical drawing tool.

SYNOPSIS
        bist [-c --convert-to | -f --input-file | -h --help | -v --version]

DESCRIPTION
       Bist  stands  for bidimensional  structures  (in italian  it sounds like "beast"  in english) and is a chemical  drawing tool. It is focused on organic chem‐
       istry but may  it may be useful also for chemists or teacher as well.

       Bist support many of the formalism used to describe molecoles structures like single  bond, double bond, stereospecific   bond,  charges,  resonance  arrows,
       lone pairs etc...

       It  can export  both  PostScript and  PNG  formats.

       Currently  portability is  not my  goal  so only  GNU/Linux platform  is supported. However any  effort in this direction is  appreciated so feel free to ask
       me about any  porting question. Please remember that bist is actually in a beta stage of development so i strongly suggest you to not using  it   except  for
       testing or  hacking purpose. Bist  is free software released under GNU GPL

OPTIONS
       -c --convert-to format
              Convert to "format" (currently  PostScript, SVG, PNG);

       -f --input-file file
              File to convert (wildcard allowed but please escape it);

       -h --help
              Print usage information;

       -v --version
              Print information and exit.

BUGS
       Please send bug reporting to: cage@katamail.com

SEE ALSO
AUTHORS
       Bist is written by Valerio Benfante.

       The logo has been  designed by Luisa Russo.

       We always need help (traslation, code improvement etc...)  please write to cage@katamail.com to contribute to this project.

COPYING
       Copyright (C)  2005 Valerio  Benfante.

       This is free software; see  the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty;  not even for  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

       The logo is copyright 2005 Luisa Russo and is released under GNU GPL

                                                                             12/03/2003                                                                      bist(1)
