BLUELOG(1)                                                                                     Bluelog Manual                                                                                    BLUELOG(1)

NAME
       Bluelog - Bluetooth Scanner and Logger

SYNOPSIS
       bluelog -i [Interface] [Options] -o [Output File]
       bluelog -help

DESCRIPTION
       Bluelog  is a simple Bluetooth scanner that is designed to essentially do just one thing, log all the discoverable devices in the area. It is intended to be used as a site survey tool, identifying
       the number of possible Bluetooth targets there are in the surrounding environment.

       I wrote Bluelog because there didn't appear to be any Bluetooth scanner for Linux that would simply log discoverable devices without also doing a whole bunch of other stuff I didn't really need.

       Of course, in the end I managed to expand Bluelog into doing a whole bunch of other stuff I didn't really need. But at least I still kept it optional, so you can always stick with  the  basics  if
       that's all you want.

BASIC OPTIONS
       -i <hci interface or MAC>
              This option tells Bluelog which Bluetooth device you want to scan with.  You can use either the HCI device name (like hci2) or the MAC of the local adapter. As a bonus, if you give a device
              which doesn't exist, Bluelog will fall back on autodetection to find a working device.

       -o <filename>
              This is the (optional) filename of the log file to write. The default filename has the format of "bluelog-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMM.log", located in the current directory.

       -v     Use this option to toggle displaying found devices on the console. Verbose output will also contain device class information and timestamps. Default is disabled.

       -q     Turn  off  nonessential  terminal output. In normal mode this means you will only see the start time of the scan and the message indicating proper shutdown. When used with daemon mode (-d),
              there will be no terminal output at all. The only exception to this option are critical errors, for obvious reasons.

       -d     This option will daemonize Bluelog so that it runs in the background. You will still see the boilerplate and startup messages, but after that you will no longer see any info from Bluelog in
              the terminal.

       -k     When running an instance of Bluelog in daemon mode, the -k option can be used to kill it.

       -l     This option switches Bluelog over to Live mode, which uses an automatically updated web page to show results rather than the console and regular log files.  See BLUELOG LIVE below for  more
              details.

LOGGING OPTIONS
       -n     Use  this  option to toggle displaying device names for discovered devices.  Finding the device name takes extra time during scanning, and occasionally fails. Therefore by not resolving de‐
              vice names, Bluelog can scan faster and more accurately. Default is disabled.

       -m     This option, if enabled in the build, performs hardware manufacturer lookups of discovered devices via the MAC OUI. The hardware manufacturer will be logged in the  standard  log  file,  as
              well as Bluelog Live. The manufacturer database needs to be installed for this function to work, which makes it prohibitively large for some platforms (such as OpenWRT).

       -c     This option toggles writing the raw device class to the log file. Enabling this option disables the -f option. Default is disabled.

       -f     This  option takes the device class and interprets it into a more human friendly format. It will tell you what class the device is and also what it's core capabilities are. For example, the
              class 0x7a020c would appear as: Smart Phone,(Net Capture Obex Audio Phone) Enabling this option disables the -c option. Default is disabled.

       -t     Use this option to toggle displaying timestamps for both the start and end of the scan and each new device found in the log file. Default is disabled.

       -x     Use this option to toggle MAC address obfuscation. With this option enabled, Bluelog will display the manufacturer portion of each discovered MAC, but block out the device specific  identi‐
              fier. Default is disabled.

       -e     Use  this  option to toggle CRC32 MAC address encoding. With this option enabled, the discovered MAC addresses will never be logged to disk, rather, each device will have a unique ID gener‐
              ated for it. This prevents privacy concerns during activities such as Bluetooth traffic monitoring. Default is disabled.

       -b     This option will set the log format so that the resulting data is suitable for upload to ronin's Bluetooth Profiling Project (BlueProPro). This overrides most  other  logging  options,  and
              disables Bluelog Live. For more information on this project, and the additional steps required to submit your data for inclusion, visit: www.hackfromacave.com

ADVANCED OPTIONS
       -r <retries>
              This  option sets how many attempts Bluelog should make to resolve a device name. For various reasons (poor link, busy device, etc, etc), devices won't always respond to a name request in a
              timely manner. This fills the logs or Live display with un-named devices which look, frankly, uncool. By default, Bluelog will make 3 attempts to resolve a device name,  using  this  option
              you can set that count to either be lower (faster, but less accurate), or higher (slower, but possibly more accurate).

       -a <minutes>
              This  option  enables  "amnesia mode", which causes Bluelog to forget it has seen a particular device after a set amount of time, given here as minutes.  When Bluelog encounters a device it
              has forgotten through this option, it will print it to the logs again as if it was the first time it has been seen. A value of zero will cause  Bluelog  to  continuously  log  a  device  as
              quickly as possible (actual speed depends on platform Bluelog is running on).

       -w <seconds>
              This  is an experimental option that allows adjusting how long Bluelog instructs BlueZ to scan for. Generally speaking, shorter scan times allow Bluelog to process the incoming data faster,
              but requires more processing power. Longer scan times should theoretically work better on lower end hardware.

       -s     Use this option to toggle syslog only mode. This disables the standard log file and writes new devices to the system log file instead. Default is disabled.

BASIC SCANNING
       There isn't a whole lot to say about this one. Start up Bluelog with the appropriate options, and then just walk/drive around the area and see what you come up with.

       For your first scan, try something simple like:

       bluelog -vtn

       This will turn on verbose output, timestamps, device names, and output to the default file "devices.log". There are a number of other options which you can use to customize the  level  of  logging
       Bluelog will do, but most people will probably be happy with just the time, MAC, and device name.

BLUELOG LIVE
       Bluelog Live is an alternate interface for Bluelog. Instead of outputting discovered devices to the console, or writing them to the sparse log file, Bluelog will create a web page with the results
       that you can serve up for anyone who cares to look.

       For more information on Bluelog Live, please see the README.LIVE file.

DAEMON MODE
       Running Bluelog with the -d option will start it in daemon mode, which puts it into the background. This mode is especially useful when running Bluelog Live.

       Only  one  instance of Bluelog can run at a time, so if you attempt to start Bluelog (in either daemon or interactive mode) while it is already running in daemon mode, you will be prompted to kill
       the existing process. You can use the -k option to kill a running Bluelog process, or simply find the process with ps and kill it manually.

       It is worth noting that enabling daemon mode also overrides some other options, such as verbose mode (since there is no terminal output once Bluelog goes into the background).

AUTHOR
       Tom Nardi - MS3FGX@gmail.com
       www.digifail.com

FILES
       /usr/share/bluelog
       /tmp/devices.log
       /tmp/info.txt

Bluelog                                                                                          01/31/2013                                                                                      BLUELOG(1)
