BMC-DEVICE(8)                                                                                   System Commands                                                                                   BMC-DEVICE(8)

NAME
       bmc-device - perform advanced BMC commands

SYNOPSIS
       bmc-device [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       bmc-device supports a variety of IPMI commands to perform advanced BMC functions.  This tool is primarily used for development debugging, BMC error recovery, retrieving detailed technical information,
       and other advanced purposes. Most IPMI users will not need to use this tool. Some of the bmc-device commands are not supported on all motherboards.

       Listed below are general IPMI options, tool specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For  a  general  introduction  to  FreeIPMI  please  see
       freeipmi(7).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify  the  driver  type  to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI 2.0 respectively. The cur‐
              rently available inband drivers are KCS, SSIF, OPENIPMI, SUNBMC, and INTELDCMI.

       --disable-auto-probe
              Do not probe in-band IPMI devices for default settings.

       --driver-address=DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver address to be used instead of the probed value. DRIVER-ADDRESS should be prefixed with "0x" for a hex value and '0' for an octal value.

       --driver-device=DEVICE
              Specify the in-band driver device path to be used instead of the probed path.

       --register-spacing=REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the in-band driver register spacing instead of the probed value. Argument is in bytes (i.e. 32bit register spacing = 4)

       --target-channel-number=CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the in-band driver target channel number to send IPMI requests to.

       --target-slave-address=SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver target slave number to send IPMI requests to.

       -h IPMIHOST1,IPMIHOST2,..., --hostname=IPMIHOST1[:PORT],IPMIHOST2[:PORT],...
              Specify the remote host(s) to communicate with. Multiple hostnames may be separated by comma or may be specified in a range format; see HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below. An optional port can be  speci‐
              fied with each host, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations.  If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify  the  username  to  use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast USER privileges in order for
              this tool to operate fully.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 1000 milliseconds (1 second) if not specified. The retransmission timeout cannot be larger than the session timeout.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm  iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to ADMIN if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  workarounds  to  vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds (may be useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

BMC-DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to bmc-device.

       --cold-reset
              Perform a cold reset.

       --warm-reset
              Perform a warm reset.

       --get-self-test-results
              Output BMC self test results.

       --get-acpi-power-state
              Get ACPI system and device power state.

       --set-acpi-power-state
              Set ACPI power state. Must be specified to use the --set-acpi-system-power-state, and --set-acpi-device-power-state options listed below.

       --set-acpi-system-power-state=SYSTEM_POWER_STATE
              Set ACPI system power state. Allowed values: S0_G0, S1, S2, S3, S4, S5_G2, S4_S5, G3, SLEEPING, G1_SLEEPING, OVERRIDE, LEGACY_ON, LEGACY_OFF,  UNKNOWN.   Used  with  the  --set-acpi-power-state
              option.

       --set-acpi-device-power-state=DEVICE_POWER_STATE
              Set ACPI device power state. Allowed values: D0, D1, D2, D3, UNKNOWN.  Used with the --set-acpi-power-state option.

       --get-lan-statistics
              Get IP, UDP, and RMCP statistics.

       --clear-lan-statistics
              Clear IP, UDP, and RMCP statistics.

       --rearm-sensor="<record_id> [<assertion_bitmask> <deassertion_bitmask>]"
              Re-arm a sensor. Re-arming a sensor informs the internal device to reset and re-evaluate a sensor reading and events. Most sensors are automatically re-armed, however a rare few do require man‐
              ual re-arming. This option may also be useful to reset a sensor reading or event that may be stuck due to an internal hardware or firmware error. If the assertion_bitmask  and  deassertion_bit‐
              mask are specified, only the specific events will be re-armed. If not specified, all possible events will be re-armed. This command requires the loading of the SDR.

       --get-sdr-repository-time
              Get SDR repository time.

       --set-sdr-repository-time=TIME
              Set SDR repository time. Input format = "MM/DD/YYYY - HH:MM:SS".  Note that hours are input in 24 hour form. Alternatively, the local system time can be specified with "now".

       --get-sel-time
              Get SEL time.

       --set-sel-time=TIME
              Set SEL time. Input format = "MM/DD/YYYY - HH:MM:SS". Note that hours are input in 24 hour form. Alternatively, the local system time can be specified with "now".

       --get-sel-time-utc-offset
              Get SEL time UTC offset.

       --set-sel-time-utc-offset=MINUTES
              Set SEL time UTC offset. Input is in minutes difference from UTC time, ranging from -1440 to 1440 minutes. A special case value of "none" can be specified so no UTC offset is specified.

       --platform-event="[generator_id] <event_message_format_version> <sensor_type> <sensor_number> <event_type> <event_direction> <event_data1> <event_data2> <event_data3>"
              Instruct  the BMC to process the specified event data. Typically, this data will be logged to the System Event Log (SEL), but depending on implementation it may be processed by other subsystems
              such as Platform Event Filtering (PEF). The keywords assertion or deassertion may be used for event_direction, or the numerical values may be used instead. The  event_message_format_version  is
              0x03  for IPMI 1.0 and 0x04 for IPMI 1.5. The generator_id above is optional, however it is required if generating the event via a system interface (i.e. inband).  If generating the event via a
              system interface, the system management software generator id range is 0x41 to 6Fh.

       --set-sensor-reading-and-event-status="<sensor_number> <sensor_reading> <sensor_reading_operation> <assertion_bitmask> <assertion_bitmask_operation>  <deassertion_bitmask>  <deassertion_bitmask_opera‐
       tion> <event_data1> <event_data2> <event_data3> <event_data_operation>"
              Instruct  the  BMC to set a sensor reading and/or event status. How the various fields are written depends on a set of operation instructions specified. The sensor_reading can be written or not
              changed with the respective operation write and nochange. For the assertion_bitmask and deassertion_bitmask, the 0 bits of the bitmask can clear the bits of the status, the 1 bits of  the  bit‐
              mask  can  set  the bits of the status, the entire bitmask can be written as the status, or the status cannot be changed respecitvely with the respective operations clear0bits, set1bits, write,
              and nochange. The event_data1 byte can be written fully, written without the event offset (bits 3:0), or not be changed via the write, nooffsetwrite, or nochange operations.

       --get-mca-auxiliary-log-status
              Get machine check architecture (MCA) auxiliary log status information.

       --get-ssif-interface-capabilities
              Get SSIF interface capabilities.

       --get-kcs-interface-capabilities
              Get KCS interface capabilities.

       --get-bt-interface-capabilities
              Get BT interface capabilities.

       --get-bmc-global-enables
              Get BMC Global Enables.

       --set-system-firmware-version=STRING
              Set System Firmware Version.

       --set-system-name=STRING
              Set System Name.

       --set-primary-operating-system-name=STRING
              Set Primary Operating System Name.

       --set-operating-system-name=STRING
              Set Operating System Name.

       --set-present-os-version-number=STRING
              Set Present OS Version Number.

       --set-bmc-url=STRING
              Set BMC URL.

       --set-base-os-hypervisor-url=STRING
              Set Base OS/Hypervisor URL.

       --read-fru=FILENAME
              Read the contents of a FRU device ID and store it in the specified file. Requires setting of a device ID via --device-id.

       --write-fru=FILENAME
              Write the contents of the specified file into a FRU device id.  Requires setting of a device ID via --device-id. If --verbose is specified, progress percent will also be output.

       --device-id=IDNUM
              Specify a specific FRU device ID. For use with --read-fru and --write-fru.

       --verbose
              Increase verbosity in output.

SDR CACHE OPTIONS
       This tool requires access to the sensor data repository (SDR) cache for general operation. By default, SDR data will be downloaded and cached on the local machine. The following options apply  to  the
       SDR cache.

       --flush-cache
              Flush  a  cached  version of the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. The SDR is typically cached for faster subsequent access. However, it may need to be flushed and re-generated if the SDR has
              been updated on a system.

       --quiet-cache
              Do not output information about cache creation/deletion. May be useful in scripting.

       --sdr-cache-recreate
              If the SDR cache is out of date or invalid, automatically recreate the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. This option may be useful for scripting purposes.

       --sdr-cache-file=FILE
              Specify a specific sensor data repository (SDR) cache file to be stored or read from. If this option is used when multiple hosts are specified, the same SDR cache file  will  be  used  for  all
              hosts.

       --sdr-cache-directory=DIRECTORY
              Specify an alternate directory for sensor data repository (SDR) caches to be stored or read from. Defaults to the home directory if not specified.

TIME OPTIONS
       By  IPMI  definition, all IPMI times and timestamps are stored in localtime. However, in many situations, the timestamps will not be stored in localtime. Whether or not a system truly stored the time‐
       stamps in localtime varies on many factors, such as the vendor, BIOS, and operating system.  The following options will allow the user to adjust the interpretation of the  stored  timestamps  and  how
       they should be output.

       --utc-to-localtime
              Assume all times are reported in UTC time and convert the time to localtime before being output.

       --localtime-to-utc
              Convert all localtime timestamps to UTC before being output.

       --utc-offset=SECONDS
              Specify a specific UTC offset in seconds to be added to timestamps.  Value can range from -86400 to 86400 seconds. Defaults to 0.

HOSTRANGED OPTIONS
       The following options manipulate hostranged output. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information on hostranges.

       -B, --buffer-output
              Buffer  hostranged output. For each node, buffer standard output until the node has completed its IPMI operation. When specifying this option, data may appear to output slower to the user since
              the the entire IPMI operation must complete before any data can be output.  See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -C, --consolidate-output
              Consolidate hostranged output. The complete standard output from every node specified will be consolidated so that nodes with identical output are not output twice. A  header  will  list  those
              nodes  with  the consolidated output. When this option is specified, no output can be seen until the IPMI operations to all nodes has completed. If the user breaks out of the program early, all
              currently consolidated output will be dumped. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -F NUM, --fanout=NUM
              Specify multiple host fanout. A "sliding window" (or fanout) algorithm is used for parallel IPMI communication so that slower nodes or timed out nodes will not  impede  parallel  communication.
              The maximum number of threads available at the same time is limited by the fanout. The default is 64.

       -E, --eliminate
              Eliminate  hosts  determined as undetected by ipmidetect.  This attempts to remove the common issue of hostranged execution timing out due to several nodes being removed from service in a large
              cluster. The ipmidetectd daemon must be running on the node executing the command.

       --always-prefix
              Always prefix output, even if only one host is specified or communicating in-band. This option is primarily useful for scripting purposes. Option will  be  ignored  if  specified  with  the  -C
              option.

HOSTRANGED SUPPORT
       Multiple hosts can be input either as an explicit comma separated lists of hosts or a range of hostnames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc. The later form should not
       be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted by []). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This range syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could  be  specified
       as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:
           foo[01-05] instead of foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05
           foo[7,9-10] instead of foo7,foo9,foo10
           foo[0-3] instead of foo0,foo1,foo2,foo3

       As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ([ and ]) for pattern matching. Depending on your shell, it may be necessary to enclose ranged lists within quotes.

       When  multiple hosts are specified by the user, a thread will be executed for each host in parallel up to the configured fanout (which can be adjusted via the -F option). This will allow communication
       to large numbers of nodes far more quickly than if done in serial.

       By default, standard output from each node specified will be output with the hostname prepended to each line. Although this output is readable in many situations, it may be difficult to read in  other
       situations. For example, output from multiple nodes may be mixed together. The -B and -C options can be used to change this default.

       In-band IPMI Communication will be used when the host "localhost" is specified. This allows the user to add the localhost into the hostranged output.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI  over  LAN  problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP address, MAC address,
       subnet mask, username, user enablement, user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check  to  make  sure  the  cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       Inband IPMI problems are typically caused by improperly configured drivers or non-standard BMCs.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password  verification  timeout"  - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During this point in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege level insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may  require  authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege  level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication type unavailable for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again  with  an  alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher  suite  id  unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also be possible the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session  timeout"  -  The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are considerably slower than
       others.

       "device not found" - The specified device could not be found. Please check configuration or inputs and try again.

       "driver timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "message timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "BMC busy" - The BMC is currently busy. It may be processing information or have too many simultaneous sessions to manage. Please wait and try again.

       "could not find inband device" - An inband device could not be found.  Please check configuration or specify specific device or driver on the command line.

       "driver timeout" - The inband driver has timed out communicating to the local BMC or service processor. The BMC or service processor may be busy or (worst case) possibly non-functioning.

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able  to  handle  discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify a workaround be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit  the  same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard is not
       listed.

       If you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org>  or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       assumeio  - This workaround flag will assume inband interfaces communicate with system I/O rather than being memory-mapped. This will work around systems that report invalid base addresses. Those hit‐
       ting this issue may see "device not supported" or "could not find inband device" errors.  Issue observed on HP ProLiant DL145 G1.

       spinpoll - This workaround flag will inform some inband drivers (most notably the KCS driver) to spin while polling rather than putting the process to sleep. This may significantly  improve  the  wall
       clock  running time of tools because an operating system scheduler's granularity may be much larger than the time it takes to perform a single IPMI message transaction. However, by spinning, your sys‐
       tem may be performing less useful work by not contexting out the tool for a more useful task.

       authcap - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple  issues
       in  which  the  remote  system  does  not  properly  report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "authentication type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due  to  implementation
       errors,  but  the  packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely to be an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero  -  This  workaround  flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting this issue may see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth - This workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain  non-null  authentication  data
       when  they  should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed on newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg - This workaround flag will force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around  an  issue  when  per-message  authentication  is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq  -  This  workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that are the wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems  that  return  invalid  authentication
       codes  due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most organizations,
       this is unlikely to be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue  observed  on  Xyratex  FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20  -  This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the authentication algorithm
       is HMAC-MD5-128. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management  Module  (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20  -  This  workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include handling invalid length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20 - This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid  cipher  suite
       records.  Those  hitting  this  issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround automatically includes the "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv - This workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege  level  sent  during
       the  Open  Session  stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid",
       "k_g invalid", or "bad rmcpplus status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro  X8DTH,  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Intel  S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue  - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should be
       0 length, however the remote motherboard responds with a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue  observed  on  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Supermicro  X8DTU,  and  Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       assumemaxsdrrecordcount  -  This  workaround will inform SDR reading to stop reading after a known maximum number of SDR records have been read. This will work around systems that have mis-implemented
       SDR reading functions. Those hitting this issue may see "SDR record count invalid" errors. Issue observed on unspecified Inspur motherboard.

       No IPMI 1.5 Support - Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable"  or  "connection  timeout"  errors.  This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

EXAMPLES
       # bmc-device --cold-reset

       Perform a cold reset.

       # bmc-device -h ahost -u myusername -p mypassword --cold-reset

       Perform a cold reset of a remote machine using IPMI over LAN.

       # bmc-device -h mycluster[0-127] -u myusername -p mypassword --cold-reset

       Perform a cold reset across a cluster using IPMI over LAN.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Upon successful execution, exit status is 0. On error, exit status is 1.

       If multiple hosts are specified for communication, the exit status is 0 if and only if all targets successfully execute. Otherwise the exit status is 1.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On  older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In  order  to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up" to pass
       before you may authenticate again.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2008-2015 FreeIPMI Core Team.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi.conf(5), freeipmi(7)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

bmc-device 1.6.8                                                                                   2021-05-20                                                                                     BMC-DEVICE(8)
