BOGOUTIL(1)                                                                               Bogofilter Reference Manual                                                                               BOGOUTIL(1)

NAME
       bogoutil - Dumps, loads, and maintains bogofilter database files

SYNOPSIS
       bogoutil {-h | -V}

       bogoutil [options] {-d file | -H file | -l file | -m file | -w file | -p file}

       bogoutil {-r file | -R file}

       bogoutil {--db-print-leafpage-count file | --db-print-pagesize file | --db-verify file | --db-checkpoint directory [flag...]  | --db-list-logfiles directory | --db-prune directory |
                --db-recover directory | --db-recover-harder directory | --db-remove-environment directory}

       where options is

       bogoutil [-v] [-n] [-C] [-D] [-a age] [-c count] [-s min,max] [-y date] [-I file] [-O file] [-x flags] [--config-file file]

DESCRIPTION
       Bogoutil is part of the bogofilter Bayesian spam filter package.

       It is used to dump and load bogofilter's Berkeley DB databases to and from text files, perform database maintenance functions, and to display the values for specific words.

OPTIONS
       The -d file option tells bogoutil to print the contents of the database file to stdout.

       The -H file option tells bogoutil to print a histogram of the database file to stdout. The output is similar to bogofilter -vv. Finally, hapaxes (tokens which were only seen once) and pure tokens
       (tokens which were encountered only in ham or only in spam) are counted.

       The -l file option tells bogoutil to load the data from stdin into the database file. If the database file exists, stdin data is merged into the database file, with counts added up.

       The -m option tells bogoutil to perform maintenance functions on the specified database, i.e. discard tokens that are older than desired, have counts that are too small, or sizes (lengths) that are
       too long or too short.

       The -w file option tells bogoutil to display token information from the database file. The option takes an argument, which is either the name of the wordlist (usually wordlist.db) or the name of the
       directory containing it. Tokens can be listed on the command line or piped to bogoutil. When there are extra arguments on the command line, bogoutil will use them as the tokens to lookup. If there are
       no extra arguments, bogoutil will read tokens from stdin.

       The -p file option tells bogoutil to display the database information for one or more tokens. The display includes a probability column with the token's spam score (computed using bogofilter's default
       values). Option -p takes the same arguments as option -w .

       The -r file option tells bogoutil to recalculate the ROBX value and print it as a six-digit fraction.

       The -R file option does the same as -r, but saves the result in the training database without printing it.

       The -I file option tells bogoutil to read its input from file rather than stdin.

       The -O file option tells bogoutil to write its output to file rather than stdout.

       The -v option produces verbose output on stderr. This option is primarily useful for debugging.

       The -C inhibits reading configuration files and lets bogoutil go with the defaults.

       The --config-file file option tells bogoutil to read file instead of the standard configuration file.

       The -D redirects debug output to stdout (it usually goes to stderr).

       The -x flags option sets debugging flags.

       Option -n stands for "replace non-ascii characters". It will replace characters with the high bit (0x80) by question marks. This can be useful if a word list has lots of unreadable tokens, for example
       from Asian spam. The "bad" characters will be converted to question marks and matching tokens will be combined when used with -m or -l, but not with -d.

       Option -a age indicates an acceptable token age, with older ones being discarded. The age can be a date (in form YYYYMMMDD) or a day count, i.e. discard tokens older than age days.

       Option -c value indicates that tokens with counts less than or equal to value are to be discarded.

       Option -s min,max is used to discard tokens based on their size, i.e. length. All tokens shorter than min or longer than max will be discarded.

       Option -y date is specifies the date to give to tokens that don't have dates. The format is YYYYMMDD.

       The -h option prints the help message and exits.

       The -V option prints the version number and exits.

ENVIRONMENT MAINTENANCE
       The --db-checkpoint dir option causes bogoutil to flush the buffer caches and checkpoint the database environment.

       The --db-list-logfiles dir option causes bogoutil to list the log files in the environment. Zero or more keywords can be added or combined (separated by whitespace) to modify the behavior of this
       mode. The default behavior is to list only inactive log files with relative paths. You can add all to list all log files (inactive and active). You can add absolute to switch the listing to absolute
       paths.

       The --db-prune dir option causes bogoutil to checkpoint the database environment and remove inactive log files.

       The --db-recover dir option runs a regular database recovery in the specified database directory. If that fails, it will retry with a (usually slower) catastrophic database recovery. If that fails,
       too, your database cannot be repaired and must be rebuilt from scratch. This is only supported when compiled with Berkeley DB support with transactions enabled. Trying recovery with QDBM or SQLite3
       support will result in an error.

       The --db-recover-harder dir option runs a catastrophic data base recovery in the specified database directory. If that fails, your database cannot be repaired and must be rebuilt from scratch. This is
       only supported when compiled with Berkeley DB support with transactions enabled. Trying recovery with QDBM or SQLite3 support will result in an error.

       The --db-remove-environment directory option has no short option equivalent. It runs recovery in the given directory and then removes the database environment. Use this before upgrading to a new
       Berkeley DB version if the new version to be installed requires a log file format update.

       The --db-print-leafpage-count file option prints the number of leaf pages in the database file file as a decimal number, or UNKNOWN if the database does not support querying this figure.

       The --db-print-pagesize file option prints the size of a database page in file as a decimal number, or UNKNOWN for databases with variable page size or databases that do not allow a query of the
       database page size.

       The --db-verify file option requests that bogofilter verifies the database file. It prints only errors, unless in verbose mode.

DATA FORMAT
       Bogoutil reads and writes text files where each nonblank line consists of a word, any amount of horizontal whitespace, a numeric word count, more whitespace, and (optionally) a date in form YYYYMMDD.
       Blank lines are skipped.

RETURN VALUES
       0 for successful operation. 1 for most errors. 3 for I/O or other errors. Error 3 usually means that something is seriously wrong with the database files.

AUTHOR
       Gyepi Sam <gyepi@praxis-sw.com>.

       Matthias Andree <matthias.andree@gmx.de>.

       David Relson <relson@osagesoftware.com>.

       For updates, see the bogofilter project page[1].

SEE ALSO
       bogofilter(1), bogolexer(1), bogotune(1), bogoupgrade(1)

NOTES
        1. the bogofilter project page
           http://bogofilter.sourceforge.net/

Bogofilter                                                                                         06/29/2013                                                                                       BOGOUTIL(1)
