BOMBERCLONE(6)                                                                                  Games Manual                                                                                 BOMBERCLONE(6)

NAME
       bomberclone — free Bomberman-like game

SYNOPSIS
       bomberclone

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the bomberclone game.

       This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       The  goal of the game is to be the last one, who is alive. You can drop bombs which will explode after a certain time and destroy everything in horizontal and vertical direction. So you can remove
       stones or kill other players. But take care. Don't kill yourself otherwise the game will be over for you.

       During the game you will find different powerups to raise your skills. If you are running faster than your opponent and you have many bombs, you can catch him within lots of bombs and  he  has  no
       chance to escape.

       You will get points for every player you have killed. If you win the game, you can earn additional points depending on how many players played the game.

POWERUPS
       FIRE ICON The Fire powerup gives your bombs more range. Maximum Range is 10.

       FIRE ICON The Fire powerup gives your bombs more range. Maximum Range is 10.

       BOMB ICON After picking up the Bomb item you can put one more bomb on the field. Maximum are 12 Bombs.

       SHOE ICON After you collect this powerup you will walk a little bit faster.

SPECIALS
       BOMB WITH FUSE ICON
                 You can trigger the explosion of all your bombs by pressing the Special Use key. Warning don't wait to long or your bombs will explode anyway.

       BOMB WITH ELASTIC BAND ICON
                 Push your and other bombs around the maze. But be carefull that the bomb is not going to explode

       MULTIPLE BOMBS ICON
                 Lay a row of bombs in one direction to trap some players. To use this special, hold the Special use key and the direction key where you want to drop the row.

SEE ALSO
       http://www.bomberclone.de

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by VU blade@debian.org for the Debian system (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the
       GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.

                                                                                                                                                                                             BOMBERCLONE(6)
