BOOTPTEST(8)                                                                                System Manager's Manual                                                                                BOOTPTEST(8)

NAME
       bootptest - send BOOTP queries and print responses

SYNOPSIS
       bootptest [ -f bootfile ] [ -h ] [ -m magic_number ] server-name [template-file]

DESCRIPTION
       bootptest  sends  BOOTP  requests to the host specified as server-name at one-second intervals until either a response is received, or until ten requests have gone unanswered.  After a response is re‐
       ceived, bootptest will wait one more second listening for additional responses.

OPTIONS
       -f     bootfile Fill in the boot file field of the request with bootfile.

       -h     Use the hardware (Ethernet) address to identify the client.  By default, the IP address is copied into the request indicating that this client already knows its IP address.

       -m     magic_number Initialize the first word of the vendor options field with magic_number.

       A template-file may be specified, in which case bootptest uses the (binary) contents of this file to initialize the options area of the request packet.

CREDITS
       The bootptest program is a combination of original and derived works.  The main program module (bootptest.c) is original work by Gordon W.  Ross  <gwr@mc.com>.   The  packet  printing  module  (print-
       bootp.c) is a slightly modified version of a file from the BSD tcpdump program.

       This program includes software developed by the University of California, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors.  (See the copyright notice in print-bootp.c)

SEE ALSO
       bootpd(8)

REFERENCES
       RFC951 BOOTSTRAP PROTOCOL (BOOTP)

       RFC1048
              BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions

MAINTENANCE COMMANDS                                                                              10 June 1993                                                                                     BOOTPTEST(8)
