BROKER(1)                                                                                        User Commands                                                                                        BROKER(1)

NAME
       Broker - manual page for Broker 2.12.2

SYNOPSIS
       C++Broker [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This is the SBW Broker, version 2.12.2 (C++ Release,Linux running on port: -1).

       The  SBW Broker runs as a background process on a computer to coordinate the activities of SBW modules.  It enables locating and starting modules on demand.  The SBW Broker should not normally need to
       be started explicitly, because the SBW libraries start the Broker if it is not already running.  However, some functions (such as the --shutdown command) do need to be invoked directly.

       Options:

       -a | --accept-address ADDRESS

              This is for use with host-based (non-SSH) authentication and when modules from other hosts are allowed to connect to the Broker.  This option adds the given ADDRESS to  the  list  of  host  ad‐
              dresses  allowed to connect to this SBW Broker.  The address must be specified in IPv4 dotted quad notation: "123.123.123.123".  Any of the four fields can be replaced with the wildcard charac‐
              ter '*' to indicate that any value for that field is acceptable.  So, for example, "132.215.42.*" indicates any host on the subnet "132.215.42.*" may connect to the Broker.  This option  inter‐
              acts  with  the --deny-address option documented below in the following way: addresses that are allowed, and not explicitly denied, are permitted.  (This option has no effect unless the options
              --remote-modules or --no-ssh are also given.)

       -b | --broker-ports LOW-HIGH

              By default, the Broker opens a port for inter-Broker communications by searching for the first free port in the range 10102 through 10202, inclusive.  This option allows you to specify  a  dif‐
              ferent  port  range,  from port number LOW through port number HIGH, inclusive.  For example, "--broker-ports 11000-12000" would dictate that the Broker should look for a free port in the range
              10001 through 10010.  You can force the Broker to try to use one particular port by using the same number for LOW and HIGH.

       -d | --deny-address ADDRESS

              This is for use with host-based (non-SSH) authentication and when modules from other hosts are allowed to connect to the Broker.  This option the given ADDRESS to the  list  of  host  addresses
              prevented from connecting to this SBW Broker.  The address must be specified in IPv4 dotted quad notation: "123.123.123.123".  Any of the four fields can be replaced with the wildcard character
              '*' to indicate that any value for that field is acceptable.  So, for example, "132.215.42.*" indicates any host on the subnet "132.215.42.*" is denied from connecting to the Broker.  This  op‐
              tion  interacts  with the --accept-address option documented above in the following way: addresses that are allowed, and not explicitly denied, are permitted.  (This option has no effect unless
              the options --remote-modules or --no-ssh are also given.)

       -e | --remote-modules

              By default, only connections originating from the local host can connect to the Broker.  The --remote-modules flag enables modules running on hosts other than the local host to connect to  this
              Broker.   This flag is not needed in normal SBW use scenarios because a module running on a remote host should normally be connected to a Broker running on that host.  Also, note that this flag
              only affects whether network connections from non-local hosts are permitted; a remote module will still be denied if it does not have the same session key as is being used by the Broker.

       -g | --registry PATHNAME

              This flag specifies that the file given by PATHNAME should be used as the Broker's module registry file, instead of the Broker's built-in default.

       -h | --help

              This flag tells the Broker to print this help text and exit.

       -i | --info

              This produces a description of the running state of the Broker (if there is a Broker running on this computer) and then exits without doing anything else or processing any other flags.

       -k | --key-file PATHNAME

              Use the file given by PATHNAME as the session key file instead of the default pathname.  The default session authentication key is stored it in a private file inside the ".sbw" directory/folder
              in the user's home directory.

       -l | --reload-key

              Normally,  if  a  Broker  is not already running on the local host when a new Broker is started, the Broker generates a new session authentication key and stores it in a private file inside the
              ".sbw" directory/folder in the user's home directory.  The --reload-key flag tells the Broker to not generate a new key, and instead to reuse the key in the key file.    This  flag  should  not
              normally be used; it is primarily for use by remote Brokers.

       -m | --module-ports LOW-HIGH

              By  default, the Broker opens a port for module connections by searching for the first free port in the range 10002 through 10102, inclusive.  This option allows you to specify a different port
              range, from port number LOW through port number HIGH, inclusive.  For example, "--module-ports 11000-12000" would dictate that the Broker should look for a free port in the range 10001  through
              10010.  You can force the Broker to try to use one particular port by using the same number for LOW and HIGH.

       -o | --module-options "OPTIONS STRING"

              Use the given options as command-line options to modules when they are started up.  THIS OPTION CURRENTLY DOES NOT WORK.

       -R | --no-remote

              By  default,  the Broker is always listening for connections from other Brokers.  This flag tells the Broker to disallow remote Broker connections.  It does this by not starting up the listener
              thread.

       -r | --remote-from HOSTNAME

              Flag handed to a Broker when it is started remotely by another Broker.  The HOSTNAME is the host that started this Broker.

       -S | --no-ssh

       Disable the use of SSH for remote Broker communications.
              It

              will still be possible to connect Brokers manually, but there will be no security on the communications channel and it will require manually copying session key files between hosts and starting
              the individual Brokers.  Use of this option is not recommended.

       -s | --sbw-home PATHNAME

              Change  what is assumed to be the root directory of the SBW installation to PATHNAME.  By default, SBW uses various approaches to determine the root of its installation; this flag allows you to
              override them and explicitly set the path to the installation directory.

       -t | --trace

              This flag can only be used with the debugging copy of the Broker (i.e., file SBWBroker-debug.jar).  It turns on tracing of activities in the Broker and leads to copious debugging output.

       -U | --shutdown

              This shuts down a running Broker (if any) on the local host.  A new Broker is not started.  This is the preferred method for shutting down Brokers.

       -u | --user-dir PATHNAME

              By default, SBW stores information in a user-specific subdirectory/folder called ".sbw" in the user's home directory.  This flag allows you to override the default and set the user directory to
              an explicit PATHNAME.  This may be useful in distributed computing environments where home directories are not where they're expected.

       -w | --module-wait INTEGER

              The amount of time, in tenths of a second, that the Broker should wait for a module to start up.  The default is 600 (1 minute).

       The SBW home page is http://www.sys-bio.org.  Please send bug reports and question to sysbio-team@caltech.edu

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for Broker is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and Broker programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info Broker

       should give you access to the complete manual.

Broker 2.12.2                                                                                      July 2021                                                                                          BROKER(1)
