BSD-FBG(6)                     BSD Games Manual                     BSD-FBG(6)

NAME
     bsd-fbg — a falling block game

SYNOPSIS
     bsd-fbg [-ps] [-k keys] [-l level]

DESCRIPTION
     The bsd-fbg command runs a display-based game which must be played on a
     CRT terminal.  The object is to fit the shapes together forming complete
     rows, which then vanish.  When the shapes fill up to the top, the game
     ends.  You can optionally select a level of play, or custom-select con‐
     trol keys.

     The default level of play is 2.

     The default control keys are as follows:

           j          move left
           k          rotate 1/4 turn counterclockwise
           l          move right
           ⟨space⟩    drop
           p          pause
           q          quit

     The options are as follows:

     -k      The default control keys can be changed using the -k option.  The
             keys argument must have the six keys in order, and, remember to
             quote any space or tab characters from the shell.  For example:

                   bsd-fbg -l 2 -k 'jkl pq'

             will play the default games, i.e. level 2 and with the default
             control keys.  The current key settings are displayed at the bot‐
             tom of the screen during play.

     -l      Select a level of play.

     -s      Display the top scores.

     -p      Switch on previewing of the shape that will appear next.

PLAY
     At the start of the game, a shape will appear at the top of the screen,
     falling one square at a time.  The speed at which it falls is determined
     directly by the level: if you select level 2, the blocks will fall twice
     per second; at level 9, they fall 9 times per second.  (As the game goes
     on, things speed up, no matter what your initial selection.)  When this
     shape “touches down” on the bottom of the field, another will appear at
     the top.

     You can move shapes to the left or right, rotate them counterclockwise,
     or drop them to the bottom by pressing the appropriate keys.  As you fit
     them together, completed horizontal rows vanish, and any blocks above
     fall down to fill in.  When the blocks stack up to the top of the screen,
     the game is over.

SCORING
     You get one point for every block you fit into the stack, and one point
     for every space a block falls when you hit the drop key.  (Dropping the
     blocks is therefore a good way to increase your score.)  Your total score
     is the product of the level of play and your accumulated points -- 200
     points on level 3 gives you a score of 600.  Each player gets at most one
     entry on any level, for a total of nine scores in the high scores file.
     Players who no longer have accounts are limited to one score.  Also,
     scores over 5 years old are expired.  The exception to these conditions
     is that the highest score on a given level is always kept, so that fol‐
     lowing generations can pay homage to those who have wasted serious
     amounts of time.

     The score list is produced at the end of the game.  The printout includes
     each player's overall ranking, name, score, and how many points were
     scored on what level.  Scores which are the highest on a given level are
     marked with asterisks “*”.

FILES
     /var/games/bsd-fbg.scores    high score file

BUGS
     The higher levels are unplayable without a fast terminal connection.

AUTHORS
     Adapted from a 1989 International Obfuscated C Code Contest winner by
     Chris Torek and Darren F. Provine.

     Manual adapted from the original entry written by Nancy L. Tinkham and
     Darren F. Provine.

     Code for previewing next shape added by Hubert Feyrer in 1999.

BSD                              May 31, 1993                              BSD
