BUBBLES(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           BUBBLES(1)

NAME
       bubbles - DNSSEC-Tools Rollrec Simple GUI Display

SYNOPSIS
         bubbles [options] <rollrec-file>

DESCRIPTION
       bubbles gives a simple display of the roll status of a set of zones
       listed in a rollrec file.  In contrast, blinkenlights gives a detailed
       display of the roll status of a set of zones.  bubbles gives very
       little control over rollerd, the way blinkenlights does.  bubbles can
       halt rollerd's execution only.

       A rollrec file contains one or more rollrec records.  These records are
       used by the DNSSEC-Tools rollover utilities (rollerd, etc.) to describe
       zones' rollover states.  Each zone's rollrec record contains such
       information as the zone file, the rollover phase, and logging level.
       rollrec files are text files.

       When bubbles starts, a window is created that has "bubbles" for each
       zone with a rollrec record in the given rollrec file.  (Clicking on a
       bubble doesn't do anything.)  By default, all zones with a display flag
       set on will be shown in the bubbles window.  Options may be given to
       modify this behavior.

       The zone bubbles are color-coded according to roll-over state.  The
       default colors are:

       * green: not in roll-over

       * yellow: in ZSK roll-over

       * red: in KSK roll-over

       These colors may be specified by the user via command-line options.

       In building the bubble window, bubbles window defaults to creating a
       square window.  This may be overridden by specifying the number of
       columns, using the -columns option.

OPTIONS
       bubbles supports the following options.

       -columns columns
           This option allows the user to specify the number of columns to be
           used in the Button Window.

       -kskcolor color
           Set the bubble color for zones that are performing KSK roll-overs.

       -zskcolor color
           Set the bubble color for zones that are performing ZSK roll-overs.

       -noncolor color
           Set the bubble color for zones that are not in roll-over.

       -ignore-display
           Ignore the rollrec display flag and display every zone in the
           rollrec file.

       -interval wait-time
           Interval between checks of the rollrec file.  By default, wait-time
           is given in minutes.  This can be adjusted by specifying one of the
           following time-unit suffixes.

           * s - seconds

           * m - minutes

           * h - hours

           Examples:

           * -interval 24 - 24 minutes

           * -interval 24s - 24 seconds

           * -interval 24m - 24 minutes

           * -interval 24h - 24 hours

       -no-filter
           This option turns off name filtering when bubbles presents a file-
           selection dialog for choosing a new rollrec file.  If this option
           is not given, then the file-selection dialog will only list regular
           files with a suffix of .rrf.

       -showksk
           Show the zones that are performing KSK roll-overs.

       -shownonrolls
           Show the zones that are not in roll-over.

       -showrolls
           Show the zones that are performing either type of roll-over.

       -showzsk
           Show the zones that are performing ZSK roll-overs.

       -help
           Give a usage message and exit.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for bubbles and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

REQUIREMENTS
       bubbles is implemented in Perl/Tk, so both Perl and Perl/Tk must be
       installed on your system.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2009-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       lsroll(1)

       blinkenlights(8), rollchk(8), rollerd(8) rollinit(8), rollrec-editor(8)
       rollset(8),

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::rollrec(3)

       file-rollrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                        BUBBLES(1)
