BYZANZ-RECORD(1)                                                                          General Commands Manual                                                                          BYZANZ-RECORD(1)

NAME
       byzanz-record - record your desktop session to an animated GIF

SYNOPSIS
       byzanz-record [options] FILENAME

DESCRIPTION
       Byzanz  records  your desktop session to an animated GIF.  You can record your entire screen, a single window, or an arbitrary region.  byzanz-record allows you to make recordings from the command
       line.  Graphical users may want to use the panel applet instead.

OPTIONS
   Application Options:
       -a, --audio
              Record audio from the default input device. This only works if the output format supports it and will otherwise cause an error.

       -c, --cursor
              Record mouse cursor

       -d, --duration=SECS
              Duration of animation (default: 10 seconds)

       -e, --exec=COMMAND
              Instead of specifying the duration of the animation, execute the given COMMAND and record until the command exits. This is useful both for benchmarking and to use more complex ways to  stop
              the recording, like writing scripts that listen on dbus.

       --delay=SECS
              Delay before start (default: 1 second)

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use

       -h, --height=PIXEL
              Height of recording rectangle

       -v, --verbose
              be verbose

       -w, --width=PIXEL
              Width of recording rectangle

       -x, --x=PIXEL
              X coordinate of rectangle to record

       -y, --y=PIXEL
              Y coordinate of rectangle to record

   Help Options:
       -?, --help
              Show help options

       --help-all
              Show all help options

       --help-gtk
              Show GTK+ Options

OUTPUT FILE
       After byzanz-record is finished, the recording is written to FILENAME.  The format is determined by the filename extension. The following formats are supported:

       byzanz Record  to  Byzanz'  internal  debugging format. This is useful for benchmarking Byzanz or if you want to convert the recording to multiple formats later.  You can use byzanz-playback(1) to
              convert the file.

       flv    Record to a Flash Screen video. This recording method is lossless. Use it if you want to postprocess the file in other applications.

       gif    Record to an animated GIF image. Use this if you want to record a mostly static screen with a limited amount of colors, such as using a file manager or an office application.  This  is  the
              default and will be used if an unrecognized extension is used.

       ogg, ogv
              Record to an Ogg Theora video. This format supports audio. Use this if you want to record dynamic contents, such as video playback.

       webm   Record to a WebM video. This format consists of VP8 video and Vorbis audio streams. Use this if you want to record dynamic contents, e.g. for a HTML5 video.

SEE ALSO
       byzanz-playback(1)

AUTHOR
       Byzanz was written by Benjamin Otte <otte@gnome.org>.

       This manual page was last updated for version 0.2.1.

                                                                                                                                                                                           BYZANZ-RECORD(1)
