CAFEOBJ(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                             CAFEOBJ(1)

NAME
       cafeobj - algebraic specification and programming language

SYNOPSIS
       cafeobj [OPTION]... [FILES]...

DESCRIPTION
       Starts the CafeOBJ interpreter.

       CafeOBJ  is a most advanced formal specification language which inherits many advanced features (e.g. flexible mix-fix syntax, powerful and clear typing system with ordered sorts, parameteric
       modules and views for instantiating the parameters, and module expressions, etc.) from OBJ (or more exactly OBJ3) algebraic specification language.

       CafeOBJ is a language for writing formal (i.e. mathematical) specifications of models for wide varieties of software and systems, and verifying properties of them.  CafeOBJ  implements  equa‐
       tional logic by rewriting and can be used as a powerful interactive theorem proving system. Specifiers can write proof scores also in CafeOBJ and doing proofs by executing the proof scores.

       CafeOBJ  has  state-of-art rigorous logical semantics based on institutions. The CafeOBJ cube shows the structure of the various logics underlying the combination of the various paradigms im‐
       plemented by the language. Proof scores in CafeOBJ are also based on institution based rigorous semantics, and can be constructed using a complete set of proof rules.

OPTIONS
       There are two classes of options. The first are options for the cafeobj wrapper script that allows to select the underlying Common Lisp interpreter, and to adjust search path parameters.

       -engine NAME
              selects the underlying common lisp engine. If not given, the first one selected during build time is used.

       -list-engines
              lists all available common lisp engines

       -wrapper-libpath PATH
              sets the path where memory dumps of the lisp interpreters are found

       -wrapper-sharepath PATH
              sets the path where CafeOBJ initialization files are searched

       The following set of options are directed at the CafeOBJ interpreter directly:

       -help  print a help message

       -q     do not load user's initialization file

       -batch run in batch mode

       -p PATH
              gives the standard prelude file defining modules

       +p PATH
              load additional prelude file

       -l DIR-LIST
              set list of pathnames for module search path, separated by colons

       +l DIR-LIST
              adds a list of pathname for module search path

       FILES  files that are loaded at startup time in order.

AUTHOR
       Toshimi Sawada and Norbert Preining.
       Contact: info@cafeobj.org

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2000-2014 Toshima Sawada, Norbert Preining.  License BSD.
       THIS SOFTWARE IS SUPPLIED COMPLETELY "AS IS". CafeOBJ is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied  warranty  of  MERCHANT-ABILITY  of
       FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

User Manuals                                                                                September 2014                                                                                  CAFEOBJ(1)
