canlock-mhp(1)                                                                              canlock-hp 3.1.0 manual                                                                              canlock-mhp(1)

NAME
       canlock-mhp - CLI frontend for libcanlock library

SYNOPSIS
       canlock-mhp -h | -v

       canlock-mhp -f fieldname

DESCRIPTION
       Message Header Parser (mhp) for RFC5536 conformant Netnews articles.

       The name of a single header field must be specified with the -f option.

       The  message in canonical format (with US-ASCII encoded CRLF line breaks) is read from stdin. If the message is in some local format (e.g. EBCDIC encoded or with LF line breaks), ist must be converted
       to canonical format before it can be used as input.

       The input data may be a naked header without message body, but the empty line separater after the header must always be present.  The syntax of the extracted header field is  not  checked  beyond  the
       folding.  The rest of the message need not be fully RFC5536 conformant too, as long as all header fields start on new lines (and are correctly folded, so that there is no ambiguity). Common syntax er‐
       rors (like 8bit characters in the header) are ignored.

       If the specified header field is found, it is extracted, unfolded and printed to stdout (without trailing line break).

OPTIONS
       The following options are supported:

       -f fieldname             Specify the header field name to search for (without the colon).

       -h                       Print help message, then exit.

       -v                       Print version and compile time options, then exit.

EXIT STATUS
       Zero on success or regular exit respectively.
       All other values indicate an error.

AUTHORS
       Michael Baeuerle

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <mailto:michael.baeuerle@gmx.net>.

STANDARDS
       canlock-mhp tries to comply with the following standards:

       RFC5536

SEE ALSO
       canlock-hfp(1), canlock(1)

Unix                                                                                               2019-01-31                                                                                    canlock-mhp(1)
