car(1)                                                                                           GNU Telephony                                                                                           car(1)

NAME
       car - crytographic archiver.

SYNOPSIS
       car [options] [paths...]
       car --decode [.carfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Creates  and  decodes  portable cross-platform crytographic archives.  An archive can be a collection of files, or an in-stream message that is piped.  Output can be to a binary .car file, or ascified
       text.  A symetric cipher is used, and the passhrase is hashed to form a key.

OPTIONS
       --cipher=name
              Specify symetric cipher.  By default 256 bit aes is used.

       --decrypt
              Specify decryption operation on an existing car stream or file.  If no file is specified, stdin is used.

       --digest=name
              Specify name of digest algorithm.  By default sha will be used.

       --follow
              Dereference and follow symlinks.  Otherwise they are ignored.

       --output=filename
              Specify output file for a new archive.  By default stdout is used.

       --overwrite
              Always overwrite existing files without prompting.

       --quiet
              Non-interactive and no status output.

       --recursive
              If argument is a directory, recursively scan directory and any subdirectory contents as arguments.

       --help Outputs help screen for the user.

AUTHOR
       car was written by David Sugar <dyfet@gnutelephony.org>.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to bug-commoncpp@gnu.org or bugs@gnutelephony.org.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2010-2014 David Sugar, Tycho Softworks.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

GNU uCommon                                                                                       January 2010                                                                                           car(1)
