Carton::Doc::Install(3pm)                                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                           Carton::Doc::Install(3pm)

NAME
       Carton::Doc::Install - Install the dependencies

SYNOPSIS
         carton install [--deployment] [--cached] [--path=PATH] [--without develop]

DESCRIPTION
       Install the dependencies for your application. This command has two modes and the behavior is slightly different.

   DEVELOPMENT MODE
       carton install
           If you run "carton install" without any arguments and if cpanfile exists, carton will scan dependencies from cpanfile and install the modules.

       If  you  run  "carton  install"  for the first time (i.e. cpanfile.snapshot does not exist), carton will fetch all the modules specified, resolve dependencies and install all required modules from
       CPAN.

       If cpanfile.snapshot file does exist, carton will still try to install modules specified or updated in cpanfile, but uses cpanfile.snapshot for the dependency  resolution,  and  then  cascades  to
       CPAN.

       carton  will  analyze  all  the  dependencies  and  their  version information, and it is saved into cpanfile.snapshot file. It is important to add cpanfile.snapshot file into a version controlled
       repository and commit the changes as you update your dependencies.

   DEPLOYMENT MODE
       If you specify the "--deployment" command line option or the cpanfile.snapshot exists, carton will only use the dependencies specified in the cpanfile.snapshot instead of resolving dependencies.

OPTIONS
       --deployment
           Force the deployment mode. See "DEPLOYMENT MODE" above.

       --cached
           Locate distribution tarballs in "vendor/cache" rather than fetching them from CPAN mirrors. This requires you to run "carton bundle" prior to the deployment and commit or sync the  content  of
           "vendor" directory to the other host you run "carton install" on.

       --cpanfile
           Specify the alternate path for cpanfile. By default, "carton install" will look for the file "cpanfile" in the current directory, then upwards till the root directory, in case the command runs
           from a sub directory.

           Carton  assumes  the  directory  where  your  cpanfile  (or  altenate  path)  exists as a project root directory, and will look for the snapshot file as well as install directory ("local") and
           "vendor/cache" relative to it.

       --path
           Specify the path to install modules to. Defaults to local in the directory relative to where "cpanfile" is.

           NOTE: this option, as of version 1.0, is not preserved across multiple runs of "carton install" or other commands such as "carton list" or "carton exec". You can choose  to  set  the  path  in
           "PERL_CARTON_PATH" environment variable to persist it across commands.

       --without
           By default, "carton install" will install all the phases for dependencies, including "develop". You can specify phases or features to exclude, in the comma separated list.

             carton install --deployment --without develop

           NOTE: "--without" for the initial installation (without cpanfile.snapshot) is not supported at this moment.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-05-12                                                                       Carton::Doc::Install(3pm)
