CBATTICON(1)                                                                                    User manual                                                                                    CBATTICON(1)

NAME
       cbatticon — a lightweight and fast battery icon that sits in your system tray

SYNOPSIS
       cbatticon [option] [battery id]

DESCRIPTION
       The cbatticon utility displays battery information (battery status, remaining percentage, remaining time) using an icon in the system tray.
       If no battery id is specified, it will display the first battery that is found.  You can list the available batteries using the option --list-power-supplies.

OPTIONS
       -c, --command-critical-level command
            Specify the command to execute when the critical battery level is reached.

       -d, --debug
            Display debug information.

       -h, --help
            Show help information and exit.

       -i, --icon-type type
            Specify the icon type to display in the system tray.
            If not specified, cbatticon will use the first one that is available in this sequence: standard, notification, symbolic.
            The available icon types on your system can be listed using the option --list-icon-types.

       -l, --low-level percentage
            Specify the low level percentage of the battery.
            The default is set to 20%.

       -n, --hide-notification
            Hide the notification popups.

       -p, --list-power-supplies
            List the available power supplies on your system.

       -r, --critical-level percentage
            Specify the critical level percentage of the battery.
            The default is set to 5%.

       -t, --list-icon-types
            List the available icon types (standard, notification, symbolic).

       -u, --update-interval interval
            Specify the number of seconds between updates of the battery information.
            The default is set to 5 seconds.

       -v, --version
            Display the version information and exit.

       -x, --command-left-click command
            Specify the command to execute when left clicking on the tray icon.

EXAMPLES
       cbatticon

       cbatticon -t

       cbatticon -p

       cbatticon -u 20 -i notification -c "poweroff" -l 15 -r 3

cbatticon                                                                                      June 11, 2019                                                                                   CBATTICON(1)
