CBGT2TGA(1)                                                                               BSD General Commands Manual                                                                               CBGT2TGA(1)

NAME
     cbgt2tga — CBGT image to TGA converter

SYNOPSIS
     cbgt2tga [options] cbgt pal 2da tga

DESCRIPTION
     cbgt2tga converts CBGT image files into common TGA images.  CBGT, Compressed BackGround Tiles, are used as area background images in BioWare's Nintendo DS game Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood.

     Internally, a CBGT consists of a collection of 64×64 pixel cells, divided into tiles of 8×8 pixels.  Each cell is compressed using Nintendo's 0x10 LZSS algorithm.  Moreover, PAL files with the same name
     as the CBGT file contain the palette data, and 2DA files with the same name yet again contain the mapping of palette indices onto cells.

     The width and height of the final image is not stored within the CBGT file, but the palette mapping 2DA does contain the number cells in X and Y direction, since it stores the palette indices in a two-
     dimensional array of those dimensions.  Therefore, multiplying the number of columns and rows in said 2DA by 64 yields the width and height, respectively, of the final image.

OPTIONS
     -h
     --help
         Show a help text and exit.
     --version
         Show version information and exit.
     cbgt
         The name of the CBGT file to read.  The CBGT contains the pixel graphics part of the image.
     pal
         The name of the PAL file to use.  The PAL file contains the palette part of the image.
     2da
         The name of the 2DA file to use.  The 2DA file contains information on which palette to use for each part of the CBGT, and on how many parts are in the CBGT in the first place.
     tga
         The resulting TGA file will be written there.

EXAMPLE
     Convert a CBGT+PAL+2DA into a TGA:

           $ cbgt2tga a.cbgt a.pal a.2da result.tga

SEE ALSO
     cdpth2tga(1), ncgr2tga(1)

     More information about the xoreos project can be found on its website: https://xoreos.org/

AUTHORS
     This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.  Please see the AUTHORS file for details.

BSD                                                                                              July 23, 2015                                                                                              BSD
