GOTO-HARNESS(1)                                                         User Commands                                                         GOTO-HARNESS(1)

NAME
       goto-harness - Generate environments for symbolic analysis

SYNOPSIS
       goto-harness [-?] [-h] [--help]
              show help

       goto-harness --version
              show version

       goto-harness in out --harness-function-name name --harness-type harness-type [harness-options]
              build  harness for in and write harness to out; the harness is printed as C code, if out has a .c suffix, else a GOTO binary including the har‐
              ness is generated

DESCRIPTION
       goto-harness constructs functions that set up an appropriate environment before calling functions under analysis. This is most useful when  trying  to
       analyze an isolated unit of a program.

       A typical sequence of tool invocations is as follows. Given a C program program.c, we generate a harness for function test_function:

              # Compile the program
              goto-cc program.c -o program.gb
              # Run goto-harness to produce harness file
              goto-harness --harness-type call-function --harness-function-name generated_harness_test_function
                --function test_function program.gb harness.c
              # Run the checks targeting the generated harness
              cbmc --pointer-check harness.c --function generated_harness_test_function

       goto-harness has two main modes of operation. First,function-call harnesses, which automatically synthesize an environment without having any informa‐
       tion about the program state. Second, memory-snapshot harnesses, in which case goto-harness loads an existing program state as generated by memory-an‐
       alyzer(1) and selectively havocs some variables.

OPTIONS
       --harness-function-name name
              Use name as the name of the harness function that is generated, i.e., the new entry point.

       --harness-type [call-function|initialize-with-memory-snapshot]
              Select  the  type of harness to generate. In addition to options applicable to both harness generators, each of them also has dedicated options
              that are described below.

   Common generator options
       --min-null-tree-depth N
              Set the minimum level at which a pointer can first be NULL in a recursively non-deterministically initialized struct to N. Defaults to 1.

       --max-nondet-tree-depth N
              Set the maximum height of the non-deterministic object tree to N. At that level, all pointers will be set to NULL. Defaults to 2.

       --min-array-size N
              Set the minimum size of arrays of non-constant size allocated by the harness to N. Defaults to 1.

       --max-array-size N
              Set the maximum size of arrays of non-constant size allocated by the harness to N. Defaults to 2.

       --nondet-globals
              Set global variables to non-deterministic values in harness.

       --havoc-member member-expr
              Non-deterministically initialize member-expr of some global object (may be given multiple times).

       --function-pointer-can-be-null function-name
              Name of parameters of the target function or of global variables of function-pointer type that can non-deterministically be set to NULL.

   Function harness generator (--harness-type call-function):
       --function function-name
              Generate an environment to call function function-name, which the harness will then call.

       --treat-pointer-as-array p
              Treat the (pointer-typed) function parameter with name p as an array.

       --associated-array-size array_name:size_name
              Set the function parameter size_name to the size of the array parameter array_name (implies --treat-pointer-as-array array_name).

       --treat-pointers-equal p,q,r[;s,t]
              Assume the pointer-typed function parameters q and r are equal to parameter p, and s equal to t, and so on.

       --treat-pointers-equal-maybe
              Function parameter equality is non-deterministic.

       --treat-pointer-as-cstring p
              Treat the function parameter with the name p as a string of characters.

   Memory snapshot harness generator (--harness-type initialise-from-memory-snapshot):
       --memory-snapshot file
              Initialize memory from JSON memory snapshot stored in file.

       --initial-goto-location func[:n]
              Use function func and GOTO binary location number n as entry point.

       --initial-source-location file:n
              Use given file name file and line number n in that file as entry point.

       --havoc-variables vars
              Non-deterministically initialize all symbols named vars.

       --pointer-as-array p
              Treat the global pointer with name p as an array.

       --size-of-array array_name:size_name
              Set the variable size_name to the size of the array variable array_name (implies --pointer-as-array array_name).

ENVIRONMENT
       All tools honor the TMPDIR environment variable when generating temporary files and directories.

BUGS
       If you encounter a problem please create an issue at https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/issues

SEE ALSO
       cbmc(1), goto-cc(1), memory-analyzer(1)

COPYRIGHT
       2019, Diffblue

goto-harness-5.59.0                                                       June 2022                                                           GOTO-HARNESS(1)
