cc-tool(1)                                                                                     USER COMMANDS                                                                                     cc-tool(1)

NAME
       cc-tool - control Texas Instruments CC Debugger

SYNOPSIS
       cc-tool [options]

DESCRIPTION
       cc-tool provides support of Texas Instruments CC Debugger and several evaluation boards to program TI 8051-based System-On-Chip devices

SUPPORTED DEVICES
       CC Debugger (VID: 0x0451 PID: 0x16a2)
       SmartRF04 Evaluation Board (VID: 0x11a0 PID: 0xdb20)
       SmartRF04 Evaluation Board (Chinese) (VID: 0x11a0 PID: 0xeb20)
       SmartRF05 Evaluation Board (VID: 0x0451 PID: 0x16a0)

SUPPORTED TARGETS
       CC2540 CC2541 CC2543 CC2544 CC2545 CC2530 CC2531 CC2533 CC2430 CC2431 CC2510 CC2511 CC1110 CC1111

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              print help message

       -d, --device bus_number:device_number
              set  programmer  device  usb address.  The option should be used only if several CC Debugger devices connected to the system simultaneously.  (you can use lsusb utility to enumerate devices
              connected to the system)

       -f, --fast
              set fast debug interface speed (by default: slow)

       -i, --read-info-page [file_name]
              read target info page (if target supports any). If no file-name specified data will be send to standard output.

       -r, --read file_name
              read flash memory and save to the specified file

       -a, --read-mac-address
              read target's mac address(es) (if target supports any).

       -b, --write-mac-address xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx[:xx:xx]
              write target's secondary mac address (if target supports any).  mac address should be specified in hex notation, MSB first. The length of the address must be 6 or 8 bytes depending on  tar‐
              get.

       -p, --preserve-mac-address
              before erasing target (secondary) mac address is read out and will be written back after flash programming.

       -e, --erase
              erase flash memory completely and reset lock bits

       -w, --write file_name[,offset]
              write  specified  file into flash memory. Optional offset value (in decimal) is an absolute target flash address and supported only for binary files. Option --write may be specified several
              times to build composite flash image from several hex and/or binary files, apply binary patches etc. Files will be merged in the order they appear in the command line.

       -v, --verify [method]
              verify flash after writing. Method can be crc (default) or read.  Method read means that after writing all modified flash content is read back and compared to input flash image.  Method crc
              means that after writing is completed target is configured to calculate CRC-16 over own flash and send results back so it ca be compared to crc of the input flash image.  Method crc is much
              faster against read out all flash data.

       -t, --test
              search for programmer and target and print various information of them.

       -l, --lock lock_data
              specify lock data as hex string or list of lock qualifiers.  Hex data must be exactly 1 byte (2 hex digits) or 16 bytes (32 hex digits), LSB first, depending  on  target.   Lock  qualifiers
              correspond to lock bit of target (see target datasheet). Not all targets support all qualifiers.  Qualifiers are:
                 debug - debug lock bit
                 boot - boot lock bit (for targets CC111x, CC243x, CC251x)
                 pages[:n[,k[,x-y]]] - specify what pages to lock (starting with 0), if target support per-page lock.  (for targets CC253x, CC254x)
                 flash[:a] - specify the size in KB of the upper flash area to lock if target support per-flash-area-size lock (for targets CC111x, CC243x, CC251x)
       Qualifier list is delimited by semicolon (See example section).

       --log [log_file]
              create log file with all operations performed. Useful for debugging cc-tool itself.  Warning: if write operations is performed log file will also contain the written image!

       --reset
              perform target reset. There's no need to use this option along with others because reset is performed anyway when needed

       -n, --name target_name
              specify target name e.g. CC2530 etc. If specified target does not match detected one no further actions are performed. This option is not required.

       -s, --flash-size specify target flash size
              specify target flash size in kilobytes. This option is required for any actions with MAC address when target is CC2430

SUPPORTED FILE FORMATS
       Supported  image  file formats are Intel hex or binary. Format will be determined automatically by file extension (hex or bin) or my be specified explicitly by adding ,bin or ,hex after file name.
       See EXAMPLES section.

EXAMPLES
       Read entire flash into binary file image.xxx
              cc-tool -r image.xxx,bin

       Erase flash, write intel hex file image.hex and verify flash using default method
              cc-tool -v -e -w image.hex

       Merge file image.hex and patch.bin (at offset 80), write resulting image, verify flash using read method
              cc-tool -v read -w image.hex --write patch.bin,80

       Set debug lock bit
              cc-tool --lock debug

       Set debug lock bit and lock pages 0,1,2,3,4
              cc-tool --lock debug;pages:0-4

       Set debug lock bit, boot lock bit, and set lock size 8K
              cc-tool --lock debug;boot;flash:8

EXIT STATUS
       cc-tool returns a zero exist status if all action were performed successfully.  Non zero is returned in case of failure.

AUTHOR
       George Stark (george-u (at) yandex.com)

cc-tool 0.26+                                                                                  March 01 2013                                                                                     cc-tool(1)
