CCD2ISO(1)                                                                                     User Commands                                                                                     CCD2ISO(1)

NAME
       ccd2iso - convert IMG format to ISO format

SYNOPSIS
       ccd2iso [FOO.IMG] [BAR.ISO]

DESCRIPTION
       ccd2iso  converts FOO.IMG to ISO format and writes the result to BAR.ISO.  If fewer arguments than expected are given, ccd2iso will print its help message and quit. If more arguments than expected
       are given, ccd2iso will silently ignore them and use only the first two arguments.

       IMG files are raw-data copies of optical media, generated primarily by the Windows application CloneCD, and are primarily used to store CDs with odd properties, such as sectors which need to  have
       read errors when read. Conversion to ISO format removes this information, as ISO format does not support this.

       IMG files almost always include a SUB file, which contains additional data for the disc format, and a CCD file, which is a plaintext configuration file describing the disc layout. ccd2iso does not
       make use of these files, but the applications which generate them expect them to have the same FOO prefix as the IMG file.

LIMITATIONS
       ccd2iso currently only copies the first session of multisession discs, as well as outputting a harmless warning of Unrecognized sector mode.

       ccd2iso utterly ignores the additional data in CCD or SUB files.

SEE ALSO
       mdf2iso(1), nrg2iso(1)

AUTHOR
       This  manual page was written by Rich Ercolani <rercola@acm.jhu.edu>, for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution (but it may, of course, be used by others), because the original program lacked a manual
       page.  It may be distributed under the same terms as ccd2iso, the GNU GPL version 2 or later, at your option.

ccd2iso 0.3                                                                                      June 2006                                                                                       CCD2ISO(1)
