CD-CIRCLEPRINT(1)                                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                   CD-CIRCLEPRINT(1)

NAME
       cd-circleprint - create a round label for a CD

SYNOPSIS
       cd-circleprint [option[=value..]] FILE

DESCRIPTION
       cd-circleprint  prints  two  round labels for CDs. It uses up to four lines of text for each label, this is printed in arcs so the text can be much longer than if it were in straight lines.  There
       are four additional straight text fields for each label.

       The output is in PostScript, this should work on most systems.

       You can select the font, size, and colour of the text for each field separately, and you can choose the background colour for each label. An image file  in  EPS  format  may  also  be  used  as  a
       background.  If you wish more complicated backgrounds or colour effects you can save a label and modify it in any graphic program which can read PostScript.

OPTIONS
       --config
           Alternative configuration file.

       --debug
           Enable debuggging mode, various information is printed to standard output.

       --version
           Print version number and exit successfully.

LAYOUT
       All layout is done in PostScript, this should work on most systems.

       The  result of the layout are two cd-labels on one sheet of paper. On each label there are two convex and two concave lines of text. If you have a very long line of text, you can use only one line
       and make it longer.  There are no limits to the length of text.  However, after 360 degrees the ends of the text will overlap.

       There are also four text fields on each label with normal horizontal lines of text.  These text fields are specified in clockwise order: above, right, below, and left of the central hole.

       The colours are done in the RGB-model of PostScript, you can choose them for each line and the background of the label independently.

       You can move the circles around the sheet to fit them on most types of label-sheets.

       You can also squeeze or stretch the whole thing to correct small errors of your printer.

USAGE
       After starting the program you see sixteen text-entry fields divided into two blocks.  The upper block is for the arcs, the lower block is for the straight text fields.

       Each label has four text fields and four arcs.

       The first two lines are for the upper arcs on the label and the last two for the lower arcs.

       Write your text in the fields (support for cddb is on the TODO list)

       The Save Image menu item creates a postscript file of the label.  A file selection dialogue is displayed so the user can specify the path and filename.

       Font attributes and colours can be changed interactively using a dialog available from the menu.

       Shortcuts
            Control-l: write the label to /tmp
            Control-p: preview the label
            Control-q: quit
            Control-s: save the configuration

       File Menu
           New Start a new label, all label fields are cleared and parameters are reset to default values.

           Open
               A file selection dialog is displayed so that the user can select a label data file which is then used to set the label values.

           Save
               The current label data values are saved using the current filename.

           Save As
               A file selection dialog is displayed and the current label data values are saved to the file specified by the user.

           Load Form Data
               Load Form (Paper Layout) data from a specified file.

           Save Form Data
               Save Form Data to a specified file.

           Save Image
               Save an image of the labels as a specified Postscript File.

           Preview
               Launch the predefined preview application to preview the labels.

           Exit
               Exit the program, all unsaved data will be lost.

       Format Menu
           Fonts & Colours
               Change font family, font size, font-colour and the background colour interactively, all changes should take effect immediately in the text entry fields.

               Note, perl-tk uses the nearest match for the font. The labels may look different on your printer.

           Angle
               Sets the angle by which the centre of the text arcs are offset.

           Radii
               Specify the size of the label inner circle and the radii of the text circles.

           Page Deformation
               Some printers do not work correctly with circles and produce an ellipse, you can squeeze or stretch the whole page to get perfect circles with your printer.

           Positions
               You can move the circles around the page using this menu.

           Top Label / Bottom Label
               Select which labels will be generated. The input fields for unselected labels are disabled.

           Tickmarks
               There are many cd-label sheets on the market, so you can move the circles around the page. To make this easier, you can print some tickmarks on the page to measure the distances.   If  you
               have the correct values, you don't need these tickmarks any more and can save some ink.

           Circle Boundaries
               This allows the user to turn off the printing of the circles which show the boundaries of the labels.

           Graphics
               You can put an image on the label. This image currently has to be in eps-format.

               I thought about automatic scaling, but the program would have to know the real size of the visible part of the graphic instead of just the bounding box.

               The scaling and shifting should be self-explanatory. The program gets the bounding box of the eps image and puts the image in the middle of the label.

       Options Menu
           Previewer
               Select the application to use for previewing the labels.

           Graphics Converter
               Select the application to use for converting graphics to eps format.

           Load Options
               Load program options from configuration files, this is useful to reset the configuration to a known state.

           Save Options
               Save the current program configuration to either the user specified configuration file or to the default file if the user did not specify one.

       Help Menu
           Help
               Display this man page.

           About
               Display program version, description and copyright information.

CONFIGURATION
       You can save your configuration in a file in your $HOME or ask your sysadmin to create a global configuration-file.

FILES
       There is a global configuration file /etc/cd-circleprint.conf and a local configuration file $HOME/.cd-circleprint.conf

       You  can  specify  a configuration file on the command line in which case the default configuration file settings can be overridden.  For the format of the configuration files take a look at them.
       Comments start with a # and blank lines are ignored.

       The program sets its internal default values, looks for the global configuration file, then for the local configuration file and finally for a user specified file.

       Label data is read from a similar format file either specified on the command line or selected from a file dialog.

BUGS
       There are probably many bugs, please fix them and send me a patch.  Thanks

AUTHORS
       cd-circleprint is written and maintained by Colin Tuckley <colintu@users.sourceforge.net> cd-circleprint was originally written by Matthias Kabel <matthias.kabel@tyche.de>

       You can find the latest version at http://cd-circle-print.sourceforge.net

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation;  either  version  2  of  the
       License, or (at your option) any later version.

       Thanks to sourceforge.net for hosting free software

perl v5.40.0                                                                                     2024-10-17                                                                               CD-CIRCLEPRINT(1)
