CDEMU-DAEMON(8)                                                                           System Manager's Manual                                                                           CDEMU-DAEMON(8)

NAME
       cdemud - The CDEmu daemon

SYNOPSIS
       cdemu-daemon [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This is CDEmu daemon, the userspace part of the cdemu suite, a free, GPL CD/DVD-ROM device emulator for linux.

       It receives SCSI commands from kernel module and processes them, passing the requested data back to the kernel. Daemon implements the actual virtual device; one instance per each device registered
       by kernel module. It uses libMirage, an image access library that is part of the cdemu suite, for the image access (e.g. sector reading).

       The daemon registers itself on D-BUS' system or session bus (depending on the options passed to it) where it exposes an interface that can be used by clients to control it.

OPTIONS
       --config-file=filename
              Configuration file to load. See Configuration file section for details.

       -n --num-devices=N
              Number of devices. Specifies the number of virtual devices the daemon instance should register with kernel module and control. By default, 1 virtual device is created.

       -c --ctl-device=path
              Control  device.  Specifies  the control device path. Control device is a character device provided by kernel module; it is used for communication between kernel and userspace part of CDEmu
              suite. By default, /dev/vhba_ctl is used.

       -a --audio-driver=driver
              Audio driver. Specifies audio driver to be used by virtual devices' audio play.  Since libao is used for audio playback, any valid libao driver can be specified.  If default is  used  as  a
              driver,  then  libao's default driver is used. Few examples of valid libao drivers are alsa, oss, pulse or null.  For all drivers, default device is used. By default, if audio driver is not
              explicitly specified via this option, null is used.

       -b --bus=bus_type
              Bus type. Valid options are system or session. By default, session bus is used.  (Please note that the running of CDEmu daemon on system bus is considered deprecated and is discouraged  for
              security reasons).

       -l --logfile=logfile
              Log file to write logging output into. By default, use of log file is disabled and messages are written to stdout.

       --default-cdemu-debug-mask=mask
              Default debug mask for CDEmu devices (at CDEmu daemon implementation level).  Default value is 0.

       --default-mirage-debug-mask=mask
              Default debug mask for CDEmu devices (at libMirage implementation level).  Default value is 0.

       -? --help
              Display the help message.

EXAMPLES
       Running daemon on default bus with PulseAudio audio driver and 4 virtual devices:
              cdemu-daemon --num-devices=4 --audio-driver=pulse

       Running daemon on system bus with 2 virtual devices and logging redirected to a file:
              cdemu-daemon --num-devices=2 --bus=system --logfile=/tmp/cdemu-daemon.log

CONFIGURATION FILE
       The  daemon's  settings can be collected in a configuration file, which is passed to the daemon via --config-file option. Configuration file contains key=value pairs that are contained in a single
       [settings] section. The keys in configuration file correspond to the long names of command-line switches.

       If an option is specified in both configuration file and on command-line, the latter takes precedence.

       If the specified configuration file does not exist, it is silently ignored.  If the specified configuration file is invalid (e.g., has invalid syntax, or does not contain a section), an  error  is
       raised.

       Example

       Saving the following configuration to a file and passing it to the daemon via --config-file is equivalent to passing --num-devices=2 --audio-driver=pulse directly to the daemon:

              [settings]
              num-devices=2
              audio-driver=pulse

AUTHORS
       Rok Mandeljc <rok.mandeljc@gmail.com>

       CDEmu project's web page: http://cdemu.sourceforge.net

       CDEmu project's mailing list: cdemu-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

                                                                                                Apr 5, 2021                                                                                 CDEMU-DAEMON(8)
