CDPARANOIA(1)                                                      General Commands Manual                                                      CDPARANOIA(1)

NAME
       cdparanoia - an audio CD reading utility which includes extra data verification features

SYNOPSIS
       cdparanoia [options] span [outfile] |-B

DESCRIPTION
       cdparanoia retrieves audio tracks from CDDA-capable CDROM drives.  The data can be saved to a file or directed to standard output in WAV, AIFF, AIFF-C
       or  raw format.  Most ATAPI and SCSI and several proprietary CDROM drive makes are supported; cdparanoia can determine if the target drive is CDDA ca‐
       pable.

       In addition to simple reading, cdparanoia adds extra-robust data verification, synchronization, error handling and scratch reconstruction capability.

OPTIONS
       -A --analyze-drive
              Run and log a complete analysis of drive caching, timing and reading behavior; verifies that  cdparanoia  is  correctly  modelling  a  specific
              drive's cache and read behavior. Implies -vQL.

       -v --verbose
              Be absurdly verbose about the auto-sensing and reading process. Good for setup and debugging.

       -q --quiet
              Do not print any progress or error information during the reading process.

       -e --stderr-progress
              Force output of progress information to stderr (for wrapper scripts).

       -l --log-summary [file]
              Save result summary to file, default filename cdparanoia.log.

       -L --log-debug [file]
              Save detailed device auto-sense and debugging output to a file, default filename cdparanoia.log.

       -V --version
              Print the program version and quit.

       -Q --query
              Perform CDROM drive auto-sense, query and print the CDROM table of contents, then quit.

       -s --search-for-drive
              Forces a complete search for a CDROM drive, even if the /dev/cdrom link exists.

       -h --help
              Print a brief synopsis of cdparanoia usage and options.

       -p --output-raw
              Output headerless data as raw 16-bit PCM data with interleaved samples in host byte order.  To force little or big endian byte order, use -r or
              -R as described below.

       -r --output-raw-little-endian
              Output headerless data as raw 16-bit PCM data with interleaved samples in LSB first byte order.

       -R --output-raw-big-endian
              Output headerless data as raw 16-bit PCM data with interleaved samples in MSB first byte order.

       -w --output-wav
              Output data in Micro$oft RIFF WAV format (note that WAV data is always LSB-first byte order).

       -f --output-aiff
              Output data in Apple AIFF format (note that AIFC data is always in MSB-first byte order).

       -a --output-aifc
              Output data in uncompressed Apple AIFF-C format (note that AIFF-C data is always in MSB-first byte order).

       -B --batch

              Cdda2wav-style  batch  output  flag; cdparanoia will split the output into multiple files at track boundaries.  Output file names are prepended
              with 'track#.'

       -c --force-cdrom-little-endian
              Some CDROM drives misreport their endianness (or do not report it at all); it's possible that cdparanoia will guess wrong.  Use -c to force cd‐
              paranoia to treat the drive as a little endian device.

       -C --force-cdrom-big-endian
              As above but force cdparanoia to treat the drive as a big endian device.

       -n --force-default-sectors n
              Force the interface backend to do atomic reads of n sectors per read.  This number can be misleading; the kernel will often split read requests
              into multiple atomic reads (the automated Paranoia code is aware of this) or allow reads only within a  restricted  size  range.   This  option
              should generally not be used.

       -d --force-cdrom-device device
              Force  the  interface  backend to read from device rather than the first readable CDROM drive it finds.  This can be used to specify devices of
              any valid interface type (ATAPI, SCSI, or proprietary).

       -k --force-cooked-device device
              This option forces use of the old 'cooked ioctl' kernel interface with the specified CDROM device.  The cooked ioctl interface is  obsolete  in
              Linux 2.6 if it is present at all.  -k cannot be used with -d or -g.

       -g --force-generic-device device
              This  option forces use of the old 'generic SCSI' (sg) kernel interface with the specified generic SCSI device.  -g cannot be used with -k.  -g
              may be used with -d to explicitly set both the SCSI carom and generic (sg) devices separately. This option is only useful on obsolete SCSI  se‐
              tups and when using the generic SCSI (sg) driver.

       -S --force-read-speed number
              Use this option explicitly to set the read rate of the CD drive (where supported).  This can reduce underruns on machines that have slow disks,
              or which are low on memory.

       -t --toc-offset number
              Use  this  option to force the entire disc LBA addressing to shift by the given amount; the value is added to the beginning offsets in the TOC.
              This can be used to shift track boundaries for the whole disc manually on sector granularity.  The next option does something similar...

       -T --toc-bias
              Some drives (usually random Toshibas) report the actual track beginning offset values in the TOC, but then treat the beginning of track 1 index
              1 as sector 0 for all read operations.  This results in every track seeming to start too late (losing a bit of the beginning and catching a bit
              of the next track).  -T accounts for this behavior.  Note that this option will cause cdparanoia to attempt to read sectors before or past  the
              known user data area of the disc, resulting in read errors at disc edges on most drives and possibly even hard lockups on some buggy hardware.

       -O --sample-offset number
              Use  this  option  to force the entire disc to shift sample position output by the given amount; this can be used to shift track boundaries for
              the whole disc manually on sample granularity. Note that this will cause cdparanoia to attempt to read partial sectors before or past the known
              user data area of the disc, probably causing read errors on most drives and possibly even hard lockups on some buggy hardware.

       -Z --disable-paranoia
              Disable all data verification and correction features.  When using -Z, cdparanoia reads data exactly as would cdda2wav(1) with an overlap  set‐
              ting of zero.  This option implies that -Y is active.

       -z --never-skip[=max_retries]
              Do  not  accept any skips; retry forever if needed.  An optional maximum number of retries can be specified; for comparison, default without -z
              is currently 20.

       -Y --disable-extra-paranoia
              Disables intra-read data verification; only overlap checking at read boundaries is performed. It can wedge if errors  occur  in  the  attempted
              overlap area. Not recommended.

       -X --abort-on-skip
              If  the  read skips due to imperfect data, a scratch, or whatever, abort reading this track.  If output is to a file, delete the partially com‐
              pleted file.

OUTPUT SMILIES
              :-) Normal operation, low/no jitter

              :-| Normal operation, considerable jitter

              :-/ Read drift

              :-P Unreported loss of streaming in atomic read operation

              8-| Finding read problems at same point during reread; hard to correct

              :-0 SCSI/ATAPI transport error

              :-( Scratch detected

              ;-( Gave up trying to perform a correction

              8-X Aborted read due to known, uncorrectable error

              :^D Finished extracting

PROGRESS BAR SYMBOLS
       <space>
              No corrections needed

              - Jitter correction required

              + Unreported loss of streaming/other error in read

              !  Errors found after stage 1 correction; the drive is making the same error through multiple re-reads, and cdparanoia is  having  trouble  de‐
              tecting them.

              e SCSI/ATAPI transport error (corrected)

              V Uncorrected error/skip

SPAN ARGUMENT
       The  span  argument  specifies which track, tracks, or subsections of tracks to read.  This argument is required, unless batch-mode is used (in batch-
       mode, cdparanoia will rip all tracks if no span is given).  NOTE: Unless the span is a simple number, it's generally a good idea to quote the span ar‐
       gument to protect it from the shell.

       The span argument may be a simple track number or an offset/span specification.  The syntax of an offset/span takes the rough form:

       1[ww:xx:yy.zz]-2[aa:bb:cc.dd]

       Here, 1 and 2 are track numbers; the numbers in brackets provide a finer-grained offset within a particular  track.  [aa:bb:cc.dd]  is  in  hours/min‐
       utes/seconds/sectors  format.  Zero fields need not be specified: [::20], [:20], [20], [20.], etc, would be interpreted as twenty seconds, [10:] would
       be ten minutes, [.30] would be thirty sectors (75 sectors per second).

       When only a single offset is supplied, it is interpreted as a starting offset and ripping will continue to the end of the track.  If a  single  offset
       is preceded or followed by a hyphen, the implicit missing offset is taken to be the start or end of the disc, respectively. Thus:

       1:[20.35]
              Specifies ripping from track 1, second 20, sector 35 to the end of track 1.

       1:[20.35]-
              Specifies ripping from 1[20.35] to the end of the disc

       -2     Specifies ripping from the beginning of the disc up to (and including) track 2

       -2:[30.35]
              Specifies ripping from the beginning of the disc up to 2:[30.35]

       2-4    Specifies ripping from the beginning of track 2 to the end of track 4.

       Again, don't forget to protect square brackets from the shell.

EXAMPLES
       A few examples, protected from the shell:

       Query only with exhaustive search for a drive and full reporting of auto-sense:

              cdparanoia -vsQ

       Extract an entire disc, putting each track in a separate file:

              cdparanoia -B

       Extract from track 1, time 0:30.12 to 1:10.00:

              cdparanoia "1[:30.12]-1[1:10]"

       Extract from the beginning of the disc up through track 3:

              cdparanoia -- -3

       The "--" above is to distinguish "-3" from an option flag.

OUTPUT
       The  output  file argument is optional; if it is not specified, cdparanoia will output samples to one of cdda.wav, cdda.aifc, or cdda.raw depending on
       whether -w, -a, -r or, -R is used (-w is the implicit default).  The output file argument of - specifies standard output;  all  data  formats  may  be
       piped.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       cdparanoia  sprang from and once drew heavily from the interface of Heiko Eissfeldt's (heiko@colossus.escape.de) 'cdda2wav' package.  cdparanoia would
       not have happened without it.

       Joerg Schilling has also contributed SCSI expertise through his generic SCSI transport library.

AUTHOR
       Monty <monty@xiph.org>

       cdparanoia's homepage may be found at: http://www.xiph.org/paranoia/

                                                                         11 Sep 2008                                                            CDPARANOIA(1)
