cback3-span(1)                                                                              Kenneth J. Pronovici                                                                             cback3-span(1)

NAME
       cback3-span - Span staged data among multiple discs

SYNOPSIS
       cback3-span [switches]

DESCRIPTION
       This  is  the  Cedar  Backup 3 span tool.  It is intended for use by people who back up more data than can fit on a single disc.  It allows a user to split (span) staged data between more than one
       disc.  It can't be a Cedar Backup extension in the usual sense because it requires user input when switching media.

       Generally, one can run the cback3-span command with no arguments.  This will start it using the default configuration file, the default log file, etc.  You only need to use  the  switches  if  you
       need to change the default behavior.

       This  command  takes  most  of its configuration from the Cedar Backup configuration file, specifically the store section.  Then, more information is gathered from the user interactively while the
       command is running.

MIGRATING FROM VERSION 2 TO VERSION 3
       The main difference between Cedar Backup version 2 and Cedar Backup version 3 is the targeted Python interpreter.  For most users, migration should be straightforward.  See the discussion found at
       cback3(1) or reference the Cedar Backup user guide.

SWITCHES
       -h, --help
              Display usage/help listing.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -b, --verbose
              Print verbose output to the screen as well writing to the logfile. When this option is enabled, most information that would normally be written to the logfile will also be  written  to  the
              screen.

       -c, --config
              Specify the path to an alternate configuration file.  The default configuration file is /etc/cback3.conf.

       -l, --logfile
              Specify the path to an alternate logfile.  The default logfile file is /var/log/cback3.log.

       -o, --owner
              Specify the ownership of the logfile, in the form user:group.  The default ownership is root:adm, to match the Debian standard for most logfiles.  This value will only be used when creating
              a new logfile.  If the logfile already exists when the cback3 script is executed, it will retain its existing ownership and mode.  Only user and group names may be used, not numeric uid and
              gid values.

       -m, --mode
              Specify  the  permissions  for  the logfile, using the numeric mode as in chmod(1).  The default mode is 640 (-rw-r-----).  This value will only be used when creating a new logfile.  If the
              logfile already exists when the cback3 script is executed, it will retain its existing ownership and mode.

       -O, --output
              Record some sub-command output to the logfile. When this option is enabled, all output from system commands will be logged. This might be useful for debugging or just for reference.

       -d, --debug
              Write debugging information to the logfile. This option produces a high volume of output, and would generally only be needed when debugging a problem. This option implies the  --output  op‐
              tion, as well.

       -s, --stack
              Dump  a Python stack trace instead of swallowing exceptions.  This forces Cedar Backup to dump the entire Python stack trace associated with an error, rather than just propagating last mes‐
              sage it received back up to the user interface.  Under some circumstances, this is useful information to include along with a bug report.

       -D, --diagnostics
              Display runtime diagnostic information and then exit.  This diagnostic information is often useful when filing a bug report.

RETURN VALUES
       This command returns 0 (zero) upon normal completion, and six other error codes related to particular errors.

       1      The Python interpreter version is not supported.

       2      Error processing command-line arguments.

       3      Error configuring logging.

       4      Error parsing indicated configuration file.

       5      Backup was interrupted with a CTRL-C or similar.

       6      Other error during processing.

NOTES
       Cedar Backup itself is designed to run as root, since otherwise it's difficult to back up system directories or write the CD or DVD device.  However, cback3-span can be run safely as any user that
       has read access to the Cedar Backup staging directories and write access to the CD or DVD device.

SEE ALSO
       cback3(1)

FILES
       /etc/cback3.conf - Default configuration file

       /var/log/cback3.log - Default log file

URLS
       The project homepage is: https://github.com/pronovic/cedar-backup3

BUGS
       If you find a bug, please report it.

       If possible, give me the output from --diagnostics, all of the error messages that the script printed into its log, and also any stack-traces (exceptions) that Python printed.  It  would  be  even
       better if you could tell me how to reproduce the problem, for instance by sending me your configuration file.

       Report bugs to <support@cedar-solutions.com> or via GitHub issues tracker.

AUTHOR
       Written and maintained by Kenneth J. Pronovici <pronovic@ieee.org> with contributions from others.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2004-2020 Kenneth J. Pronovici.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Cedar Backup 3                                                                                    Aug 2019                                                                                   cback3-span(1)
