CENTERIM(1)                 General Commands Manual                CENTERIM(1)

NAME
       centerim  -  a  text mode based IM client for Linux, *BSD, Sun Solaris,
       MacOS X and possibly, other Unices. ICQ2000, Yahoo!, AIM TOC, IRC, MSN,
       Gadu-Gadu  and Jabber protocols are now supported. Internal LiveJournal
       client and RSS reader are also provided.

SYNOPSIS
       centerim [ option ] ...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the centerim command.

       centerim is a text mode menu- and  window-driven  IM  interface.   Cur‐
       rently  ICQ2000,  Yahoo!, AIM, IRC, MSN, Gadu-Gadu and Jabber protocols
       are supported. It allows you to send, receive,  and  forward  messages,
       URLs, SMSes and, contacts, mass message send, search for users (includ‐
       ing extended "whitepages search"), view users' details,  maintain  your
       contact  list  directly  from the program (including non-icq contacts),
       view the messages history, register a new UIN and update your  details,
       be  informed  on receiving email messages, automatically set away after
       the defined period of inactivity (on any console), and  have  your  own
       ignore,  visible and invisible lists. It can also associate events with
       sounds, add events to the outgoing queue from command line, define  ex‐
       ternal   event  processing  actions  (like  events  auto-forwarding  or
       elizatalk), has support for Hebrew and Arabic languages and  allows  to
       arrange contacts into groups.

OPTIONS
       -a, --ascii
              use ascii characters to draw lines and boxes

       -h, --help
              display command line usage

       -v, --version
              show the program version info

       -b, --basedir <directory>
              specify  another  base  directory;  useful for having several IM
              identities under the same UNIX account

       -B, --bind <hostname/ip>
              tells centerim to use the specified IP address for outgoing con‐
              nections

       -B, --no-xtitles
              disable title changing in xterm or screen

       -o, --offline
              start with all protocols set offline

       The  following  commands  are  used to put events to the outgoing queue
       from the command line. If centerim is already  running  they're  to  be
       sent  immediately,  otherwise  they  will be sent as soon as you go on-
       line.

       -s, --send <event type>
              This parameter specifies the type of event  you  want  to  send.
              Currently only "msg", "url" and "sms" are supported.

       -p, --proto <protocol type>
              This  one  specifies to which IM network the destination contact
              belongs. Can be "icq", "yahoo", "aim", "irc", "jab", "msn", "gg"
              or "lj".

       -t, --to <nickname or UIN>
              With  this  one  you  specify nickname or UIN of the destination
              contact. For icq it's possible to specify 0 to  send  events  to
              yourself. Only SMSes are known to be possible to be sent to one‐
              self though.

       -n, --number <phone number>
              Using this parameter you can send SMSes to  any  mobile  numbers
              through the ICQ network.

       The message text is read from the standard input, so use pipes in shell
       to pass it. For example, you can say "hi" to me through the ICQ network
       with the following command:

           $ echo "hi" | centerim -s msg -p icq -t 17502151

       In case you want to send an URL, the URL itself and its description are
       separated with a newline character the following way:

           $ echo -e "http://thekonst.net/\nMy modest  homepage."      |  cen‐
       terim -s url -p icq -t 17502151

       Please  note,  that all three parameters are required in order to queue
       an event.

       Finally, a small example of sending SMSes:

           $ echo "sms test" | centerim -s sms -n 1234567890

       It's also possible to change your current status  on  a  particular  IM
       network with the following command line option.

       -S, --status <status letter>
              The  argument parameter is a letter which indicates which status
              is to be set: o (Online), _ (Offline), a (Away), d  (Don't  dis‐
              turb), n (N/A), c (Occupied), f (Free for chat), i (Invisible)

       -p or --proto <protocol name>
              Exactly the same like it was described for the previous command.

       Examples:

           $ centerim -S _ -p icq

       This  will set the icq status to offline. In other words, it'll be dis‐
       connected immediately.

           $ centerim -S a -p yahoo

       And this command will switch your yahoo status to away.

VERSION
       centerim 4.22.1

BUG REPORT
       Report any bugs at our Bugzilla site at http://bugzilla.centerim.org/

AUTHOR
       This page and centerim was originally written  by  Konstantin  Klyagin.
       Currently, several people are maintaining this software project.

WEB
       http://www.centerim.org/

                                 April 2, 2007                     CENTERIM(1)
