CERTMONGER(5)                                                                               File Formats Manual                                                                               CERTMONGER(5)

NAME
       certmonger.conf - configuration file for certmonger

DESCRIPTION
       The  certmonger.conf  file  contains  default settings used by certmonger.  Its format is more or less that of a typical INI-style file.  The only sections currently of note are named defaults and
       selfsign.

DEFAULTS
       Within the defaults section, these variables and values are recognized:

       notify_ttls
              This is the list of times, given in seconds, before a certificate's not-after validity date (often referred to as its expiration time) when certmonger should warn that the certificate  will
              soon  no  longer  be  valid.   If this value is not specified, certmonger will attempt to use the value of the ttls setting.  The default list of values is "2419200, 604800, 259200, 172800,
              86400, 43200, 21600, 7200, 3600".

       enroll_ttls
              This is the list of times, given in seconds, before a certificate's not-after validity date (often referred to as its expiration time) when certmonger should attempt to automatically  renew
              the  certificate,  if  it  is  configured  to  do so.  If this value is not specified, certmonger will attempt to use the value of the ttls setting.  The default list of values is "2419200,
              604800, 259200, 172800, 86400, 43200, 21600, 7200, 3600".

       notification_method
              This is the method by which certmonger will notify the system administrator that a certificate will soon become invalid.  The recognized values are syslog, mail, and command.   The  default
              is  syslog.   When  sending  mail,  the notification message will be the mail message subject.  When invoking a command, the notification message and type will be available in the "CERTMON‐
              GER_NOTIFICATION" and "CERTMONGER_NOTIFICATION_TYPE" environment variables and the related request's nickname/ID will be available in the "CERTMONGER_NOTIFICATION_CERT_NICKNAME" environment
              variable.

       notification_destination
              This is the destination to which certmonger will send notifications.  It can be a syslog priority and/or facility, separated by a period, it can be an email address, or it can be a  command
              to run.  The default value is daemon.notice.

       key_type
              This  is  the  type  of key pair which will be generated, used in certificate signing requests, and used when self-signing certificates.  RSA is supported.  EC (also known as ECDSA) is also
              supported.  The default is RSA.

       rsa_key_size
              This is the size of an RSA key if the value is not included in a certificate request. If this value is not set then the default is 2048. The minimum value allowed is 1024.

       symmetric_cipher
              This is the symmetric cipher which will be used to encrypt private keys stored in OpenSSL's PEM format.  Recognized values include aes128 and aes256.  The default is aes128.  It is not rec‐
              ommended that this value be changed except in cases where the default is incompatible with other software.

       digest This is the digest algorithm which will be used when signing certificate signing requests and self-signed certificates.  Recognized values include sha1, sha256, sha384, and sha512.  The de‐
              fault is sha256.  It is not recommended that this value be changed except in cases where the default is incompatible with other software.

       nss_ca_trust
              These are the trust attributes which are applied to CA certificates which should be trusted, when they are saved to NSS databases.  The default is CT,C,C.

       nss_other_trust
              These are the trust attributes which are applied to certificates which are not necessarily to be trusted, when they are saved to NSS databases.  The default is ,,.

       max_key_use_count
              When attempting to replace a certificate, if certmonger has previously obtained at least this number of certificates using the current key pair, it will generate a new key pair to  use  be‐
              fore proceeding.  There is effectively no default for this setting.

       max_key_lifetime
              The  amount  of  time after a key was first generated when certmonger will attempt to generate a new key pair to replace it, as part of the process of replacing a certificate.  The value is
              specified as a combination of years (y), months (M), weeks (w), days (d), hours (h), minutes (m), and/or seconds (s).  If no unit of time is specified, seconds are assumed.  The date when a
              key was generated is not recorded if the key was not generated by certmonger, or if the key was generated with a version of certmonger older than 0.78, and for those cases, this option  has
              no effect.  There is effectively no default for this setting.

SELFSIGN
       Within the selfsign section, these variables and values are recognized:

       validity_period
              This is the validity period given to self-signed certificates.  The value is specified as a combination of years (y), months (M), weeks (w), days (d), hours (h), minutes (m), and/or seconds
              (s).  If no unit of time is specified, seconds are assumed.  The default value is 1y.

       populate_unique_id
              This controls whether or not self-signed certificates will have their subjectUniqueID and issuerUniqueID fields populated.  While RFC5280 prohibits their use, they may be needed and/or used
              by older applications.  The default value is no.

LOCAL
       Within the local section, these variables and values are recognized:

       validity_period
              This  is the validity period given to the locally-signed CA's certificate when it is generated.  The value is specified as a combination of years (y), months (M), weeks (w), days (d), hours
              (h), minutes (m), and/or seconds (s).  If no unit of time is specified, seconds are assumed.  If not set, the value of the validity_period setting from the selfsign section, if one  is  set
              there, will be used.  The default value is 1y.

SCEP
       Within the scep section, these variables and values are recognized:

       challenge_password_otp
              This controls whether the SCEP challenge password is treated as a one-time password. If set to yes then the challenge password and/or challenge password file will be removed from the track‐
              ing request after the first certificate issuance so will not be sent with renewal requests.  The default is no.

BUGS
       Please file tickets for any that you find at https://fedorahosted.org/certmonger/

SEE ALSO
       certmonger(8) certmonger_selinux(8)

certmonger Manual                                                                               May 12, 2015                                                                                  CERTMONGER(5)
