CERTWATCH(1)                                                                                       certwatch                                                                                       CERTWATCH(1)

NAME
       certwatch - generate SSL/TLS certificate expiry warnings

SYNOPSIS
       certwatch [OPTION...] filename

DESCRIPTION
       The certwatch program is used to issue warning mail when an SSL/TLS certificate is about to expire.

       The program has two modes of operation: normal mode and quiet mode. In normal mode, the certificate given by the filename argument is examined, and a warning email is issued to standard output if the
       certificate is outside its validity period, or approaching expiry. If the certificate cannot be found, or any errors occur whilst parsing the certificate, the certificate is ignored and no output is
       produced. In quiet mode, no output is given, but the exit status can still be used.

OPTIONS
       --quiet, -q
           Enable quiet mode; no output is produced whether the certificate is expired or not

       --period days, -p days
           Specify the number of days within which an expiry warning will be produced; default is 30. Expiry warnings are always produced if, on the day of invocation, the certificate is not yet valid, has
           already expired, or is due to expire either that day or the following day.

       --address address, -a address
           Specify the address used in the To field of the warning e-mail issued if quiet mode is not enabled. The default is root.

       --help, -h
           Display usage information.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The exit code indicates the state of the certificate:

       0
           The certificate is outside its validity period, or approaching expiry

       1
           The certificate is inside its validity period, or could not be parsed

       2
           An invalid argument was passed.

SEE ALSO
       httpd(8), certwatch.cron(5), https://github.com/notroj/certwatch/

AUTHOR
       Joe Orton <jorton@redhat.com>
           Author

certwatch                                                                                        February 2019                                                                                     CERTWATCH(1)
