CF-AGENT(8)                                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                                 CF-AGENT(8)

NAME
       cf-agent - evaluate CFEngine policy code and actuate change to the system.

SYNOPSIS
       cf-agent [OPTION]...  [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       cf-agent  evaluates  policy  code and makes changes to the system. Policy bundles are evaluated in the order of the provided bundlesequence (this is normally specified in the common control body). For
       each bundle, cf-agent groups promise statements according to their type. Promise types are then evaluated in a preset order to ensure fast system convergence to policy.

OPTIONS
       --bootstrap, -B value
              Bootstrap CFEngine to the given policy server IP, hostname or :avahi (automatic detection)

       --bundlesequence, -b value
              Set or override bundlesequence from command line

       --workdir, -w value
              Override the default /var/cfengine work directory for testing (same as setting CFENGINE_TEST_OVERRIDE_WORKDIR)

       --debug, -d
              Enable debugging output

       --define, -D value
              Define a list of comma separated classes to be defined at the start of execution

       --self-diagnostics, -x value
              Run checks to diagnose a CFEngine agent installation

       --dry-run, -n
              All talk and no action mode - make no changes, only inform of promises not kept

       --file, -f value
              Specify an alternative input file than the default. This option is overridden by FILE if supplied as argument.

       --help, -h
              Print the help message

       --inform, -I
              Print basic information about changes made to the system, i.e. promises repaired

       --log-level, -g value
              Specify how detailed logs should be. Possible values: 'error', 'warning', 'notice', 'info', 'verbose', 'debug'

       --negate, -N value
              Define a list of comma separated classes to be undefined at the start of execution

       --no-lock, -K
              Ignore locking constraints during execution (ifelapsed/expireafter) if "too soon" to run

       --verbose, -v
              Output verbose information about the behaviour of the agent

       --version, -V
              Output the version of the software

       --timing-output, -t
              Output timing information on console when in verbose mode

       --trust-server, -T value
              Possible values: 'yes' (default, trust the server when bootstrapping), 'no' (server key must already be trusted)

       --color, -C value
              Enable colorized output. Possible values: 'always', 'auto', 'never'. If option is used, the default value is 'auto'

       --no-extensions, -E
              Disable extension loading (used while upgrading)

       --timestamp, -l
              Log timestamps on each line of log output

       --log-modules, - value
              Enable even more detailed debug logging for specific areas of the implementation. Use together with '-d'. Use --log-modules=help for a list of available modules

       --show-evaluated-classes, - value
              Show *final* evaluated classes, including those defined in common bundles in policy. Optionally can take a regular expression.

       --show-evaluated-vars, - value
              Show *final* evaluated variables, including those defined without dependency to user-defined classes in policy. Optionally can take a regular expression.

CFENGINE
       CFEngine provides automated configuration management of large-scale computer systems. A system administrator describes the desired state of a system using CFEngine policy code.  The  program  cf-agent
       reads  policy code and attempts to bring the current system state to the desired state described. Policy code is downloaded by cf-agent from a cf-serverd daemon. The daemon cf-execd is responsible for
       running cf-agent periodically.
       Documentation for CFEngine is available at http://cfengine.com/documentation/.

PROMISE THEORY
       CFEngine is built on principles from promise theory, proposed by Mark Burgess in 2004. Promise theory is a model of voluntary cooperation between individual, autonomous actors or  agents  who  publish
       their intentions to one another in the form of promises. A promise is a declaration of intent whose purpose is to increase the recipient's certainty about a claim of past, present or future behaviour.
       For a promise to increase certainty, the recipient needs to trust the promiser, but trust can also be built on the verification that previous promises have been kept, thus trust plays a symbiotic  re‐
       lationship with promises.
       For an introduction to promise theory, please see http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3294/

AVAILABILITY
       cf-agent is part of CFEngine.
       Binary packages may be downloaded from http://cfengine.com/downloads/.
       The source code is available at http://github.com/cfengine/

BUGS
       Please see the public bug-tracker at http://bug.cfengine.com/.
       GitHub pull-requests may be submitted to http://github.com/cfengine/core/.

SEE ALSO
       cf-promises(8), cf-agent(8), cf-serverd(8), cf-execd(8), cf-monitord(8), cf-runagent(8), cf-key(8)

AUTHOR
       Mark Burgess and CFEngine AS

System Administration                                                                               CFEngine                                                                                        CF-AGENT(8)
