CF-EXECD(8)                                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                                 CF-EXECD(8)

NAME
       cf-execd - scheduling daemon for cf-agent

SYNOPSIS
       cf-execd [OPTION]...  [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       cf-execd  is  the scheduling daemon for cf-agent. It runs cf-agent locally according to a schedule specified in policy code (executor control body). After a cf-agent run is completed, cf-execd gathers
       output from cf-agent, and may be configured to email the output to a specified address. It may also be configured to splay (randomize) the execution schedule  to  prevent  synchronized  cf-agent  runs
       across a network.

OPTIONS
       --help, -h
              Print the help message

       --debug, -d
              Enable debugging output

       --verbose, -v
              Output verbose information about the behaviour of the agent

       --dry-run, -n
              All talk and no action mode - make no changes, only inform of promises not kept

       --version, -V
              Output the version of the software

       --file, -f value
              Specify an alternative input file than the default. This option is overridden by FILE if supplied as argument.

       --define, -D value
              Define a list of comma separated classes to be defined at the start of execution

       --negate, -N value
              Define a list of comma separated classes to be undefined at the start of execution

       --no-lock, -K
              Ignore locking constraints during execution (ifelapsed/expireafter) if "too soon" to run

       --inform, -I
              Print basic information about changes made to the system, i.e. promises repaired

       --diagnostic, -x
              Activate internal diagnostics (developers only)

       --log-level, -g value
              Specify how detailed logs should be. Possible values: 'error', 'warning', 'notice', 'info', 'verbose', 'debug'

       --no-fork, -F
              Run as a foreground processes (do not fork)

       --once, -O
              Run once and then exit (implies no-fork)

       --no-winsrv, -W
              Do not run as a service on windows - use this when running from a command shell (CFEngine Nova only)

       --ld-library-path, -L value
              Set the internal value of LD_LIBRARY_PATH for child processes

       --color, -C value
              Enable colorized output. Possible values: 'always', 'auto', 'never'. If option is used, the default value is 'auto'

       --timestamp, -l
              Log timestamps on each line of log output

CFENGINE
       CFEngine  provides  automated  configuration management of large-scale computer systems. A system administrator describes the desired state of a system using CFEngine policy code. The program cf-agent
       reads policy code and attempts to bring the current system state to the desired state described. Policy code is downloaded by cf-agent from a cf-serverd daemon. The daemon cf-execd is responsible  for
       running cf-agent periodically.
       Documentation for CFEngine is available at http://cfengine.com/documentation/.

PROMISE THEORY
       CFEngine  is  built  on principles from promise theory, proposed by Mark Burgess in 2004. Promise theory is a model of voluntary cooperation between individual, autonomous actors or agents who publish
       their intentions to one another in the form of promises. A promise is a declaration of intent whose purpose is to increase the recipient's certainty about a claim of past, present or future behaviour.
       For  a promise to increase certainty, the recipient needs to trust the promiser, but trust can also be built on the verification that previous promises have been kept, thus trust plays a symbiotic re‐
       lationship with promises.
       For an introduction to promise theory, please see http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3294/

AVAILABILITY
       cf-execd is part of CFEngine.
       Binary packages may be downloaded from http://cfengine.com/downloads/.
       The source code is available at http://github.com/cfengine/

BUGS
       Please see the public bug-tracker at http://bug.cfengine.com/.
       GitHub pull-requests may be submitted to http://github.com/cfengine/core/.

SEE ALSO
       cf-promises(8), cf-agent(8), cf-serverd(8), cf-execd(8), cf-monitord(8), cf-runagent(8), cf-key(8)

AUTHOR
       Mark Burgess and CFEngine AS

System Administration                                                                               CFEngine                                                                                        CF-EXECD(8)
