CF-MONITORD(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              CF-MONITORD(8)

NAME
       cf-monitord - monitoring daemon for CFEngine

SYNOPSIS
       cf-monitord [OPTION]...  [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       cf-monitord  is the monitoring daemon for CFEngine. It samples probes defined in policy code and attempts to learn the normal system state based on current and past observations. Current estimates are
       made available as special variables (e.g. $(mon.av_cpu)) to cf-agent, which may use them to inform policy decisions.

OPTIONS
       --help, -h
              Print the help message

       --debug, -d
              Enable debugging output

       --verbose, -v
              Output verbose information about the behaviour of the agent

       --dry-run, -n
              All talk and no action mode - make no changes, only inform of promises not kept

       --version, -V
              Output the version of the software

       --no-lock, -K
              Ignore system lock

       --file, -f value
              Specify an alternative input file than the default. This option is overridden by FILE if supplied as argument.

       --log-level, -g value
              Specify how detailed logs should be. Possible values: 'error', 'warning', 'notice', 'info', 'verbose', 'debug'

       --inform, -I
              Print basic information about changes made to the system, i.e. promises repaired

       --diagnostic, -x
              Activate internal diagnostics (developers only)

       --no-fork, -F
              Run process in foreground, not as a daemon

       --histograms, -H
              Ignored for backward compatibility

       --tcpdump, -T
              Interface with tcpdump if available to collect data about network

       --color, -C value
              Enable colorized output. Possible values: 'always', 'auto', 'never'. If option is used, the default value is 'auto'

       --timestamp, -l
              Log timestamps on each line of log output

CFENGINE
       CFEngine provides automated configuration management of large-scale computer systems. A system administrator describes the desired state of a system using CFEngine policy code.  The  program  cf-agent
       reads  policy code and attempts to bring the current system state to the desired state described. Policy code is downloaded by cf-agent from a cf-serverd daemon. The daemon cf-execd is responsible for
       running cf-agent periodically.
       Documentation for CFEngine is available at http://cfengine.com/documentation/.

PROMISE THEORY
       CFEngine is built on principles from promise theory, proposed by Mark Burgess in 2004. Promise theory is a model of voluntary cooperation between individual, autonomous actors or  agents  who  publish
       their intentions to one another in the form of promises. A promise is a declaration of intent whose purpose is to increase the recipient's certainty about a claim of past, present or future behaviour.
       For a promise to increase certainty, the recipient needs to trust the promiser, but trust can also be built on the verification that previous promises have been kept, thus trust plays a symbiotic  re‐
       lationship with promises.
       For an introduction to promise theory, please see http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3294/

AVAILABILITY
       cf-monitord is part of CFEngine.
       Binary packages may be downloaded from http://cfengine.com/downloads/.
       The source code is available at http://github.com/cfengine/

BUGS
       Please see the public bug-tracker at http://bug.cfengine.com/.
       GitHub pull-requests may be submitted to http://github.com/cfengine/core/.

SEE ALSO
       cf-promises(8), cf-agent(8), cf-serverd(8), cf-execd(8), cf-monitord(8), cf-runagent(8), cf-key(8)

AUTHOR
       Mark Burgess and CFEngine AS

System Administration                                                                               CFEngine                                                                                     CF-MONITORD(8)
