CF-RUNAGENT(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              CF-RUNAGENT(8)

NAME
       cf-runagent - activate cf-agent on a remote host

SYNOPSIS
       cf-runagent [OPTION]...  [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       cf-runagent  connects to a list of running instances of cf-serverd. It allows foregoing the usual cf-execd schedule to activate cf-agent. Additionally, a user may send classes to be defined on the re‐
       mote host. Two kinds of classes may be sent: classes to decide on which hosts cf-agent will be started, and classes that the user requests cf-agent should define on execution. The latter type is regu‐
       lated by cf-serverd's role based access control.

OPTIONS
       --help, -h
              Print the help message

       --background, -b value
              Parallelize connections (50 by default)

       --debug, -d
              Enable debugging output

       --verbose, -v
              Output verbose information about the behaviour of the agent

       --log-level, -g value
              Specify how detailed logs should be. Possible values: 'error', 'warning', 'notice', 'info', 'verbose', 'debug'

       --dry-run, -n
              All talk and no action mode - make no changes, only inform of promises not kept

       --version, -V
              Output the version of the software

       --file, -f value
              Specify an alternative input file than the default. This option is overridden by FILE if supplied as argument.

       --define-class, -D value
              Define a list of comma separated classes to be sent to a remote agent

       --select-class, -s value
              Define a list of comma separated classes to be used to select remote agents by constraint

       --inform, -I
              Print basic information about changes made to the system, i.e. promises repaired

       --remote-options, -o value
              (deprecated)

       --diagnostic, -x
              (deprecated)

       --hail, -H value
              Hail the following comma-separated lists of hosts, overriding default list

       --interactive, -i
              Enable interactive mode for key trust

       --timeout, -t value
              Connection timeout, seconds

       --color, -C value
              Enable colorized output. Possible values: 'always', 'auto', 'never'. If option is used, the default value is 'auto'

       --timestamp, -l
              Log timestamps on each line of log output

       --log-modules, - value
              Enable even more detailed debug logging for specific areas of the implementation. Use together with '-d'. Use --log-modules=help for a list of available modules

       --remote-bundles, - value
              Bundles to execute on the remote agent

CFENGINE
       CFEngine  provides  automated  configuration management of large-scale computer systems. A system administrator describes the desired state of a system using CFEngine policy code. The program cf-agent
       reads policy code and attempts to bring the current system state to the desired state described. Policy code is downloaded by cf-agent from a cf-serverd daemon. The daemon cf-execd is responsible  for
       running cf-agent periodically.
       Documentation for CFEngine is available at http://cfengine.com/documentation/.

PROMISE THEORY
       CFEngine  is  built  on principles from promise theory, proposed by Mark Burgess in 2004. Promise theory is a model of voluntary cooperation between individual, autonomous actors or agents who publish
       their intentions to one another in the form of promises. A promise is a declaration of intent whose purpose is to increase the recipient's certainty about a claim of past, present or future behaviour.
       For  a promise to increase certainty, the recipient needs to trust the promiser, but trust can also be built on the verification that previous promises have been kept, thus trust plays a symbiotic re‐
       lationship with promises.
       For an introduction to promise theory, please see http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.3294/

AVAILABILITY
       cf-runagent is part of CFEngine.
       Binary packages may be downloaded from http://cfengine.com/downloads/.
       The source code is available at http://github.com/cfengine/

BUGS
       Please see the public bug-tracker at http://bug.cfengine.com/.
       GitHub pull-requests may be submitted to http://github.com/cfengine/core/.

SEE ALSO
       cf-promises(8), cf-agent(8), cf-serverd(8), cf-execd(8), cf-monitord(8), cf-runagent(8), cf-key(8)

AUTHOR
       Mark Burgess and CFEngine AS

System Administration                                                                               CFEngine                                                                                     CF-RUNAGENT(8)
