CH-COMPLETION.BASH(7)                                                                           Charliecloud                                                                          CH-COMPLETION.BASH(7)

NAME
       ch-completion.bash - Tab completion for the Charliecloud command line

SYNOPSIS
          $ source ch-completion.bash

DESCRIPTION
       ch-completion.bash provides tab completion for the charliecloud command line. Currently, tab completion is available for Bash users for the executables ch-image, ch-run, and ch-convert.

       We do not currently install the file if Charliecloud is built from source (see issue #1842). In this case, source it from the Charliecloud source code:

          $ source $CHARLIECLOUD_SOURCE_PATH/bin/ch-completion.bash

       If you installed with a distribution package, the procedure is probably nicer.  See your distro’s docs if you installed a package.)

       Disable completion with the utility function ch-completion added to your environment when the above is sourced:

          $ ch-completion --disable

DEPENDENCIES
       Tab completion has these additional dependencies:

       • Bash ≥ 4.3.0

       • bash-completion library (GitHub, or it probably comes with your distribution, e.g.)

CH-COMPLETION
       Utility function for ch-completion.bash.

   Synopsis
          $ ch-completion [ OPTIONS ]

   Description
       ch-completion is a function to manage Charliecloud’s tab completion.  It is added to the environment when completion is sourced. The option(s) given specify what to do:

       --disable
              Disable tab completion for all Charliecloud executables.

       --help Print help message.

       --version
              Print version of tab completion that’s currently enabled.

       --version-ok
              Verify that tab completion version is consistent with that of ch-image.

DEBUGGING
       Tab completion can write debugging logs to /tmp/ch-completion.log.  Enable this by setting the environment variable CH_COMPLETION_DEBUG.  (This is primarily intended for developers.)

COPYRIGHT
       2014–2023, Triad National Security, LLC and others

0.38                                                                                        2025-04-06 08:24 UTC                                                                      CH-COMPLETION.BASH(7)
