CHECK-DFSG-STATUS(1)                                                                      General Commands Manual                                                                      CHECK-DFSG-STATUS(1)

NAME
       check-dfsg-status - report of installed non-free software

SYNOPSIS
       check-dfsg-status [OPTION] ...

DESCRIPTION
       This program began as an attempt to create a "virtual Richard M. Stallman" for Debian GNU/Linux.  Thus the choice of name.

       This  program analyzes the currently-installed package list on a Debian GNU/Linux system, and reports the non-free and contrib packages that are currently installed to stdout.  In some cases, such
       as regarding documentation licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License with invariant sections, the opinions of Richard M.  Stallman and the Debian project have diverged since  this  program
       was originally written.  In such cases, this program follows the definition of freedom embodied in the Debian Free Software Guidelines.

       The  packages  in the non-free tree have restrictions on their use and/or distribution which cause them to fail to meet the terms of the Debian Free Software Guidelines included as part of the De‐
       bian Social Contract.  However, some are sufficiently useful that their presence is often tolerated by Debian users despite their licensing.

       The packages in the contrib tree are themselves free software but have some dependency on non-free software for their use that make them worthy of reporting so that their  use  can  also  be  con‐
       sciously considered.

       Richard  is  the most vocal among us on the issue of software morality, and we agree with Richard that Debian users should have an easy way to know when they are running non-free software on their
       systems.  This program is our attempt to fill that need.

OPTIONS
       All options can be prefixed with -- (eg: --noexplain) to turn them off.

       -q, --quiet
              Do nothing if there are no non-free packages installed.

       -e, --explain
              Give a brief explanation of why each package is non-free, if available. This is the default.

       -s, --sparse
              Just output a list of non-free packages.

       --reason-dir=DIR
              Use DIR as the reason directory, instead of /usr/share/check-dfsg-status/reasons/.

       -h, --help
              Display help.

       -d, --debug
              Generate debugging information.

FILES
       /usr/share/check-dfsg-status/reasons
              Default source of explanations for why packages are non-free.

HISTORY
       This program was written by Bdale Garbee and Bill Geddes for the Debian GNU/Linux system, in response to an open discussion with Richard Stallman about the issues surrounding the  availability/de‐
       sirability of the 'non-free' package tree in Debian. It was originally named 'vrms' but for the reasons outlined in #962696 it was renamed to 'check-dfsg-status'.

                                                                                             A Cute Little Hack                                                                        CHECK-DFSG-STATUS(1)
