CHRONICLE(1)                                                                      User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                     CHRONICLE(1)

NAME
       chronicle - A simple blog compiler.

SYNOPSIS
         chronicle [options]

         Path Options:

          --comments       Specify the path to the optional comments directory.
          --config         Specify a configuration file to read.
          --input          Specify the input directory to use.
          --output         Specify the directory to write output to.
          --theme-dir      Specify the path to the theme templates.
          --theme          Specify the theme to use.
          --pattern        Specify the pattern of files to work with.
          --url-prefix     Specify the prefix to the live blog.
          --sitemap-prefix Specify the prefix for the site map.

         Blog Entry Options:

          --format      Specify the format of your entries, HTML/textile/markdown.

         Pre & Post-Build Commands:

          --pre-build    Specify a command to execute prior to building the blog.
          --post-build   Specify a command to execute once the blog has been built.
          --pre-filter   A command to filter each blog entry before HTML conversion.
          --post-filter  A command to filter each blog entry after HTML conversion.

         Sorting Options:

          --recent-dates-first  Show recent entries first in the archive view.
          --recent-tags-first   Show recent entries first in the tag view.

         Counting Options:

          --entry-count=N       Number of posts to show on the index.
          --rss-count=N         Number of posts to include on the RSS index feed.

         Optional Features:

          --author       Specify the author's email address
          --comment-days Specify the number maximum age of posts to accept comments.
          --date-archive-path  Include the date in the archive.
          --force        Force the copying of static files from the blog theme.
          --lang         Specify the language to use for formatting dates.
          --lower-case   Lower-case all filenames which are output.
          --no-archive   Don't create an archive page.
          --no-cache     Don't use the optional memcached features, even if available.
          --no-calendar  Don't use the optional calendar upon the index.
          --no-comments  Don't allow comments to be posted.
          --no-sitemap   Don't generate a sitemap.
          --no-tags      Don't produce any tag pages.
          --no-xrefs     Don't produce any cross references.

         Help Options:

          --help        Show the help information for this script.
          --manual      Read the manual for this script.
          --verbose     Show useful debugging information.
          --version     Show the version number and exit.

ABOUT
         Chronicle is a simple tool to convert a collection of text files,
        located within a single directory, into a blog consisting of static
        HTML files.

         It supports only the bare minimum of features which are required
        to be useful:

          * Tagging support.

          * RSS support.

          * Archive support.

         The obvious deficiencies are:

          * Lack of support for instant commenting.

          * Lack of pingback/trackback support.

         Having said that it is a robust, stable, and useful system.

BLOG FORMAT
         The format of the text files we process is critical to the output
        pages.  Each entry should look something like this:

           Title:  This is the title of the blog post
           Date:  2nd March 2007
           Tags: one, two, three, long tag

           The text of your entry goes here.

         NOTE: The header MUST be separated from the body of the entry by at least a
        single empty line.

         In this example we can see that the entry itself has been prefaced
        with a small header.  An entry header is contains three optional lines,
        if these are not present then there are sensible defaults as described
        below.

          The formatting of the output dates may be changed via the use of the
        B<--lang> command line option (or the matching "lang=french" option in the
        configuration file), but the date of the entry itself should be specified in
        English.

       Title: Describes the title of the post.  If not present the filename of the entry is used instead.  "Subject:" may also be used.
       Subject: This is a synonym for 'Title:'.
       Date: The date the post was written.  If not present the creation time of the file is used instead.
       Publish: This header is removed from all entries, and is used by the chronicle-spooler script.
       Tags: Any tags which should be associated with the entry, separated by commas.

         The format of the entry is assumed to be HTML, however there is support
        for writing your entries in both textile and markdown formats.

         The format of entries is specified via the B<--format> argument, or
        via a "format: foo" setting in your chroniclerc file.

         The format of entries is assumed to be global; that is all your entries
        will be assumed to be in the same format.  However you can add a
        "format: foo" pseudo header to specific entries if you wish to write
        specific entries in a different format.

         To allow flexibility in the handling of entries each blog entry will
        be passed through the filter script B<chronicle-entry-filter>
        which allows you to modify this handling in a single location. This
        script allows entries to be updated via filters both before and after
        the conversion to HTML.  For further details please see the manpage for
        that script.

CONFIGURATION
         The configuration of the software is minimal, and generally performed
        via the command line arguments.  However it is possible to save settings
        either in the file global /etc/chroniclerc or the per-user ~/.chroniclerc
        file.

         If you wish you may pass the name of another configuration file to
        the script with the B<--config> flag.  This will be read after the
        previous two files, and may override any settings which are present.

         The configuration file contains lines like these:

          input  = /home/me/blog

          output = /var/www/blog

          format = markdown

         Keys which are unknown are ignored.

OPTIONAL CACHING
         To speed the rebuilding of a large blog the compiler may use a local
        Memcached daemon, if installed and available.

         To install this, under a Debian GNU/Linux system please run:

           apt-get update
           apt-get install memcached libcache-memcached-perl

         You may disable this caching behaviour with --no-cache, and see the
        effect with --verbose.

OPTIONAL CALENDAR
         If the 'HTML::CalendarMonthSimple' module is available each blog will
        contain a simple month-view of the current month upon the index.

         To disable this invoke the program with '--no-calendar'.

OPTIONAL COMMENTING
         Included with the chronicle code you should find the file
        cgi-bin/comments.cgi.

         This file is designed to write submitted comments to the local
        filesystem of your web-server.  If you install that, and edit the
        path at the start of the script you should be able to include
        comments in your blog.

         In short there are three things you need to do:

       Install the CGI script and edit the path at the start.
       Copy the output comments to your local blog source.
       Run this script again with --comments=./path/to/comments

         This should include the comments in the static output.  More
        explicit instructions are provided within the file 'COMMENTS'
        included within the distribution.

AUTHOR
        Steve
        --
        http://www.steve.org.uk/

LICENSE
       Copyright (c) 2007-2010 by Steve Kemp.  All rights reserved.

       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.  The LICENSE file contains the full text of the license.

perl v5.32.0                                                                                  2021-01-05                                                                                  CHRONICLE(1)
