CHRONICLE-SPOOLER(1)                                                                  User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                  CHRONICLE-SPOOLER(1)

NAME
       chronicle-spooler - Automatically post pre-written entries.

SYNOPSIS
         Path Options:

          --config         Specify a configuration file to read.
          --spool-dir      Specify where pending entries are located.
          --live-dir       Specify where the entries should be moved to.

         Post-Spool Commands:

          --post-move   Specify a command to execute once entries have been moved.

         Optional Features:

          --test        Only report on what would be executed.

         Help Options:

          --help        Show the help information for this script.
          --manual      Read the manual for this script.

ABOUT
         chronicle-spooler is a companion scrip to the chronicle blog compiler.

         It is designed to facilitate posting new entries automatically upon
        particular dates.  (ie. If you have ten written blog entries in a spool
        directory it will move them into place upon the date you've specified.)

DATE SPECIFICATION
         To specify the date a particular entry should be made live you
        must add another pseudo-header to your blog entry files, as follows:

           Title:  This is the title of the blog post
           Date:  2nd March 2007
           Publish: 15th April 2008
           Tags: one, two, three, long tag

           The text of your entry goes here.

         In this example we know that this entry will be made live upon the
        15th April 2008, and not before.

AUTHOR
        Steve
        --
        http://www.steve.org.uk/

LICENSE
       Copyright (c) 2008-2010 by Steve Kemp.  All rights reserved.

       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.  The LICENSE file contains the full text of the license.

perl v5.12.3                                                                                       2011-05-03                                                                              CHRONICLE-SPOOLER(1)
