
CJB2(1)                                                                                          DjVuLibre-3.5                                                                                          CJB2(1)

NAME
       cjb2 - Simple DjVuBitonal encoder.

SYNOPSIS
       cjb2  [options] inputfile outputdjvufile

DESCRIPTION
       This  is  a simple encoder for bitonal files.  Argument inputfile is the name of a PBM or bitonal TIFF file containing a single document image.  This program produces a DjVuBitonal file named outputd‐
       jvufile.

       The default compression process is lossless: decoding the DjVuBitonal file at full resolution will produce an image exactly identical to the input  file.   Lossy  compression  is  enabled  by  options
       -losslevel, -lossy, or -clean.

OPTIONS
       -dpi n Specify the resolution information encoded into the output file expressed in dots per inch. The resolution information encoded in DjVu files determine how the decoder scales the image on a par‐
              ticular display.  Meaningful resolutions range from 25 to 1200.  The default resolution for TIFF files is the resolution is the resolution specified by the input file.  The  default  resolution
              for PBM files is 300 dpi.

       -lossless
              Ensure that the encoded image is pixel-per-pixel equal to the initial image.  This option is is equivalent to -losslevel 0 and is the default.

       -clean Only remove flyspecks from the input image.  This option enables a heuristic algorithm that removes very small marks.  Such marks are often causes by noise and dust during the scanning process.
              The threshold mark size is chosen according to the resolution specified with option This option is is equivalent to -losslevel 1.

       -lossy Substitute patterns with small variations.  In addition to the flyspeck removal heuristic, this option enables an algorithm that encodes certain characters by simply replicating the shape of  a
              previously encoded character with a similar shape.  This option is is equivalent to -losslevel 100.

       -losslevel x
              Specify  the  aggressiveness  of  the  lossy compression.  Its argument ranges from 0 to 200.  Higher values generate smaller files with more potential distortions.  Loss level 0 corresponds to
              lossless encoding.  Loss level 1 performs image cleaning but does not perform character substitution at all.  Loss level 100 is intended to provide a good compromise.  Higher loss  levels  pro‐
              vide marginally better compression at the risk of unacceptable character substitutions.

       -verbose
              Display informational messages while running.

REMARKS
       Lossless encoding is competitive with that of the Lizardtech commercial encoders.

       Lossy  encoding  has made much progress thanks to Ilya Mezhirov from the minidjvu project.  This also means that the lossy encoding performance can change from version to version.  When lossy compres‐
       sion yields inadequate results, simply revert to only using option -clean or reduce the parameter of option -losslevel.

       Two features are still missing:

       *  Half-tone detection. Collecting small marks belonging to half-tone patterns would improve compression speed.

       *  Multi-page compression. Matching characters on several pages would improve the compression ratios for multi-page documents.

CREDITS
       This program was initially written by Léon Bottou <leonb@users.sourceforge.net> and was improved by Bill Riemers <docbill@sourceforge.net> and many others.  The pattern matching  algorithm  for  lossy
       compression was contributed by Ilya Mezhirov <ilya@mezhirov.mccme.ru>.  TIFF input routines are inspired by the ones contributed by R. Keith Dennis <dennis@rkd.math.cornell.edu> and Paul Young.

SEE ALSO
       djvu(1), pbm(5).

DjVuLibre-3.5                                                                                      10/11/2001                                                                                           CJB2(1)
