clamav-unofficial-sigs(8)                                                  SCRIPT COMMANDS                                                 clamav-unofficial-sigs(8)

NAME
       clamav-unofficial-sigs - Download, test, and install third-party ClamAV signature databases.

SYNOPSIS
       clamav-unofficial-sigs [options]

DESCRIPTION
       clamav-unofficial-sigs  is  a  shell script that downloads, updates and tests the Sanesecurity, SecuriteInfo, MalwarePatrol, OITC, etc. third-party signature
       databases for ClamAV.

OPTIONS
       This script follows the standard GNU command line syntax.  A summary of the options is shown below.

       -b     DEPRECATED - Consider using -w instead, it supports the newer ClamAV signature whitelist functionality.
              Add a bypass signature entry to local.ign in order to temporarily resolve a false-positive issue with a third-party signature.  The script will  moni‐
              tor  any entries it makes to local.ign and will automatically remove bypass entries if either the original signature has been modified or removed from
              the database.

       -c FILE-NAME
              Source configuration information from a different file.

       -d     Decode a hexadecimal encoded string or an individual ClamAV 3rd-party signature for viewing.  This will not decode image signatures nor  the  official
              signatures.

       -e     Encode a entire input string in hexadecimal for signature usage in any *.ndb database.

       -f     Encode a formated input string in hexadecimal that contains spacing field '{}, (), *', without encoding the spacing fields, for signature usage in any
              '*.ndb' database.

       -g FILE-NAME
              Verify the GPG signature for a specific SaneSecurity database file.  Only specify the filename as listed in the configuration file and the script will
              search for it in the work directory.

       -h     Print the script help and usage information.

       -i     Print system and script configuration information.

       -m     Make a hexadecimal signature database file (*.ndb) from a clear text ascii file.  Provides support for both full and formatted signatures.  Additional
              information is provided when using the flag.

       -r     Remove the clamav-unofficial-sigs script and all of its associated files, databases and work directories from the system.

       -s FILE-NAME
              Test the integrity of a third-party signature database with clamscan.  Only specify the filename as listed in the configuration file  and  the  script
              will search for it in the work directory.

       -t     If HAM directory scanning is enabled in the script's configuration file, then output the names of any third-party signatures that triggered during the
              HAM directory scan.

       -v     Print the script version and date information.

       -w     Adds a signature whitelist entry in the newer ClamAV IGN2 format to 'my-whitelist.ign2' in order to temporarily resolve a false-positive issue with  a
              specific  third-party signature.  Script added whitelist entries will automatically be removed if the original signature is either modified or removed
              from the third-party signature database.

SEE ALSO
       clamd(8), clamscan(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Bill Landry <unofficialsigs@gmail.com>

LICENSE
       BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution)

BUGS
       Report bugs to Bill Landry <unofficialsigs@gmail.com>

AUTHOR
       Bill Landry <unofficialsigs@gmail.com>

Version 3.7.2                                                              August 25, 2013                                                 clamav-unofficial-sigs(8)
