Clamd client(1)                                                         Clam AntiVirus                                                        Clamd client(1)

NAME
       clamdscan - scan files and directories for viruses using Clam AntiVirus Daemon

SYNOPSIS
       clamdscan [options] [file/directory]

DESCRIPTION
       clamdscan  is  a clamd client which may be used as a clamscan replacement. It accepts all the options implemented in clamscan but most of them will be
       ignored because its scanning abilities only depend on clamd.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display help information and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose.

       --quiet
              Be quiet - only output error messages.

       --stdout
              Write all messages (except for libclamav output) to the standard output (stdout).

       -c, --config-file=FILE
              Read clamd settings from FILE.

       -l FILE, --log=FILE
              Save the scan report to FILE.

       -f FILE, --file-list=FILE
              Scan files listed line by line in FILE.

       -p A[:I], --ping A[:I]
              Ping clamd up to [A] times at optional interval [I] until it responds.

       -w, --wait
              Wait up to 30 seconds for clamd to start. Optionally use alongside ping to set attempts [A] and interval [I] to check clamd.

       -m, --multiscan
              Use multiscan mode. For local directory scans where the daemon opens paths directly, clamd attempts to scan directory contents in parallel  us‐
              ing  available  threads.  Single files are not affected. When this option is combined with --stream, with --fdpass on a local socket, or with a
              quarantine action, clamdscan walks the requested paths itself and submits individual file scans while still allowing clamd to process  multiple
              files in parallel.

       -z, --allmatch
              After a match, continue scanning within the file for additional matches.

       --remove
              Remove infected files. Be careful.

       --move=DIRECTORY
              Move infected files into DIRECTORY.

       --copy=DIRECTORY
              Copy infected files into DIRECTORY.

       --no-summary
              Do not display summary at the end of scanning.

       --reload
              Request clamd to reload virus database.

       -i, --infected
              Only print infected files

       --fdpass
              Open the file and pass the opened file descriptor to clamd. This is useful if clamd is running as a different user or if clamd sees a different
              filesystem tree. This is faster than streaming the file to clamd.  Only available if connected to clamd via Unix/local socket.

       --stream
              Force  clamdscan  to send file contents to clamd instead of asking clamd to open file paths. This is generally not needed because clamdscan de‐
              tects automatically if sending file contents is required. This option mostly exists for debugging and testing.  In  other  local-socket  cases,
              --fdpass is usually preferred.

OPTION INTERACTIONS
       clamdscan behavior depends first on the socket type, and then on command-line options.

       Unix/local socket
              By  default,  clamdscan  asks the local daemon to open the paths you provide. The daemon must be able to see those paths and have permission to
              read them.

              • With --fdpass, clamdscan opens each file itself and passes the open file to the daemon. This is useful when the daemon runs  as  a  different
                user or sees a different filesystem view. This option only works with a Unix/local socket and fd-passing support.

              • With --stream, clamdscan sends file contents to the daemon instead of asking the daemon to open paths.

              • With  --multiscan, directory scans can use multiple daemon worker threads. If --stream, --fdpass, or a quarantine action is also used, clamd‐
                scan walks the requested paths itself and submits individual file scans while still allowing the daemon to process multiple files  in  paral‐
                lel.

              • --allmatch is only effective when clamdscan is asking the daemon to open paths directly and is not using --multiscan, --stream, or --fdpass.

       TCP socket
              When the daemon is remote, clamdscan sends file contents instead of local paths because client paths may not exist on the daemon host. When the
              daemon is local and clamdscan can determine that it is local, clamdscan may ask the daemon to open local paths directly.

              • --stream forces clamdscan to send file contents, even when the daemon is local.

              • --fdpass  is  not  available over TCP. Use either --stream or --fdpass for a scan, based on the socket type and how the daemon can access the
                files.

              • With --multiscan, local directory scans may use multiple daemon worker threads. Remote scans, --stream scans, and scans with  quarantine  ac‐
                tions are handled as individual file scans, while still allowing the daemon to process multiple files in parallel.

              • --allmatch is only effective when clamdscan is asking a local daemon to open paths directly and is not using --multiscan or --stream.

       Option guidance
              --allmatch  is  not useful with --multiscan; use it only for scans where clamdscan is asking a local daemon to open paths directly. For quaran‐
              tine, choose one action for a scan: --move, --copy, or --remove.

       Quarantine actions with multiscan
              Quarantine actions such as --move, --copy, and --remove are performed by clamdscan, not by clamd. For directory scans with  quarantine  actions
              enabled, clamdscan resolves the action path for each file before requesting the scan. When --multiscan is also enabled, clamdscan submits indi‐
              vidual  file scans so it can preserve the scan result to action-path association while still allowing clamd to process multiple files in paral‐
              lel.

EXAMPLES
       (0) To scan a one file:

              clamdscan file

       (1) To scan a current working directory:

              clamdscan

       (2) To scan all files in /home:

              clamdscan /home

       (3) To scan a file when clamd is running as a different user:

              clamdscan --fdpass ~/downloads

       (4) To scan from standard input:

              clamdscan - < file_to_scan

              cat file_to_scan | clamdscan -

RETURN CODES
       0 : No virus found.

       1 : Virus(es) found.

       2 : An error occurred.

CREDITS
       Please check the full documentation for credits.

AUTHOR
       Tomasz Kojm <tkojm@clamav.net>

SEE ALSO
       clamd(8), clamd.conf(5), clamscan(1)

ClamAV 1.5.3                                                          February 12, 2009                                                       Clamd client(1)
