SICK(1p)                                                     User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                     SICK(1p)

NAME
       sick - Compiler for CLC-INTERCAL

SYNOPSIS
       sick [options] files...

DESCRIPTION
       sick is the main development environment for CLC-INTERCAL. If files are specified, they will be loaded into the compiler: if they are not objects,
       they are considered to be program sources and compiled using the options in effect at the point where they appear on the command line: the object
       produced by the compilation is then kept in memory.

       After all the things found on the command line have been processed in some way, the program will then pass all the objects to one or more backends to
       do things with; the default backend just saves the objects to file, but other options exist, for example run the objects or produce program listings.
       Note that the action to be performed can be changed with command line options, and may be different for each object: the options in force at the time
       the object was loaded will be used to save or execute it.

       A future version of sick will also include an interactive mode in which these objects can be inspected, ran, single-stepped, debugged or simply left
       alone in memory while you do something more productive.

       Each non-object file will be compiled using a compiler selected using command line options; if nothing is selected, the compiler depends on the file
       suffix; the compiler considers a suffix anything from the last spot in the name (including the spot), and the suffix usually ends with i, for example
       program1.i has suffix .i and program2.test.case.42.mublei has suffix .mumblei.

       The suffix selection rules are actually defined in the various sickrc files: the description below corresponds to the defaults set by the
       system.sickrc file included with the compiler but your local installation may have changed that.

       CLC-INTERCAL program source
           These  files  must have a suffix ending in i; if the suffix also contains clc as a substring, this makes sure the source will be considered a CLC-
           INTERCAL program, otherwise the interaction of the many suffix rules may end up selecting a different compiler. These files will be prefixed  with
           the compiler object sick.io.

       CLC-INTERCAL compiler source
           These  files must have suffix .iacc. These will be prefixed, by default, with the compiler object iacc.io and produce a compiler object (which can
           be executed as a program, but will do nothing - it's only useful as a preload before compiling from source).

       C-INTERCAL program source
           These files must have a suffix ending in i and containing a c or a t somewhere, but not contain clc  as  substring:  for  example,  prog1.cli  and
           prog2.ti  are  understood  as  a  C-INTERCAL  source, but prog3.clci and prog4.tclci are not (they are CLC-INTERCAL sources).  These files will be
           prefixed with the compiler object ick.io.

       CLC-INTERCAL assembler source
           These have suffix .iasm and will be prefixed with the compiler object asm.io.

       Traditional INTERCAL program source
           These will have suffix .1972 or .1972i and will be prefixed with the compiler object 1972.io

       Compiler extensions
           Any other letters in the suffix can be used to select compiler extensions, Note that when a suffix is shown exactly in the above list, for example
           .1972 or .iacc, there is no space for extra letters and there are no other extensions: if this is reqlly required, the language guessing mechanism
           can be bypassed as described later in this document.

       Personality
           By default, sick operates imitating itself. However it can imitate other compilers too by selecting a different personality. At present, imitating
           another compiler just means that different suffix rules apply.  The main effect of the rules is that the default compiler changes from  "sick"  to
           "ick" or "1972" according to the personality; more information can be found in the online documentation or the CLC-INTERCAL-Docs package.

           Base    Numbers  between 2 and 7 change the default base by loading compiler objects 2.io to 7.io. If more than one number is present, the largest
                   one wins, so .32i is a CLC-INTERCAL program in base 3. Also note that the suffixes .1972 and .1972i do not take options, and the 7  and  2
                   in  these  suffixes  do not select a base; all INTERCAL-72 programs operate in base 2 only. These options can be used with sick or ick and
                   can be added to iasm by specifying them as additional preloads, e.g. -Ap5

           Bitwise Divide
                   Letter d in the suffix adds the compiler object bitwise-divide.io, which changes the normal unary divide operation to use bitwise,  rather
                   than arithmetic, shifts. It can be used with sick but not with ick.  It can also be used with iasm by specifying the compiler object as an
                   additional preload.

           COME FROM gerund
                   Letter  g  in  the  suffix adds the compiler object come-from-gerund.io, which enables the COME FROM gerund statements; since ick does not
                   parse such statements, this letter can only be used with sick, or with iasm by specifying it as an additional preload.

           Computed labels
                   Letter l (ell, not upper-case i) in the suffix adds the compiler object computed-labels.io, which adds grammar  rules  to  parse  computed
                   statement  labels; this can be used only with sick; ick would not be able to use this, and iasm can just put computed labels in the object
                   where it wants them.

           NEXT    Letter n in the suffix adds the compiler object next.io, which enables the NEXT statement in sick; since ick enables this by default,  and
                   iasm programs can just put the NEXT instruction in the object, this letter can only be used with sick.

           INTERcal NETworking
                   Letter  r in the suffix adds the compiler object internet.io, which adds syntax for the STEAL, SMUGGLE and CASE statements; it can be used
                   with ick or sick. It requires the INET extension to be installed. An iasm program may be able to take advantage of this by  specifying  it
                   as an additional preload.

           System call
                   Letter  s  in  the  suffix  adds the compiler object syscall.io, which hides a "PLEASE NEXT FROM (666)" in a dark corner of your operating
                   system.  Works with any compiler, even INTERCAL-72, but for iasm and 1972 it needs to be specified as an additional preload.

           Threaded program
                   Letter t in the suffix selects threaded mode by loading compiler object thick.io. This also changes the default compiler  to  ick  if  the
                   suffix is .i: to use sick one would use something like .tclci. It also works with iasm and 1972 if specified as an additional preload.

           Wimp mode
                   Letter w in the suffix adds the compiler object wimp.io, which causes the program to start in wimp mode when it is executed. An equivalent
                   result  can  be  obtained  by  passing the --wimp option to the executable program.  To use this option with iasm or 1972 specify it as an
                   additional preload.

       The actual list of suffixes recognised is specified by the file system.sickrc and can be modified by a system-wide file in /etc/sick (any file name in
       that directory as long as it does not start with a spot) or by a per-user .sickrc file in a user's home directory. See the "Misc options" below for  a
       discussion on how and where sick finds these files, and the online documentation for description of the file format.

       If  a  preload  file  is specified on the command line, the defaults derived from the suffix are not used. It is also possible to use default preloads
       from a different file suffix by explicitly saying --suffix=.S - in this case, the compiler acts as if the file had name name.S; it is also possible to
       use the --add-preloads option to always request the suffix-based guess, and in addition to that also load any preload file specified.

       In addition, compiler objects are always recognised, with whatever suffix.  These bypass the first compiler pass and  jump  directly  to  the  runtime
       (just-too-late) compiler. However, if the optimiser has been selected when these objects were compiled, and there are no postprocessor statements, the
       just-too-late  compiler  will  be  automatically  replaced by a more traditional "compile-time" compiler. If this is confusing, wait until you see the
       rest.

       If a file is specified without suffix, and there is a compiler object in the  include  path  with  the  same  name  and  suffix  .io,  the  suffix  is
       automatically added, whether you wanted it or now.

       As soon as each program is written into sick, a pre-compiler will produce an internal compiler object.

       It  is  possible to ask the compiler to produce a program listing; this may make the compiler run slower, for example because it'll have to remember a
       lot more information, depending on the type of listing selected.

       If sick enters interactive mode, these objects will be available in memory for single-stepping, running, or just ignoring completely  and  getting  on
       with the real work (note that the interactive mode has been talked about repeatedly, but so far, not implemented).

       If sick loads all the required programs and objects successfully, but does not enter interactive mode, it will pass all the objects to the appropriate
       backends  and  then terminates. In the absence of a --backend option this means the single backend "Object", which reads the object back to disk using
       the file name specified by --output, or if that wasn't specified, using the original file name but replacing its suffix with .io; this  behaviour  can
       be modified using the options described below.

       The  compiler  accepts  more several options, some of which are documented here.  Options and files can be mixed in any order, each file is loaded and
       compiled using whatever options precedes it on the command line. For example:

           sick --verbose --optimise prog1.i --quiet prog2.i --batch

       will tell you everything about compiling prog1.i but not about prog2.i.  Both programs will be optimised. On the other hand:

           sick --optimise prog1.i --nooptimise prog2.i --batch

       will optimise prog1.i but not prog2.i.

       All options can be "undone" (sometimes it's even clear how) except --include which applies to all objects loaded after it, and --rcfile which  applies
       to  all  objects, even the ones loaded before it (just to be different). In fact, --rcfile works so differently from other options that we aren't sure
       what happens if it appears after any non-object file in the command line, so for simplicity always specify it first.

   User Interface Options
       At present, sick does not use any user interfaces and always runs in batch mode; however there are user interface selection options in case one day we
       add support for them. The available interfaces depend on which optional interface modules are installed, and the operating environment  decides  which
       ones can actually be used.

       -X / --graphic
           Enters  X-based  graphical user interface. Requires the optional UI-X package and its dependencies, and it will only work if running in a suitable
           environment, for example X windows.

       -c / --curses
           Enters full screen, curses-based interface. Requires the optional UI-Curses package and its dependencies, and it will only work if  running  on  a
           suitable terminal. These days, that means anything except a line printer.

       --line
           Enters  the  line-mode  user interface. Requires the optional UI-Line package and its dependencies, and it will only work if running on a terminal
           which supports it. These days, that means almost anything.

       --batch
           Avoids entering interactive mode. This is the default if the standard input and output are not connected to a terminal and the X  based  interface
           cannot be started. It is also the default until we actually implement interactive mode.

       -itype / --interface=type
           Selects  the  user  interface  type.  Currently, only X, Curses, Line and None are defined, but more can be installed as compiler plug-ins. If the
           interface selected is None, sick will work in batch mode. In addition, an empty string will reinstate the default behaviour.

   Source Character Set Options
       -a / --ascii
           Assumes that program source is in ASCII.

       -b / --baudot
           Assumes that program source is in Baudot.

       -e / --ebcdic
           Assumes that program source is in EBCDIC.

       -h / --hollerith
           Assumes that program source is in Hollerith.

       -g / --guess
           Does not make assumptions about the source character set. If the character set cannot be guessed, will produce an error. This is the default.

       --charset=name
           Assumes that program source is in the given character sets. Valid values are currently ASCII,  Baudot,  EBCDIC,  Hollerith  but  others  could  be
           installed as compiler plug-ins; an empty name is equivalent to specifying option --guess).

   Code Generation Options
       -O / --optimise
           Invokes  the  optimiser.  This  is  an upper case letter O, not a zero. This will cause the extra object optimise.io to be prefixed after the last
           compiler and before the real program. The program is then executed: when the optimiser takes control, it will force compilation of the rest of the
           program (thereby executing the compiler at compile-time, instead of runtime as it normally does), and the resulting object is checkpointed, so the
           next time it will automatically skip the initialisation and compilation stages. In addition, the  "optimise"  register  is  set,  instructing  the
           compiler to invoke the optimiser when it runs.

           If you specify both -O and -poptimise (see below), you are asking for trouble, so don't do that.

       --nooptimise
           Disables automatic preloading and execution of optimise.io.

       -oname / --output=name
           Selects a name for the output file. Some character sequences are recognised inside name: %p will be replaced by the source program's filename with
           the suffix removed; %s will be replaced by the appropriate suffix for the selected backend, without the initial spot; %o will provide the original
           file  name  specified  on  the  command  line, without suffix (this can differ from %p because %p can be prefixed with a directory from the search
           path); finally %% will produce a single %.

           The default is %p.%s, which produces the object name described at the beginning of this document. A suffix  is  not  automatically  added  if  the
           output name does not contain %s; this might be useful in conjunction with the Perl backend to produce a file without a suffix, for example:

               sick --output=%p --backend=Perl sourcefile.i

           will compile sourcefile.i and produce perl script sourcefile.

           The special backend "help" produces a list of all known backend names, and does not change the current list.

           If the output file is specified as an empty string, the code generation step will never be done.

       -Ltypes / --listing=types
           Asks  the compiler to produce a program listing; types is a comma-separated list, each element directs the compiler to produce a different program
           listing; at present, only "html" is supported which generates a syntax-highlighted version intended to be combined with a stylesheet.  Use  -Lnone
           to  disable  source listing from the next object, and -Lhelp to show a list of supported listing modules (this does not change what will run, just
           produces a list on standard output). It is possible to specify a single argument to a listing module by appending "="  and  the  argument  to  the
           name, for example the "html" module can be asked to load a stylesheet with something like "-Lhtml=clc-intercal.css"

       -nname / --name=name
           Sets  the  program's name, if the code generator requires it (currently, no backends use a name, but some of the future ones will). The default is
           %o. The same %-escapes as defined for the output file name are defined.

       --ddirectory / --directory=directory
           Forces all outputs to be produced in directory. This works by generating an output name as described above, then replacing the directory part.

       -lnames / --backend=names
           Selects one or more compiler back ends; the short option is a lower case "L", not an upper case "I". The  default  is  Object,  which  produces  a
           compiler object (suffix .io). The distribution also includes a Perl backend, which produces an executable Perl program (suffix .pl).  In addition,
           the  pseudo backend Run will run the program instead of producing any object. In this case, the output file name is ignored. Note that the program
           will only run if the compiler is in batch mode.  Other back ends can be provided as compiler plug ins. The distribution also contains a ListObject
           backend, which does not produce executables but object listings. A future version might  offer  the  option  to  "uncompile"  the  output  of  the
           ListObject  back end, but this is currently impossible because not all the internal state of the object is provided, only the part which is likely
           to be useful to a human reader. For example:

               sick prog1.i -lObject,ListObject prog2.i -lRun,Object prog3.i

           will compile prog1.i to prog1.io (default backend), then compile prog2.i to prog2.io and also produce a program listing in prog2.iasm, and finally
           compile prog3.i, run the object immediately but also save it to prog3.io.

       --bug=number
           Selects a different probability for the compiler bug. The compiler bug is implemented by initialising  the  compiler's  state  with  the  required
           probability: when a statement is compiled (usually at runtime), a "BUG" instruction is emitted with the required probability. The default is 1%.

       --ubug=number
           Selects  a  probability for the unexplainable compiler bug. This is the compiler bug which occurs when the probability of a (explainable) compiler
           bug is zero.  Only wimps would use this option. The default is 0.01%.

       -pname / --preload=name
           Selects a compiler object to prefix to the program. If this option is specified, the compiler won't automatically prefix objects as  suggested  by
           the  suffix.  The program 'oo, ick' included in previous version of CLC-INTERCAL used option -p to select a parser. Since the main use of preloads
           is to select an alternative (runtime) compiler, it is felt that it is appropriate to keep the same letter for this option.

           The file name specified does not include the suffix .io, which is always added. The file must be a compiler object, not source code.

           The special object optimise should always loaded via -O. Using -poptimise will not necessarily put the object in the correct place, and  will  not
           instruct the precompiler to do whatever magic it needs to do to bootstrap the optimiser.

           To completely disable preloading (this is only done when compiling the optimiser, which is used to compile itself) use an empty string.

       --nopreload
           Resets the default behaviour of selecting preloads based on suffixes.

       -A / --add-preloads
           Asks  to  do  the normal suffix-based guess of preloads, then add to that the ones specified with --preload. This can be used for example to add a
           single preload to a pre-defined list.

       --suffix=suffix
           Specifies a suffix to use when selecting preloads. If this option is not specified, the suffix is taken from the file name to be compiled.

       --imitate=whom
           Specifies that different suffix rules apply by "imitating" another compiler; this functionality is still experimental. The value whom can  be  one
           of "sick", "ick" or "1972".

       --clc-intercal
           Alias for --imitate=sick

       --c-intercal
           Alias for --imitate=ick

       --intercal-72 / --intercal-1972
           Alias for --imitate=1972

       -Ipath / --include=path
           Adds  a  directory before the standard search path for compiler objects and source code. If a file is accessible from the current directory, it is
           never searched in any include path.

           If this option is repeated, the given paths will be searched in the order given, followed by the standard paths.

   Misc Options
       In the absence of orders to the contrary, sick starts by looking for configuration files. First the system search path is scanned to find any files of
       the form *.sickrc; if two files with the same name are found in different directory, only the first one is considered.  If this search reveals a  file
       called system.sickrc this will be executed first: any other files found will be executed next in an implementation-defined order.

       After  searching  the system directories, sick considers the directory /etc/sick: any files found there, where the first character is not a spot, will
       be executed in an implementation-defined order.

       The process concludes by looking for file .sickrc in the user's home directory: if found, it will be executed too.

       -rname / --rcfile=name
           Gets configuration from file name before doing anything else. This option can be repeated, in which case these files  will  be  exectuted  in  the
           order  specified.  If this option is specified it also disables the search for configuration files described above, so only the files specified on
           the command line will be executed. Note that we use the terms "get configuration" and "execute a file"  interchangeably  because  a  configuration
           file is just a special program with an unusual syntax.

       --nouserrc
           Prevents loading a user rcfile (.sickrc). This option is normally used during installation, to prevent interference from previous versions of CLC-
           INTERCAL.

       --nosystemrc
           Prevents  loading  system  rcfiles  (usually  in  /etc/sick)  if  any  exist.   This  option is normally only used during installation, to prevent
           interference from previous versions of CLC-INTERCAL. Also, it will limit the search for files to the current "build" directory if  there  is  one,
           meaning that any installed *.sickrc files will be ignored.

       -Rverb / ---rcskip=verb
           Makes  the  program ignore the verb in a sickrc file. This could be used, for example, to disable the automatic loading of libraries when it looks
           like the program needs them, using --RGLUE.

       --extension=name
           Ask the program to make sure to load extension name. This is normally unnecessary as  finding  an  extension's  own  sickrc  file  will  load  the
           extension; however during installation sick will not yet know about this sort of things so the build system adds this option to make sure.

       -v / --verbose
           Tells everything it's doing (on Standard Error).

       --stdverb=file
           Sends verbose output to file.

       --trace
           Enables tracing; if compiling from source, the compiler is also traced; to trace a program, compile it to an object and then run it with --trace.

       --stdtrace=file
           Enables tracing and selects an output file for the trace information.

       --notrace
           Disables tracing; preloading trace.io has priority over this option.

       --grammar-profile
           Enables  grammar  profiling:  this  will produce a summary of how the compiler's grammar was used when compiling programs; it is mostly useful for
           either debugging new  compilers  or  analysing  the  parser's  performance.  The  information  is  sent  to  standard  error,  unless  a  previous
           --stdgrammar-profile option (see next option) has selected something different.

       --stdgrammar-profile=file
           Enables grammar profiling and sends the output to file.

       --nostdgrammar-profile
           Disables grammar profiling (default).

       --grammar-profile-max=number
           If  grammar  profiling  is  enabled, only produce the first number lines of output: the output is sorted by decreasing count, so these will be the
           number most "interesting" productions from the point of view of performance analysis.

       --grammar-profile-count=number
           If grammar profiling is enabled, only produces output lines where the usage count is at least number.

       --grammar-profile-cost=number
           If grammar profiling is enabled, only produces output lines where the estimated cost is at least number.

       -q / --quiet
           Stop talking to Standard Error.

       --times
           Prints a summary of the time take for each major action. This setting is independent of --verbose or --quiet.

       --notimes
           Does not print execution times: this is the default.

       --rclist
           Prints the names of all rcfiles found; It prevents starting interactive mode.  The names will be prefixed with a  "splat"  symbol  ("*")  if  they
           would  be  executed  according  to other command-line options like --nouserrc and --nosystemrc, and without one if they would not be executed. For
           example, to edit all the files which would actually be executed, and to edit them in the order they would be executed, run something like:

              sh -c '"${EDITOR:-teco}" `sick --rclist | awk '"'"'$1 == "*" { print $2 }'"'"'`'

           These weird sequences of sparks and rabbit ears are obviously there to cope with the quoting mechanisms of different shells.

       --interpreter=module
           Uses an alternative CLC-INTERCAL Interpreter.  The default is whichever Interpreter is considered the best at the time the program is distributed.

BUGS
       There are more options than ls(1). This is construed to be a feature. Some of the options are not documented here  but  are  documented  in  the  Docs
       package; some are documented here but not there.

SEE ALSO
       The INTERCAL on-line documentation, or the contents of the Docs package.  If necessary, see a qualified psychiatrist.

perl v5.40.1                                                              2025-09-24                                                                 SICK(1p)
