cldump(1)                                                                                       User Manuals                                                                                      cldump(1)

NAME
       cldump - Clarion database extractor

SYNOPSIS
       cldump [options] database.dat

DESCRIPTION
       cldump extracts the data contained in a Clarion database; Clarion is a Windows IDE similar to Delphi or others, and has its own (simple) database format.

       cldump  can extract the data contained in such a database, and export it to CSV, SQL (including the database schema, keys and indexes) or its own format (this format will give you all the meta in‐
       formation, but isn't easily parsable).

       A Clarion database consists in a set of files :

       .DAT   files contain the data,

       .Kxx   files contain the key/index data,

       .MEM   files contain the memo entries associated to the data.

OPTIONS
       -x n, --decrypt n
              Decrypt an encrypted file. Required argument n indicates the location where the key will be retrieved. Valid values are in the range 1 - 4 inclusive. n = 1 usually works.

              Decryption happens in-place so KEEP A BACKUP as there is no guarantee the decryption process won't fail. Encrypted files must be decrypted before they can be dumped.

              Note that only the data file and the memo file are decrypted in this process; key/index files are left untouched as cldump doesn't use them.

       -d, --dump-active
              Dump active entries only

       -D, --dump-data
              Dump the actual data (active and deleted entries)

       -m, --dump-meta
              Dump meta information (no SQL or CSV output format exist for this option)

       -f c, --field-separator c
              Set the field separator to character c. Only valid for CSV output (see below).

       -c, --csv
              Dump data or schema in CSV format

       -S, --sql
              Dump data or schema in SQL format

       -s, --schema
              Dump database schema

       -M, --mysql
              Use MySQL specific construct (backticks, ...)

       -n, --no-memo
              Do not dump memo entries

       -U[charset], --utf8[=charset]
              Transcode strings and memos from charset to UTF-8 (charset defaults to ISO8859-1; for the list of supported charsets, see iconv --list)

OUTPUT
       cldump outputs the data to stdout or stderr depending on the output format selected, the data to extract and the type of the data (data, meta data).

BUGS
       The SQL output could be improved. Not all the types supported by the Clarion database format are implemented yet (due to lack of test databases using these types of data); see the source code  for
       details.

       Please report bugs to jb@jblache.org; if possible, please send patches as the set of test databases I have is very limited.

AUTHOR
       cldump was written by Julien BLACHE <jb@jblache.org>.

HOMEPAGE
       http://www.technologeek.org/projects/cldump/

Linux                                                                                          November 2010                                                                                      cldump(1)
