clustalo(1)                                                                                    USER COMMANDS                                                                                    clustalo(1)

NAME
       clustalo - General purpose multiple sequence alignment program for proteins

SYNOPSIS
       clustalo [-h]

DESCRIPTION
       Clustal-Omega  is a general purpose multiple sequence alignment (MSA) program for proteins. It produces high quality MSAs and is capable of handling data-sets of hundreds of thousands of sequences
       in reasonable time.

       In default mode, users give a file of sequences to be aligned and these are clustered to produce a guide tree and this is used to guide a "progressive alignment" of the sequences.  There are  also
       facilities for aligning existing alignments to each other, aligning a sequence to an alignment and for using a hidden Markov model (HMM) to help guide an alignment of new sequences that are homol‐
       ogous to the sequences used to make the HMM.  This latter procedure is referred to as "external profile alignment" or EPA.

       Clustal-Omega  uses  HMMs  for the alignment engine, based on the HHalign package from Johannes Soeding [1]. Guide trees are made using an enhanced version of mBed [2] which can cluster very large
       numbers of sequences in O(N*log(N)) time. Multiple alignment then proceeds by aligning larger and larger alignments using HHalign, following the clustering given by the guide tree.

       In its current form Clustal-Omega can only align protein sequences but not DNA/RNA sequences. It is envisioned that DNA/RNA will become available in a future version.

USAGE
       Tool usage is available in /usr/share/doc/clustalo/README.

DEVELOPMENT
       Headers and libraries are available in libclustalo-dev package.

CITING
       Sievers F, Wilm A, Dineen DG, Gibson TJ, Karplus K, Li W, Lopez R, McWilliam H,
        Remmert M, Söding J, Thompson JD, Higgins DG (2011).  Fast, scalable generation of high-quality protein multiple sequence alignments
        using Clustal Omega. Mol Syst Biol 7.

AUTHOR
       Olivier Sallou (olivier.sallou (at) irisa.fr) - Man page and packaging

       Conway Institute UCD Dublin (clustalw (at) ucd.ie) - clustalo

version 1.0.3                                                                                December 14, 2011                                                                                  clustalo(1)
