dbtool(1)                                                   The Computational Morphometry Toolkit                                                   dbtool(1)

NAME
       dbtool - Image/transformation database maintenance and query tool

SYNOPSIS
       dbtool Command

DESCRIPTION
       This tool modifies and queries the database of images and transformations between them.

OPTIONS
   Global Toolkit Options (these are shared by all CMTK tools)
       --help
            Write list of basic command line options to standard output.

       --help-all
            Write complete list of basic and advanced command line options to standard output.

       --wiki
            Write list of command line options to standard output in MediaWiki markup.

       --man
            Write man page source in 'nroff' markup to standard output.

       --version
            Write toolkit version to standard output.

       --echo
            Write the current command line to standard output.

       --verbose-level <integer>
            Set verbosity level.

       --verbose, -v
            Increment verbosity level by 1 (deprecated; supported for backward compatibility).

       --threads <integer>
            Set maximum number of parallel threads (for POSIX threads and OpenMP).

   Main Options
       --debug
            Turn on debug mode: print all SQL database commands and queries.

AUTHORS
       Torsten Rohlfing, with contributions from Michael P. Hasak, Greg Jefferis, Calvin R. Maurer, Daniel B. Russakoff, and Yaroslav Halchenko

LICENSE
       http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl.html

BUGS
       Report bugs at http://nitrc.org/projects/cmtk/

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
       CMTK is developed with support from the NIAAA under Grant AA021697, National Consortium on Alcohol and Neurodevelopment in Adolescence (N-CANDA): Data
       Integration Component. From April 2009 through September 2011, CMTK development and maintenance was supported by the NIBIB under Grant EB008381.

CMTK 3.3.1p2                                                             Oct 29 2025                                                                dbtool(1)
