CNVKIT.PY(1)                                                                                   User Commands                                                                                   CNVKIT.PY(1)

NAME
       cnvkit.py - Copy number variant detection from targeted DNA sequencing

DESCRIPTION
       usage: cnvkit.py [-h]

              {batch,target,access,antitarget,autobin,coverage,reference,fix,segment,call,diagram,scatter,heatmap,breaks,genemetrics,gainloss,sex,gender,metrics,segmetrics,bintest,import-picard,import-seg,import-theta,import-rna,export,version}
              ...

       CNVkit, a command-line toolkit for copy number analysis.

   positional arguments:
       {batch,target,access,antitarget,autobin,coverage,reference,fix,segment,call,diagram,scatter,heatmap,breaks,genemetrics,gainloss,sex,gender,metrics,segmetrics,bintest,import-picard,import-seg,import-theta,import-rna,export,version}
              Sub-commands (use with -h for more info)

       batch  Run the complete CNVkit pipeline on one or more BAM files.

       target Transform bait intervals into targets more suitable for CNVkit.

       access List the locations of accessible sequence regions in a FASTA file.

       antitarget
              Derive off-target ("antitarget") bins from target regions.

       autobin
              Quickly calculate reasonable bin sizes from BAM read counts.

       coverage
              Calculate coverage in the given regions from BAM read depths.

       reference
              Compile a coverage reference from the given files (normal samples).

       fix    Combine target and antitarget coverages and correct for biases. Adjust raw coverage data according to the given reference, correct potential biases and recenter.

       segment
              Infer copy number segments from the given coverage table.

       call   Call copy number variants from segmented log2 ratios.

       diagram
              Draw copy number (log2 coverages, segments) on chromosomes as a diagram. If both the raw probes and segments are given, show them side-by-side on each chromosome (segments on the left side,
              probes on the right side).

       scatter
              Plot probe log2 coverages and segmentation calls together.

       heatmap
              Plot copy number for multiple samples as a heatmap.

       breaks List the targeted genes in which a copy number breakpoint occurs.

       genemetrics
              Identify targeted genes with copy number gain or loss.

       sex    Guess samples' sex from the relative coverage of chromosomes X and Y.

       metrics
              Compute coverage deviations and other metrics for self-evaluation.

       segmetrics
              Compute segment-level metrics from bin-level log2 ratios.

       bintest
              Test for single-bin copy number alterations.

       import-picard
              Convert  Picard  CalculateHsMetrics  tabular  output to CNVkit .cnn files. The input file is generated by the PER_TARGET_COVERAGE option in the CalculateHsMetrics script in Picard tools. If
              'antitarget' is in the input filename, the generated output filename will have the suffix '.antitargetcoverage.cnn', otherwise '.targetcoverage.cnn'.

       import-seg
              Convert a SEG file to CNVkit .cns files.

       import-theta
              Convert THetA output to a BED-like, CNVkit-like tabular format. Equivalently, use the THetA results file to convert CNVkit .cns segments to integer copy number calls.

       import-rna
              Convert a cohort of per-gene log2 ratios to CNVkit .cnr format.

       export Convert CNVkit output files to another format.

       version
              Display this program's version.

   options:
       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit

       See the online manual for details: https://cnvkit.readthedocs.io

AUTHOR
        This manpage was written by Andreas Tille for the Debian distribution and
        can be used for any other usage of the program.

cnvkit.py 0.9.10                                                                                 July 2023                                                                                     CNVKIT.PY(1)
