COBBLERD(8)                         Cobbler                        COBBLERD(8)

NAME
       cobblerd - Cobblerd Documentation

       Cobbler - a provisioning and update server

PREAMBLE
       We  will  refer to cobblerd here as "cobbler" because cobblerd is short
       for cobbler-daemon which is basically the server.  The CLI will be  re‐
       ferred to as Cobbler-CLI and Koan as Koan.

DESCRIPTION
       Cobbler  manages  provisioning using a tiered concept of Distributions,
       Profiles, Systems, and (optionally) Images and Repositories.

       Distributions contain information about  what  kernel  and  initrd  are
       used, plus metadata (required kernel parameters, etc).

       Profiles  associate  a Distribution with an automated installation tem‐
       plate file and optionally customize the metadata further.

       Systems associate a MAC, IP, and other networking details with  a  pro‐
       file and optionally customize the metadata further.

       Repositories  contain  yum  mirror information. Using cobbler to mirror
       repositories is an optional feature, though  provisioning  and  package
       management share a lot in common.

       Images  are  a  catch-all concept for things that do not play nicely in
       the "distribution" category. Most users will  not  need  these  records
       initially and these are described later in the document.

       The  main  advantage of cobbler is that it glues together many disjoint
       technologies and concepts and abstracts the user from the need  to  un‐
       derstand  them.  It  allows the systems administrator to concentrate on
       what he needs to do, and not how it is done.

       This manpage will focus on the cobbler command line  tool  for  use  in
       configuring  cobbler.  There is also mention of the Cobbler WebUI which
       is usable for day-to-day operation of  Cobbler  once  installed/config‐
       ured.  Docs  on  the API and XML-RPC components are available online at
       https://cobbler.github.io or https://cobbler.readthedocs.io.

       Most users will be interested in the Web  UI  and  should  set  it  up,
       though  the command line is needed for initial configuration -- in par‐
       ticular cobbler check and cobbler import, as well as the repo mirroring
       features. All of these are described later in the documentation.

SETUP
       After  installing, run cobbler check to verify that cobbler's ecosystem
       is configured correctly. Cobbler check will direct you on how to modify
       it's config files using a text editor.

       Any problems detected should be corrected, with the potential exception
       of DHCP related warnings where you will need to use your  judgement  as
       to  whether they apply to your environment. Run cobbler sync after mak‐
       ing any changes to the configuration files to ensure those changes  are
       applied to the environment.

       It  is  especially  important that the server name field be accurate in
       /etc/cobbler/settings.yaml, without this field being correct, automatic
       installation  trees will not be found, and automated installations will
       fail.

       For PXE, if DHCP is to be run from the cobbler server, the DHCP config‐
       uration  file  should be changed as suggested by cobbler check. If DHCP
       is not run locally, the next-server field on the DHCP server should  at
       minimum point to the cobbler server's IP and the filename should be set
       to pxelinux.0. Alternatively, cobbler can also generate your DHCP  con‐
       figuration file if you want to run DHCP locally -- this is covered in a
       later section. If you don't already have a DHCP setup managed  by  some
       other tool, allowing cobbler to manage your DHCP environment will prove
       to be useful as it can manage DHCP reservations and other data. If  you
       already  have a DHCP setup, moving an existing setup to be managed from
       within cobbler is relatively painless -- though usage of the DHCP  man‐
       agement feature is entirely optional. If you are not interested in net‐
       work booting via PXE and just want to use Koan to install virtual  sys‐
       tems  or  replace  existing ones, DHCP configuration can be totally ig‐
       nored. Koan also has a live CD (see Koan's manpage) capability that can
       be used to simulate PXE environments.

AUTOINSTALLATION (AUTOYAST/KICKSTART)
       For  help in building kickstarts, try using the system-config-kickstart
       tool, or install a new system and  look  at  the  /root/anaconda-ks.cfg
       file left over from the installer. General kickstart questions can also
       be asked at kickstart-list@redhat.com. Cobbler ships  some  autoinstall
       templates in /etc/cobbler that may also be helpful.

       For AutoYaST guides and help please refer to the opensuse project.

       Also  see  the  website  or documentation for additional documentation,
       user contributed tips, and so on.

OPTIONS
       -B --daemonize
              If you pass no  options  this  is  the  default  one.  The  Cob‐
              bler-Server runs in the background.

       -F --no-daemonize
              The Cobbler-Server runs in the foreground.

       -f --log-file
              Choose a destination for the logfile (currently has no effect).

       -l --log-level
              Choose a loglevel for the application (currently has no effect).

AUTHOR
       Enno Gotthold

COPYRIGHT
       2021, Enno Gotthold

3.2                              Dec 23, 2021                      COBBLERD(8)
