COINST(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 COINST(1)

NAME
       Coinst - computes the co-installability kernel of a package repostory

SYNOPSIS
       coinst [options]

DESCRIPTION
       coinst reads a package repository in debian format or RPM format from standard input, and computes the co-installability kernel of the repository (see below). The graph of the kernel is written in
       dot format to a file, and a diagnostic is written to standard output. This diagnostic consists by default of:

         - the list of equivalence classes of packages

         - the list of non-installable packages

         - the list of not co-installable pairs of packages

CO-INSTALLABILITY KERNELS
       A  set  of  packages  is called co-installable with respect to a repository R if it can be extended to a set of packages from R that satisfies all inter-package relations (dependencies, conflicts,
       etc.). In particular, a package p is installable if the set {p} consisting of p only is co-installable.

       This tool reduces a repository R to a much smaller one, its so-called co-installability kernel R', that behaves exactly the same as far as co-installability of package is  concerned:  Any  set  of
       packages P is co-installable with respect to P iff it co-installable with respect to R'. This is achieved by

         - dropping all relations that are not relevant for this purpose. For instance, dependencies that do not lead directly or indirectly to any conflicts are dropped.

         - identifying all packages that behave the same. For instance, packages that are not in conflict with any other package (even not through dependency chains) behave the same since they are co-in‐
           stallable  together  with any other co-installable set of packages, and packages that are not installable at all behave the same since they may never be part of any co-installable set of pack‐
           ages.

       A more precise explanation can be found in the original research article underlying this tool.

       The interest of computing the kernel is that it is typically orders of magnitude smaller than the original repository.

OPTIONS
   Options controlling the input
       -deb   expect input in the format of a debian Packages file (default).

       -rpm   expect input in the format of an RPM hdlist.cz file.

       -ignore package
              ignore the package named package.

   Options controlling the graph output
       -o file
              write the graph to file instead of graph.dot

       -all   include all packages in the coinstallability graph

       -root p
              draw only the relevant portion of the graph around package p.

   Options controlling the diagnostic output
       -explain
              explain the list of non-installable pairs of packages.

       -stats show statistics regarding the input and output repositories

   Miscellaneous options
       -help, --help
              show command synopsis

EXAMPLE
       Reduce a current debian Packages file to its kernel:

          coinst -all -o raw.dot < sid_main_binary-amd64_Packages

       Layout the graph:

          dot raw.dot -o layout.dot:

       View the graph with dotty, or the viewer from the coinst_viewer package:

          dotty layout.dot
          coinst_viewer layout.dot

AUTHOR
       Coinst has been written by Jérome Vouillôn.  This manpage has been compiled by Ralf Treinen from the original coinst documentation.

SEE ALSO
       dot(1),dotty(1),coinst_viewer(1)
       http://coinst.irill.org
       The original research article decribing the algorithm behind this tool is Roberto Di Cosmo and Jérôme Vouillon, On software component co-installability, 19th ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on  the  Founda‐
       tions of Software Engineering (FSE-19) and ESEC'11: 13rd European Software Engineering Conference (ESEC-13), Szeged, Hungary, September 5-9, 2011, pages 256-266.

                                                                                                                                                                                                  COINST(1)
