COLRDX(1)                   General Commands Manual                  COLRDX(1)

NAME
       colrdx - hamradio dx-cluster client with ncurses color support

SYNOPSIS
       colrdx [options] <host> [port]

       At  least one argument is needed, which is the host to connect to.  The
       default port is 8000 when no portnumber is used.

DESCRIPTION
       Colrdx is a simple client for amateur radio dx-clusters.  In  a  split-
       screen  display  you  can  type  commands for the cluster in the bottom
       part.  Messages from the dx-cluster will appear  in  the  main  window.
       There is also a status line at the top with some basic information.

OPTIONS
       Colrdx needs a callsign in order to be able to login to the cluster.

       -c callsign
              Send 'callsign' when connected (required).

       -h     Display help and exit

       -n     Start colrdx in black and white, even if terminal has color sup‐
              port.

       -v     Display version and exit

LINE EDITING COMMANDS
       Ctrl-A Goto beginning of line.

       Ctrl-B and Left arrow
              Go one character backward.

       Ctrl-D Delete character under cursor.

       Ctrl-E Goto end of line.

       Ctrl-F and Right arrow
              Go one character forward.

       Ctrl-K Kill from cursor to end of line (and store to kill buffer).

       Ctrl-L Repaints the whole screen.

       Ctrl-N and Down arrow
              Scroll Down.

       Ctrl-P and Up arrow
              Scroll Up.

       Ctrl-R Reprint current line.

       Ctrl-U Delete current line in total.

       Ctrl-W Erase last word.

       Ctrl-Y Yank kill buffer.

       The scroll buffer can be browsed with arrow keys Up and Down (or Ctrl-P
       and Ctrl-N), PageUp, PageDown, Home and End keys.

FILES
       If  ~/.colrdxrc  exists,  it  is  sent  to the server after logging in.
       Handy for automatically sending commands.

AUTHOR
       Colrdx was written by Joop Stakenborg  <pg4i@amsat.org>.  Most  of  the
       code  was  taken from colrconv, written by Tomi Manninen, OH2BNS. It is
       based on the public domain program ttylink by Dave Perry, VA3DP.

                                                                     COLRDX(1)
