comitup-cli(1)                                                                                                                                 comitup-cli(1)

NAME
       comitup-cli - command-line interface for comitup network management

   SYNOPSIS
              $ `comitup-cli [cmd ...]`

              State: HOTSPOT
              Connection: hotspot-123
              Points:
                  1: MyAccessPoint
                  2: HisAccessPoint
              Available Commands:
                  (r)eload
                  (q)uit
                  connect to (<n>)
                  [l]ocate the device
                  [x] Factory reset (no warning)
              command?:

   DESCRIPTION
       The  comitup-cli  utility  provides  access to the comitup(8) D-Bus interface.  It is intended to serve as a debug tool, and a source code example for
       connecting to the interface.

       If an argument is provided, a one-shot command is attempted.  Oherwise, the program goes into an interpretive mode.

       If the comitup(8) service is not running, comitup-cli will immediately exit.

   Command-Mode Display:
       • State

         The comitup states are HOTSPOT, CONNECTING, and CONNECTED.

         In the HOTSPOT mode, comitup creates a wifi hotspot with the name comitup-<nnn>, where <nnn> is a persistent number.

         Once in HOTSPOT mode, the system will occasionally (~3 min) cycle through available defined connections, by transitioning to  the  CONNECTING  mode.
         The Access Point list is updated by this process.  Any command issued by comitup-cli will cause the next timeout instance to be skipped.

         If any other devices are connected to the Comitup hotspot, the periodic attempt is skipped, to avoid interrupting service to those devices.

         Once  a connection is established, the system will be in the CONNECTED mode.  If the connection is lost, failed, or deleted, the system will transi‐
         tion back to the HOTSPOT state.

       • Connection

         The ssid of the current active connection.

       • Points

         While in the HOTSPOT mode, comitup-cli will list the currently-visible access points, by ssid.  Access points with the strongest signal  are  sorted
         to the top of the list.  The entries are numbered, for use with the connect command.

   Commands
       • r - Reload

         Refresh the displayed state, mode, and list of access points.

       • q - Quit

         Exit comitup.cli.

       • d - Delete connection

         Delete the configuration information for the current wifi connection.  This will cause comitup to transition to the HOTSPOT mode.

         This command is not available in the HOTSPOT mode.

       • <n> - Connect to access point <n>

         Define a connection for the selected access point, and then attempt to connect.

         This command is only available in the HOTSPOT mode.

       • m - Manual connection

         Enter an SSID manually.

       • i - Get information

         Return the comitup version and host name for the current instance.

       • l - Locate

         Locate the headless Raspberry Pi running Comitup by blinking the front green LED once.

       • n - reName

         Change  the  name  of the host, Comitup ap_name, and comitup mdns domain name.  This also adds an entry in `hosts'.  This causes Comitup to restart,
         and the cli session to end.

       • x - Factory Reset

         Remove all defined WiFi connections, and restart the service.  There is no confirmation requested.  This will  terminate  the  interpreter  session.
         Note that enable_nuke must be enabled in comitup.conf for this to succeed.

   COPYRIGHT
       Comitup is Copyright (C) 2016-2019 David Steele <steele@debian.org>

   SEE ALSO
       comitup(8), comitup-conf(5), comitup-web(8), comitup-watch(1)

                                                                           Aug 2021                                                            comitup-cli(1)
