composeglyphs(1)                                                                                     Debian                                                                                    composeglyphs(1)

NAME
       composeglyphs - generate an encoding vector or new font for postscript

SYNOPSIS
       composeglyphs -e encoding.afm -E encoding.ps

       composeglyphs -i input.afm -o output.ps -c composite.afm -n newname -e base_encoding.afm -t target_encoding.afm -a output.afm

DESCRIPTION
       composeglyphs  is a script to generate either an encoding vector or a new font for postscript.  It requires a pre-existing AFM and allows for the use of composite characters that that AFM does not al‐
       ready provide.

OPTIONS
       -e encoding.afm
              The base encoding AFM to use.

       -E encoding.ps
              The encoding vector to output.

       -i input.afm
              The AFM of the original font.

       -o output.ps
              The font program to generate.

       -c composite.afm
              The AFM containing supplementary composite character information.

       -n newname
              The name of the new font.

       -t target_encoding.afm
              The target encoding.

       -a output.afm
              The name of the AFM file to generate.

NOTES
       composeglyphs is a part of Ogonkify, which comes with the a2ps distribution.

       If you create new AFMs or modify existing ones, the author asks that you kindly send him a copy so that he may include them in the distribution.

AUTHOR
       Juliusz Chroboczek <jec@dcs.ed.ac.uk>

SEE ALSO
       a2ps(1), ogonkify(1)

       The full documentation for Ogonkify is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and a2ps programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info Ogonkify

       should give you access to the complete manual.

a2ps                                                                                                May 2003                                                                                   composeglyphs(1)
