CONICPROJ(1)                GeographicLib Utilities               CONICPROJ(1)

NAME
       ConicProj -- perform conic projections

SYNOPSIS
       ConicProj ( -c | -a ) lat1 lat2 [ -l lon0 ] [ -k k1 ] [ -r ] [ -e a f ]
       [ -w ] [ -p prec ] [ --comment-delimiter commentdelim ] [ --version |
       -h | --help ] [ --input-file infile | --input-string instring ] [
       --line-separator linesep ] [ --output-file outfile ]

DESCRIPTION
       Perform one of two conic projections geodesics.  Convert geodetic
       coordinates to either Lambert conformal conic or Albers equal area
       coordinates.  The standard latitudes lat1 and lat2 are specified by
       that the -c option (for Lambert conformal conic) or the -a option (for
       Albers equal area).  At least one of these options must be given (the
       last one given is used).  Specify lat1 = lat2, to obtain the case with
       a single standard parallel.  The central meridian is given by lon0.
       The longitude of origin is given by the latitude of minimum (azimuthal)
       scale for Lambert conformal conic (Albers equal area).  The (azimuthal)
       scale on the standard parallels is k1.

       Geodetic coordinates are provided on standard input as a set of lines
       containing (blank separated) latitude and longitude (decimal degrees or
       degrees, minutes, seconds);  for details on the allowed formats for
       latitude and longitude, see the "GEOGRAPHIC COORDINATES" section of
       GeoConvert(1).  For each set of geodetic coordinates, the corresponding
       projected easting, x, and northing, y, (meters) are printed on standard
       output together with the meridian convergence gamma (degrees) and
       (azimuthal) scale k.  For Albers equal area, the radial scale is 1/k.
       The meridian convergence is the bearing of the y axis measured
       clockwise from true north.

       Special cases of the Lambert conformal projection are the Mercator
       projection (the standard latitudes equal and opposite) and the polar
       stereographic projection (both standard latitudes correspond to the
       same pole).  Special cases of the Albers equal area projection are the
       cylindrical equal area projection (the standard latitudes equal and
       opposite), the Lambert azimuthal equal area projection (both standard
       latitude corresponds to the same pole), and the Lambert equal area
       conic projection (one standard parallel is at a pole).

OPTIONS
       -c lat1 lat2
           use the Lambert conformal conic projection with standard parallels
           lat1 and lat2.

       -a lat1 lat2
           use the Albers equal area projection with standard parallels lat1
           and lat2.

       -l lon0
           specify the longitude of origin lon0 (degrees, default 0).

       -k k1
           specify the (azimuthal) scale k1 on the standard parallels (default
           1).

       -r  perform the reverse projection.  x and y are given on standard
           input and each line of standard output gives latitude, longitude,
           gamma, and k.

       -e a f
           specify the ellipsoid via the equatorial radius, a and the
           flattening, f.  Setting f = 0 results in a sphere.  Specify f < 0
           for a prolate ellipsoid.  A simple fraction, e.g., 1/297, is
           allowed for f.  By default, the WGS84 ellipsoid is used, a =
           6378137 m, f = 1/298.257223563.

       -w  toggle the longitude first flag (it starts off); if the flag is on,
           then on input and output, longitude precedes latitude (except that,
           on input, this can be overridden by a hemisphere designator, N, S,
           E, W).

       -p prec
           set the output precision to prec (default 6).  prec is the number
           of digits after the decimal point for lengths (in meters).  For
           latitudes and longitudes (in degrees), the number of digits after
           the decimal point is prec + 5.  For the convergence (in degrees)
           and scale, the number of digits after the decimal point is prec +
           6.

       --comment-delimiter commentdelim
           set the comment delimiter to commentdelim (e.g., "#" or "//").  If
           set, the input lines will be scanned for this delimiter and, if
           found, the delimiter and the rest of the line will be removed prior
           to processing and subsequently appended to the output line
           (separated by a space).

       --version
           print version and exit.

       -h  print usage and exit.

       --help
           print full documentation and exit.

       --input-file infile
           read input from the file infile instead of from standard input; a
           file name of "-" stands for standard input.

       --input-string instring
           read input from the string instring instead of from standard input.
           All occurrences of the line separator character (default is a
           semicolon) in instring are converted to newlines before the reading
           begins.

       --line-separator linesep
           set the line separator character to linesep.  By default this is a
           semicolon.

       --output-file outfile
           write output to the file outfile instead of to standard output; a
           file name of "-" stands for standard output.

EXAMPLES
          echo 39.95N 75.17W | ConicProj -c 40d58 39d56 -l 77d45W
          => 220445 -52372 1.67 1.0
          echo 220445 -52372 | ConicProj -c 40d58 39d56 -l 77d45W -r
          => 39.95 -75.17 1.67 1.0

ERRORS
       An illegal line of input will print an error message to standard output
       beginning with "ERROR:" and causes ConicProj to return an exit code of
       1.  However, an error does not cause ConicProj to terminate; following
       lines will be converted.

AUTHOR
       ConicProj was written by Charles Karney.

HISTORY
       ConicProj was added to GeographicLib,
       <https://geographiclib.sourceforge.io>, in version 1.9.

GeographicLib 1.52                2021-06-21                      CONICPROJ(1)
