CONSERVER(8)                       conserver                      CONSERVER(8)

NAME
       conserver - console server daemon

SYNOPSIS
       conserver  [-7dDEFhinoRSuvV]  [-a  type] [-m max] [-M master] [-p port]
       [-b port] [-c cred] [-C config] [-P passwd] [-L logfile] [-O  min]  [-U
       logfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Conserver  is  the daemon that manages remote access to system consoles
       by multiple users via the console(1) client  program  and  (optionally)
       log  the  console  output.  It can connect to consoles via local serial
       ports, Unix domain sockets, TCP sockets (for terminal servers  and  the
       like), or any external program.

       When  started,  conserver reads the conserver.cf(5) file for details of
       each console.  The console type, logging options, serial or network pa‐
       rameters,  and user access levels are just a few of the things that can
       be specified.  Command-line options are then applied, possibly overrid‐
       ing  conserver.cf(5) settings.  Conserver categorizes consoles into two
       types: those it should actively manage, and those it should  just  know
       about,  so  it  can refer clients to other conserver instances.  If the
       master value of a console matches the hostname or ip address of the lo‐
       cal  machine,  conserver  will actively manage the console.  Otherwise,
       it's considered a ``remote'' console and managed by a different server.
       Conserver  forks  a child for each group of consoles it must manage and
       assigns each process a port number to listen on.  The maximum number of
       consoles managed by each child process is set using the -m option.  The
       console(1) client program communicates with the master  console  server
       process to find the port (and host, in a multi-server configuration) on
       which the appropriate child is listening.  Conserver restricts  connec‐
       tions  from  clients  based  on  the  host  access  section of its con‐
       server.cf(5) file, restricts users based on the console access lists of
       the  conserver.cf(5)  file,  and  authenticates  users against its con‐
       server.passwd(5) file.  Conserver can also restrict clients  using  the
       tcp-wrappers  package (enabled using --with-libwrap).  This authentica‐
       tion is done before consulting the conserver.cf(5) access list.

       When Unix domain sockets are used between the client  and  server  (en‐
       abled  using  --with-uds),  authentication checks are done on the hard‐
       coded address ``127.0.0.1''.  Automatic client redirection is also dis‐
       abled  (as  if the -R option was used) since the client cannot communi‐
       cate with remote servers.  The directory used to hold  the  sockets  is
       checked  to  make  sure  it's empty when the server starts.  The server
       will not remove any files in the directory itself, just in case the di‐
       rectory  is  accidentally  specified as ``/etc'' or some other critical
       location.  The server will do its best to remove all the  sockets  when
       it shuts down, but it could stop ungracefully (crash, ``kill -9'', etc)
       and leave files behind.  It would then be up to the admin  (or  a  cre‐
       ative  startup script) to clean up the directory before the server will
       start again.

       Conserver completely controls any connection to a console.  All  escape
       sequences given by the user to console are passed to the server without
       interpretation.  The server recognizes and  processes  all  escape  se‐
       quences.

       The  conserver  parent  process  will  automatically  respawn any child
       process that dies.  The following signals are propagated by the  parent
       process to its children.

       SIGTERM   Close all connections and exit.

       SIGHUP    Reread  the  configuration file.  New consoles are managed by
                 forking  off  new  children,  deleted  consoles  (and   their
                 clients)  are  dropped,  and changes to consoles are done "in
                 place", resetting the console port (bringing it down and  up)
                 only  when  necessary.  The console name is used to determine
                 when consoles have been added/removed/changed.   All  actions
                 performed by SIGUSR2 are also performed.

       SIGUSR1   Try to connect to any consoles marked as down.  This can come
                 in handy if you had a terminal server (or more)  that  wasn't
                 accepting  connections  at  startup and you want conserver to
                 try to reconnect to all those downed ports.

       SIGUSR2   Close and reopen all console logfiles and, if in daemon  mode
                 (-d  option), the error logfile (see the -L option).  All ac‐
                 tions performed by SIGUSR1 are also performed.

       Consoles which have no current client connection might  produce  impor‐
       tant  error messages.  With the -u option, these ``unloved'' errors are
       labeled with a machine name and output on stdout (or, in  daemon  mode,
       to the logfile).  This allows a live operator or an automated log scan‐
       ner to find otherwise unseen errors by watching in a single location.

       Conserver must be run as root if it is to bind to a port under 1024  or
       if  it  must  read protected password files (like shadow passwords) for
       authentication (see conserver.passwd(5)).  Otherwise, it may be run  by
       any user, with -p used to specify a port above 1024.

       If  encryption has been built into the code (--with-openssl), encrypted
       client connections (without certificate exchanges) happen  by  default.
       To  add  certificate  exchanges,  use the -c option with the client and
       server.  For authentication of the certificates to  work,  the  signing
       certificate  must  be  properly trusted, which usually means the public
       portion is in OPENSSL_ROOT/ssl/certs (on both  the  client  and  server
       sides).   See  the  sample  self-signing certificate making script con‐
       trib/maketestcerts for further clues.  To  allow  non-encrypted  client
       connections  (in  addition to encrypted client connections), use the -E
       option.

OPTIONS
       Options may be given as separate arguments (e.g., -n -d)  or  clustered
       (e.g.,  -nd).  Options and their arguments may be separated by optional
       white space.  Option arguments containing spaces  or  other  characters
       special to the shell must be quoted.

       -7          Strip  the  high bit off of all data received, whether from
                   the console client or from the console device,  before  any
                   processing occurs.

       -atype      Set  the  default access type for incoming connections from
                   console clients: `r' for refused (the default), `a' for al‐
                   lowed, or `t' for trusted.  This applies to hosts for which
                   no matching entry is found in the access  section  of  con‐
                   server.cf(5).

       -bport      Set  the  base  port for children to listen on.  Each child
                   starts looking for free ports at port and  working  upward,
                   trying a maximum number of ports equal to twice the maximum
                   number of groups.  If no free ports are available  in  that
                   range, conserver exits.  By default, conserver lets the op‐
                   erating system choose a free port.

       -ccred      Load an SSL certificate and key from the PEM  encoded  file
                   cred.

       -Cconfig    Read  configuration  information from the file config.  The
                   default config may be changed at  compile  time  using  the
                   --with-cffile option.

       -d          Become a daemon.  Disconnects from the controlling terminal
                   and sends all output (including any debug  output)  to  the
                   logfile (see -L).

       -D          Enable  debugging  output, sent to stderr.  Multiple -D op‐
                   tions increases debug output.

       -E          If  encryption  has  been  built  into  the  code  (--with-
                   openssl),  encrypted  client connections are a requirement.
                   This option allows non-encrypted clients (as  well  as  en‐
                   crypted clients) to connect to consoles.

       -F          Do  not  automatically  reinitialize  failed  (unexpectedly
                   closed) consoles.  If the console is a program (`|' syntax)
                   and  it  closes  with  a  zero  exit status, the console is
                   reinitialized regardless of this option.  Without this  op‐
                   tion, a console is immediately reopened, and if that fails,
                   retried every minute until successful.  This option has  no
                   effect on the -o and -O options.

       -h          Output a brief help message.

       -i          Initiate console connections on demand (and close them when
                   not used).

       -Llogfile   Log errors and  informational  messages  to  logfile  after
                   startup  in  daemon  mode (-d).  This option does not apply
                   when not running in daemon mode.  The default  logfile  may
                   be changed at compile time using the --with-logfile option.

       -mmax       Set  the maximum consoles managed per process.  The default
                   max may be changed at compile time using the --with-maxmemb
                   option.

       -Mmaster    Normally,  this allows conserver to bind to a particular IP
                   address (like `127.0.0.1') instead of all interfaces.   The
                   default  is  to bind to all addresses.  However, if --with-
                   uds  was  used  to   enable   Unix   domain   sockets   for
                   client/server  communication,  this points conserver to the
                   directory where it should store the sockets.   The  default
                   master  directory  (``/tmp/conserver'')  may  be changed at
                   compile time using the --with-uds option.

       -n          Obsolete (now a no-op); see -u.

       -o          Normally, a client connecting to a ``downed'' console  does
                   just  that.   Using  this option, the server will automati‐
                   cally attempt to open (``bring up'') the console  when  the
                   client connects.

       -Omin       Enable  periodic  attempts  (every  min  minutes)  to  open
                   (``bring up'') all downed consoles (similar  to  sending  a
                   SIGUSR1).  Without this option, or if min is zero, no peri‐
                   odic attempts occur.

       -pport      Set the TCP port for the master process to listen on.  This
                   may be either a port number or a service name.  The default
                   port, ``conserver'' (typically 782), may be changed at com‐
                   pile  time using the --with-port option.  If the --with-uds
                   option was used, this option is ignored.

       -Ppasswd    Read the table  of  authorized  user  data  from  the  file
                   passwd.   The default passwd may be changed at compile time
                   using the --with-pwdfile option.

       -R          Disable automatic client  redirection  to  other  conserver
                   hosts.   This  means  informational commands like -w and -i
                   will only show the status of the local conserver  host  and
                   attempts  to  connect  to remote consoles will result in an
                   informative message to the user.

       -S          Do not run the server, just perform a syntax check of  con‐
                   figuration  file and exit with a non-zero value if there is
                   an error.  Using more than one -S will cause  conserver  to
                   output  various  information about each console in 5 colon-
                   separated fields, enclosed in curly-braces.  The philosophy
                   behind the output is to provide information to allow exter‐
                   nal detection of multiple consoles access the same physical
                   port.  Since this is highly environment-specific, conserver
                   cannot do the check internally.

                   name     The name of the console.

                   master   The hostname of the master conserver host for  the
                            console.

                   aliases  The console aliases in a comma-separated list.

                   type     The  type  of console.  Values will be a `/' for a
                            local device, `|' for a command, `!' for a  remote
                            port,  `%' for a Unix domain socket, and `#' for a
                            noop console.

                   details  Multiple values are comma-separated and depend  on
                            the  type of the console.  Local devices will have
                            the values of the device file and  baud  rate/par‐
                            ity.  Commands will have string to invoke.  Remote
                            ports will have the values of the remote  hostname
                            and  port  number.   Unix domain sockets will have
                            the path to the socket.  Noop consoles  will  have
                            nothing.

       -u          Send  unloved  console output to conserver's stdout (which,
                   in daemon mode, is redirected to the  logfile).   This  ap‐
                   plies  to  all consoles to which no user is attached, inde‐
                   pendent of whether logging of individual  consoles  is  en‐
                   abled via conserver.cf entries.

       -Ulogfile   Copy all console data to the ``unified'' logfile.  The out‐
                   put is the same as the -u output,  but  all  consoles,  not
                   just those without a user, are logged.  Each line of output
                   is prefixed with the console name.  If a user  is  attached
                   read/write, a `*' is appended to the console name, to allow
                   log watching utilites to ignore  potential  user-introduced
                   alarms.

       -v          Echo the configuration as it is being read (be verbose).

       -V          Output  the  version  number  and settings of the conserver
                   program and then exit.

PROTOCOL
       The protocol used to interact with the conserver daemon has  two  basic
       styles.   The  first style is the initial line-based mode, which occurs
       before connecting to a console.  The second  style  is  the  character-
       based, escape-sequence mode, while connected to a console.

       The initial line-based mode begins the same for both the master process
       and its children.  Upon a successful (non-rejected) client  connection,
       an ``ok'' is sent.  The client then issues a command and the server re‐
       sponds to it with a result string (``ok'' being the sign of success for
       most  commands).   The commands available are ``help'', ``ssl'' (if SSL
       was built into the code), ``login'', and ``exit''.  Using the ``login''
       command, the client authenticates and gains access to the extended com‐
       mand set.  This is where the master process and  its  children  differ.
       The  master process gives the client access to global commands, and the
       child provides commands for interacting with the consoles  it  manages.
       The  ``help''  command,  in both cases, will provide a complete list of
       commands and a short description of what they do.

       The second, character-based,  style  of  interaction  occurs  when  the
       client  issues the ``call'' command with a child process.  This command
       connects the client to a console and, at that point, relays all traffic
       between the client and the console.  There is no more command-based in‐
       teraction between the client and the server, any interaction  with  the
       server is done with the default escape sequence.

       This   is,   by   no  means,  a  complete  description  of  the  entire
       client/server interaction.  It is, however, a brief explanation in  or‐
       der  to give a idea of what the program does.  See the PROTOCOL file in
       the distribution for further details.

FILES
       The following default file locations may be overridden at compile  time
       or  by  the  command-line options described above.  Run conserver -V to
       see the defaults set at compile time.

       /etc/conserver.cf        description  of  console  terminal  lines  and
                                client    host   access   levels;   see   con‐
                                server.cf(5).
       /etc/conserver.passwd    users allowed to  access  consoles;  see  con‐
                                server.passwd(5).
       /var/run/conserver.pid   the master conserver process ID
       /var/log/conserver       log of errors and informational messages
       /tmp/conserver           directory  to hold Unix domain sockets (if en‐
                                abled)

       Additionally, output from individual consoles may be logged to separate
       files specified in conserver.cf(5).

BUGS
       I'm  sure there are bugs, I just don't know where they are.  Please let
       me know if you find any.

AUTHORS
       Thomas A. Fine, Ohio State Computer Science
       Kevin S Braunsdorf, Purdue University Computing Center
       Bryan Stansell, conserver.com

SEE ALSO
       console(1), conserver.cf(5), conserver.passwd(5)

conserver-8.2.2                   2018/05/28                      CONSERVER(8)
