CONVERTAR(1)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         CONVERTAR(1)

NAME
       convertar - Converts trust anchor repositories from one format to
       another

DESCRIPTION
       convertar operates on input and output files of different Trust Anchor
       Repository (TAR) formats.  convertar decides what type of file format
       is being referred to by a "type:filename" specification.  Options can
       be passed to the convertar module by using a '/' delimited specifier in
       the type identifier.  Such as
       "type/option=value/other=othervalue:filename".  See below for a list of
       different input and output formats that convertar understands by
       default and what options they take.

       See the Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::TrustAnchor module and its documentation
       for writing new plugins to allow convertar to understand other TAR
       formats.

EXAMPLES
       This command will read in an itar.xml file (available from
       https://itar.iana.org/) and convert it to a file that can be read in by
       BIND's named application:

         # convertar -i itar:itar.xml -o bind:bind.conf

       Read in multiple files, merge them together and write them out to two
       different output file formats (the libval format is printed to stdout):

         # convertar -i itar:itar.xml,csv:local.csv -o bind:bind.conf,libval:-

FILE SPECIFICATION CONVENTIONS
       Types and files (e.g. for the -i and -o switches) are specificied using
       the following format:

         type:/path/to/file

       The type portion of the specification dictates what internal module
       will attempt to read in the file.  The file portion of the
       specification may or may not be required (but the ':' always is) and
       may or may not point to a real file, depending on the module in charge
       of the content.  Some modules may, for exmaple, load content from the
       network.  For types that can read and write to a file, a '-' may be
       specified as a file to print to or read from standard output.

       File formats MAY be infered from a trailing suffix, if the trailing
       suffix.  EG, if a referenced file is foo.csv then internally convertar
       will translate this to "csv:foo.csv".

FILE FORMATS
       The following file formats are known by default to convertar:

       bind
           A BIND name server (named) compatible trust anchor configuration
           file.  This can be included within a master named.conf file using
           the "include" directive.

           The bind option can also take a /write_expectations=1 flag when
           writing to write an options {} section that will turn on dnssec and
           require validation for zones from all the imported data.

           E.G. bind/write_expectations=1:named.conf

       secspider
           This is merely an alias that fetches the specspider
           (http://secspider.cs.ucla.edu/) bind configuration file and then
           parse it using the bind file format.

           WARNING: The PGP signature on the downloaded file is NOT checked.

       csv A comma-separated list format.

       dump
           A Perl hash dump format.  This should be used mostly for debugging
           of newly developed modules as it shows the internal hash structure
           that is passed between modules.

       itar
           IANA's itar format, which is an XML-based format of trust anchor
           keys.  IANA's file is available from https://itar.iana.org/.

           Specifying only 'itar:' line only (or itar:URL), convertar will
           attempt to retrieve the current remote ITAR respository file
           directly.

           WARNING: The PGP signature on the downloaded file is NOT checked.

           NOTE: support for downloading the ITAR repository over the network
           requires the LWP::UserAgent module to be installed.

       libval
           The libval format is the configuration file format that DNSSEC-
           Tool's libval library uses.

           The libval option can also take a /write_expectations=1 flag when
           writing to specify that the default (:) zone-security-expectation's
           should be populated to require validation of all the zones with
           imported data.  All other zones will have a policy set to 'ignore.

           E.G. libval/write_expectations=1:dnsval.conf

       mf  The master file (mf) format is also available from the itar web
           site.

       dns The dns format performs live queries of records attached to a
           domain name to request either DS or DNSKEY records.  By default,
           DNSKEY records will be queried.  The specific type to be queried
           can be specified by preceeding the zone name with a "ds/" or
           "dnskey/" prefix.  Example valid 'dns:' type specifications:

             dns:dnssec-tools.org
             dns:ds/dnssec-tools.org
             dns:dnskey/dnssec-tools.org

           Also, if you want to read dnskeys from the network but convert them
           to ds records, you can use the /tods flag:

             dns/tods=1:dnssec-tools.org

           The DNS type can not output records and is only useful for reading
           in information.

           WARNING: The keys and data being retrieved are not internally
           validated and thus should not be trusted unless a secured resolver
           is being used.

OPTIONS
       -i STRING
       --input-file=STRING
           Input file(s) to process.

           convertar will read in the specified file(s).  Multiple files can
           be separated by commas.

       -o STRING
       --output-file=STRING
           Output file(s) to write.

           convertar will write out these specified file(s) in the requested
           output formats.  Multiple files can be separated by commas.

       -h
       --help
       --help-full
           Displays command line help information.

       --gui
       --no-gui
           Controls the use of the optional GUI.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2009-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wes Hardaker < hardaker AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net >

SEE ALSO
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::TrustAnchor(3)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                      CONVERTAR(1)
