COPYDEPS(1)                  User Commands Manual                  COPYDEPS(1)

NAME
       copydeps - copy a program's dependencies (.so / .dll files)

SYNOPSIS
       copydeps [OPTIONS] EXECUTABLE [TARGET-DIR]

DESCRIPTION
       copydeps is a small program that can be used to find and copy all .so /
       .dll files needed by a program to run.  This can  be  useful  when  you
       want to bundle an application together will all its dependencies.

       EXECUTABLE can be one of the following supported formats:
       • 32-bit ELF
       • 64-bit ELF
       • i386 Microsoft Windows executable
       • x86_64 Microsoft Windows executable

       TARGET-DIR  specifies  the  directory  to copy the .so / .dll files to.
       When omitted, defaults to the directory of the target executable.

OPTIONS
       --dry-run
              Print the list of dependencies without actually copying the  .so
              / .dll files.

       --exedir
              Include  the  directory  of the executable in the .so / .dll re‐
              solve paths.  Files found in the exedir are preferred over those
              found anywhere else.

       --help Print a short help message and exit.

       --ignore PATTERN
              Add  the  regular  expression  PATTERN to the ignore-list (.so /
              .dll names that should not be resolved nor copied over).

       --no-clobber
              Do not overwrite .so / .dll files already existing in the target
              directory.

       --override PATTERN
              Add  the  regular expression PATTERN to the override-list (.so /
              .dll names that should always  be  resolved  and  copied  over).
              Overrides take precedence over ignores.

       --search-dir DIRECTORY
              Add  DIRECTORY to the list of paths to search when resolving .so
              / .dll names.  User-specified directories take  precedence  over
              system paths.

       --verbose
              Print  the  names  of  the  dependencies as they're being copied
              over.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Success.

       1      An error in program arguments.

       2      Failed to parse EXECUTABLE, or it's an unsupported format.

       3      Failed to parse one of the .so / .dll files, be it a direct  de‐
              pendency of EXECUTABLE, or a dependency of another library.

       4      Failed to resolve one or more of the dependency names.

       5      An error occurred when copying one or more of the files.

SEE ALSO
       ldd(1), objdump(1)

                                  2020-06-28                       COPYDEPS(1)
