COROSYNC_OVERVIEW(7)                                                            Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual                                                            COROSYNC_OVERVIEW(7)

NAME
       corosync_overview - Corosync overview

OVERVIEW
       The corosync project's purpose is to implement and support a production quality Revised BSD licensed implementation of a high performance low overhead high availability development toolkit.

       Faults occur for various reasons:

       * Application Faults

       * Middleware Faults

       * Operating System Faults

       * Hardware Faults

       The  major  focus  of high availability in the past has been to mask hardware faults. Faults in other components of the system have gone unsolved until Corosync.  Corosync is designed for applica‐
       tions to replicate their state to up to 16 processors.  The processors all contain a replica of the application state.

       The corosync project provides a group message API called CPG.  The project developers recommend CPG be used for most applications.  The CPG service implements a closed group messaging  model  pre‐
       senting extended virtual synchrony guarantees.

       To manage conditions where the process executing the CPG application exchange fails, we provide the Simple Availability Manager (sam) to provide simple application restart.

QUICKSTART
       The  corosync  executive  must  be configured.  In the directory conf in the source distribution are several files that must be copied to the /etc/corosync directory.  If corosync is packaged by a
       distro, this may be complete.

       The directory contains the file corosync.conf.  Please read the corosync.conf(5) man page for details on the configuration options.  The corosync project will work out of the box with the  default
       configuration options, although the administrator may desire different options.

       The corosync executive uses cryptographic techniques to ensure authenticity and privacy of the messages.  In order for corosync to be secure and operate, a private key must be generated and shared
       to all processors.

       First generate the key on one of the nodes:

       unix# corosync-keygen
       Corosync Cluster Engine Authentication key generator.
       Gathering 2048 bits for key from /dev/urandom.
       Writing corosync key to /etc/corosync/authkey.

       After  this  operation,  a  private  key will be in the file /etc/corosync/authkey.  This private key must be copied to every processor in the cluster.  If the private key isn't the same for every
       node, those nodes with nonmatching private keys will not be able to join the same configuration.

       Copy the key to some security transportable storage or use ssh to transmit the key from node to node.  Then install the key with the command:

       unix#: install -D --group=0 --owner=0 --mode=0400 /path_to_authkey/authkey /etc/corosync/authkey

       If a message "Invalid digest" appears from the corosync executive, the keys are not consistent between processors.

       Finally run the corosync executive.  If corosync is packaged from a distro, it may be set to start on system start.  It may also be turned off by default in which case the init script for corosync
       must be enabled.

USING LIBRARIES
       The corosync libraries have header files which must be included in the developer's application.  Once the header file is included, the developer can reference the corosync interfaces.

       The corosync project recommends that distros place include files in /usr/include/corosync.

IPv6
       The corosync project supports both IPv4 and IPv6 network addresses.  When using knet as the transport each link should have the same IP family, but different links can have different families  (eg
       link 0 could be all IPv4, and link 1 all IPv6).  When using UDP/UDPU the single link should use the same family on all nodes.

       To configure a host for IPv6, use the ifconfig program to add interfaces: box20: ifconfig eth0 add fec0::1:a800:4ff:fe00:20/64 box30: ifconfig eth0 add fec0::1:a800:4ff:fe00:30/64

       If the /64 is not specified, a route for the IPv6 network will not be configured which will cause significant problems.  Make sure a route is available for IPv6 traffic.

ARCHITECTURE
       The corosync libraries are a thin IPC interface to the corosync executive.  The corosync executive implements the functionality of the corosync APIs for distributed computing.

       The corosync executive uses the Totem extended virtual synchrony protocol.  The advantage to the end user is excellent performance characteristics and a proven protocol with excellent reliability.
       This protocol connects the processors in a configuration together so they may communicate.

SECURITY
       The corosync executive optionally encrypts and signs all messages sent over the network. For more details see crypto_model, crypto_hash and crypto_cipher options in the corosync.conf(5).

       If membership messages can be captured by intruders, it is possible to execute a denial of service attack on the cluster.  In this scenario, the cluster is likely already compromised and a DoS at‐
       tack is the least of the administration's worries.

       The  security  in  corosync does not offer perfect forward secrecy because the keys are reused.  It may be possible for an intruder to determine the shared key by capturing packets in an automated
       fashion.  No such automated attack has been published as of yet.  In this scenario, the cluster is likely already compromised to allow the long-term capture of transmitted data.

       For security reasons, the corosync executive binary should NEVER be setuid or setgid in the filesystem.

BUGS
       None that are known.

SEE ALSO
       corosync.conf(5), corosync-keygen(8), corosync_quorumtool(8), corosync_cfgtool(8), corosync_cpgtool(8), corosync_cmaptool(8), cpg_overview(3), sam_overview(3)

corosync Man Page                                                                                2018-11-13                                                                            COROSYNC_OVERVIEW(7)
