COROSYNC-QNETD-TOOL(8)      System Manager's Manual     COROSYNC-QNETD-TOOL(8)

NAME
       corosync-qnetd-tool - corosync-qnetd control interface.

SYNOPSIS
       corosync-qnetd-tool       [-Hhlsv]      [-c      cluster_name]      [-p
       qnetd_ipc_socket_path]

DESCRIPTION
       corosync-qnetd-tool is a frontend to the internal  corosync-qnetd  IPC.
       Its main purpose is to show important information about the current in‐
       ternal state of corosync-qnetd.

OPTIONS
       -H     Properly shutdown the corosync-qnetd process

       -h     Display a short usage text

       -l     List all clients connected to the  corosync-qnetd  process.  The
              output is described in its own section below.

       -s     Display status of the corosync-qnetd process.

       -v     Display more verbose output for options -l and -s

       -c     Used  only with the -l option. By default, information about all
              clients from all clusters is displayed, with  this  option  it's
              possible  to  filter information from a single cluster given the
              cluster_name.

       -p     Path to the corosync-qnetd communication socket.

LIST COMMAND OUTPUT
       Cluster "Cluster":
           Algorithm:          Fifty-Fifty split (KAP Tie-breaker)
           Tie-breaker:        Node with lowest node ID
           Node ID 1:
               Client address:         ::ffff:127.0.0.1:52000
               HB interval:            8000ms
               Configured node list:   1, 2
               Ring ID:                1.a00000000021b40
               Membership node list:   1, 2
               TLS active:             Yes (client certificate verified)
               Vote:                   No change (ACK)
        ...

       The output contains a list of clusters. Each cluster  has  the  cluster
       common  options  Algorithm  (optionally  with Keep Active Partition Tie
       Breaker information) and Tie-breaker as configured in the corosync.conf
       file.  Information  about  nodes follows.  Client address is the IP ad‐
       dress and port of the client.  HB interval is  the  heartbeat  interval
       between  corosync-qnetd and corosync-qdevice client. This option can be
       configured in corosync.conf.  Configured node list is the list of nodes
       configured  in  corosync.conf.   Ring  ID  and Membership node list are
       self-explanatory.  TLS active describes if an  encrypted  transport  is
       used  between  server  and client.  Vote is last vote sent to corosync-
       qdevice client. The last ACK/NACK vote (if it exists) is  in  parenthe‐
       ses.

SEE ALSO
       corosync-qnetd(8) corosync-qdevice(8)

AUTHOR
       Jan Friesse

                                  2020-10-27            COROSYNC-QNETD-TOOL(8)
