CPTCONT(1)                       User commands                      CPTCONT(1)

NAME
       cptcont - create a continuous GMT colour palette table (cpt) file based
       on the colours of a non-continuous cpt file.

SYNOPSIS
       cptcont [-h] [-m] [-o file] [-p percent] [-v] [-V] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The cptcont program converts a (possibly) discontinuous colour palette
       in the input to a continuous palette in the output. This is achieved by
       replacing the endpoints of segments at which a discontinuity occurs by
       their mean colour.

       The program will read from stdin if a file is not specified as the
       final argument, and write to stdout if the -o option is not specified.

OPTIONS
       --backtrace-file path
           Specify a file to which to write a formatted backtrace. The file
           will only be created if there is a backtrace created, typically
           when an error occurs.

       --backtrace-format format
           Specify the format of the backtrace written to the files specified
           by --backtrace-file, one of plain, xml or json.

       -h, --help
           Brief help.

       -m, --midpoint
           Split each input segment into two output segments with the colour
           at the common point being the colour of the original segment. This
           gives a more faithful conversion of gradients with "corners", such
           as diverging gradients, albeit at the cost of larger files.

       -o, --output file
           Write the output to file, rather than stdout.

       -p, --partial percentage
           The endpoints are moved the specified pecentage towards the mean
           colour, so that a value of 100 (the default) moves the endpoints to
           the mean colour, 50 moves them half-way there, and so on.

           Negative values and values greater than 100 are permitted.

       -v, --verbose
           Verbose operation.

       -V, --version
           Version information.

EXAMPLE
       Create an almost-continuous table:

           cptcont -v -p 66 -o new.cpt old.cpt

AUTHOR
       J. J. Green

SEE ALSO
       GMT(1).

CPTUTILS                          8 July 2020                       CPTCONT(1)
