CPTHSV(1)                        User commands                       CPTHSV(1)

NAME
       cpthsv - modify hue, saturation and colour value of GMT colour palette
       tables.

SYNOPSIS
       cpthsv -T transform [-h] [-o file] [-v] [-V] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The cpthsv utility reads the RGB colour palette in the input, converts
       its colours to the HSV colour-space, modifies these values in some
       simple ways, then converts back to RGB colour space and outputs a cpt
       file. So cpthsv can (de)saturate, brighten, darken or hue-shift.

       The program will read from stdin if a file is not specified as the
       final argument, and write to stdout if the -o option is not specified.

       The hue value is taken to be between 0 and 360, while the saturation
       and value components are taken to be between 0 and 1,

OPTIONS
       --backtrace-file path
           Specify a file to which to write a formatted backtrace. The file
           will only be created if there is a backtrace created, typically
           when an error occurs.

       --backtrace-format format
           Specify the format of the backtrace written to the files specified
           by --backtrace-file, one of plain, xml or json.

       -h, --help
           Brief help.

       -o, --output file
           Write the output to file, rather than stdout.

       -T, --transform string
           Specify a transformation to perform. One of h, s or v followed by a
           number and optional operation. The effect of the number depends on
           the operation: one of x (multiply by number), % (scale by
           percentage) or +/- (add or subtract value). An RGB colour with
           saturation 0.5 would be transformed to one with saturation 0.55 by
           applying s1.1x or s110% or s0.05+. If the operator is not given
           then % is assumed.

           Transforms which take colours outside the HSV colour-space are
           permitted, the result is truncation (eg, increasing a saturation of
           0.8 with s0.3+ results in a saturation of 1.0). The exception is
           hue, which is taken modulo 360.

           Multiple transforms can be applied by separating transforms with
           commas. This is to be preferred over multiple calls to the program
           since the conversion between colour-spaces is necessarily lossy.
           Multiple transformations are applied in the order given in the
           argument.

       -v, --verbose
           Verbose operation.

       -V, --version
           Version information.

EXAMPLE
       Lighten by 10% and desaturate by 20%:

           cpthsv -v -T s80,v110 -o new.cpt old.cpt

AUTHOR
       J. J. Green

SEE ALSO
       GMT(1).

CPTUTILS                          8 July 2020                        CPTHSV(1)
