CRAZYWA(6)                                                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                          CRAZYWA(6)

NAME
       crazywa - xboard-compatible engine for chess and shogi variants with piece drops

SYNOPSIS
       crazywa

DESCRIPTION
       crazywa is a program that plays several shogi and chess variants with piece drops, on boards of sizes up to 11 x 11, and with maximally 32 piece types.  Currently it can play mini-shogi, Judkin's
       shogi, tori shogi, regular shogi, wa shogi and crazyhouse.  In the future it might play more shogi variants.

       CrazyWa uses the XBoard/WinBoard chess-engine protocol to communicate.  It thus can use XBoard as a graphical interface for the variants also supported by the latter.  For wa shogi the use of
       XBoard 4.9.1 is recommended

       See xboard(6) for instructions about how to use crazywa through xboard.  To start up quickly, you just need the command: xboard -fcp crazywa.  You can then use XBoard's New Variant dialog to
       select the variant you want to play.

       Normally XBoard will use western-style chess symbols to represent the pieces.  XBoard's board themes is configurable, though, and can use externally provided png or svg images for the pieces.
       Piece sets for traditional oriental pieces for shogi and various shogi variants are available.  Some of these make use of XBoard's capability to write unicode inscriptions on the piece images, to
       synthesize arbitrary kanji pieces 'on the fly' from just a few images of blank shogi tiles.  A 'mnemonic' piece theme of geometric shapes is also available.

AVAILABILITY
       At http://hgm.nubati.net/cgi-bin/gitweb.cgi the source code can be obtained.

SEE ALSO
       xboard(6)

       game rules: http://hgm.nubati.net/rules

       XBoard: http://hgm.nubati.net

STANDARDS
       WinBoard, xboard(6) interface ("Chess Engine Communication Protocol")

AUTHOR
       H.G.Muller <h.g.muller@hccnet.nl>.

       This manual page was generated with pod2man(1).

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-03-29                                                                                      CRAZYWA(6)
