CRIBBAGE(6)                    BSD Games Manual                    CRIBBAGE(6)

NAME
     cribbage — the card game cribbage

SYNOPSIS
     cribbage [-eqr]

DESCRIPTION
     cribbage plays the card game cribbage, with the program playing one hand
     and the user the other.  The program will initially ask the user if the
     rules of the game are needed – if so, it will print out the appropriate
     section from According to Hoyle with more(1).

     cribbage options include:

     -e      When the player makes a mistake scoring his hand or crib, provide
             an explanation of the correct score.  (This is especially useful
             for beginning players.)

     -q      Print a shorter form of all messages – this is only recommended
             for users who have played the game without specifying this op‐
             tion.

     -r      Instead of asking the player to cut the deck, the program will
             randomly cut the deck.

     cribbage first asks the player whether he wishes to play a short game (
     “once around”, to 61) or a long game ( “twice around”, to 121).  A re‐
     sponse of ‘s’ will result in a short game, any other response will play a
     long game.

     At the start of the first game, the program asks the player to cut the
     deck to determine who gets the first crib.  The user should respond with
     a number between 0 and 51, indicating how many cards down the deck is to
     be cut.  The player who cuts the lower ranked card gets the first crib.
     If more than one game is played, the loser of the previous game gets the
     first crib in the current game.

     For each hand, the program first prints the player's hand, whose crib it
     is, and then asks the player to discard two cards into the crib.  The
     cards are prompted for one per line, and are typed as explained below.

     After discarding, the program cuts the deck (if it is the player's crib)
     or asks the player to cut the deck (if it's its crib); in the latter
     case, the appropriate response is a number from 0 to 39 indicating how
     far down the remaining 40 cards are to be cut.

     After cutting the deck, play starts with the non-dealer (the person who
     doesn't have the crib) leading the first card.  Play continues, as per
     cribbage, until all cards are exhausted.  The program keeps track of the
     scoring of all points and the total of the cards on the table.

     After play, the hands are scored.  The program requests the player to
     score his hand (and the crib, if it is his) by printing out the appropri‐
     ate cards (and the cut card enclosed in brackets).  Play continues until
     one player reaches the game limit (61 or 121).

     A carriage return when a numeric input is expected is equivalent to typ‐
     ing the lowest legal value; when cutting the deck this is equivalent to
     choosing the top card.

     Cards are specified as rank followed by suit.  The ranks may be specified
     as one of: ‘a’, ‘2’, ‘3’, ‘4’, ‘5’, ‘6’, ‘7’, ‘8’, ‘9’, ‘t’, ‘j’, ‘q’,
     and ‘k’, or alternatively, one of: ‘ace’, ‘two’, ‘three’, ‘four’, ‘five’,
     ‘six’, ‘seven’, ‘eight’, ‘nine’, ‘ten’, ‘jack’, ‘queen’, and ‘king’.
     Suits may be specified as: ‘s’, ‘h’, ‘d’, and ‘c’, or alternatively as:
     ‘spades’, ‘hearts’, ‘diamonds’, and ‘clubs’.  A card may be specified as:
     “⟨rank⟩   ⟨suit⟩”, or: “⟨rank⟩ of ⟨suit⟩”.  If the single letter rank and
     suit designations are used, the space separating the suit and rank may be
     left out.  Also, if only one card of the desired rank is playable, typing
     the rank is sufficient.  For example, if your hand was “2H, 4D, 5C, 6H,
     JC, and KD” and it was desired to discard the king of diamonds, any of
     the following could be typed: ‘k’, ‘king’, ‘kd’, ‘k d’, ‘k of d’, ‘king
     d’, ‘king of d’, ‘k diamonds’, ‘k of diamonds’, ‘king diamonds’, ‘king of
     diamonds’.

FILES
     /usr/bin/cribbage
     /var/games//criblog
     /usr/share/bsd-games//cribbage.instr

AUTHORS
     Earl T. Cohen wrote the logic.  Ken Arnold added the screen oriented in‐
     terface.

BSD                              May 31, 1993                              BSD
