cssutil(1)                                                                                         CRM114                                                                                        cssutil(1)

  NAME
      cssutil - utility to measure and manipulate CRM114 statistics files.

  SYNOPSIS
      cssutil [.css file] [OPTIONS]

  WARNING
      This  man page is taken from an older CRM114 version.  It is provided as a convenience to Debian users and may not be up-to-date.  If you would like to update it, please send appropriate patches to
      the Debian bug tracking system.

  OPTIONS
      -h
         print basic help

      -b
         brief - print only a summary of the statistics of the .css file (otherwise, prints a full list of how many bins are in each counter state)

      -q
         quiet mode; no warning messages

      -r
         report then exit (no menu). The default if -r is not specified is to drop into a command-menu based system.

      -s
         if no css file found, create new one with this many buckets. Default is 1 million + 1 buckets

      -S
         same as -s, but round up to next 2^n + 1 boundary.

      -v
         print version and exit

      -D
         dump css file to stdout in the architecture-independent CSV format, suitable for reloading with -R in an architecture. (note that .css files are a hardware-architecture dependent format)

      -R
         create and restore css from the hardware-architecture independent CSV format file (reads from stdin if csv-file is not supplied.

  THE COMMAND MENU
      If -r is not supplied, a menu appears with the following options. Note that all of these operations are "in place" and surgical- there is NO undo functionality. Wise users will make a  backup  copy
      of all .css files before using cssutil to alter values.

      -Z
         zero all bins at or below a value. This is useful for deleting all small-count features from the .css statistics files leaving higher-count features untouched.

      -S
         subtract a constant from all bins - this rolls all features back a constant amount.

      -D
         divide all bins by a constant - this rolls features back linearly, rather than in scalar fashion.

      -R
         rescan - regenerate the statistics output that was initially printed.

      -P
         pack - re-slot features to optimize access time.

      -Q
         - gracefully exit, saving changes. (note that since these operations are in-place and surgical, there is no option to exit without saving changes.

  DESCRIPTION
      cssutil  is  a general utility to manipulate and measure the .css format statistics files used by CRM114's Markovian and OSB classifiers. The biggest uses are to check the available space remaining
      in a .css file, to selectively groom a .css file, and to port architecture-dependent .css files to and from an ASCII CSV format, which is architecture independent.  The cssutil program can be  used
      to create information-less .css files:

           cssutil -b -r spam.css
           cssutil -b -r nonspam.css

      . This creates the full-size files ./spam.css and ./nonspam.css, holding no information.  The cssutil program can be used check that the .css files are reasonable.  Invoke cssutil as:

          cssutil -b -r spam.css
          cssutil -b -r nonspam.css

      You should get back a report something like this:

           Sparse spectra file spam.css statistics:

           Total available buckets          :      1048576
           Total buckets in use             :       506987
           Total hashed datums in file      :      1605968
           Average datums per bucket        :         3.17
           Maximum length of overflow chain :           39
           Average length of overflow chain :         1.84
           Average packing density          :         0.48

      Note  that the packing density is 0.48; this means that this .css file is about half full of features. Once the packing density gets above about 0.9, you will notice that CRM114 will take longer to
      process text. The penalty is small below packing densities below about 0.95 and only about a factor of 2 at 0.97 .  Best is to keep it below .7 to .8.

  SHORTCOMINGS
      Note that cssutil as of version 20040816 is NOT capable of dealing with the CRM114 Winnow classifier's floating-point .cow files. Worse, cssutil is unaware of it's shortcomings, and will  try  any‐
      way. The only recourse is to be aware of this issue and not use cssutil on a Winnow classifier floating point .cow format file.

  HOMEPAGE AND REPORTING BUGS
      http://crm114.sourceforge.net/

  VERSION
      This manpage: $Id: cssutil.azm,v 1.4 2004/08/19 09:23:24 vanbaal Exp $ This manpage describes cssutil as shipped with crm114 version 20040816.BlameClockworkOrange.

  AUTHOR
      William S. Yerazunis. Manpage typesetting by Joost van Baal and Shalendra Chhabra

  COPYRIGHT
      Copyright  (C)  2001,  2002,  2003, 2004 William S. Yerazunis. This is free software, copyrighted under the FSF's GPL. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
      PURPOSE. See the file COPYING for more details.

  SEE ALSO
      cssmerge(1), cssdiff(1), crm(1)

  cssutil 20040816.BlameClockworkOrange-auto.3                                                    19 Aug 2004                                                                                      cssutil(1)
