cronosplit(1m)                                                                                                                                 cronosplit(1m)

NAME
       cronosplit - split log files into cronolog-compatible files

SYNOPSIS
       cronosplit --template=TEMPLATE [--print-invalid] [--help] [--version] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       cronosplit  is a simple program that reads lines from a set of input log files, which must be in Common Log Format or NCSA Combined/XLF/ELF Format and
       write each lines to an output files, the name of which is constructed using the template specified and timestamp from the the line.  The template uses
       the same format specifiers as the Unix date(1) command (which are the same as the standard C strftime library function).

Options
       cronosplit accepts the following options and arguments:

       --template=TEMPLATE
              specifies the template for the output log files (using the format specifiers described below).

       --print-invalid
              print invalid log file entries to the standard error stream.

       --utime
              update modification time of output file according to last parsed log entry.

       --verbose
              print additional status messages to the standard error stream.

       --debug
              print debug messages to the standard error stream.

       --help print a help message and then exit.

       --version
              print version information and exit.

Template format
       Each character in the template represents a character in the expanded filename, except for date and time format  specifiers,  which  are  replaced  by
       their expansion.  Format specifiers consist of a `%' followed by one of the following characters:

       %      a literal % character

       n      a new-line character

       t      a horizontal tab character

       Time fields:

       H      hour (00..23)

       I      hour (01..12)

       p      the locale's AM or PM indicator

       M      minute (00..59)

       S      second (00..61, which allows for leap seconds)

       X      the locale's time representation (e.g.: "15:12:47")

       Z      time zone (e.g. GMT), or nothing if the time zone cannot be determined

       Date fields:

       a      the locale's abbreviated weekday name (e.g.: Sun..Sat)

       A      the locale's full weekday name (e.g.: Sunday .. Saturday)

       b      the locale's abbreviated month name (e.g.: Jan .. Dec)

       B      the locale's full month name, (e.g.: January .. December)

       c      the locale's date and time (e.g.: "Sun Dec 15 14:12:47 GMT 1996")

       d      day of month (01 .. 31)

       j      day of year (001 .. 366)

       m      month (01 .. 12)

       U      week of the year with Sunday as first day of week (00..53, where week 1 is the week containing the first Sunday of the year)

       W      week of the year with Monday as first day of week (00..53, where week 1 is the week containing the first Monday of the year)

       w      day of week (0 .. 6, where 0 corresponds to Sunday)

       x      locale's date representation (e.g. today in Britain: "12/04/96")

       y      year without the century (00 .. 99)

       Y      year with the century (1970 .. 2038)

       Other specifiers may be available depending on the C library's implementation of the strftime function.

SEE ALSO
       apache(1m) cronolog(1m) date(1) strftime(3) environ(5)

       More information and the latest version of cronolog and cronosplit can be obtained from

               http://www.ford-mason.co.uk/resources/cronolog/

       If you have any suggestions, bug reports, fixes, or enhancements, please mail them to the author.

   More about Apache
       Documentation for the Apache http server is available from

               http://www.apache.org

AUTHOR
       Andrew Ford <A.Ford@ford-mason.co.uk>

       cronosplit is based on a script called splitlog by Roy Fielding, which is part of the wwwstat package.

                                                                          March 1998                                                           cronosplit(1m)
