CFSNDSERV(6)                                                                                   cfsndserv                                                                                  CFSNDSERV(6)

NAME
       cfsndserv - crossfire client sound server

DESCRIPTION
       getzone adjusts and mixes sounds before playing them

USAGE
       getzone none - started automatically by crossfire client

CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
       ~/.crossfire/sndconfig can contain the following options:

       stereo
         1 means stereo sound, 0 - mono

       bits
         bitrate of generated sound - 8 or 16

       signed
         if we should sent signed data to the soundcard. 1 means yes.

       frequency
         speed of playing data. This should be 11025, or sound pitch will change

       buffers
         how many buffers to allocate

       buflen
         how big the buffers should be. buffers*buflen shouldn't be smaller than the longest sound to be played.

       simultaneously
         home many sound can be played at the same time. When this setting is bigger, each sound volume will decrease.

HOW DOES IT WORK?
       The sound server gets information about sounds to be played on standard input.

       The  information is a line: <sound number> <sound type> <relative x> <relative y> All those numbers are hex.  The file ~/.crossfire/sounds contains description of sound numbers and types. For
       example:

       3 0 5 0

       Means that normal sound SOUND_FUMBLE spell should be played as it's source was5 units to the right of player.

       Sounds are mixed in special buffers, which are in fact one buffer, which should be big enough for the biggest sound to be played.

       The buffers, if contain anything, are sent one by one to the sound device. Each buffer is cleaned after playing.

       Sounds data is multiplied by some ratio (<1) evaluated from it's position and volume and added to the buffers, starting from the next after the one being played.

       So bigger buffer means bigger delay, before th sound is actually played, but the smaller buffer is, the bigger is possibility, we won't succeed filling the next buffer, before last is played.

SEE ALSO
       crossfire(1)

       http://crossfire.real-time.com

AUTHOR
        Jaakko Niemi put this page together for Debian packages by cutting
        and pasting from README file of crossfire-client.

3rd Berkeley Distribution                                                                     2002-02-23                                                                                  CFSNDSERV(6)
