cryptobone(8)                                                    cryptobone(8)

NAME
       cryptobone - Secure Communication Under Your Control

SYNOPSIS
       /usr/bin/cryptobone

DESCRIPTION
       cryptobone  is the graphical user interface for a secure messaging sys‐
       tem that makes sure a user's email is always encrypted without  burden‐
       ing  the  user with complex message key management. Based on a separate
       daemon, both ease-of-use and security are assured by a  novel  approach
       to encryption key management.

       While the message keys are secured by a daemon running on the Linux ma‐
       chine, additional protection can be achieved by using an  external  de‐
       vice  for  storing the encryption keys. This external device can be an‐
       other Linux computer dedicated to this task or a Beagle Bone or a Rasp‐
       berry Pi.

       The  Crypto  Bone secure messaging system automatically encrypts a mes‐
       sage with a strong message key, stored in the cryptobone daemon's  data
       base  for secrets.  Except for an initial registration of a message key
       for a recipient, the user does not need to remember any of  these  mes‐
       sage  keys  being  in use, as the system updates keys when messages are
       sent out or received.

       While only strongly encrypted messages are sent out, incoming  messages
       that cannot be decrypted with registered message keys are discarded.

       In  order  to  transfer  encrypted messages the system has to be set up
       with a working email account used for this purpose only.

OPTIONS
       none

FILES
       /usr/bin/cryptobone

SEE ALSO
       libclr(3), cryptoboned(8)

AUTHORS
       cryptobone has been written by Ralf Senderek <innovation@senderek.ie>.
       The core cryptographic library libclr.so which is used by the cryptobone daemon
       has been written by Peter Gutmann <pgut001@cs.auckland.ac.nz>.

BUGS
       Of course there aren't bugs, but if you find any, please sent them to innovation@senderek.ie.

Ralf Senderek                                                    cryptobone(8)
