CSTOCS(1p)                                                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                          CSTOCS(1p)

NAME
       cstocs -- charset encoding convertor for the Czech and Slovak languages.

FORMAT
               cstocs [options] src_encoding dst_encoding [files ...]

SYNOPSIS
               cstocs il2 ascii < file | less
               cstocs -i utf8 il2 file1 file2 file3
               cstocs --help

DESCRIPTION
       Cstocs is a simple conversion utility to change charset encoding of a text. It reads either specified files or (if none specified) the standard input, assumes that the input is encoded in
       "src_encoding" and ties to reencode it into "dst_encoding". The result is written to the standard output.

       Run "cstocs" without parameters to get short help and list of available encodings.

       Characters that are not defined in "src_encoding" are passed to the output unchanged.

       If source text contains character, that is defined in "src_encoding" but not in "dst_encoding", it can be handled several ways. For example, character "e with caron" (symbol ecaron), and "d with
       caron" (symbol dcaron)  are included in the iso-8859-2 encoding, but not in the iso-8859-1. If you will do reencoding of 8859-2 text to 8859-1, you may want to do one of the following actions:

       1. Keep it the same, option "--nofillstring".

       2. Do not produce any output instead of "ecaron" symbol, option "--null".

       3. Substitute some string (possibly a space) instead of both ecaron and dcaron, options "--fillstring".

       4. Substitute  a  letter "d" instead of dcaron, and "e" instead of ecaron.  It is even possible to substitute string instead of symbol, so you can replace the "AE" Latin character with string "AE"
          (letter "A", and letter "E").  Or you can replace a "plusminus sign" with a string "+/-".  These substitutions are described in the accent file.

OPTIONS
       -i, -i.ext, --inplace.ext
           Files specified will be converted in-place, using Perl "-i" facility.  Optionaly, an extension for backup copies may be specified after dot.  This  parameter  has  to  be  the  first  one,  if
           specified.

       --dir directory
           Encoding  files are taken from directory instead of the default, which is Cz/Cstocs/enc in the Perl lib tree. The location of encoding files can also be changed using the CSTOCSDIR environment
           variable, but the --dir option has the highest priority.

       --fillstring string
           If source text contains character, that is defined in the "src_encoding" but not in the "dst_encoding" nor in the accent file (or accent file is not used), it is  replaced  by  "string".   The
           default is single space.

       --nofillstring
           Disable changes of characters that would otherwise have fillstring applied. This is different from "--null" because that cancels that character out.

       --null
           Completely equivalent to --fillstring "".

       --nochange or --noaccent
           Do not use the accent file at all.

       --onebyone
           Use  only  those rules from the accent file, which rewrite one character to one character. If this option is specified, character "ecaron" will be rewritten to "e", but "AE" character will not
           be rewritten to "AE" string.

       --onebymore
           Use all rules from accent file. This is the default option.

SEE ALSO
       Cz::Cstocs(3).

AUTHOR
       Jan "Yenya" Kasprzak has done the original Un*x implementation.

       Jan Pazdziora created the Perl module version.

perl v5.28.1                                                                                     2019-10-05                                                                                      CSTOCS(1p)
