CT2-MAKE-MOVIE(1)                                                                            User Commands                                                                           CT2-MAKE-MOVIE(1)

NAME
       ct2-make-movie - manual page for ct2-make-movie

SYNOPSIS
       ct2-make-movie [options] file.ct2 arguments...

DESCRIPTION
       Automates the creation of movies from a single ctioga2 command file.

       Running  ct2-make-movie  plot.ct2  file1.dat  file2.dat  file3.dat  ...   runs  ctioga2  repeatedly  with  the value of the variable $(arg) taking the arguments given on the command-line, ie.
       file1.dat, then file2.dat, and so on.

       It is also possible to have ct2-make-movie generate its arguments itself: ct2-make-movie plot.ct2 0..10:101 will have $(arg) going from 0 to 10 through 101 steps.

       In each case, the variable $(index) is set to the current number of the frame being drawn, starting from 0. For instance, in the above example, it would range from 0 to 100.

       The PDF files produced by ctioga2 are converted by ImageMagick's convert and fed to a ffmpeg encoding pipe.

OPTIONS
       -t, --target FILE
              Target video file. Defaults to the ctioga2 file name given, with the suffix .ct2 replaced by .avi.

       --dir DIR
              Temporary directory for storage

       --version
              Prints the version of ct2-make-movie.

       -p, --[no-]pdftoppm
              Using pdftoppm to rasterize the PDF file rather than convert can lead to very significant speed improvements, depending on your version of gs.  Using this option  enables  the  use  of
              pdftoppm.  convert remains necessary for the processing, though.

       --page-size SIZE
              All page-size instructions in the ctioga2 command file are ignored. Using this option allow you to set the target page size (in TeX dimensions).

       --resolution RES
              Set target resolution (overridden to some extent by page-size)

       --[no-]store
              When  on (by default), ct2-make-movie gives a different name to all the generated PDF files, which can be handy to see what has happened, but can take up quite a lot of disk space too.
              When this option is disabled, the same PDF file is rewritten over and over again.

       -b, --bitrate RATE
              Bitrate (indicative). Passed directly to ffmpeg.

       --codec CODEC
              Target codec.

       --ffmpeg-args ARGS
              Extra ffmpeg args.

SEE ALSO
       convert(1), pdftoppm(1), ffmpeg(1), ctioga2(1)

ct2-make-movie 0.0                                                                           February 2014                                                                           CT2-MAKE-MOVIE(1)
