CUE2TOC(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                CUE2TOC(1)

NAME
       cue2toc - convert CUE to TOC format

SYNOPSIS
       cue2toc [-dhqv] [-o tocfile] [cuefile]

DESCRIPTION
       Cue2toc  converts  cuefile  from  CUE  to TOC format and writes the result to tocfile.  If either cuefile or tocfile is omitted or a single dash "-" cue2toc reads from standard input and writes to
       standard ouput respectively.

       CUE files are text files describing the layout of a CD-Rom and typically carry the extension ".cue".

       Cdrdao is a CD-burning application which has its own native TOC format to describe the disc layout. Although cdrdao has direct support for reading CUE files, it is currently limited to data tracks
       only. So cue2toc's main usefulness lies in converting CUE files containing audio tracks.

       CUE files for audio discs often come with data files in compressed audio formats like MP3 or Ogg Vorbis. To burn such a disc with cdrdao these files must  be  converted  to  WAVE  or  raw  format.
       Cue2toc can do this automatically if configured properly (see section CONFIGURATION below for more information).

       Cue2toc normally displays warning messages for unsupported commands and constructs as well as for each data file converted. The -q option disables these messages.

OPTIONS
       -d     print debugging information

       -h     print a short help message

       -o tocfile
              write result to tocfile instead of standard ouput

       -q     quiet mode; do not print warnings

       -v     display version information

CUE FORMAT
       What follows is a description of the CUE format expected by cue2toc.  For information about the TOC format please consult the cdrdao(1) manual page.

       CUE files consist of commands and their arguments which must be separated from each other by any number of whitespace characters.  Space, horizontal tabulator, newline and carriage return are rec‐
       ognized  as  whitespace  characters except inside strings surrounded by double quotes, where they are part of the string. Commands are not case sensitive. CD-Text data can be at most 80 characters
       per item.

       Timecode values are accepted in the forms "X:X:X", "X:X" and "X" where each "X" must consist of at most two digits and may be zero padded to the left. They are interpreted as  "M:S:F",  "S:F"  and
       "F"  respectively where "M" means "minutes" and must be in the range 0 <= M <= 99, "S" means "seconds" and must be in the range 0 <= S <= 59, and "F" means "frames" and must be in the range 0 <= F
       <= 74.

       CUE files are logically divided into a global section and one to 99 track sections. Inside these sections the following commands are allowed:

   Global Section
       REM anything_to_newline
       CATALOG string
       CDTEXTFILE string
       TITLE string
       PERFORMER string
       SONGWRITER string
       FILE string BINARY|MOTOROLA|AIFF|WAVE|MP3

       REM    Optional.  Introduces a comment. Anything from there on up to and including the next newline character is ignored. Comments can appear anywhere in the file but not between a command and its
              arguments.

       CATALOG
              Optional.  The Media Catalog Number of the disc. Must be exactly 13 characters.

       CDTEXTFILE
              Optional.  Specifies an external file containing CD-Text data. Ignored.

       TITLE  Optional.  The CD-Text title of the disc.

       PERFORMER
              Optional.  The CD-Text performer of the disc.

       SONGWRITER
              Optional.  The CD-Text songwriter of the disc.

       FILE   Required.  The name and type of the file to be used for all following tracks.  The string contains the name of the file followed by one of BINARY, MOTOROLA, AIFF, WAVE or MP3.   As  far  as
              cue2toc  is  concerned  the  type of the file is effectively ignored.  Nonetheless MOTOROLA, AIFF and MP3 cause printing of a warning message since these file types can not be used directly
              with cdrdao.

       The first appearance of a TRACK command causes leaving of the global section and entering the track section.

   Track Section
       TRACK number mode
       REM anything_to_newline
       FLAGS [DCP] [4CH] [PRE] [SCMS]
       ISRC string
       TITLE string
       PERFORMER string
       SONGWRITER string
       PREGAP timecode
       INDEX number timecode
       POSTGAP timecode
       FILE string BINARY|MOTOROLA|AIFF|WAVE|MP3

       TRACK  Required.  Starts a new track definition. The number is ignored. The mode must be one of AUDIO, MODE1/2048, MODE1/2352, MODE2/2336 or MODE2/2352.

       FLAGS  Optional.  Defines the flags for this track. Must be followed by one or more of the following commands: DCP (digital copy permitted), 4CH (four channel audio),  PRE  (pre-emphasis  enabled)
              and SCMS (serial copy management system).  SCMS is ignored because there is no corresponding option in the TOC format.

       ISRC   Optional.  The International Standard Recording Code for this track. Must be exactly 12 characters long.

       TITLE  Optional.  The CD-Text title of this track.

       PERFORMER
              Optional.  The CD-Text performer of this track.

       SONWRITER
              Optional.  The CD-Text songwriter of this track.

       PREGAP Optional.  The length of the track pregap to be filled with zero data.  Mutually exclusive with INDEX 0.

       POSTGAP
              Optional.  The length of the track postgap to be filled with zero data.

       INDEX  Optional.   The  number  must  be  in the range 0 <= number <= 99. Index number 1 specifies the start of the track. Index number 0 is the start of the track pregap filled with data from the
              file, i.e. the difference between index 0 and index 1 is the length of the pregap. Index 0 is mutually exclusive with PREGAP.  Index numbers greater than 1 specify subindexes for this track
              and must be sequential.

       FILE   Optional in track section. The syntax is the same as described above and if it appears inside a track specification it takes effect on the next TRACK command.

CONFIGURATION
       Cue2toc can be configured by specifying options in the file ~/.cue2tocrc. The syntax of this file and allowed configuration options follow.

       Comments are introduced by the hash character '#' and extend to the end of the line. Configuration options take the form

       OPTION = value

       The value must be quoted if it contains whitespace characters.  To include a double quote character in a quoted string, precede it with a backslash. Option values can either be of boolean type  or
       string  type.  For boolean types any one of "yes", "y", "true" or "1" means true and anything else means false. The "default value" in the descriptions of the individual options below is the value
       assumed by cue2toc in the absence of the option from the configuration file.

       CONVERTER = ext_from ext_to command
              This option takes three string arguments and specifies a converter for files with the extension ext_from. They are converted by the given command and the extension is replaced  with  ext_to
              in the TOC file. When the command is run the environment will contain the two variables C2T_FROM and C2T_TO which contain the original and new file name respectively. For example

              CONVERTER = .mp3 .wav
                   "lame --decode \"$C2T_FROM\" \"$C2T_TO\""

              will  convert  all  MP3 files to WAVE format using lame. It is a good idea to quote the varibles $C2T_FROM and $C2T_TO because they could contain whitespace or other funny characters with a
              special meaning to the shell.

              This option can be specified multiple times and each file is checked against the list of converters to see if it matches any of them. If multiple converters match  a  given  file  only  the
              first match is used.

              If a file with the name that results from replacing ext_from with ext_to already exists, the conversion command will not be executed.

              This option has no default value.

       CONVERT = boolean
              This  option  enables  or  disables  the conversion of data files as described above for the CONVERTER option.  If this option is false, no conversion will take place.  The default value is
              "yes".

       QUIET = boolean
              If this option is true it has the same effect as if cue2toc was invoked with the -q command line option. The default value is "no".

       CDTEXT = boolean
              This option enables or disables the writing of CD-Text data to the TOC file if it is present in the CUE file.  The default value is "yes".

LIMITATIONS
       The command CDTEXTFILE and the flag SCMS have no equivalent in the TOC format and are ignored.

       CUE files containing data tracks which specify a starting time greater than zero cannot be converted by cue2toc because the TOC format does not provide a way to specify a starting time at all  for
       data tracks. However if the CUE file does not contain any audio tracks you can try to use the CUE file directly with cdrdao.

FILES
       ~/.cue2tocrc
              The configuration file. The format of this file is described in the section CONFIGURATION above.

SEE ALSO
       cdrdao(1), lame(1)

BUGS
       Since  cue2toc's  definition of the CUE format is entirely based on a number of different CUE files the author came across there is a very high probability that it will not work correctly with all
       the other CUE files you might encounter. If this is the case for you please send the problematic CUE file along with the version number of cue2toc to <dermatsch@gmx.de>.

AUTHOR
       Matthias Czapla <dermatsch@gmx.de>

                                                                                                                                                                                                 CUE2TOC(1)
