cultivation(6)                                                                                     Games                                                                                     cultivation(6)

NAME
       cultivation - game about the interactions within a gardening community

SYNOPSIS
       cultivation

DESCRIPTION
       Cultivation is a video game written by Jason Rohrer about a community of gardeners growing food for themselves in a shared space.

       Cultivation  is  quite different from most other games. It is a social simulation, and the primary form of conflict is over land and plant resources---there is no shooting, but there are plenty of
       angry looks. It is also an evolution simulation. Within the world of Cultivation, you can explore a virtually infinite spectrum of different plant and gardener varieties.

       All of the graphics, sounds, melodies,and other content in Cultivation are 100% procedurally generated at playtime. In other words, there are no hand-painted texture  maps---instead,  each  object
       has a uniquely "grown" appearance. Every time you play, Cultivation generates fresh visuals, music, and behaviors.

       Cultivation is certainly an unusual game, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's good. From experience, some people absolutely love it, while others absolutely hate it. It's intended to be an "art
       game," after all, and mixed reactions go with that territory.

       When two sides are fighting, they often ruin the commons for everyone. The game is a metaphor about that kind of situation. Too much fighting destroys the island for everyone.

USAGE
       Cultivation explores the social interactions within a gardening community. You lead one family of gardeners, starting with a single individual, and wise choices can keep your genetic line from ex‐
       tinction. While breeding plants, eating, and mating, your actions impact your neighbors, and the social balance sways between conflict and compromise.

       Cultivation  features  dynamic  graphics  that  are  procedurally-generated using genetic representations and cross-breeding. In other words, game objects are "grown" in real-time instead of being
       hand-painted or hard-coded. Each plant and gardener in the game is unique in terms of both its appearance and behavior. The game includes an extensive in-game tutorial.

       In Cultivation, the game system teeters on the verge of uncontrolled conflict, and the player can make choices within this system that affect the balance. Perhaps it is impossible to win the  game
       by acting only out of self-interest, but likewise, it may be impossible to win acting only out of altruism (I say "perhaps" here because, even as the designer of the system, I have only explored a
       tiny fraction of the game's possible permutations). Players can directly see the results of the choices that they make.

       In  the  initial  release of Cultivation, neighbors would respond to encroachment with both counter-encroachment (claiming some of your plants as their own) and social scorn (refusing to mate with
       you). With only these mechanics in place, fighting just didn't feel serious enough---a fight could continue indefinitely without any real consequences, since after two plots overlapped completely,
       no further revenge was possible for either side. I had to think of a more serious act to crown the peak of an escalating fight. Poisoning, which is now a key  mechanic  in  Cultivation,  fit  per‐
       fectly. This mechanic allows an angry neighbor to poison a plant. Poison not only kills the target plant, but it also renders the ground around the plant forever unusable.

SEE ALSO
       You can find more information at http://cultivation.sourceforge.net/

                                                                                                 June 2007                                                                                   cultivation(6)
