CVC4(1)                                                                  User Manuals                                                                 CVC4(1)

NAME
       cvc4, pcvc4 - an automated theorem prover

SYNOPSIS
       cvc4 [ options ] [ file ]

       pcvc4 [ options ] [ file ]

DESCRIPTION
       cvc4  is  an  automated theorem prover for first-order formulas with respect to background theories of interest.  pcvc4 is CVC4's "portfolio" variant,
       which is capable of running multiple CVC4 instances in parallel, configured differently.

       With file , commands are read from file and executed.  CVC4 supports the SMT-LIB (versions 1.2 and 2.0) input format, as well as its own native  “pre‐
       sentation language” (see cvc4(5) ), which is similar in many respects to CVC3's presentation language, but not identical.

       If  file  is  unspecified,  standard input is read (and the CVC4 presentation language is assumed).  If file is unspecified and CVC4 is connected to a
       terminal, interactive mode is assumed.

COMMON OPTIONS
       Each option marked with [*] has a --no-OPTIONNAME variant, which reverses the sense of the option.

              $

              $

       Each option marked with [*] has a --no-OPTIONNAME variant, which reverses the sense of the option.

DIAGNOSTICS
       CVC4 reports all syntactic and semantic errors on standard error.

HISTORY
       The CVC4 effort is the culmination of fifteen years of theorem proving research, starting with the Stanford Validity Checker (SVC) in 1996.

       SVC's successor, the Cooperating Validity Checker (CVC), had a more optimized internal design, produced proofs, used the Chaff SAT  solver,  and  fea‐
       tured a number of usability enhancements.  Its name comes from the cooperative nature of decision procedures in Nelson-Oppen theory combination, which
       share amongst each other equalities between shared terms.

       CVC  Lite,  first made available in 2003, was a rewrite of CVC that attempted to make CVC more flexible (hence the “lite”) while extending the feature
       set: CVCLite supported quantifiers where its predecessors did not.  CVC3 was a major overhaul of portions of CVC Lite: it added better decision proce‐
       dure implementations, added support for using MiniSat in the core, and had generally better performance.

       CVC4 is the new version, the fifth generation of this validity checker line that is now celebrating fifteen years of heritage.  It represents  a  com‐
       plete re-evaluation of the core architecture to be both performant and to serve as a cutting-edge research vehicle for the next several years.  Rather
       than taking CVC3 and redesigning problem parts, we've taken a clean-room approach, starting from scratch.  Before using any designs from CVC3, we have
       thoroughly scrutinized, vetted, and updated them.  Many parts of CVC4 bear only a superficial resemblance, if any, to their correspondent in CVC3.

       However,  CVC4 is fundamentally similar to CVC3 and many other modern SMT solvers: it is a DPLL( T ) solver, with a SAT solver at its core and a dele‐
       gation path to different decision procedure implementations, each in charge of solving formulas in some background theory.

       The re-evaluation and ground-up rewrite was necessitated, we felt, by the performance characteristics of CVC3.  CVC3 has  many  useful  features,  but
       some  core  aspects  of the design led to high memory use, and the use of heavyweight computation (where more nimble engineering approaches could suf‐
       fice) makes CVC3 a much slower prover than other tools.  As these designs are central to CVC3, a new version was preferable to  a  selective  re-engi‐
       neering, which would have ballooned in short order.

VERSION
       This manual page refers to CVC4 version CVC4_RELEASE_STRING.

BUGS
       An issue tracker for the CVC4 project is maintained at https://github.com/CVC4/CVC4/issues.

AUTHORS
       CVC4  is  developed  by  a team of researchers at Stanford University and the University of Iowa.  See the AUTHORS file in the distribution for a full
       list of contributors.

SEE ALSO
       libcvc4(3), libcvc4parser(3)

       Additionally, the CVC4 wiki contains useful  information  about  the  design  and  internals  of  CVC4.   It  is  maintained  at  http://cvc4.cs.stan‐
       ford.edu/wiki/.

CVC4 release CVC4_RELEASE_STRING                                          2025-10-27                                                                  CVC4(1)
