cverules(1)                     cverules Manual                    cverules(1)

NAME
       cverules  - Generate version matching rules for installed software on a
       Linux / Unix distribution

SYNOPSIS
       cverules -r

DESCRIPTION
       The cverules script will scan the installed  distribution  packages  on
       your  system and attempt to generate version matching rules that can be
       used by cvechecker.

       The script should be used by people interested in contributing  to  the
       cvechecker' success.

USAGE
   COMMAND USAGE
       The  command  requires a single option, -r. An example usage pattern is
       like so:

       ~$ cverules -r > output.txt

       The generated output.txt file can then be submitted to  the  cvechecker
       project, allowing it to improve the versions.dat.

   USABILITY
       The user should understand that this script attempts to generate match‐
       es, but doesn't guarantee that each and every installed software is de‐
       tected.

       First  of  all,  if a package is already matched by existing rules, the
       rest of the package' content isn't scanned anymore. This is because the
       tool  wants  to  identify software and versions - once one has been de‐
       tected, further detection is less useful and very resource consuming.

       Second, if a package isn't detected properly, the script  will  see  if
       the  version  based on the distributions' package version can be found.
       If it can't, then it cannot identify the version properly  and  ignores
       the package.

       Third,  if the script does find a match for the version, it tries out a
       few regular expressions (which have a high probability  rate  to  match
       the  version)  but has no intelligence to optimize the expressions.  If
       the tried expressions fail, the script will ignore the package.

AUTHOR
       cverules is part of the cvechecker tool. cverules was written  by  Sven
       Vermeulen <sven.vermeulen@siphos.be>.

November 25, 2010               1 December 2010                    cverules(1)
