cvsd.conf(5)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              cvsd.conf(5)

NAME
       cvsd.conf - configuration file for cvsd.

DESCRIPTION
       The file cvsd.conf contains the configuration information for running ‘cvsd’ (see cvsd(8) ).  The file contains options, one on each line, specifying the workings of cvsd.

OPTIONS
       RootJail path
              This  specifies  the  location  of  the  chroot jail cvs should be run in.  This directory should be initialized with the cvsd-buildroot script so it contains all the proper directories and
              binaries.  If this option is not present in the configuration file or a value of ‘none’ (without quotes) is specified cvsd will run in the normal file system root.

       Uid uid
              This specifies which user id cvs should be run as.  This can be a numerical id or a symbolic value.  If no uid is specified cvsd will run under the uid it is started with.

       Gid gid
              This specifies which group id cvs should be run as.  This can be a numerical id or a symbolic value.  If no gid is specified cvsd will run under the gid it is started with.

       CvsCommand path
              This should be set to the location where the cvs command is located.  Note that if you set up a RootJail this is relative to that directory, but should still start with a ‘/’.   If  you  do
              not define this a default of ‘/bin/cvs’ will be used if a chroot jail has been configured and otherwise it will be set ‘/usr/bin/cvs’.

       CvsArgs arg...
              Additional  arguments  to  be passed to the cvs command, in addition to the default ones.  You can pass the -R option to put cvs in read-only mode.  Note that not all options can be used in
              pserver mode and error messages are not always very friendly.

       Nice num
              This specifies the nice value (on most systems ranging from -20 to 20) where the smaller the number (more negative) the higher the priority.  If no value is specified the nice level of  the
              program will not be altered.

       Umask mask
              This specifies a umask used by the cvs pserver when creating files.  Specify as an octal value.  If no value is specified the default umask of 027 will be used.

       Limit resource value
              Limits use of a certain resource to the cvs process.  Note that resource limits will be set on the executed cvs command and not for the daemon.  Resource may be one of:
              coredumpsize
                     maixmum filesize of a coredump
              cputime
                     maximum amount of seconds cputime consumed
              datasize
                     maximum size of program's data segment
              filesize
                     maximum size of files created
              memorylocked
                     maximum amount of locked memory
              openfiles
                     maximum number of open files (file descriptors)
              maxproc
                     maximam number of processes (per user? max. children?)
              memoryuse
                     maximum size of resident memory
              stacksize
                     maximum stack size
              virtmem
                     maximum amount of virtual memory allocated
              pthreads
                     number of threads that the process may create
              Note  that not all systems may support all resources specified here.  If no limits are defined no extra limits will be enforced.  If the system already specified limits for processes it may
              not be possible to broaden the limits.
              A value (resource limit) that is a size can be specified with a suffix of ‘b’ (bytes), ‘k’ (1024 bytes) or ‘m’ (1024*1024 bytes), where ‘k’ is default.
              Plain number values can also have the ‘k’ and ‘m’ suffixes, but the default is just the plain number.
              Time values can be formatted as ‘mm:ss’ or have a ‘m’ or ‘s’ suffix where ‘s’ is default.

       PidFile file
              This specifies the location the process id of the daemon is written.  If no PidFile is specified the pid will not be written.  /var/run/cvsd.pid is a good location for a pidfile.

       Listen address port
              This options specifies which addresses and ports cvsd should listen on for connections.  The address value can be ‘*’ (for binding all addresses) or a symbolic (host name), dotted  quad  or
              ipv6  address.  The port value can be a numeric port number or a well known service (‘cvspserver’).  This option can be supplied multiple times.  The address and port fields can be combined
              in the usual ways by separating them with a ‘:’ or a ‘.’, optionally surrounding the address part by square brackets (‘[’ and ‘]’).
              Some examples:
                  # listen on all interfaces and all protocols on port 2401
                  Listen * 2401
                  # listen on IPv6 port 100
                  Listen :: 100
                  # listen on localhost
                  Listen localhost cvspserver
                  # listen on an ipv6 address
                  Listen [fe80::2a0:d2ff:fea5:e9f5]:2401

       MaxConnections num
              This specifies the maximum number of connections that can be handled simultaneously.  When the value 0 (the default) is supplied no limit is used.

       Log scheme/file logvelel
              This option specifies the way logging is done.  As first argument either none, syslog or a file name beginning with a ‘/’ may be specified.  The second argument is  optional  and  specifies
              the  loglevel.   The  loglevel  may  be  one  of: crit, error, warning, notice, info (default) or debug.  All messages with the specified loglevel and higher are logged.  This option can be
              supplied multiple times.  If this option is omitted syslog info is assumed.

       Repos path
              This option specifies which repositories can be used.  The value is passed as a --allow-root=path parameter to cvs.  The path should be relative to the specified RootJail and  should  start
              with a ‘/’.  This option can be supplied multiple times, but should be specified at least once.

FILES
       /etc/cvsd/cvsd.conf - default location for the configuration file
       /var/run/cvsd.pid (or other location) - the file where the process id is saved

SEE ALSO
       cvsd(8)

AUTHOR
       Arthur de Jong <arthur@arthurdejong.org>.

Version 1.0.25                                                                                    Nov 2024                                                                                     cvsd.conf(5)
