cyclades-devices(5)                                                                                                                                                                     cyclades-devices(5)

NAME
       cyclades-devices - tables for driving cyclades-serial-client

DESCRIPTION
       The  cyclades-devices  file supplies all mapping between Unix device files (/dev/*) and the addresses of serial ports of Cyclades Terminal Servers. It contains one entry for each serial port, with
       the following format:

       device:rastype:rasname:physport:type:options

       Note: A # character at beginning of line indicates a comment

       The entry fields are:

       devname
              - A full pathname of the file that will be associated to the serial port. It must start with  a "/dev/" preffix.  Two naming schemes may be used here: - devname does not exist, and will  be
              linked  to  a free pseudo-tty. This is the default behavior of cyclades-ser-cli.  - devname is the name of a valid slave pseudo-tty.  In this case, the ´-t 1´ option must be assigned in op‐
              tions field.  (Note: this option is not supported by this release).

       rastype
              - Terminal Server type: - prts, for Cyclades Pr302X/TS Terminal Servers.  - path, for Cyclades PathRAS Terminal Server.

       rasname
              - Host Name or IP Address of the Terminal Server where the serial port resides.

       physport
              - Number of physical port in the Terminal Server. If ´physport´ is  assigned to zero, ´rasname´ will be treated as the IP address associated with this port, in a IP-based addressing scheme.

       type   - Server type that will be contacted to handle the serial port: - rtelnet, for Remote Telnet Server - socket, for Socket Server

       options
              - Per-port specific options, passed to cyclades-ser-cli program.

EXAMPLES
       1. Device on a PR3020/TS Terminal Server pr3k Port 1, accessed through /dev/ctty01 device file name, using telnet protocol (remote telnet server)

       /dev/ctty01:prts:pr3k:1:rtelnet:

       2. The same device, but with an IP address pr3k_port1 associated to the serial port (IP-based port addressing)

       /dev/ctty01:prts:pr3k_port1:0:rtelnet:

       3. Device on a PathRAS Terminal Server pr3k Port 2, accessed through /dev/ctty02 device file name, using socket protocol (socket server)

       /dev/ctty02:path:pr3k:2:socket:

FILES
       /etc/cyclades-devices    This file

SEE ALSO
       cyclades-serial-client(1), cyclades-ser-cli(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                        cyclades-devices(5)
