QUOTA(8)                          Cyrus IMAP                          QUOTA(8)

NAME
       quota - Cyrus IMAP documentation

       Report and optionally fix storage and message quota usage.

SYNOPSIS
       quota [ -C config-file ] [ -d domain ] [ -f ] [ -u ] [ mailbox-spec... ]

DESCRIPTION
       quota  generates  a report listing quota roots, giving their limits and
       usage.

       If the -f option is specified, quota first fixes any inconsistencies in
       the  quota  subsystem,  such  as mailboxes with the wrong quota root or
       quota roots with the wrong quota usage reported.

       If an optional domain is specified with the -d option, the quota  list‐
       ing  (and  any  inconsistency  fixing) is performed only in that domain
       rather than all mailboxes.

       If one or more mailbox-spec arguments are specified, these  are  inter‐
       preted  as  mailbox  prefixes, and the quota listing (and inconsistency
       fixing) is limited to quota roots with names that start with one of the
       given  prefixes.  If the -u is provided, mailbox-spec arguments are in‐
       stead interpreted as userids, and the quota listing (and  inconsistency
       fixing) is limited to quota roots for only the specified users.

       WARNING:
          Running  quota with both the -f option and mailbox-spec arguments is
          not recommended.

       quota reads its configuration options out of the imapd.conf(5) file un‐
       less specified otherwise by -C.

OPTIONS
       -C config-file
              Use the specified configuration file config-file rather than the
              default imapd.conf(5).

       -d domain
              List and/or fix quota only in domain.

       -f     Fix any inconsistencies in the quota subsystem before generating
              a report.

       -n     Check  for  any inconsistencies in the quota subsystem but don't
              actually fix them.  Use with -f and -q to only see what's incor‐
              rect.

       -q     Operate  quietly. If -f is specified, then don't print the quota
              values, only print messages when things are changed.

       -J     Output the quota values as JSON for automated tooling support

       -u     Interpret mailbox-spec arguments as userids.  The default is  to
              interpret them as mailbox prefixes

       mailbox-spec
              Only report and/or fix quota in mailboxes matching the specified
              mailbox-spec arguments.  See also -u.

EXAMPLES
       quota
          List quotas for all users and mailboxes.

FILES
       /etc/imapd.conf

SEE ALSO
       imapd.conf(5)

AUTHOR
       The Cyrus Team, Jeroen van Meeuwen (Kolab Systems), Nic Bernstein  (On‐
       light)

COPYRIGHT
       1993-2018, The Cyrus Team

3.2.6                           March 09, 2021                        QUOTA(8)
