RESTORE(8)                        Cyrus IMAP                        RESTORE(8)

NAME
       restore - Cyrus IMAP documentation

       Restore content from Cyrus backups.

SYNOPSIS
       restore [OPTIONS] server [MODE] backup [ mboxname | uniqueid | guid ]...

DESCRIPTION
       restore  is  a  tool  for restoring messages and mailboxes from a Cyrus
       backup to a Cyrus IMAP server.  It must be run from the server contain‐
       ing the backup storage.

       restore  reads  its configuration options out of the imapd.conf(5) file
       unless specified otherwise by -C.

       server specifies the destination server to which content should be  re‐
       stored.  It should be of the form 'host[:port]', where host is either a
       hostname, an IPv4 address, or an IPv6 address, and where  the  optional
       port is either a known service name (see services(5)) or a decimal port
       number.  If port is omitted, imap will  be  tried  first,  followed  by
       csync.

       The  destination  server must point to either an imapd(8) instance with
       the replication capability enabled, or a sync_server(8)  instance.   In
       either case it must be Cyrus version 3.0 or newer.

       restore  will  authenticate  to the destination server according to the
       restore_authname, restore_password and restore_realm configuration  op‐
       tions.   The  credentials should correspond with one of the destination
       server's admins.

       backup is interpreted according to the specified MODE.  See  Modes  be‐
       low.

       If  neither  -a  nor -F options were provided, then the remaining argu‐
       ments constitute a list of objects to be restored.  These may be  mail‐
       boxes (specified by either mboxname or uniqueid) or messages (specified
       by their guid).  The objects may be specified in any  order,  and  both
       mailboxes   and   individual  messages  may  be  restored  in  one  go.
       cyr_backup(8) can be used to identify objects to restore from  a  Cyrus
       backup.

       Selected  mailboxes  will  have their messages restored to a mailbox of
       the same name, which will be created  if  necessary.   Individually-se‐
       lected  messages will be restored to the mailboxes in which they previ‐
       ously existed.  In both cases the -M option can be used to override the
       destination  mailbox  (see  below),  but note the consequences of doing
       this when multiple mailbox objects have been specified, or when the  -r
       option is in use.

       Mailboxes  that  are  created  during the restoration process will have
       their ACL set to the one stored in the backup.  The -A  option  can  be
       used  to  override  this.   Mailboxes  that  are not created during the
       restoration process (i.e. when restoring into  mailboxes  that  already
       exists) will not have their ACLs altered.

OPTIONS
       -A [acl]
              Apply  specified  acl  to  restored mailboxes, rather than their
              ACLs as stored in the backup.

              If acl is the empty string (e.g. -A "") or is unspecified, mail‐
              boxes  will  be restored with the default ACL for their destina‐
              tion owner.  This is mostly useful when restoring  folders  from
              one user's backup into a different user's mailbox.

       -C config-file
              Use the specified configuration file config-file rather than the
              default imapd.conf(5).

       -D     Don't trim deletedprefix from mailbox names prior to  restoring.
              This  is  mainly  useful  for  rebuilding  failed servers, where
              deleted mailboxes should be restored as deleted  mailboxes,  not
              as new ones.

              The default is to trim the prefix before restoring.

              If  the original server from which the backups were produced had
              delete_mode set to immediate, then the mailboxes in  the  backup
              will not have such a prefix, and this option won't have any use‐
              ful effect.

              See imapd.conf(5) for information about  the  deletedprefix  and
              delete_mode configuration options.

       -F input-file
              Get the list of mailboxes or messages from input-file instead of
              from the command line arguments.

              input-file should contain one object  specification  (either  an
              mboxname,  a  uniqueid,  or  a guid) per line.  Empty lines, and
              lines beginning with a '#' character, are ignored.

       -L     Local operations only.  Actions  required  to  restore  the  re‐
              quested mailboxes and messages will be performed on the destina‐
              tion server only.  mupdate(8) actions will not occur.

              The default is for mupdate actions to occur if  the  destination
              server is part of a murder.

              This  option has no effect if the destination server is not part
              of a murder.

       -M mboxname
              Messages are restored to the mailbox with  the  specified  mbox‐
              name.  If no mailbox of this name exists, one will be created.

              If  multiple  mailbox objects are to be restored, whether due to
              being specified on the command line, in an  input-file,  or  via
              the  -r  option,  then the collective contents of all such mail‐
              boxes will be restored to the single mailbox mboxname.  This may
              not be what you want!

              The default when restoring mailboxes is to restore their respec‐
              tive contents into mailboxes of the same names.

              The default when restoring individual  messages  is  to  restore
              them into their original mailboxes.

       -P partition
              Restore mailboxes to the specified partition

       -U     Try  to preserve uidvalidity and other related fields, such that
              the restored mailboxes and messages appear like they never left,
              and IMAP clients can avoid expensive state updates.

              This  can  only occur if the mailboxes to be restored do not al‐
              ready exist on the destination server.  As such, this option  is
              mainly useful when rebuilding a failed server.

              If  the  destination  mailboxes already exist, restored messages
              will be appended as if newly delivered,  regardless  of  whether
              the -U option was specified.

       -X     Do  not  restore  messages  that  are  marked as expunged in the
              backup.

              See also -x.

       -a     Try to restore all mailboxes in the specified backup.

       -n     Do nothing.  The work required to perform the  restoration  will
              be  calculated  (and reported depending on verbosity level), but
              no restoration will take place, and no connection will  be  made
              to the destination server.

              Note  that  the server argument is still mandatory with this op‐
              tion.

       -r     Recurse into submailboxes.  When restoring mailboxes,  also  re‐
              store any mailboxes contained within them.

              The default is to restore only explicitly-specified mailboxes.

       -v     Increase the verbosity level.  This option can be specified mul‐
              tiple times for additional verbosity.

       -w seconds
              Wait seconds before starting.  This is useful  for  attaching  a
              debugger.

       -x     Only restore messages that are marked as expunged in the backup.

              This can be convenient for restoring messages that were acciden‐
              tally deleted by the user, without needing to track  down  indi‐
              vidual message guids.

              See also -X.

       -z     Require  compression  for  server  connection.  The restore will
              abort if compression is unavailable.

MODES
       -f     backup is interpreted as a filename.  The named  file  does  not
              need to be known about in the backups database.

       -m     backup  is interpreted as a mailbox name.  There must be a known
              backup for the user whose mailbox this is.

              Known backups are recorded in  the  database  specified  by  the
              backup_db and backup_db_path configuration options.

       -u     backup is interpreted as a userid.  There must be a known backup
              for the specified user.

              This is the default if no mode is specified.

EXAMPLES
HISTORY
FILES
SEE ALSO
       imapd.conf(5),  services(5),   cyr_backup(8),   imapd(8),   mupdate(8),
       sync_server(8)

AUTHOR
       The Cyrus Team

COPYRIGHT
       1993-2018, The Cyrus Team

3.2.6                           March 09, 2021                      RESTORE(8)
