dadadodo(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                            dadadodo(1)

NAME
       dadadodo - exterminate all rational thought

SYNOPSIS
       dadadodo [ options ] [ input-files ]

DESCRIPTION
       dadadodo  is  a  program that analyses texts for Markov chains of word probabilities and then generates random sentences based on those probabilities.  Sometimes these sentences are nonsense,
       but sometimes they cut right through to the heart of the matter and reveal hidden meanings.

OPTIONS
       dadadodo accepts the following options:

       -c, -count n
              Generate n sentences.

       -h, -help
              Show summary of options and exit.

       -html  Output HTML instead of plain text.

       -l, -load file
              Load compiled data from file (‘-’ for standard input).

       -o, -output file
              Save compiled data in file (‘-’ for standard output).

       -p, -pause s
              Delay s seconds between paragraphs.

       -w, -columns columns
              Format output for a device columns character cells in width.  If not specified, the value of the environment variable COLUMNS is used to determine the width.  If that variable  is  not
              defined, a width of 72 is assumed.

NOTES
       Non-option  arguments  are input files.  These should be text files, but may be mail folders or HTML.  MIME messages are handled sensibly.  When no output file is specified, sentences will be
       generated from the input data directly.  However, loading a saved file is far faster than re-parsing the text files each time.

ENVIRONMENT
       COLUMNS
              Determines the width (in character cells) of the output if the -w, -columns option is not used.  If not set, a width of 72 is assumed.

SEE ALSO
       dadadodo's upstream website is http://www.jwz.org/dadadodo/.

AUTHOR
       dadadodo was written by Jamie Zawinski.

       This manual page was written by Sudhakar Chandrasekharan <thaths@netscape.com>, based on the program's usage message.

                                                                                                                                                                                           dadadodo(1)
