DAEMON(1)                                                                                      User Commands                                                                                      DAEMON(1)

NAME
       daemon - turns other processes into daemons

SYNOPSIS
        usage: daemon [options] [--] [cmd arg...]
        options:

        -h, --help                - Print a help message then exit
        -V, --version             - Print a version message then exit
        -v, --verbose[=level]     - Set the verbosity level
        -d, --debug[=level]       - Set the debugging level

        -C, --config=path         - Specify the system configuration file
        -N, --noconfig            - Bypass the system configuration file
        -n, --name=name           - Guarantee a single named instance
        -X, --command="cmd"       - Specify the client command as an option
        -P, --pidfiles=/dir       - Override standard pidfile location
        -F, --pidfile=/path       - Override standard pidfile name and location

        -u, --user=user[:[group]] - Run the client as user[:group]
        -R, --chroot=path         - Run the client with path as root
        -D, --chdir=path          - Run the client in directory path
        -m, --umask=umask         - Run the client with the given umask
        -e, --env="var=val"       - Set a client environment variable
        -i, --inherit             - Inherit environment variables
        -U, --unsafe              - Allow execution of unsafe executable
        -S, --safe                - Disallow execution of unsafe executable
        -c, --core                - Allow core file generation
            --nocore              - Disallow core file generation (default)

        -r, --respawn             - Respawn the client when it terminates
        -a, --acceptable=#        - Minimum acceptable client duration (seconds)
        -A, --attempts=#          - Respawn # times on error before delay
        -L, --delay=#             - Delay between respawn attempt bursts (seconds)
        -M, --limit=#             - Maximum number of respawn attempt bursts
            --idiot               - Idiot mode (trust root with the above)

        -f, --foreground          - Run the client in the foreground
        -p, --pty[=noecho]        - Allocate a pseudo terminal for the client

        -B, --bind                - Stop when the user's last logind session ends

        -l, --errlog=spec         - Send daemon's error output to syslog or file
        -b, --dbglog=spec         - Send daemon's debug output to syslog or file
        -o, --output=spec         - Send client's output to syslog or file
        -O, --stdout=spec         - Send client's stdout to syslog or file
        -E, --stderr=spec         - Send client's stderr to syslog or file

            --ignore-eof          - After SIGCHLD ignore any client output
            --read-eof            - After SIGCHLD read any client output (default)

            --running             - Check if a named daemon is running
            --restart             - Restart a named daemon client
            --stop                - Terminate a named daemon process
            --signal=signame      - Send a signal to a named daemon
            --list                - Print a list of named daemons

DESCRIPTION
       daemon(1) turns other processes into daemons. There are many tasks that need to be performed to correctly set up a daemon process. This can be tedious. daemon performs these tasks for other
       processes.

       The preparatory tasks that daemon performs for other processes are:

       •   First, revoke any setuid or setgid privileges that daemon may have been installed with (by system administrators who laugh in the face of danger).

       •   Process command line options.

       •   Change the root directory if the --chroot option was supplied.

       •   Change  the process uid and gid if the --user option was supplied. Only root can use this option. Note that the uid of daemon itself is changed, rather than just changing the uid of the client
           process.

       •   Read the system configuration file(s) (/etc/daemon.conf and /etc/daemon.conf.d/* by default, or specified by the --config option), unless the --noconfig option  was  supplied.  Then  read  the
           user's  personal  configuration  file(s) (~/.daemonrc and ~/.daemonrc.d/*), if any.  Generic options that apply to all daemons are processed first, then options that are specific to the daemon
           with the given name. Note: The root directory and the user must be set before access to the configuration file(s) can be attempted, so neither the --chroot nor --user options may appear in the
           configuration file.

           On BSD systems (except macOS), the system configuration file(s) are /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf and /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/* by default.

           On macOS, when installed via macports, the system configuration file(s) are /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf and /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/*.

       •   Disable core file generation to prevent leaking potentially sensitive information in daemons that are run by root (unless the --core option was supplied).

       •   Become a daemon process:

           •   If daemon was not invoked by init(8) (i.e. parent process id 1) or inetd(8) (i.e. stdin is a socket):

               •   Ignore SIGHUP signals in case the current process session leader terminates while attached to a controlling terminal, causing us to receive a SIGHUP signal  before  we  start  our  own
                   process session below.

                   This  can  happen  when  daemon  was  invoked  interactively  via  the shell builtin exec. When this initial process terminates below, the terminal emulator that invoked the shell also
                   terminates, so daemon need to protect itself from that.

               •   Background the process to lose process group leadership.

               •   Start a new process session.

               •   Background the process again to lose process session leadership. Under SVR4, this prevents the process from ever gaining a controlling terminal.  This is only necessary under SVR4, but
                   is always done for simplicity.  Note that ignoring SIGHUP signals earlier means that when the newly created process session leader  terminates,  then  even  if  it  has  a  controlling
                   terminal  open, the newly backgrounded process won't receive the corresponding SIGHUP signal that is sent to all processes in the process session's foreground process group, because it
                   inherited signal dispositions from the initial process.

           •   Change the current directory to the root directory so as not to hamper umounts.

           •   Clear the umask to enable explicit file creation modes.

           •   Close all open file descriptors. If daemon was invoked by inetd(8), stdin, stdout and stderr are left open, because they are open to a socket.

           •   Open stdin, stdout and stderr to /dev/null, in case something requires them to be open. Of course, this is not done if daemon was invoked by inetd(8).

           •   If the --name option was supplied, create and lock a file containing the process id of the daemon process. The presence of this locked file prevents two instances of a daemon with the same
               name from running at the same time. The default location of the pidfile is /var/run for root (/etc on Solaris, /opt/local/var/run on macOS when installed via macports), and /tmp for normal
               users. If the --pidfiles option was supplied, its argument specifies the directory in which the pidfile will be placed. If the --pidfile option was supplied,  its  argument  specifies  the
               name of the pidfile and the directory in which it will be placed.

       •   If  the --umask option was supplied, set the umask to its argument, which must be a valid three-digit octal mode. Otherwise, set the umask to 022, to prevent clients from accidentally creating
           group- or world-writable files.

       •   Set the current directory if the --chdir option was supplied.

       •   Spawn the client command and wait for it to terminate. The client command can be specified as command line arguments, or as the argument of the --command option. If both the  --command  option
           and command line arguments are present, the client command is the result of appending the command line arguments to the argument of the --command option.

       •   If the --output, --stdout and/or --stderr options were supplied, the client's standard output and/or standard error are captured by daemon, and are sent to the respective syslog destinations.

       •   When  the  client  terminates,  daemon respawns it if the --respawn option was supplied. If the client ran for less than 300 seconds (or the value of the --acceptable option), then daemon sees
           this as a failure. It will attempt to restart the client up to five times (or the value of the --attempts option), before waiting for 300 seconds (or the value of  the  --delay  option).  This
           gives  the  system  administrator  the  chance  to correct whatever is preventing the client from running successfully without overloading system resources. If the --limit option was supplied,
           daemon terminates after the specified number of respawn attempt bursts.  The default is zero, which means never give up, never surrender.

           When the client terminates, and the --respawn option wasn't supplied, daemon terminates as well.

       •   If daemon receives a SIGTERM signal (e.g. from a separate invocation of daemon with the --stop option), it propagates the signal to the client and then terminates.

       •   If daemon receives a SIGUSR1 signal (from a separate invocation of daemon with the --restart option), it sends a SIGTERM signal to the client. If it was started with the --respawn option,  the
           client process will be restarted after it is terminated by the SIGTERM signal.

       •   If  the  --foreground  option  was  supplied,  the  client process is run as a foreground process, and is not turned into a daemon at all. If daemon is connected to a terminal, then the client
           process will also be connected to it. If daemon is not connected to a terminal, but the client needs to be connected to a terminal, use the --pty option.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Display a help message and exit.

       -V, --version
           Display a version message and exit.

       -v[level], --verbose[=level]
           Set the message verbosity level to level (or 1 if level is not supplied). This only effects the --running and --list options.

       -d[level], --debug[=level]
           Set the debug message level to level (or 1 if level is not supplied).  Level 1 traces high-level function calls. Level 2 traces lower-level function calls and shows configuration  information.
           Level  3  adds  environment  variables.  Level  9 adds every return value from select(2). Debug messages are sent to the destination specified by the --dbglog option (by default, the syslog(3)
           facility, daemon.debug).

       -C path, --config=path
           Specify the system configuration file to use. By default, /etc/daemon.conf is the system configuration file, if it exists and is not group- or world-writable, and does not exist in a group- or
           world-writable directory. The configuration file lets you predefine options that apply to all clients, and to specifically named clients.

           As well as the system configuration file, additional configuration files will be read from the directory whose path matches the system  configuration  file  with  ".d"  appended  to  it  (e.g.
           /etc/daemon.conf.d). Any file in that directory whose name starts with a dot character (".") is ignored.  The same checks as described above apply to these files as well.

           On BSD systems (except macOS), the system configuration file(s) are /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf and /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/* by default.

           On macOS, when installed via macports, the system configuration file(s) are /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf and /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/*.

       -N, --noconfig
           Bypass the system configuration files, /etc/daemon.conf and /etc/daemon.conf.d/*. Only the user's ~/.daemonrc and ~/.daemonrc.d/* configuration files will be read (if they exist).

       -n name, --name=name
           Create  and lock a pidfile (name.pid), ensuring that only one daemon with the given name is active at the same time. The standard location of the pidfile is /var/run for root (/etc on Solaris,
           /opt/local/var/run on macOS when installed via macports), and /tmp for normal users. This location can be overridden with the --pidfiles option.

           The name may only consist of the following characters:

               -._abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789

           While a named daemon's client process is running, there will also be a separate pidfile to record the process id of the client process. Its filename will be the same as the  daemon  pidfile's,
           except  that the filename extension will be .clientpid rather than .pid. The only reason that there should be a .pid file, with no .clientpid file, is during the delay between respawn attempts
           bursts.

       -X "cmd", --command="cmd"
           Specify the client command as an option. If a command is specified along with its name in the configuration file, then a daemon can be invoked merely by mentioning its name:

               daemon --name ftumch

           Note: If the client command is specified with the --command option, either in the configuration file, or on the command line, then any additional command line arguments on the  daemon  command
           line are appended to the client command that is specified with the --command option.

       -P /dir, --pidfiles=/dir
           Override  the  standard  pidfile  location.  The  standard pidfile location is /var/run for root (/etc on Solaris, /opt/local/var/run on macOS when installed via macports), and /tmp for normal
           users.

           This option only affects the --name and --list options. Use this option if these standard locations are unacceptable, but make sure that you don't forget where  you  put  your  pidfiles.  This
           option is best used in configuration files, or in shell scripts, rather than on an interactive command line.

           The pidfile location will be created automatically only if it is within the user's home directory.

       -F /path, --pidfile=/path
           Override  the standard pidfile name and location. The standard pidfile location is described immediately above. The standard pidfile name is the argument of the --name option followed by .pid.
           Use this option if the standard pidfile name and location are unacceptable, but make sure that you don't forget where you put your pidfile. This option is best used in configuration files,  or
           in shell scripts, rather than on an interactive command line.

           The pidfile location will be created automatically only if it is within the user's home directory.

       -u user[:[group]], --user=user[:[group]]
           Run  the  client as a different user (and group). This only works for root.  If the argument includes a :group specifier, daemon will assume the specified group and no other. Otherwise, daemon
           will assume all groups that the specified user is in. For backwards compatibility, "." may be used instead of ":" to separate the user and group but since "." can  appear  in  user  and  group
           names, ambiguities can arise such as using --user=u.g when users u and u.g and group g all exist. With such an ambiguity, daemon will assume the user u and group g. Use --user=u.g: instead for
           the other interpretation.

       -R path, --chroot=path
           Change  the  root  directory  to path before running the client. On some systems, only root can do this. Note that the path to the client program and to the configuration file (if any) must be
           relative to the new root path.

       -D path, --chdir=path
           Change the current directory to path before running the client. The default current directory is the root directory (possibly after chroot).

       -m umask, --umask=umask
           Change the umask to umask before running the client. umask must be a valid octal mode. The default umask is 022.

       -e "var=val", --env="var=val"
           Set an environment variable for the client process. This option can be used any number of times. If it is used, only the supplied environment  variables  are  passed  to  the  client  process.
           Otherwise, the client process inherits the current set of environment variables.

       -i, --inherit
           Explicitly inherit environment variables. This is only needed when the --env option is used. When this option is used, the --env option adds to the inherited environment, rather than replacing
           it.

       -U, --unsafe
           Allow  reading an unsafe configuration file, and allow the execution of an unsafe executable. A configuration file or executable is considered to be unsafe if it is group- or world-writable or
           is in a directory that is group- or world-writable (following symbolic links). If an executable is a script that is interpreted by another executable, then it is considered to be unsafe if the
           interpreter is unsafe. If the interpreter is /usr/bin/env (with an argument that is a command name to be searched for in $PATH), then that command must be  safe.  By  default,  daemon(1)  will
           refuse to read an unsafe configuration file or to execute an unsafe executable when run by root. This option overrides that behaviour and hence should never be used.

       -S, --safe
           Disallow  reading  an  unsafe  configuration  file,  and  disallow  the  execution of an unsafe executable. By default, daemon(1) will allow reading an unsafe configuration file, and allow the
           execution of an unsafe executable, when run by normal users. This option overrides that behaviour.

       -c, --core
           Allow the client to create a core file. This should only be used for debugging, as it could lead to security-related information disclosures by daemons run by root.

       --nocore
           By default, clients are prevented from creating a core file. If the --core option has been used in a configuration file to apply to all named daemons, then this option can be used  to  restore
           the default behaviour for specific named daemons.

       -r, --respawn
           Respawn the client when it terminates. Without this option, the termination of a client process causes daemon itself to terminate as well.

       -a #, --acceptable=#
           Specify  the  minimum  acceptable  duration  of  a  client process, in seconds.  This option can only be used with the --respawn option. If a client process terminates before this threshold is
           reached, then it is considered to have failed. The default value is 300 seconds. It cannot be set to less than 10 seconds, except by root when used in conjunction with the --idiot option.

       -A #, --attempts=#
           Specify the number of attempts to respawn before delaying. This option can only be used with the --respawn option. The default value is 5. It cannot be set to more than 100 attempts, except by
           root when used in conjunction with the --idiot option.

       -L #, --delay=#
           Specify the delay in seconds between each burst of respawn attempts. This option can only be used with the --respawn option. The default value is 300 seconds. It cannot be set to less than  10
           seconds except by root when used in conjunction with the --idiot option.

       -M #, --limit=#
           Specify a limit to the number of respawn attempt bursts. This option can only be used with the --respawn option. The default value is 0, which means no limit.

       --idiot
           Turn  on  idiot  mode in which daemon will not enforce the minimum or maximum values normally imposed on the --acceptable, --attempts and --delay options. The --idiot option must appear before
           any of these options. Only the root user may use this option, because it can turn a slight misconfiguration into a lot of wasted CPU energy and log messages, somewhat akin to a  self-inflicted
           denial of service.

           Idiot  mode  also  allows  the  root  user  to  expand  environment  variable notation (e.g. $VAR and ${VAR}) in command line option arguments, and in configuration files. By default, internal
           environment variable expansion is only performed for normal users. Note that this doesn't apply to any such expansion performed earlier by the shell that invokes daemon(1). See  the  EXPANSION
           section below for more details.

       -f, --foreground
           Run the client in the foreground. The client is not turned into a daemon.

       -p[noecho], --pty[=noecho]
           Connect  the client to a pseudo terminal. This option can only be used with the --foreground option. This is the default when the --foreground option is supplied and daemon's standard input is
           connected to a terminal. This option is only necessary when the client process must be connected to a controlling terminal, but daemon itself has been run without a controlling terminal  (e.g.
           from cron(8) or a pipeline).

           If  the  noecho  argument  is  supplied with this option, the client's side of the pseudo terminal will be set to noecho mode. Use this only if there really is a terminal involved and input is
           being echoed twice.

       -B, --bind
           Automatically terminate the client process (and daemon(1) itself) as soon as the user has no systemd-logind(8) (or elogind(8)) user sessions. In other words, automatically terminate  when  the
           user logs out. If the user has no sessions to start with, the client process will be terminated immediately.

           This  option  is  only  available  on  Linux  systems that have either systemd(1) (e.g. Debian) or elogind(8) (e.g. Slackware). On systems with systemd(1), you could instead use a systemd user
           service, particularly if your user account is not allowed to have user services that linger.

       -l spec, --errlog=spec
           Send daemon's standard output and standard error to the syslog destination or file that is specified by spec. If spec is a syslog destination of the form "facility.priority",  then  output  is
           sent  to syslog(3). Otherwise, output is appended to the file whose path is given in spec. By default, output is sent to the syslog destination, daemon.err. See the MESSAGING section below for
           more details.

       -b spec, --dbglog=spec
           Send daemon's debug output to the syslog destination or file that is specified by spec. If spec is a syslog destination of the form "facility.priority",  then  output  is  sent  to  syslog(3).
           Otherwise, output is appended to the file whose path is given in spec. By default, output is sent to the syslog destination daemon.debug. See the MESSAGING section below for more details.

       -o spec, --output=spec
           Capture  the  client's  standard  output  and  standard  error,  and  send  it  to  the  syslog  destination  or  file  that  is  specified by spec. If spec is a syslog destination of the form
           "facility.priority", then output is sent to syslog(3). Otherwise, output is appended to the file whose path is given in spec. By default, output is discarded unless the --foreground option  is
           present, in which case, the client's stdout and stderr are propagated to daemon's stdout and stderr, respectively. See the MESSAGING section below for more details.

       -O spec, --stdout=spec
           Capture  the  client's standard output, and send it to the syslog destination or file that is specified by spec. If spec is a syslog destination of the form "facility.priority", then output is
           sent to syslog(3).  Otherwise, stdout is appended to the file whose path is given in spec. By default, stdout is discarded unless the  --foreground  option  is  present,  in  which  case,  the
           client's stdout is propagated to daemon's stdout. See the MESSAGING section below for more details.

       -E spec, --stderr=spec
           Capture  the  client's  standard error, and send it to the syslog destination or file that is specified by spec. If spec is a syslog destination of the form "facility.priority", then stderr is
           sent to syslog(3).  Otherwise, stderr is appended to the file whose path is given in spec. By default, stderr is discarded unless the  --foreground  option  is  present,  in  which  case,  the
           client's stderr is propagated to daemon's stderr. See the MESSAGING section below for more details.

       --ignore-eof
           After  receiving  a  SIGCHLD  signal due to a stopped or restarted client process, don't bother reading the client's output until the end-of-file is reached before reaping the client process's
           termination status with wait(2). Normally, there will be little or no output after the SIGCHLD signal, because the client process has just terminated. However, the client  process  might  have
           its  own  child  processes  keeping  its  output  open  long  after its own termination. When this happens, by default, the client process remains as a zombie process until its child processes
           terminate and close the output. Waiting for the client's child processes to terminate before considering the client stopped, and before restarting a new invocation, might be desirable. If not,
           this option can be used to consider the client process as being terminated as soon as the SIGCHLD signal has been received, and reaping its termination status with wait(2) immediately.

       --read-eof
           After receiving a SIGCHLD signal due to a stopped or restarted client process, continue reading the client's output until the  end-of-file  is  reached  before  reaping  the  client  process's
           termination  status  with wait(2). This is the default behaviour. Normally, there will be little or no output after the SIGCHLD signal, because the client process has just terminated. However,
           the client process might have its own child processes keeping its output open long after its own termination. When this happens, the client process remains as a zombie process until its  child
           processes  terminate  and  close  the  output.  Waiting  for  the  client's child processes to terminate before considering the client stopped, and before restarting a new invocation, might be
           desirable. If so, but the --ignore-eof option has been used in a configuration file to apply to all named daemons, then this option can be used to restore the default  behaviour  for  specific
           named daemons.

       --running
           Check whether or not a named daemon is running, then exit(3) with EXIT_SUCCESS if the named daemon is running or EXIT_FAILURE if it isn't.

           If the --verbose option is supplied, print a message before exiting. If both the named daemon and its client process are running, the output will look like this, showing both process IDs:

               daemon:  name is running (pid 7455) (clientpid 7457)

           If the named daemon is running but its client process is not (there might be a delay between respawn attempt bursts), the output will look like this, showing only the daemon process's ID:

               daemon:  name is running (pid 7455) (client is not running)

           If the named daemon is not running at all, the output will look like this:

               daemon:  name is not running

           This option can only be used with the --name option. Note that the --chroot, --user, --name, --pidfiles and --pidfile (and possibly --config) options must be the same as for the target daemon.

       --restart
           Instruct a named daemon to terminate and restart its client process, by sending it a SIGUSR1 signal. This will cause the named daemon to send its client process a SIGTERM signal to stop it. If
           the  named  daemon  had  been  started with the --restart option, the named daemon will then restart its client process. Otherwise, this has the same effect as the --stop option, and the named
           daemon's client process is not restarted.

           This option can only be used with the --name option. Note that the --chroot, --user, --name, --pidfiles and --pidfile (and possibly --config) options must be the same as for the target daemon.

       --stop
           Stop a named daemon by sending it a SIGTERM signal. This will cause the named daemon to send its client process a SIGTERM option and then exit.

           This option can only be used with the --name option. Note that the --chroot, --user, --name, --pidfiles and --pidfile (and possibly --config) options must be the same as for the target daemon.

       --signal=signame
           Send the given signal to a named daemon's client process. The signal can be specified either by number or by name (with or without the "sig" prefix).  Any signal  may  be  sent.  However,  the
           named daemon's client process might be ignoring some signals. For example, SIGHUP will be ignored by default unless the client process has installed a signal handler for it.

           The  known  list  of  signals  are:  hup, int, quit, ill, trap, abrt, iot, bus, fpe, kill, usr1, segv, usr2, pipe, alrm, term, stkflt, cld, chld, cont, stop, tstp, ttin, ttou, urg, xcpu, xfsz,
           vtalrm, prof, winch, poll, io, pwr, sys, emt and info. Not all of them are available on all platforms.

       --list
           Print a list of the currently running named daemons whose pidfiles are in the applicable pidfile directory which will either  be  the  default  (i.e.   /var/run  for  root  (/etc  on  Solaris,
           /opt/local/var/run on macOS when installed via macports), and /tmp for normal users), or it will be specified by the --pidfiles option. Then exit.

           Without  the  --verbose  option, this will only list the names of daemons whose pidfiles are locked, as this implies that the corresponding daemon must still be running. Note that pidfiles for
           daemons that were not started by daemon(1) might not be locked. An unlocked pidfile might indicate that daemon(1) has died unexpectedly, or it might just be a pidfile for a daemon that was not
           started by daemon(1). If this might lead to confusion, you might want to consider using a dedicated pidfiles directory for named daemons started by daemon(1), and leave  the  default  pidfiles
           directories for other daemons that were started independently of daemon(1).

           With the --verbose option, the items in the list will look like the output of the --running option with --verbose, but with more detail.

           If there are no pidfiles at all, the output will look like this:

               No named daemons are running

           If  a  pidfile  is  locked,  and there is a corresponding client pidfile, that indicates that the named daemon and its client are both running, and the output will look like this, showing both
           process IDs:

               name is running (pid ####) (client pid ####)

           If a pidfile is locked, but there is no client pidfile, that indicates that the named daemon is running, but its client is not (e.g. during a delay between  respawn  attempt  bursts  when  the
           client is failing to start successfully), and the output will look like one of the following three options:

           When we can tell that the pidfile is for a process whose executable name is daemon:

               name is running (pid ####) (client is not running)

           When we can tell that the pidfile is for a process whose executable name is something other than daemon (i.e. is independent of daemon(1)):

               name is running (pid ####) (independent)

           When it's not possible to determine the name of the executable associated with the pidfile (i.e. On systems other than Linux without a /proc file system):

               name is running (pid ####) (client is not running or is independent)

           If  a  pidfile  is not locked, and the applicable pidfiles directory is the default, that indicates either that the daemon has unexpectedly terminated, or just that the pidfile is for a daemon
           that was not started by daemon(1), and the output will look like this:

               name is not running (or is independent)

           If a pidfile is not locked, and the applicable pidfiles directory is not the default, then it is assumed that all pidfiles are for daemons that were started by daemon(1), and the  output  will
           look like this:

               name is not running

       As with all other programs, a -- argument signifies the end of options.  Any options that appear on the command line after -- are part of the client command.

EXPANSION
       Some simple shell-like expansion is performed internally on the arguments of the command line options with a text argument (but not the options with a numeric argument).

       Environment  variable  notation,  such  as  $VAR  or ${VAR}, is expanded.  Then user home directory notation, such as ~ or ~user, is expanded.  File name expansion (i.e. globbing) is NOT performed
       internally. Neither are any of your login shell's other wonderful expansions. This is very basic.

       This might not be of much use on the command line, since daemon is normally invoked via a shell, which will first perform all of its usual expansions. It  might  even  be  undesirable  to  perform
       expansion  internally  after  the  shell has already done so (e.g. if you refer to any directory names that actually contain the '$' character, or if you use any environment variables whose values
       contain the '$' character, which is unlikely).

       But it can be useful in configuration files. See the FILES section below for more details. It can also be useful when daemon is invoked directly by another program without the use of a shell.

       By default, environment variable expansion is not performed for the root user, even if the environment variable was defined in the configuration files. The --idiot option can  be  used  to  change
       this behaviour, and allow the expansion of environment variables for the root user. Home directory notation expansion is performed for all users.

FILES
       /etc/daemon.conf, /etc/daemon.conf.d/* - system-wide default options

       /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf, /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/* - system-wide default options on BSD systems (except macOS).

       /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf, /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/* - system-wide default options on macOS when installed via macports.

       ~/.daemonrc, ~/.daemonrc.d/* - user-specific default options

       Each line of the configuration file is either an environment variable definition, or a configuration directive.

       Environment  variable definitions consist of the variable name, followed immediately by '=' and the value of the variable. They look like they do in shell, except that there is no quoting or other
       shell syntax. Environment variable values can include simple environment variable notation (e.g.  $VAR or ${VAR}), and user home directory notation (e.g.  ~  or  ~user).  These  will  be  expanded
       internally by daemon. See the EXPANSION section above for more details.

       Note  that  any  environment  variables that are defined in the configuration file, which are subsequently used explicitly in another environment variable definition or in an option argument, will
       have these expansions performed multiple times. Avoid environment variables whose values can change again if expansion is performed multiple times.

       Example:

           PATH=/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:$HOME/bin:~app/bin
           PIDFILES=~/.run

       Configuration directives consist of a client name (for options that apply to a single client), or '*' (for generic options that apply to all clients), followed by spaces and/or tabs, followed by a
       comma-separated list of options. Any option arguments must not contain any commas. The commas that separate options can have spaces and tabs before and after them. Option arguments that  are  text
       (but  not  numbers) can include simple environment variable notation (e.g. $VAR or ${VAR}), and user home directory notation (e.g. ~ or ~user). These will be expanded internally by daemon. See the
       EXPANSION section above for more details.

       Blank lines and comments ('#' to end of the line) are ignored. Lines can be continued with a '\' character at the end of the line.

       Example:

           *       errlog=daemon.err,output=local0.err,core
           test1   syslog=local0.debug,debug=9,verbose=9,respawn
           test2   syslog=local0.debug,debug=9, \
                   verbose=9,respawn, \
                   pidfiles=$PIDFILES

       The command line options are processed first, to look for a --config option. If no --config option was supplied, the default configuration files,  /etc/daemon.conf  and  /etc/daemon.conf.d/*,  are
       used.  On  BSD  systems  (except  macOS),  the  default  configuration  files  are  /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf and /usr/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/*. On macOS when installed via macports, the default
       configuration files are /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf and /opt/local/etc/daemon.conf.d/*.  If the user has their own configuration files, ~/.daemonrc and ~/.daemonrc.d/*, they are also used.

       If the configuration files contain any generic ('*') entries, their options are applied in order of appearance. If the --name option was supplied, and the configuration files contain  any  entries
       for the given name, those options are then applied in order of appearance.

       Finally,  the command line options are applied again. This ensures that any generic options apply to all clients by default. Client-specific options override generic options. User options override
       system-wide options. Command line options override everything else.

       Note that the configuration files are not opened and read until after any --chroot and/or --user command line options are processed. This means that the configuration file paths and  the  client's
       file  path must be relative to the --chroot argument. It also means that the configuration files and the client executable must be readable/executable by the user specified by the --user argument.
       It also means that the --chroot and --user options must not appear in the configuration file. Also note that the --name option must not appear on the right hand  side  in  the  configuration  file
       either.

MESSAGING
       The  --errlog,  --dbglog,  --output,  --stdout and --stderr options all take an argument that can be either a syslog destination of the form "facility.priority" or the path to a file. Here are the
       lists of syslog facilities and priorities:

         Facilities:
         kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, cron,
         local0, local1, local2, local3, local4, local5, local6, local7.

         Priorities:
         emerg, alert, crit, err, warning, notice (on some systems), info, debug.

       If the path to a file is supplied instead, bear in mind the fact that daemon(1) changes to the root directory by default, and so the file path should be  an  absolute  path  (or  relative  to  the
       --chroot  and/or --chdir option argument). Otherwise, daemon(1) will attempt to create the file relative to its current directory. You might not have permissions to do that, or want to even if you
       do.

CAVEAT
       Clients can only be restarted if they were started with the --respawn option. Using --restart on a non-respawning daemon client is equivalent to using --stop. If you try to restart a named daemon,
       and it stops instead, then it probably wasn't started with the --respawn option.

       Clients that are run in the foreground with a pseudo terminal don't respond to job control (i.e. suspending with Control-Z doesn't work). This is because the client belongs to an orphaned  process
       group (it starts in its own process session), so the kernel won't send it SIGSTOP signals.  However, if the client is a shell that supports job control, then its subprocesses can be suspended.

       In  KDE,  if  you  use "exec daemon" (or just "exec" without daemon) in a shell, to run a KDE application, you might find that the KDE application sometimes doesn't run. This problem has only been
       seen with konsole(1), but it might happen with other KDE applications as well. Capturing the standard error of the KDE application might show something like:

         unnamed app(9697): KUniqueApplication: Registering failed!
         unnamed app(9697): Communication problem with  "konsole" , it probably crashed.
         Error message was:  "org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown" : " "The name
                             org.kde.konsole was not provided by any .service files"

       A workaround seems to be to delay the termination of the initial daemon(1) process by at least 0.4 seconds. To make this happen, set the environment  variable  DAEMON_INIT_EXIT_DELAY_MSEC  to  the
       number of milliseconds by which to delay. For example: DAEMON_INIT_EXIT_DELAY_MSEC=400. Or you could just avoid using exec when starting KDE applications.

       On  Linux  systems  that  have  systemd(1)  or  elogind(8), you might find that your daemon processes and their client processes are terminated when you logout, even though they are in a different
       process session, and so should be unaffected. This is because systemd has the ability to terminate all of your processes when you logout. Luckily, this feature is turned off  by  default  in  some
       Linux distributions. However, if it is on, you can turn it off by adding the following line to /etc/systemd/logind.conf (or /etc/elogind/logind.conf):

         KillUserProcesses=no

SEE ALSO
       libslack(3),  daemon(3),  coproc(3),  pseudo(3),  init(8),  inetd(8), fork(2), umask(2), setsid(2), chdir(2), chroot(2), setrlimit(2), setgid(2), setuid(2), setgroups(2), initgroups(3), syslog(3),
       kill(2), wait(2), systemd-logind(8), elogind(8)

AUTHOR
       20230824 raf <raf@raf.org>

daemon-0.8.4                                                                                      20230824                                                                                        DAEMON(1)
