DANTE.CONF(5)                                                                               File Formats Manual                                                                               DANTE.CONF(5)

NAME
       dante.conf - socks client configuration file syntax

DESCRIPTION
       The  configuration  file for the socks client library allow control over logging and server selection.  It is divided into two parts; global settings and routes.  A line can be commented using the
       standard comment character #.

FORMAT
       The global settings are in the form of a keyword followed by a colon and the value.

       debug  Setting this field to 1 turns on debugging.

       logoutput
              This value controls where the client library sends logoutput.  It can be either syslog, stdout, stderr, a filename, or a combination.  The default is no logging.  Note that the value syslog
              may conflict with the program being socksified if the program also uses syslog.

       resolveprotocol
              The protocol used to resolve hostnames.  Valid values are udp, tcp and fake.  The default is udp.

       route.badexpire
              How long the "bad" marking of a route should remain set before it is removed.  Default is 300 seconds.

       route.maxfail
              How many times a route can fail before it is marked as bad.  Default is 1.

       timeout.connect
              The number of seconds the client will wait for a connect to the proxy server to complete.  The default is 0, indicating the client should use the systems default.

ROUTES
       The routes are specified with a route keyword.  Inside a pair of parenthesis ({}) a set of keywords control the behavior of the route.  Each route can contain three address  specifications;  from,
       to and via.  A route is selected for a connection based on the values within the route block.

       When searching for a route to match the clients request, the library will first look for a direct route.  Then for a socks_v4 route, a socks_v5 route, a http route, and lastly for a upnp route.

       Depending  on  how  the  library is configured and environment variables set (see the manual for socksify(1)), there may or may not be an automatic fallback to an auto-generated direct route if no
       other route is found.

       The route block can contain the following:

       ADDRESSES
              Each address field can consist of a IP-address (and where meaningful, a netmask, separated from the IP-address by a '/' sign.), a hostname, a domainname (designated by the leading '.'),  or
              an interfacename (where meaningful).  Each address can be followed by a optional port specifier.

       from   The route is used only by requests coming from the address given as value.

       to     The route is used only by requests going to the address given as value.

       via    Address of the proxy server that should be used as a gateway for the connection, or the special value direct to indicate the connection should be direct rather than go via any proxy server.

              In  the  case  of  upnp,  the  address can also be the name of the interface to use for discovering the upnp controlpoint, if the full url for the IGD is not yet known, or the special value
              broadcast to indicate the client should broadcast for an upnp-router on all available network interfaces.

       port   Parameter to from, to and via.  Accepts the keywords eq/=, ne/!=, ge/>=, le/<=, gt/>, lt/< followed by a number.  A portrange can also be given as "port <start #> -  <end  #>",  which  will
              match all port numbers within the range <start #> and <end #>.

       Options

       clientcompatibility
              Enables certain options for compatibility with broken servers.  Valid values are: necgssapi, for compatibility with servers implementing gssapi the NEC socks way.

       command
              The server supports the given commands.  Valid commands are bind, bindreply, connect, udpassociate and udpreply.   The default is all commands supported by the protocols set for the route.

              Can be used instead of, or to complement, protocol.

       gssapi.enctype
              Which encryption to enforce for GSSAPI-authenticated communication.  Possible values are clear, integrity, or confidentiality.  The default is to try for confidentially, but accept whatever
              the server offers except clear, as clear is not part of the SOCKS GSSAPI standard.

       gssapi.servicename
              Which servicename to use when involving GSSAPI.  Default is "rcmd".

       method List of authentication methods the client supports and which to offer the server.  Currently supported values are none, gssapi, and username.  The default is all supported methods.

       protocol
              The protocols the server supports.  Supported values are tcp and udp.  The default is all supported protocols.

       proxyprotocol
              The  proxy  protocols the server supports.  Currently supported values are socks_v4, socks_v5, http, and upnp.  The default is socks_v4 and socks_v5.  Note that if the socks server requires
              any form of authentication, you need to explicitly set this to to socks_v5, as v4 does not support authentication.

EXAMPLES
       See the example directory in the distribution.

ENVIRONMENT
       SOCKS_USERNAME
              Use the value of SOCKS_USERNAME as the username when doing username authentication.

       SOCKS_PASSWORD
              Use the value of SOCKS_PASSWORD as the password when doing username authentication.  Not recommended as other users on the system might be able to see your password.

       SOCKS_AUTOADD_LANROUTES
              If this variable is set to "no", the client will not try to auto-add direct routes for all addresses on the LAN.  The default is to add them.

       SOCKS_DISABLE_THREADLOCK
              If this variable is set, the client will not perform threadlocking.  The default is for the client to attempt to figure out for itself whether the application to socksify needs  threadlock‐
              ing or not.

       Some additional environment variables are documented in socksify(1).

       FILES  /etc/dante.conf

AUTHORS
       For inferno Nettverk A/S:
          Michael Shuldman
          Karl-Andre' Skevik

SEE ALSO
       socksify(1), danted(8), danted.conf(5)

       Information about new releases and other related issues can be found on the Dante WWW home page: http://www.inet.no/dante/

BUGS
       See the accompanying BUGS file.  New ones should be reported to dante-bugs@inet.no.

                                                                                                July 29 2013                                                                                  DANTE.CONF(5)
