
DAPS-XMLFORMAT(1)                                                               DAPS                                                               DAPS-XMLFORMAT(1)

NAME
       daps-xmlformat - A program in the DAPS software package, a complete environment to build HTML, PDF, ePUB and other formats from DocBook XML.

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the daps-xmlformat program.

       The daps-xmlformat program is a wrapper around the xmlformat command that is used to format XML-formatted files. Simply pass the file name to the program on
       the command line. Use the --help switch to see a usage help, like that below:

                               Usage: xmlformat [options] xml-file

                               Options:
                               --help, -h
                               Print this message and exit.
                               --backup suffix -b suffix
                               Back up the input document, adding suffix to the input
                               filename to create the backup filename.
                               --canonized-output
                               Proceed only as far as the document canonization stage,
                               printing the result.
                               --check-parser
                               Parse the document into tokens and verify that their
                               concatenation is identical to the original input document.
                               This option suppresses further document processing.
                               --config-file file_name, -f file_name
                               Specify the configuration filename. If no file is named,
                               xmlformat uses the file named by the environment variable
                               XMLFORMAT_CONF, if it exists, or ./xmlformat.conf, if it
                               exists. Otherwise, xmlformat uses built-in formatting
                               options.
                               --in-place, -i
                               Format the document in place, replacing the contents of
                               the input file with the reformatted document. (It's a
                               good idea to use --backup along with this option.)
                               --show-config
                               Show configuration options after reading configuration
                               file. This option suppresses document processing.
                               --show-unconfigured-elements
                               Show elements that are used in the document but for
                               which no options were specified in the configuration
                               file. This option suppresses document output.
                               --verbose, -v
                               Be verbose about processing stages.
                               --version, -V
                               Show version information and exit.

THIS MAN PAGE AUTHOR
       Filippo Rusconi <lopippo@debian.org>

AUTHORS
       Frank Sundermeyer <fsundermeyer@opensuse.org>
           Developer

       Thomas Schraitle <toms@opensuse.org>
           Developer

       Stefan Knorr
           Developer

       Berthold Gunreben
           Previous Developer of susedoc

       Jana Jaeger
           Previous Developer of susedoc

daps-xmlformat @DAPS_VERSION@                                                01/10/2020                                                            DAPS-XMLFORMAT(1)
