DAPTUP(8)                                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                                 DAPTUP(8)

NAME
       daptup - plugin for apt[itude] and cupt to list repository changes

SYNOPSIS
       daptup ( --pre | --post | --last ) [ -h | --help ] [ --nocolor ]

OPTIONS
       --pre  Do only 'pre' stage: collect info that will be used as 'old'. Usually need to be specified only in apt hooks.

       --post Do only 'post' stage: collect 'new' info and (if appropriate option is enabled in config file) output changes. Usually need to be specified only in apt hooks.

       --last Output changes only. This option is supposed to be specified when you want to see changes made in the last update. Note that list of outdated packages, if daptup is configured to output it,
              will be rebuilt.

       -h --help
              prints the help

       --nocolor
              Disables color output, useful for scripts or when output is not terminal. Now works only with --last option, however, you can disable color globally in configuration file.

       daptup is a script that outputs list of packages recently entered to repo, list of packages which got new updates, list of changes in 'watched' packages and, optionally, list of outdated packages.

       Starting with 0.8.0 version, daptup uses apt hooks and you don't need to explicitly call it. It will be called automatically by all the supported package managers.

TROUBLESHOOTING
       If daptup was interrupted while building the lists, the cached lists can stay in inconsistent state, which is inappropriate if you want to use --last option before the new update. There is nothing
       to  do  if interrupt occurred at the moment when old lists were building (besides running the new update). However, if interrupt occurred when the new lists were building, you can easily redo this
       stage by calling 'daptup --post'.

FILES
       /etc/daptup.conf
              self-documented configuration file

       /var/spool/daptup/outdated
              cached file with info about outdated packages

SEE ALSO
       apt-get(8), aptitude(8), cupt(1)

AUTHOR
       daptup was written by Eugene V. Lyubimkin.

       This manual page was written by Eugene V. Lyubimkin <jackyf@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                                Jan 5, 2013                                                                                       DAPTUP(8)
