DARKTABLE-GENERATE-CACHE(1)        darktable       DARKTABLE-GENERATE-CACHE(1)

NAME
       darktable-generate-cache - update darktable's thumbnail cache

SYNOPSIS
           darktable-generate-cache [-h, --help; --version] [-m, --max-mip <0-7>] [--core <darktable options>]

DESCRIPTION
       darktable is a digital photography workflow application for Linux, Mac
       OS X and several other Unices.  It's described further in darktable(1).

       darktable-generate-cache updates darktable's thumbnail cache.  You can
       start this program to generate all missing thumbnails in the background
       when your computer is idle.

OPTIONS
       All parameters are optional.  If started without parameters darktable-
       generate-cache uses reasonable defaults.

       -h, --help
           Gives usage information and terminates.

       --version
           Gives copyright and version information and terminates.

       --min-mip <0-7>
       -m, --max-mip <0-7>
           darktable can handle and store thumbnails with up to eight
           different resolution steps for each image.  These parameters define
           which maximum resolution should be generated and default to a range
           of 0-2.  There is normally no need to generate all possible
           resolutions here; missing ones will be automatically generated by
           darktable the moment they are needed.  When asked to generate
           multiple resolutions at once, the lower-resolution images are
           quickly downsampled from the highest-resolution image.

       --min-imgid <N>
       --max-imgid <N>
           Specifies the range of internal image IDs from the database to work
           on.  If no range is given, darktable-generate-cache will process
           all images from the entire collection.

       --core <darktable options>
           All command line parameters following --core are passed to the
           darktable core and handled as standard parameters.  See
           darktable(1) for a detailed description of the options.

SEE ALSO
       darktable(1)

AUTHORS
       The principal developer of darktable is Johannes Hanika.  The
       (hopefully) complete list of contributors to the project is:

       * developers: Pascal Obry Aurélien PIERRE Aldric Renaudin parafin Roman
       Lebedev

       * translators: Pascal Obry Jeronimo Pellegrini Martin Straeten EdgarLux
       Marcus Gama Matt Maguire 篠崎亮  Ryo Shinozaki Philippe Weyland Victor
       Forsiuk vertama Matjaž Jeran Aurélien PIERRE Matteo Mardegan Miloš
       Komarčević Michel Leblond Nicolas Auffray Tianhao Chai Bogusław Ciastek
       Báthory Péter PeterWem Tomasz Golinski Wiktor Nowak sbraitbart

       * contributors (at least 4 commits): ralfbrown Diederik ter Rahe Dan
       Torop Hubert Kowalski Philippe Weyland Miloš Komarčević Bill Ferguson
       Jeronimo Pellegrini hanno@schwalm-bremen.de Marco Carrarini Martin
       Straeten Daniel Vogelbacher Mark-64 EdgarLux rawfiner Nicolas Auffray
       Chris Elston Chris.Elston Marcus Gama Sakari Kapanen Victor Forsiuk
       Arnaud TANGUY wpferguson Matt Maguire David-Tillmann Schaefer Marco
       Paolo DePetrillo quovadit 篠崎亮  Ryo Shinozaki vertama Matjaž Jeran
       darkelectron piratenpanda

       * Sub-module rawspeed contributors (at least 1 commit): Roman Lebedev
       Jordan Neumeyer Miloš Komarčević Andreas Schneider Marko Toplak
       hanno@schwalm-bremen.de helloqiu luz paz

       * Sub-module integration contributors (at least 1 commit): Pascal Obry
       Sakari Kapanen ralfbrown Aurélien PIERRE

       And all those of you that made previous releases possible

       This man page was written by Ulrich Pegelow
       <ulrich.pegelow@tongareva.de> as part of the usermanual.  It was turned
       into a man page by Tobias Ellinghaus <me@houz.org>.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2009-2017 by Authors.

       darktable is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GPL v3 or (at your option) any later version.

darktable 2.3                     2017-01-20       DARKTABLE-GENERATE-CACHE(1)
