
dasher(1)                                                                                      User Commands                                                                                      dasher(1)

NAME
       dasher - graphical predictive text entry system

SYNOPSIS
       dasher [OPTIONS] [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       Dasher is an information-efficient text-entry interface, driven by natural continuous pointing gestures. Dasher is a competitive text-entry system wherever a full-size keyboard cannot be used.

OPTIONS
       dasher takes the following options:

       -a, --appstyle=STYLE
              Application  style.  STYLE can be any of traditional, direct, compose, or fullscreen.  The default is whatever was specified on the previous invocation of Dasher, or traditional when Dasher
              is started for the first time.

       -?, --help
              Describe command line options.

       --help-options
              Describe the options available with --options.

       -o, --options [option=value[,option=value...]]
              Override stored options.  Options values are remembered for subsequent invocations of Dasher.

USAGE
       The main Dasher interface is a window with a blank background containing a column of letters on the right hand side.  Click the mouse button to start.  When the pointer is  to  the  right  of  the
       crosshair the screen will zoom towards the point underneath the mouse pointer.  To select a letter, move the mouse pointer into it and watch how it zooms underneath the crosshair.  A new column of
       letters  will  appear.   Staying  within  the  box for the selected letter, move the pointer over one of these letters to select it as the next letter.  Moving the mouse pointer to the left of the
       crosshair, or outside of the box for previously selected letters, allows you to change previously selected letters.

Application Styles
       traditional
              Dasher displays an edit box above the main window.  Text entered via Dasher will appear in the edit box allowing the text to be edited directly.

       direct The edit box is not displayed.  Dasher runs without focus and the text goes into whatever window does have focus.  This way you can use it more practically to run your desktop.

       fullscreen
              dasher expands to the entire screen.

MENUS
   File
       New    Clear the edit box and associate a random filename with it.

       Open   Read a text file into the edit box for further editing.

       Save   Save the contents of the edit box to its associated file.

       Save as
              Save the contents of the edit box to a selected file.

       Append to file
              Add the contents of the edit box to the end of a selected file.

       Import training text
              Use a file to further improve Dasher's prediction of the next letters to present (for instance, a training file containing scientific terms to add to the initial English training).   Train‐
              ing files must be UTF-8 encoded.

       Quit   Exit Dasher.

   Edit
       Cut    Remove the highlighted text from the edit box and copy it to the clipboard.

       Copy   Copy the highlighted text from the edit box to the clipboard but don't remove it.

       Paste  Paste the contents of the clipboard into the edit box at the position of the cursor.

       Copy all
              Copy the entire contents of the edit box to the clipboard.

       Select all
              Highlight all of the text in the edit box.

   Options
       Preferences
              Opens the preferences dialog.

   Help
       About Dasher
              Display information about the current version of Dasher

THE PREFERENCES DIALOG
       The preferences dialog is split into several panes.

   Alphabet
       Choose a different alphabet. Dasher will automatically retrain itself if the alphabet specified training file is present.

   Colour
       Choose a different colour scheme.

   Control
       Alter various control options

       One dimensional mode
              Map the Y position of the mouse to a 2 dimensional position on the Dasher canvas (useful for limited mobility users)

       Eyetracker mode
              Similar to one dimensional mode, but behaves normally except at the right-hand side of the canvas. Designed for eyetracker users.

CONVERTING TRAINING FILES TO UTF-8
       Dasher  requires  that  training  files be in the UTF-8 format, whereas most text files are likely to be in ISO-8859 format. This doesn't matter for plain text, but accented characters are encoded
       differently. In order to convert them, use the iconv(1) program. For instance, if your training file is in ISO-8859-1 format (Western European), run iconv -f ISO-8859-1 -t UTF-8 trainingfile >new‐
       trainingfile

FILES
       /usr/share/doc/dasher
              Directory containing system-wide configuration files.

       ~/.dasher
              Directory containing user specific configuration files.

       Dasher will utilise files of the following form from both of these directories:

       alphabet.ALPHABET.xml
              The files defining the alphabets available to Dasher.

       colour.SCHEME.xml
              The files defining the colour schemes available to Dasher.

       training_LANGUAGE*.txt
              Files containing the training data used by Dasher.  These are UTF-8 encoded text and should contain a representative sample of the relevant language.  User specific training  files  can  be
              used to augment system wide data.

       Refer to the Dasher manual for more information regarding the format and editing of these files.

AUTHOR
       The Dasher Project <dasher@mrao.phy.cam.ac.uk>.

SEE ALSO
       The Dasher project web page is ⟨http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/dasher/⟩

5.0.0~beta2                                                                                      2008-02-28                                                                                       dasher(1)
