db2x_manxml(1)                     docbook2X                    db2x_manxml(1)

NAME
       db2x_manxml - Make man pages from Man-XML

SYNOPSIS
       db2x_manxml [options] [xml-document]

DESCRIPTION
       db2x_manxml  converts  a  Man-XML  document into one or more man pages.
       They are written in the current directory.

       If xml-document is not given, then the document to convert is read from
       standard input.

OPTIONS
       --encoding=encoding
              Select  the  character  encoding used for the output files.  The
              available encodings are those of iconv(1).  The default encoding
              is us-ascii.

              The XML source may contain characters that are not representable
              in the encoding that you select; in this case the  program  will
              bomb out during processing, and you should choose another encod‐
              ing.  (This is guaranteed not to happen with any Unicode  encod‐
              ing  such  as  UTF-8,  but unfortunately not everyone is able to
              process Unicode texts.)

              If you are using  GNU’s  version  of  iconv(1),  you  can  affix
              //TRANSLIT  to the end of the encoding name to attempt translit‐
              erations of any unconvertible characters in the output.  Beware,
              however, that the really inconvertible characters will be turned
              into another of those damned question marks. (Aren’t you sick of
              this?)

              The suffix //TRANSLIT applied to a Unicode encoding — in partic‐
              ular, utf-8//TRANSLIT — means that the output files are  to  re‐
              main  in  Unicode, but markup-level character translations using
              utf8trans are still to be done. So in most  cases,  an  English-
              language  document,  converted  using --encoding=utf-8//TRANSLIT
              will actually end up as a US-ASCII document, but any untranslat‐
              able characters will remain as UTF-8 without any warning whatso‐
              ever.  (Note: strictly speaking this is not  “transliteration”.)
              This  method  of conversion is a compromise over strict --encod‐
              ing=us-ascii processing,  which  aborts  if  any  untranslatable
              characters are encountered.

              Note that man pages and Texinfo documents in non-ASCII encodings
              (including UTF-8) may not be portable to older (non-internation‐
              alized)  systems, which is why the default value for this option
              is us-ascii.

              To suppress any automatic character mapping or encoding  conver‐
              sion whatsoever, pass the option --encoding=utf-8.

       --list-files
              Write  a list of all the output files to standard output, in ad‐
              dition to normal processing.

       --output-dir=dir
              Specify the directory where the output files  are  placed.   The
              default is the current working directory.

              This  option  is ignored if the output is to be written to stan‐
              dard output (triggered by the option --to-stdout).

       --to-stdout
              Write the output to standard output  instead  of  to  individual
              files.

              If this option is used even when there are supposed to be multi‐
              ple output documents, then everything is concatenated  to  stan‐
              dard  output.   But beware that most other programs will not ac‐
              cept this concatenated output.

              This option is incompatible with --list-files, obviously.

       --help Show brief usage information and exit.

       --version
              Show version and exit.

       Some man pages may be referenced under two or more  names,  instead  of
       just one. For example, strcpy(3) and strncpy(3) often point to the same
       man page which describes the two functions together.  Choose one of the
       following options to select how such man pages are to be generated:

       --symlinks
              For  each  of all the alternate names for a man page, erect sym‐
              bolic links to the file that contains the real man page content.

       --solinks
              Generate stub pages (using .so roff requests) for the  alternate
              names, pointing them to the real man page content.

       --no-links
              Do  not  make any alternative names available.  The man page can
              only be referenced under its principal name.

       This program uses certain other programs for its  operation.   If  they
       are  not  in  their default installed locations, then use the following
       options to set their location:

       --utf8trans-program=path, --utf8trans-map=charmap
              Use the character map charmap with the utf8trans(1) program, in‐
              cluded with docbook2X, found under path.

       --iconv-program=path
              The  location of the iconv(1) program, used for encoding conver‐
              sions.

NOTES
       The man pages produced should be compatible with most troff implementa‐
       tions  and other tools that process man pages.  Some backwards-compati‐
       ble groff(1) extensions are used to make the output look nicer.

AUTHOR
       Steve Cheng <stevecheng@users.sourceforge.net>.

SEE ALSO
       The docbook2X manual (in Texinfo or HTML format) fully describes how to
       convert DocBook to man pages and Texinfo.

       Up-to-date information about this program can be found at the docbook2X
       Web site ⟨http://docbook2x.sourceforge.net/⟩ .

       The input  to  db2x_manxml  is  defined  by  the  XML  DTD  present  at
       dtd/Man-XML in the docbook2X distribution.

docbook2X 0.8.8                  3 March 2007                   db2x_manxml(1)
