db2x_texixml(1)                    docbook2X                   db2x_texixml(1)

NAME
       db2x_texixml - Make Texinfo files from Texi-XML

SYNOPSIS
       db2x_texixml [options]... [xml-document]

DESCRIPTION
       db2x_texixml converts a Texi-XML document into one or more Texinfo doc‐
       uments.

       If xml-document is not given, then the document to convert  comes  from
       standard input.

       The  filenames of the Texinfo documents are determined by markup in the
       Texi-XML source. (If the filenames are not  specified  in  the  markup,
       then  db2x_texixml  attempts  to deduce them from the name of the input
       file. However, the Texi-XML source should specify the filename, because
       it does not work when there are multiple output files or when the Texi-
       XML source comes from standard input.)

OPTIONS
       --encoding=encoding
              Select the character encoding used for the  output  files.   The
              available encodings are those of iconv(1).  The default encoding
              is us-ascii.

              The XML source may contain characters that are not representable
              in  the  encoding that you select; in this case the program will
              bomb out during processing, and you should choose another encod‐
              ing.   (This is guaranteed not to happen with any Unicode encod‐
              ing such as UTF-8, but unfortunately not  everyone  is  able  to
              process Unicode texts.)

              If  you  are  using  GNU’s  version  of  iconv(1), you can affix
              //TRANSLIT to the end of the encoding name to attempt  translit‐
              erations of any unconvertible characters in the output.  Beware,
              however, that the really inconvertible characters will be turned
              into another of those damned question marks. (Aren’t you sick of
              this?)

              The suffix //TRANSLIT applied to a Unicode encoding — in partic‐
              ular,  utf-8//TRANSLIT  — means that the output files are to re‐
              main in Unicode, but markup-level character  translations  using
              utf8trans  are  still  to be done. So in most cases, an English-
              language document,  converted  using  --encoding=utf-8//TRANSLIT
              will actually end up as a US-ASCII document, but any untranslat‐
              able characters will remain as UTF-8 without any warning whatso‐
              ever.   (Note: strictly speaking this is not “transliteration”.)
              This method of conversion is a compromise over  strict  --encod‐
              ing=us-ascii  processing,  which  aborts  if  any untranslatable
              characters are encountered.

              Note that man pages and Texinfo documents in non-ASCII encodings
              (including UTF-8) may not be portable to older (non-internation‐
              alized) systems, which is why the default value for this  option
              is us-ascii.

              To  suppress any automatic character mapping or encoding conver‐
              sion whatsoever, pass the option --encoding=utf-8.

       --list-files
              Write a list of all the output files to standard output, in  ad‐
              dition to normal processing.

       --output-dir=dir
              Specify  the  directory  where the output files are placed.  The
              default is the current working directory.

              This option is ignored if the output is to be written  to  stan‐
              dard output (triggered by the option --to-stdout).

       --to-stdout
              Write  the  output  to  standard output instead of to individual
              files.

              If this option is used even when there are supposed to be multi‐
              ple  output  documents, then everything is concatenated to stan‐
              dard output.  But beware that most other programs will  not  ac‐
              cept this concatenated output.

              This option is incompatible with --list-files, obviously.

       --info Pipe  the Texinfo output to makeinfo(1), creating Info files di‐
              rectly instead of Texinfo files.

       --plaintext
              Pipe the Texinfo output to makeinfo --no-headers, thereby creat‐
              ing plain text files.

       --help Show brief usage information and exit.

       --version
              Show version and exit.

       This  program  uses  certain other programs for its operation.  If they
       are not in their default installed locations, then  use  the  following
       options to set their location:

       --utf8trans-program=path, --utf8trans-map=charmap
              Use the character map charmap with the utf8trans(1) program, in‐
              cluded with docbook2X, found under path.

       --iconv-program=path
              The location of the iconv(1) program, used for encoding  conver‐
              sions.

NOTES
       Texinfo   language  compatibility.   The  Texinfo  files  generated  by
       db2x_texixml sometimes require Texinfo version 4.7 (the latest version)
       to work properly.  In particular:

       • db2x_texixml  relies on makeinfo to automatically add punctuation af‐
         ter a @ref if it it not already there. Otherwise the  hyperlink  will
         not  work in the Info reader (although makeinfo will not emit any er‐
         ror).

       • The new @comma{} command is used for commas (,) occurring inside  ar‐
         gument  lists  to Texinfo commands, to disambiguate it from the comma
         used to separate different arguments. The only alternative  otherwise
         would  be  to  translate  , to .  which is obviously undesirable (but
         earlier docbook2X versions did this).

         If you cannot use version 4.7 of makeinfo, you can still  use  a  sed
         script to perform manually the procedure just outlined.

       Relation of Texi-XML with the XML output format of makeinfo.  The Texi-
       XML format used by docbook2X is different and incompatible with the XML
       format  generated by makeinfo(1) with its --xml option.  This situation
       arose partly because the Texi-XML format of docbook2X was designed  and
       implemented  independently before the appearance of makeinfo’s XML for‐
       mat.  Also Texi-XML is very much geared towards being machine-generated
       from other XML formats, while there seems to be no non-trivial applica‐
       tions of makeinfo’s XML format.  So there is no reason  at  this  point
       for docbook2X to adopt makeinfo’s XML format in lieu of Texi-XML.

BUGS
       • Text  wrapping  in menus is utterly broken for non-ASCII text.  It is
         probably also broken everywhere else in the output, but that would be
         makeinfo’s fault.

       • --list-files might not work correctly with --info. Specifically, when
         the output Info file get too big, makeinfo will decide  to  split  it
         into  parts named abc.info-1, abc.info-2, abc.info-3, etc.  db2x_tex‐
         ixml does not know exactly how many of these files there are,  though
         you can just do an ls to find out.

AUTHOR
       Steve Cheng <stevecheng@users.sourceforge.net>.

SEE ALSO
       The docbook2X manual (in Texinfo or HTML format) fully describes how to
       convert DocBook to man pages and Texinfo.

       Up-to-date information about this program can be found at the docbook2X
       Web site ⟨http://docbook2x.sourceforge.net/⟩ .

       The  input  to  db2x_texixml  is  defined  by  the  XML  DTD present at
       dtd/Texi-XML in the docbook2X distribution.

docbook2X 0.8.8                  3 March 2007                  db2x_texixml(1)
