db2x_xsltproc(1)                   docbook2X                  db2x_xsltproc(1)

NAME
       db2x_xsltproc - XSLT processor invocation wrapper

SYNOPSIS
       db2x_xsltproc [options] xml-document

DESCRIPTION
       db2x_xsltproc invokes the XSLT 1.0 processor for docbook2X.

       This  command  applies  the  XSLT  stylesheet  (usually  given  by  the
       --stylesheet option) to the XML document in the file xml-document.  The
       result is written to standard output (unless changed with --output).

       To  read  the source XML document from standard input, specify - as the
       input document.

OPTIONS
       --version
              Display the docbook2X version.

   TRANSFORMATION OUTPUT OPTIONS
       --output file, -o file
              Write output to the given file (or  URI),  instead  of  standard
              output.

   SOURCE DOCUMENT OPTIONS
       --xinclude, -I
              Process XInclude directives in the source document.

       --sgml, -S
              Indicate  that  the  input document is SGML instead of XML.  You
              need this set this option if xml-document  is  actually  a  SGML
              file.

              SGML parsing is implemented by conversion to XML via sgml2xml(1)
              from the SP package (or osx(1) from the OpenSP package). All tag
              names in the SGML file will be normalized to lowercase (i.e. the
              -xlower option of sgml2xml(1) is used). ID attributes are avail‐
              able for the stylesheet (i.e. option -xid). In addition, any ISO
              SDATA entities used in the SGML document are automatically  con‐
              verted  to their XML Unicode equivalents. (This is done by a sed
              filter.)

              The encoding of the SGML document, if it is not  us-ascii,  must
              be   specified  with  the  standard  SP  environment  variables:
              SP_CHARSET_FIXED=1 SP_ENCODING=encoding.  (Note that  XML  files
              specify  their  encoding  with  the  XML  declaration <?xml ver‐
              sion="1.0" encoding="encoding" ?> at the top of the file.)

              The above conversion options cannot be changed.  If  you  desire
              different conversion options, you should invoke sgml2xml(1) man‐
              ually, and then pass the results of that conversion to this pro‐
              gram.

   RETRIEVAL OPTIONS
       --catalogs catalog-files, -C catalog-files
              Specify additional XML catalogs to use for resolving Formal Pub‐
              lic Identifiers or URIs. SGML catalogs are not supported.

              These catalogs are not used for parsing an SGML  document  under
              the  --sgml  option.  Use  the  environment  variable SGML_CATA‐
              LOG_FILES instead to specify the catalogs for parsing  the  SGML
              document.

       --network, -N
              db2x_xsltproc  will  normally  refuse to load external resources
              from the network, for security reasons.  If you do want to  load
              from the network, set this option.

              Usually you want to have installed locally the relevent DTDs and
              other files, and set up catalogs for them, rather than load them
              automatically from the network.

   STYLESHEET OPTIONS
       --stylesheet file, -s file
              Specify  the  filename  (or  URI) of the stylesheet to use.  The
              special values man and texi are accepted  as  abbreviations,  to
              specify  that xml-document is in DocBook and should be converted
              to man pages or Texinfo (respectively).

       --param name=expr, -p name=expr
              Add or modify a parameter to the stylesheet.  name is a XSLT pa‐
              rameter  name, and expr is an XPath expression that evaluates to
              the desired value for the parameter. (This  means  that  strings
              must  be quoted, in addition to the usual quoting of shell argu‐
              ments; use --string-param to avoid this.)

       --string-param name=string, -g name=string
              Add or modify a string-valued parameter to the stylesheet.

              The string must be encoded in UTF-8 (regardless  of  the  locale
              character encoding).

   DEBUGGING AND PROFILING
       --debug, -d
              Display, to standard error, logs of what is happening during the
              XSL transformation.

       --nesting-limit n, -D n
              Change the maximum number of nested calls to XSL templates, used
              to detect potential infinite loops.  If not specified, the limit
              is 500 (libxslt’s default).

       --profile, -P
              Display profile information: the total number of calls  to  each
              template in the stylesheet and the time taken for each. This in‐
              formation is output to standard error.

       --xslt-processor processor, -X processor
              Select the underlying XSLT processor used. The possible  choices
              for processor are: libxslt, saxon, xalan-j.

              The  default  processor  is  whatever was set when docbook2X was
              built.  libxslt is recommended (because it is  lean  and  fast),
              but SAXON is much more robust and would be more helpful when de‐
              bugging stylesheets.

              All the processors have XML  catalogs  support  enabled.   (doc‐
              book2X  requires  it.)   But note that not all the options above
              work with processors other than the libxslt one.

ENVIRONMENT
       XML_CATALOG_FILES
              Specify XML Catalogs.  If not specified,  the  standard  catalog
              (/etc/xml/catalog) is loaded, if available.

       DB2X_XSLT_PROCESSOR
              Specify  the  XSLT  processor to use.  The effect is the same as
              the --xslt-processor option. The primary use of this variable is
              to  allow  you to quickly test different XSLT processors without
              having to add --xslt-processor to every script or make  file  in
              your documentation build system.

CONFORMING TO
       XML Stylesheet Language – Transformations (XSLT), version 1.0 ⟨http://
       www.w3.org/TR/xslt⟩ , a W3C Recommendation.

NOTES
       In its earlier versions (< 0.8.4), docbook2X required  XSLT  extensions
       to  run,  and  db2x_xsltproc was a special libxslt-based processor that
       had these extensions compiled-in. When the requirement for XSLT  exten‐
       sions  was dropped, db2x_xsltproc became a Perl script which translates
       the options to db2x_xsltproc to conform to the format accepted  by  the
       stock xsltproc(1) which comes with libxslt.

       The  prime reason for the existence of this script is backward compati‐
       bility with any scripts or make files that invoke  docbook2X.  However,
       it  also  became easy to add in support for invoking other XSLT proces‐
       sors with a unified command-line interface.  Indeed, there  is  nothing
       special  in this script to docbook2X, or even to DocBook, and it may be
       used for running other sorts of stylesheets if  you  desire.  Certainly
       the author prefers using this command, because its invocation format is
       sane and is easy to use. (e.g. no typing long class names for the Java-
       based processors!)

AUTHOR
       Steve Cheng <stevecheng@users.sourceforge.net>.

SEE ALSO
       The docbook2X manual (in Texinfo or HTML format) fully describes how to
       convert DocBook to man pages and Texinfo.

       Up-to-date information about this program can be found at the docbook2X
       Web site ⟨http://docbook2x.sourceforge.net/⟩ .

       You may wish to consult the documentation that comes with libxslt, SAX‐
       ON, or Xalan. The W3C XSLT 1.0 specification would be useful for  writ‐
       ing stylesheets.

docbook2X 0.8.8                  3 March 2007                 db2x_xsltproc(1)
