DBFADD(1)                                                                                           shapelib                                                                                          DBFADD(1)

NAME
       dbfadd - add a row to an xBase DBF file

SYNOPSIS
       dbfadd xbase_file field_values...

DESCRIPTION
       Adds a row to the DBF file named by xbase_file with column values given by the field_values options that follow. A NULL value is denoted by an empty argument.

OPTIONS
       xbase_file
              the name of an existing xBase file

       field_values
              list  of  values  to  be  inserted  into the xBase file. You must specify a number of values equal to the number of fields the xBase file has. The order of values must also reflect the order of
              fields inside xBase file.

EXAMPLE
       dbfadd testbase.dbf REGION1 25.656 150.22

       Assuming that testbase.dbf has 3 fields (NAME, AREA and VALUE), this command line will insert a new record into testbase.dbf with the value "REGION1" for NAME, ´25.656´ for AREA and ´150.22´ for VALUE
       field.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      Missing xbase_file or field_values arguments.

       2      Failed to open xbase_file for reading and appending.

       3      Too few values in field_values...

DIAGNOSTICS
       The following diagnostics may be issued on stdout:

       DBFOpen(xbase_file,"rb+") failed.

       Got count1 fields, but require count2

AUTHOR
       dbfcreate  is  part of shapelib, maintained by Frank Warmerdam. This guide was created by Eduardo Patoo Kanegae and converted to manpage by Johan Van de Wauw. It was further enhanced with the man page
       written by Joonas Pihlaja (jpihlaja@cc.helsinki.fi).

BUGS
       Field values that are too large to fit in a field are silently truncated from the right. Numeric field values that can´t be parsed by atof(3) get undefined values.

SEE ALSO
       dbfcat(1), dbfcreate(1), dbfdump(1), dbfinfo(1), shpadd(1), shpcat(1), shpcentrd(1), shpcreate(1), shpdump(1), shpdxf(1), shpfix(1), shpinfo(1), shpproj(1), shprewind(1), shptest(1)

                                                                                                  October 2019                                                                                        DBFADD(1)
