dctrl2xml(1)                                                                                                                                                                                   dctrl2xml(1)

NAME
       dctrl2xml - Debian control data to XML converter

SYNOPSIS
       dctrl2xml [-x | -j] [-f FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       dctrl2xml  is  a tool that converts Debian control data into an XML representation. It can be used to convert data which is normally found in debian/control, .changes, .dsc, Packages, Sources, and
       similar files to XML.

       For most fields dctrl2xml just uses the field name as element name and the field data as element content. For other fields, such as package interrelationship fields (Depends, Build-Depends,  etc.)
       or the Files field in .changes or Sources files, dctrl2xml additionally parses their field data to represent it in a more fine-structured form.

OPTIONS
       For a full summary of options, run dctrl2xml --help.

       --version
              Show dctrl2xml's version number.

       -h, --help
              Show help about options.

       -f FILE, --file=FILE
              Read Debian control data from file FILE instead of standard input.  FILE can be either a plain text file or a gzip, bzip2 or ZIP file.

       -x, --xml
              Output Debian control data as XML (default).

       -j, --json
              Output Debian control data as JSON.

EXAMPLES
       dctrl2xml -f /var/lib/dpkg/available
              Convert the whole dpkg(1) available file to XML and print it to standard output. This is a typical stress test for dctrl2xml.

       apt-cache show hello build-essential | dctrl2xml
              Convert  the  package  records  of the hello and build-essential packages to XML and print it to standard output. This is an example of how dctrl2xml can be used in pipes where it reads the
              control data from standard input.

       apt-cache showsrc hello | dctrl2xml | xmllint --format -
              This is similar to the above example, except that the xmllint(1) tool (which is in the libxml2-utils Debian package) is used to reformat and reindent dctrl2xml's output to make it more  hu‐
              man readable and that the source package records of the hello package are used.

       apt-cache showsrc hello | dctrl2xml -j
              In this example hello's source package record is printed as JSON instead of XML.

SEE ALSO
       deb-control(5)

AUTHOR
       Written by Frank S. Thomas <fst@debian.org>.

                                                                                               20 August 2010                                                                                  dctrl2xml(1)
