DEBTREE(1)                                                                                                                                                                                       DEBTREE(1)

NAME
       debtree - show relationships between packages

SYNOPSIS
       debtree [options] package

DESCRIPTION
       Generates dependency graphs (in `dot' syntax) for the specified package.  The output is written to STDOUT and can be used as input for the command dot(1) from the package `graphviz'.

       Dependency  graphs  will by default show (pre-)dependencies, recommended packages, unversioned conflicts, and virtual packages provided by the requested package. Optionally also suggested packages
       and versioned conflicts can be included.

       Besides graphs showing regular dependencies, debtree can also generate graphs showing the reverse dependencies of and the build dependencies for a package.

   Dependency types
       The type of dependency between packages is by line type and the color of the arrow indicating the dependency:
           Build-Depends:           dark gold, bold
           Build-Depends-Indep:     light gold
           Pre-Depends:             purple, bold
           Depends:                 blue
           Recommends:              black
           Suggests:                black, dotted
           Conflicts:               red
           Provides:                green, inverted arrow

       By default the version requirements for versioned dependencies and conflicts will be shown alongside the arrow.

   Alternative dependencies
       Alternative dependencies will be shown within a single node (a rectangular shape with horizontal lines separating the packages).

       An alternative dependency will be indicated by a single arrow, unless one or more of the dependencies are versioned. In that case a separate arrow (ending at the relevant package) showing the ver‐
       sion requirement is drawn. Arrows for dependencies on a package in a set of alternatives will originate at the correct package in the set, though in some cases this may be on the  separation  line
       between two alternatives.

       If a package included in an alternative dependency also needs to be displayed separately or is also part of some other alternative dependency set, its dependencies will only be included once, with
       the package's first occurrence.  For the secondary occurrences the package name will be shown between square brackets: `[...]'.

       See also the --show-installed option below.

   Virtual packages
       Virtual packages will be shown as an octagonal shape with a green inverted arrow from the providing package(s).

       If only a single package provides the virtual package, this package (and its dependencies) will be displayed in the graph.

       If  there  are  multiple  packages  that  provide  the virtual package, they will be shown within a single node with rounded corners but only if there are less than three (or the number set by the
       --max-providers option).  If there are more than that number, this will be indicated by an ellipsis (`...') in the node; no individual packages will be shown but the number of  providing  packages
       is indicated alongside the arrow.  Dependencies of the providing packages will not be shown.

       A regular dependency graph will by default also show any virtual packages provided by the requested binary package.

   Unknown packages
       Packages that are listed as dependency, but that are unknown in the package database will be displayed with a reddish shade. In the case of alternative dependencies, the package name will be shown
       between question marks: `?...?'.

   Package versions
       If  multiple  versions  of  a  package are available, the dependency information for the highest available version will be used, with one exception. If the --show-installed option is used, the in‐
       stalled version will be used for packages that are installed on the system.

   Managing graph size and complexity
       debtree offers several mechanisms to help reduce the size of dependency graphs of packages with large or complex dependency trees. The first mechanism is to limit what types  of  dependencies  are
       included, for example excluding Recommended or Conflicting packages from the graph. The second mechanism is the configuration of lists of skip and end packages; see the section CONFIGURATION below
       for details. The last mechanism is to place a hard limit on the depth of the dependency tree.

       It is not possible to include the dependencies of suggested packages. Doing so would in almost all cases result in an explosion of the size of graphs.

       For  some  packages  it  is unfortunately almost impossible to generate a usable dependency graph due to the number of dependencies they have. This is often the case for meta packages, for example
       those for KDE or GNOME.

OPTIONS
       This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').  An overview of supported options is included below.

       --show-installed, -I
              Show which packages are installed on the system.

              The nodes for packages which are installed on the system will be colored light green. For alternative dependencies, only installed packages will be included (an ellipsis is used to indicate
              omitted alternatives); for unsatisfied alternative dependencies, all alternatives will be included.

       --show-rdeps, -R
              Also show reverse dependencies of the package and any virtual packages it provides.

              Reverse dependencies that are not installed will be colored light yellow; installed ones light blue. Displaying reverse dependencies of type Suggests is not supported.

              Use of the option --show-installed in combination with this option is recommended. See also the options --rdeps-depth and --max-rdeps.  This option is ignored if --build-dep is also  speci‐
              fied.

       --build-dep, -b
              Show build dependencies instead of package dependencies.

              Suggested  packages  will  never be included in a build dependency graph.  If there are alternative packages to satisfy a dependency, normally only the first alternative will be shown. How‐
              ever, when used in combination with the --show-installed option, all already installed alternatives will be included for satisfied dependencies (unless the --no-alternatives option is  also
              given).

       --arch=architecture
              Specify the architecture (or `all') for the build dependency graph. If the option --buildep option is not present, this option will be ignored.  Default is the architecture of the system on
              which the command is being run.

              If architecture `all' is specified, all build dependencies will be shown.  If any build dependencies have `architecture conditions', those will be displayed in a graph.

              If  an  architecture  is specified (including the default), only build dependencies that are relevant for that architecture will be shown; build dependencies for other architectures will be
              ignored.

       --with-suggests, -S
              Include suggested packages; dependencies of suggested packages are never included.

       --no-recommends
              Don't show recommended packages.

              This option will be ignored if used in combination with the --with-suggests option.

       --no-alternatives
              Only show the first package from a set of alternative dependencies. Effectively this shows what package would be installed by default (in most cases).

       --no-provides
              Don't show virtual packages provided by the requested package.

       --max-providers=number
              When there are multiple packages providing a virtual package, only show the providing packages if there are less than this number. Default is 3.

       --no-versions
              Don't show the versions for versioned dependencies.

       --no-conflicts
              Don't show unversioned conflicts.

       --versioned-conflicts, -VC
              Include versioned conflicts; by default only unversioned conflicts are shown.

              This option will be ignored if used in combination with the --no-conflicts option.

       --max-depth=number
              Limit the number of levels of dependencies that is traversed.

              This option sets a limit to the number of levels debtree will recurse when determining dependencies. Packages at the specified level will be treated as end packages (see section  CONFIGURA‐
              TION below).

              The option can be used both to reduce the size of graphs.

       --rdeps-depth=number
              The maximum number of levels for reverse dependencies.

              By default only one level is displayed. Use this option to display more levels.  Implies --show-rdeps.

       --max-rdeps=number
              Limit the display of indirect reverse dependencies.

              When  displaying  multiple  levels of reverse dependencies, a reverse dependency that itself has a lot of reverse dependencies can really explode the graph.  By default up to 5 indirect re‐
              verse dependencies are shown individually.

       --no-skip
              Also display dependencies that are suppressed by default (e.g. libc6).

              When selected, skip packages will be treated as end packages instead.  This means that dependencies that by default are not included in graphs, will now be  shown,  but  their  dependencies
              will not. See also the section CONFIGURATION below.

       --skiplist=file
              File with the list of custom skip packages. This overrides global skiplist configuration.  See also the section CONFIGURATION.

       --endlist=file
              File with the list of custom end packages. This overrides global endlist configuration.  See also the section CONFIGURATION

       --show-all
              Display the full dependency tree.

              When  selected, all default limits in the form of end and  skip packages are disabled and the full dependency graph for the package will be generated. See also the section CONFIGURATION be‐
              low.

              This option implies the --no-skip option, but can be used in combination with the --max-depth option. Note that this option does not affect the types of dependencies that are included.

       --rotate, -r
              Draw the graph top-town instead of left-to-right.

       --condense
              Activates an option of dot(1) that can help reduce the clutter in dense graphs by concentrating lines  (relationships) between packages together for parts of their paths.

       --quiet, -q
              Suppress any informational/warning messages.

       --verbose, -v
              Increase verbosity.

              Displays additional informational and debug messages; can be repeated up to three times.

CONFIGURATION
       debtree can be configured to limit the size and complexity of dependency graphs. This is done using two lists:

       /etc/debtree/skiplist, ~/.debtree/skiplist
              List of skip packages. Packages included in this list are completely excluded from graphs. The list should only contain dependencies that are so common that including them  in  graphs  only
              clutters  the graph and does not really add any information. Examples are libc6 and zlib1g. If an alternative dependency contains only skip packages it will be omitted; if it contains a mix
              of skip and non-skip packages, the presence of the skip packages will be shown using an ellipsis ('...').

       /etc/debtree/endlist, ~/.debtree/endlist
              List of end packages. Packages included in this list are shown in the graph, but their dependencies will not be shown. A diamond shape is used to indicate an end package; in the case of al‐
              ternative dependencies, the package name will be shown between braces: `{...}'.

              Preferably only packages that offer a functionality that is somewhat distinct from its reverse dependencies should be included in this list. In some cases it may be necessary  to  also  in‐
              clude packages because their dependency tree is just too big or complex.

       If a list is present under the HOME directory of the user, that file will be used instead of the default file in /etc/debtree/.

       See also the options --no-skip, --show-all and --max-depth, --skiplist, --endlist.

EXAMPLES
       Below are some basic usage examples for debtree.  For more extensive examples of graphs and additional information, please see the debtree website: https://salsa.debian.org/debian/debtree.

       $ debtree dpkg >dpkg.dot
              Generate the dependency graph for package dpkg and save the output to a file `dpkg.dot'.

       $ dot -Tsvg -o dpkg.svg dpkg.dot
              Use dot(1) to generate an SVG image from the `.dot' file.

       $ debtree dpkg | dot -Tpng >dpkg.png
              Generate the dependency graph for package dpkg as PNG image and save the resulting output to a file.

       $ debtree -b dpkg | dot -Tps | kghostview - &
              Generate the build dependency graph for package dpkg in postscript format and view the result using KDE's kghostview(1).

SEE ALSO
       dot(1).  prune(1).  gvpr(1).

AUTHOR
       Frans Pop <elendil@planet.nl>.

Debian Project                                                                                   2009-09-12                                                                                      DEBTREE(1)
