debug-me(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               debug-me(1)

NAME
       debug-me - secure remote debugging

SYNOPSIS
       debug-me [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Debugging  a problem over email is slow, tedious, and hard. The developer needs to see the your problem to understand it. Debug-me aims to make debugging fast, fun, and easy, by letting the devel‐
       oper access your computer remotely, so they can immediately see and interact with the problem. Making your problem their problem gets it fixed fast.

       A debug-me session is logged and signed with the developer's GnuPG key, producing a chain of evidence of what they saw and what they did.  So the developer's good reputation is leveraged  to  make
       debug-me secure.  If you trust a developer to ship software to your computer, you can trust them to debug-me.

       When you start debug-me without any options, it will connect to a debug-me server, and print out an url that you can give to the developer to get them connected to you. Then debug-me will show you
       their  GnuPG  key  and who has signed it, and will let you know if they are a known developer of software on your computer. If the developer has a good reputation, you can proceed to let them type
       into your console in a debug-me session. Once the session is done, the debug-me server will email you the signed evidence of what the developer did in the session.

       It's a good idea to watch the debug-me session. The developer should be running their buggy program in different ways, perhaps running a debugger, or looking at configuration  files.  They  should
       *not*  be  looking  at your personal files without asking you first in the debug-me chat window.  They should not be downloading or installing other software. If you see them do anything you don't
       expect, you can enter "/quit" in the control window to immediately end the debug-me session.

       If the developer did do something bad, you'd have proof that they cannot be trusted, which you can share with the world. Knowing that is the case will keep most developers honest.

USER OPTIONS
       --run cmd
              Normally debug-me will run your login shell. To run some other command, use this option.

       --use-server url
              Specify a debug-me server to use. Not normally needed since there is a default server.

DEVELOPER OPTIONS
       url    Connect to a debug-me session on the specified url, to see and interact with the user's bug. You need a GnuPG key to use this.

       --watch url
              Connect to a debug-me session on the specified url and display what happens in the session. Your keystrokes will not be sent to the session.

COMMON SESSION OPTIONS
       --control
              debug-me uses a separate window than the one displaying the debug-me session, to control the session. This control window is where debug-me shows the user what developers want to connect to
              the session.  The user and developer can also chat using the control window.

              Normally, the control window will be opened when debug-me starts, by running a terminal emulator (xterm or gnome-terminal, etc).  If debug-me is not being run in  a  graphical  environment,
              that won't work, and you'll need to open another shell prompt and run "debug-me --control" to see it.

LOG FILE OPTIONS
       --download url
              Download  a  debug-me  log file from the specified url. Note that if the debug-me session is still in progress, this will continue downloading until the session ends. The signature chain in
              the log file is verified as it is downloaded, but developer gpg signatures are not verified.

       --replay logfile
              Replay a debug-me log file with realistic pauses.

              While this is running, you can press Space to skip forward in the recording to the next point, which is useful when there are long pauses in the recording.

       --verify logfile
              Verify that the log file contains a valid chain of hashes, and valid signatures. Will exit nonzero if any problem is detected. Displays the gpg public keys of any developers who  interacted
              with the debug-me session.

       --graphviz logfile
              Uses graphviz to generate a visualization of a debug-me log file.

       --show-hashes
              Include hashes in the graphviz visualization.

SERVER OPTIONS
       --server logdir
              Run a debug-me server, logging to the specified directory.

       --port N
              Specify a port for the debug-me server to listen to.

       --from-email address
              The  server  will  email  session  logs  to  users.  It's  a  good  idea  to  provide a real email address, otherwise a dummy one will be used.  You can also set the enviroment variable DE‐
              BUG_ME_FROM_EMAIL to configure this.

       --delete-old-logs
              Normally the server will retain old log files so that users and developers can refer to them. This option makes it delete the log file once the session is done.

FILES
       ~/.debug-me/log/
              Sessions are logged to here. The log file name is displayed when debug-me exits.

       ~/.debug-me/log/remote/
              When using debug-me to connect to a remote session, the session will be logged to here.

       /usr/share/debug-me/keyring/*.gpg
              When verifying a developer's gpg key, debug-me checks if it's listed in the keyrings in this directory, which can be provided by software installed on the computer.

SEE ALSO
       <https://debug-me.branchable.com/>

       gnupg(1)

AUTHOR
       Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>

                                                                                                  Commands                                                                                      debug-me(1)
