DECK(1)                                                                                        User Commands                                                                                        DECK(1)

NAME
       deck - Configuration management for Kong and Kong Enterprise

DESCRIPTION
       decK helps you manage Kong clusters with a declarative configuration file.

       It can be used to export, import or sync entities to Kong.

   Usage:
              deck [command]

   Available Commands:
       completion
              Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell

       diff   Diff the current entities in Kong with the on on disks

       dump   Export Kong configuration to a file

       help   Help about any command

       ping   Verify connectivity with Kong

       reset  Reset deletes all entities in Kong

       sync   Sync performs operations to get Kong's configuration to match the state file

       validate
              Validate the state file

       version
              Print the version of decK

   Flags:
       --ca-cert string
              Custom CA certificate to use to verify Kong's Admin TLS certificate.  This value can also be set using DECK_CA_CERT environment variable.

       --config string
              config file (default is $HOME/.deck.yaml)

       --headers strings
              HTTP Headers(key:value) to inject in all requests to Kong's Admin API.  This flag can be specified multiple times to inject multiple headers.

       -h, --help
              help for deck

       --kong-addr string
              HTTP Address of Kong's Admin API.  This value can also be set using DECK_KONG_ADDR

              environment variable. (default "http://localhost:8001")

       --no-color
              disable colorized output

       --skip-workspace-crud
              Skip API calls related to Workspaces (Kong Enterprise only)

       --tls-server-name string
              Name to use to verify the hostname in Kong's Admin TLS certificate.  This value can also be set using DECK_TLS_SERVER_NAME environment variable.

       --tls-skip-verify
              Disable verification of Kong's Admin TLS certificate.  This value can also be set using DECK_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY environment variable.

       --verbose int
              Enable verbose verbose logging levels Setting this value to 2 outputs all HTTP requests/responses between decK and Kong.

       Use "deck [command] --help" for more information about a command.

deck 1.4.0                                                                                       June 2025                                                                                          DECK(1)
