DECOPY(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 DECOPY(1)

NAME
       decopy - Automatic debian/copyright generator

SYNTAX
       decopy [options] [files or dirs]

DESCRIPTION
       Decopy  is  a  tool that automates creating and updating the debian/copyright files. It does this by parsing all files in a source tree, figuring out the copyright attribution and license for each
       file (when possible) and then structuring the output in the copyright format 1.0.

USAGE
       Simply running decopy in the source tree that needs to be parsed will process all files in the tree, group them by license, wildcard those groups and generate the proper output to  be  written  to
       the debian/copyright file.

       If  the  source tree already includes a debian/copyright file, it will be used as input for files where the license could not be inferred, for the copyright of the debian directory and for the li‐
       cense snippets (which need to be filled in manually if there is no debian/copyright file).

       The files or directories specified as positional arguments can be used to limit the processing to the indicated subset instead of processing the complete source tree.

EXAMPLES
       On top of the simple decopy usage, these examples show some of the most common usecases. Please see the following sections for detailed explanations of what each of the parameters do.

       decopy --root src/hello-1.0/ --output src/hello-1.0/debian/copyright
              This runs the parser in the hello-1.0 source tree and generates the debian/copyright file in the source tree (the debian/ directory needs to pre-exist this call).

       decopy --mode partial src/3rdparty/ninja
              This shows the licensing and copyright information for the src/3rdparty/ninja directory. Only that directory is analyzed and the output includes only files contained in it.

       decopy --group-by copyright
              This processes the complete current source tree, paragraphs are split not only according to the licenses but also according to the copyright owners.

       decopy src
              This will process the src directory but, provided debian/copyright already exists, show the complete updated debian/copyright file.

COMMON OPTIONS
       --mode <mode>
              Indicates the mode to use when generating the output. The full mode (default) will generate a complete debian/copyright file, even if only some files were processed (the rest  of  the  con‐
              tents are taken from the original debian/copyright file). While the partial mode will only print the copyright and licensing information for the indicated files.

       --output <file>, -o <file>
              Store the generated output in the indicated file. This will overwrite the file if it already exists.

       --root <path>
              Process the indicated path instead of the current directory.

GROUPING CRITERIA
       The generated output will always create separate paragraphs for groups of files with different licenses, additionally, it can also split paragraphs according to the following grouping options.

       --group-by <criteria>
              When  grouping  by license (default), all copyright owners of different files with the same license are listed together. When grouping by copyright, each different group of copyright owners
              is listed separatedly (files that have the exact same list of copyright owners are listed together).

       --split-on-license
              When a subdirectory has its own license file (COPYING, LICENSE, etc), the subdirectory is given its own paragraph, even if it has the same license as the main directory.  This  is  the  de‐
              fault.

       --no-split-on-license
              Even if a subdirectory has its own license file, the contents are listed together with other files in the tree that have the same license.

       --split-debian
              Even if the contents of the debian/ subdirectory have the same license as the main content, split it onto a separate paragraph. This is the default.

       --no-split-debian
              If the contents of the debian/ subdirectory have the same license as the main content, they are listed together.

LOG LEVEL OPTIONS
       The default logging shows WARN and ERROR messages. It can be modified with the following flags:

       --debug
              Show DEBUG, INFO, WARN and ERROR messages.

       --verbose, -v
              Show INFO, WARN and ERROR messages.

       --quiet, -q
              Show only ERROR messages.

LESS COMMON OPTIONS
       --copyright-file <filename>
              Specify a different copyright file to be used as a base for the processing. Defaults to debian/copyright

       --text Parse all files as text files, instead of using the different parsers according to the file types (e.g. using exiftool for images).

       --exclude <path>, -X <path>
              Exclude  files from being parsed. The path can be specified as a regular expression that is matched against the full relative path for the file (e.g. -X '.*\.jpg$' to exclude all files that
              have the .jpg extension. or -X doc/ to exclude all files inside the doc/ directory). As a special case, debian/copyright and debian/changelog are always excluded..

COMPARISON WITH OTHER HELPERS
       Decopy was inspired by previous copyright helpers like copyright-helper by Modestas Vainius https://anonscm.debian.org/cgit/users/modax/copyright-helper.git/, licensecheck(1) by Jonas  Smedegaard,
       or the copyright helper shipped with debmake(1), written by Osamu Aoki.

       The  main  difference  with  all of them, is that decopy aims to detects as many licenses as possible, including many more that those in the other helpers, as well as the fact that it's capable of
       processing more than just plain text files.

       Additionally, while it is possible to use it for the creation of the copyright file, its main usecase is to keep the copyright file updated with any changes that are done to  the  source  tree  as
       time passes.

AUTHORS
       Decopy was written by Maximiliano Curia. The debian packaging and this manpage were created by Margarita Manterola.

COPYRIGHT
       Decopy and all the associated code and documentation are released under the ISC license.

                                                                                                 April 2025                                                                                       DECOPY(1)
