DEPQBF(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 DEPQBF(1)

NAME
       depqbf - a solver for quantified boolean formulae

SYNOPSIS
       depqbf [options ...] [NUM] [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       depqbf  is  a search-based solver for quantified boolean formulae (QBF) in prenex conjunctive normal form. It is based on the DPLL algorithm for QBF with conflict-driven clause and solution-driven
       cube learning. By analyzing the structure of a formula, DepQBF tries to identify independent variables. In addition to other benefits, this often increases freedom for decision  making.  See  also
       the JSAT system description of DepQBF 0.1 from QBFEVAL'10 for references and a brief outline of the idea.

       depqbf reads QBF formulas in QDIMACS format. If FILE is not given, it reads its input from stdin. It complies with input/output standards as required by QBFEVAL'10.

OPTIONS
       depqbf accepts the following options:

       -h, --help
              Print usage information.

       --version
              Print version.

       --pretty-print
              Only parse and print formula.

       -v     Increase verbosity incrementally.

       NUM    Optional: time-out after NUM seconds.

       FILE   Optional: read input from FILE.

EXIT STATUS
       The exit status is 10 if the QBF formula given as input is satisfiable, and 20 if it is unsatisfiable; any other exit code indicates that the formula was not solved.

SEE ALSO
       picosat(1), minisat(1), clasp(1).

AUTHOR
       depqbf was written by Florian Lonsing <florian.lonsing@jku.at>.

       This manual page was written by Thomas Krennwallner <tkren@kr.tuwien.ac.at>,

                                                                                              August 26, 2011                                                                                     DEPQBF(1)
