DERRICK(1)                        User Manual                       DERRICK(1)

NAME
       derrick -- a simple network stream recorder

SYNOPSIS
       derrick [-mvVh] [-i interface] [-r file] [-f expression] [-l file] [-b
       bytes] [-t lines]

DESCRIPTION
       derrick is a simple tool for recording data streams of TCP and UDP
       traffic.  It shares similarities with other network recorders, such as
       tcpflow and wireshark, where it is more advanced than the first and
       clearly inferior to the latter.

       derrick has been specifically designed to monitor application-layer
       communication.  In contrast to other tools the application data is
       logged in a line-based text format.  Common UNIX tools, such as grep,
       sed & awk, can be directly applied.  Even replay of recorded
       communication is straight forward using netcat.

       derrick supports on-the-fly compression and rotation of log files.
       Payloads of TCP sessions are re-assembled using libnids and can be
       merged or truncated.  UDP payloads are logged as-is.  Details of lower
       network layers are omitted.

OUTPUT FORMAT
       derrick outputs the monitored network traffic in a line-based text
       format, where each line corresponds to one recorded TCP or UDP payload.
       Note that TCP payloads are re-assembled and thus not necessary match
       the corresponding TCP datagrams.

       Each line of the output has the following format:

          <TIME> <FLAG> <SRC> <DST> <PAYLOAD>

       The different fields of the output are defined as follows

       <TIME>    This field specifies the time at which the payload has been
                 monitored. The time is given as standard UNIX time and
                 encoded as a floating-point number of seconds.

       <FLAG>    This field indicates the type of payload that has been
                 recorded. U refers to a UDP payload and T refers to a TCP
                 payload. Additionally, the beginning and end of TCP streams
                 are marked by T+ and T-, respectively.

       <SRC>     This field specifies the source of the payload. It is a tuple
                 of an IP address and a port number in form of IP:PORT.

       <DST>     This field specifies the destination of the payload. It is a
                 tuple of an IP address and a port number in form of IP:PORT.

       <PAYLOAD> The last field is the monitored payload. Non-printable
                 characters are escaped using standard URI encoding. Each non-
                 printable characters is replaced by %XX where XX is the
                 character's hexadecimal ASCII number.

       An example output of derrick looks as follows

         05.80 T 10.100.163.103:58445 91.198.174.233:80 GET /index.html ...

       The line shows a TCP payload recorded at time 05.80, that is, 5.8
       seconds after new year's eve of 1970 ;). The payload is directed to
       port 80 (HTTP) and shows the beginning of a typical HTTP GET request.
       Note that whitespaces are not escaped in the payload and thus each line
       may seemingly have more than 5 fields. However, starting from the 5th
       field all following white-spaces are part of the payload.

OPTIONS
       derrick supports the following command-line options which can be used
       to control the recording of network traffic.

       -i interface  Record network traffic from this interface. On Linux
                     systems with 2.2 or later kernels, an interface argument
                     of "any" can be used to capture packets from all
                     interfaces.

       -r file       Read network traffic from a dump file in pcap format.
                     Dump files can be created using tcpdump.

       -f expression Filter network traffic using a filter expression. Only
                     packets that match the expression will be recorded.
                     Consult the man page of tcpdump for a description of
                     filter expressions.

       -l file       Write output to a compressed log file instead of stdout.
                     This option can be used when derrick runs in the
                     background. The log file will be rotated if a certain
                     number of lines have been logged, see -t.

       -b bytes      Record only the first bytes of each TCP stream. The
                     number of bytes is computed from incoming and outgoing
                     TCP payloads.

       -m            Merge consecutive TCP payloads in the same direction.
                     This options comes handy if protocol messages are split
                     over multiple TCP payloads.

       -t lines      Rotate the log file after the given number of lines.

       -v            Increase the verbosity of derrick during recording.

       -h            Print a brief help screen.

       -V            Print a version and copyright string.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Konrad Rieck (konrad@mlsec.org)

       Derrick is licensed under the new BSD License. See the file COPYING in
       the source distribution for more information.

derrick 0.3                       2021-07-21                        DERRICK(1)
