DIATHEKE(1)                                                                                  Diatheke man page                                                                                  DIATHEKE(1)

NAME
       diatheke - a command line Bible reader

SYNOPSIS
       diatheke -b module_name [-o option_filters] [-m maximum_verses] [-f output_format] [-e output_encoding] [-t script] [-v variant_number] [-l locale] -k query_key

       diatheke -b module_name -s regex|multiword|phrase [-r search_range] [-l locale] -k search_string

       diatheke  -b system -k modulelist|modulelistnames|localelist|bibliography modulelist will return a list of the names and descriptions of all installed modules modulelistnames will return a list of
       the names of all installed modules localelist will return a list of all installed libsword locales bibliography will return a list of all installed modules and their BibTex  bibliographical  entry
       diatheke -b info -k module_name

DESCRIPTION
       diatheke prints Bible verses or other text from the modules which the Sword library uses.

OPTIONS
       -b     Module name. May be "system" or "info" (see QUERY KEYS) or one of the names obtained by using "diatheke -b system -k modulelist".

       -s     Search type. One of regex (regular expression, see regex(7)), multiword (like "word [AND word]..."), phrase (exact text).

       -r     Search range. A valid Bible key range value (see -k). For example: Matt-John, Rom, gen-psalms, 1Thess 1:5-2:6.

       -o     Module option filters. A combination of "fmhcvalsrbwgeixtM". See MODULE OPTIONS.

       -m     Maximum number of verses returned. Any integer value.

       -f     Output format.One of CGI, GBF, HTML, HTMLHREF, LaTeX, OSIS, RTF,
                ThML, WEBIF, XHTML, plain, and internal (def)

              This currently works only if there is a Sword library filter from the original format to the specified output format. XHTML, HTML and CGI are for generating text for a webpage.

       -e     Output character encoding. One of Latin1, UTF16, HTML, RTF, UTF8 (default).  This currently works only for module contents, not for system key contents or key texts.

       -v     Variant. The text may contain variant readings. One of -1 (all), 0, 1.

       -l     Locale. Sword may have different locales installed. Default is en. Localization affects input and output keys.

       -k     Query key. It must be the last argument because all following arguments are added to the key. See QUERY KEYS for different kinds of keys.

MODULE OPTIONS
       By default the optional features of modules are not shown in the returned text. These options make them visible if the module supports them.

       n      Strong's numbers. These numbers refer to the Strong's dictionaries of the New and Old Testaments. Some Bible texts attach these numbers to words.

       f      Footnotes.

       m      Morphology of the Greek/Hebrew words. Morphology is shown as a code which refers to an entry in some dictionary-type module.

       h      Section headings.

       c      Hebrew cantillation.

       v      Hebrew vowels.

       a      Greek accents.

       p      Arabic vowels

       l      Lemmas (the base forms of the words).

       s      Scripture cross-references.

       r      Arabic shaping.

       b      Bi-directional reordering.

       w      Red Words of Christ.

       g      Glosses/Ruby

       e      Word Enumerations

       i      Intros

       x      Encoded transliterations, i.e. transliterations provided by the module (currently few modules have any such information)

       t      Algorithmic Transliterations via ICU

       M      morpheme segmentation

QUERY KEYS
       Bible texts and Commentaries
              use  verse keys. Examples: john 1:1, j1:1 jh1 (the first chapter of John), jh (the whole book of Gospel of John), joh 1:1-3 ( a verse range), joh 1:0 (one verse backwards from 1:1, which is
              the last verse of the previous book or possibly an introduction to John), joh 1:100 (which is 100 verses forward from the first verse of John 1:1), 1234 (which is the 1234th verse from  the
              beginning of the Bible).

       Lexicons and Dictionaries
              use word keys. Any word can be used and similar or next entry alphabetically is returned.  Some dictionaries like Strong's use numbered entries.

       system is  not a module but when used with -b allows one of these keys: modulelist (list of the available modules with short descriptions), modulelistnames (list of the names of the available mod‐
              ules), localelist (list of the available Sword locales).

       info   is not a module but when used with -b allows a module name as a key and gives some information about that module.

EXAMPLES
       diatheke -b KJV -k joh1:1
              Shows John 1:1 in King James Version.

       diatheke -b RWP -k Matthew 2:2
              Shows Matthew 2:2 in Robertson's Word Pictures commentary.

       diatheke -b WebstersDict -k bible
              Show entry "bible" in Websters Dictionary.

       diatheke -b system -k modulelist
              Shows the list of available modules.

       diatheke -b KJV -o fmslx -f OSIS -e Latin1 -k john 1:1-3
              Shows John 1:1-3 from KJV in OSIS XML format in iso8859-1 encoding with footnotes, morphology, cross-references, lemmas and words of Christ in red. (The module may  not support all  options
              and those have no effect. KJV includes only ASCII characters so encoding has no effect.)

       diatheke -b GerLut -l de -m 10 -k Offenbarung
              Shows the first 10 verses of Revelation in German GerLut version, both input and output keys are localized.

       diatheke -b KJV -s phrase -r Mt -k love
              Shows those verse keys which include phrase "love" in Gospel of Matthew in KJV module.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Currently  diatheke  exits always with status 0. If only Bible verse key and module name are shown it means that the module did not have any content in that range. If only module name is shown the
       key may have been bad. If nothing is shown the book name may have been bad. If Segmentation fault is shown diatheke has been bad.

SEE ALSO
       http://www.crosswire.org/sword/

COPYRIGHT
       Sword library: © 1994-2018 Crosswire Bible Society, released under GPL licence.  Diatheke: written by Chris Little, Peter von Kaehne, Troy Griffitts Manpage: written by Eeli Kaikkonen,  Peter  von
       Kaehne © 1999-2018 Crosswire Bible Society, released under GPL licence.

diatheke 4.8                                                                                     2018-11-08                                                                                     DIATHEKE(1)
