DICOMSCOPE(1)                                                                                   OFFIS DCMTK                                                                                   DICOMSCOPE(1)

NAME
       dicomscope - DICOM Viewer

SYNOPSIS
       dicomscope DICOMFile.dcm

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the dicomscope command.

       DICOMscope is a free DICOM viewer which can display uncompressed, monochrome DICOM images from all modalities and which supports monitor calibration according to DICOM part 14 as well as presenta‐
       tion  states. DICOMscope offers a print client (DICOM Basic Grayscale Print Management) which also implements the optional Presentation LUT SOP Class. The development of this prototype was commis‐
       sioned by the "Committee for the Advancement of DICOM" and demonstrated at the European Congress of Radiology ECR 1999. An enhanced version was developed for the "DICOM Display Consistency  Demon‐
       stration"  at  RSNA InfoRAD 1999. The current release 3.5.1 has been demonstrated at ECR 2001 and contains numerous extensions, including a print server, support for encrypted DICOM communication,
       digital signatures and structured reporting.

       DICOMscope is not meant as a competition for commercial DICOM viewers. The application is rather a feasibility study for DICOM presentation states. The program is not appropriate to be used  in  a
       clinical environment, e.g. for reporting.

DISCLAIMER
       This  software is made available, as is, and OFFIS, the Institute for Microtherapy / VISUS-TT and OTech make no warranty regarding the software, its performance, its merchantability or fitness for
       any particular use, freedom from any computer diseases or its conformity to any specification. The entire risk as to quality and performance of the software is with the user. This software is  in‐
       tended for investigational use only. It has not been tested or approved for clinical application or production environments.

SEE ALSO
       See the project homepage http://dicom.offis.de/dscope.php.en for more information.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1994-2005 by Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Escherweg 2, 26121 Oldenburg, Germany.

       This manual page was written by Mathieu Malaterre <malat@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

Version 3.6.0                                                                                   20 Aug 2009                                                                                   DICOMSCOPE(1)
