DICTD(8)                                                                                                                                                                                           DICTD(8)

NAME
       dictd - a dictionary database server

SYNOPSIS
       dictd [options]

DESCRIPTION
       dictd  is  a  server for the Dictionary Server Protocol (DICT), a TCP transaction based query/response protocol that allows a client to access dictionary definitions from a set of natural language
       dictionary databases.

       For security reasons, dictd drops root permissions after startup.  If user dictd exists on the system, the daemon will run as that user, group dictd, otherwise it will run as  user  nobody,  group
       nobody or nogroup (depending on the operating system distribution).

       Since startup time is significant, the server is designed to run continuously, and should not be run from inetd(8).  (However, with a fast processor, it is feasible to do so.)

       Databases are distributed separately from the server.

       By  default,  dictd assumes that the index files are sorted alphabetically, and only alphanumeric characters from the 7-bit ASCII character set are used for search.  This default may be overridden
       by a header in the data file.  The only such features implemented at this time are the headers "00-database-allchars" which tells dictd that  non-alphanumeric  characters  may  also  be  used  for
       search,  the  header  "00-database-utf8" which indicates that the database uses utf8 encoding, and the "00-database-8bit-new" which indicates that the database is encoded and sorted according to a
       locale that uses an 8-bit encoding.

BACKGROUND
       For many years, the Internet community has relied on the "webster" protocol for access to natural language definitions.  The webster protocol supports access to a single  dictionary  and  (option‐
       ally) to a single thesaurus.  In recent years, the number of publicly available webster servers on the Internet has dramatically decreased.

       Fortunately,  several freely-distributable dictionaries and lexicons have recently become available on the Internet.  However, these freely-distributable databases are not accessible via a uniform
       interface, and are not accessible from a single site.  They are often small and incomplete individually, but would collectively provide an interesting and useful database of English words.   Exam‐
       ples include the Jargon file, the WordNet database, MICRA's version of the 1913 Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary, and the Free Online Dictionary of Computing.  (See the DICT protocol speci‐
       fication (RFC) for references.)  Translating and non-English dictionaries are also becoming available (for example, the FOLDOC dictionary is being translated into Spanish).

       The webster protocol is not suitable for providing access to a large number of separate dictionary databases, and extensions to the current webster protocol were not felt to be a clean solution to
       the dictionary database problem.

       The  DICT protocol is designed to provide access to multiple databases.  Word definitions can be requested, the word index can be searched (using an easily extended set of algorithms), information
       about the server can be provided (e.g., which index search strategies are supported, or which databases are available), and information about a database can be provided (e.g., copyright, citation,
       or distribution information).  Further, the DICT protocol has hooks that can be used to restrict access to some or all of the databases.

       dictd(8) is a server that implements the DICT protocol.  Bret Martin implemented another server, and several people (including Bret and myself) have implemented clients in a variety of languages.

OPTIONS
       -V or --version
              Display version information.

       --license
              Display copyright and license information.

       -h or --help
              Display help information.

       -v or --verbose or  -dverbose
              Be verbose.

       -c file or --config file
              Specify configuration file.  The default is /etc/dictd/dictd.conf , but may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICTD_CONFIG_FILE).

       -p port or --port port
              Overrides the keyword port in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       -i or --inetd
              Communicate on standard input/output, suitable for use from inetd.  Although, due to its rather large startup time, this daemon was not intended to run from inetd, with a fast processor  it
              is feasible to do so. This option also implies --fast-start.

       --pp prog
              Sets a preprocessor for configuration file.  like  m4 or  cpp .  See examples/dictd_complex.conf file from distribution. By default configuration file is parsed without preprocessor.

       --depth length
              Overrides the keyword depth in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --delay seconds
              Overrides the keyword delay in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --facility facility
              The same as syslog_facility keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       -f or --force
              Force  the daemon to start even if an instance of the daemon is already running.  (This is of little value unless a non-default port is specified with -p, since, if one instance is bound to
              a port, the second one fails when it can not bind to the port.)

       --limit children
              Overrides the keyword limit in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --listen-to host
              Overrides the keyword listen_to in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --address-family family
              Overrides the keyword address_family in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --locale locale
              Overrides the keyword locale in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       -s     The same as syslog keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       -L file or --logfile file
              The same as log_file keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       --pid-file file
              The same as pid_file keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       -m minutes  or --mark minutes
              Overrides the keyword timestamp in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --default-strategy strategy
              Overrides the keyword default_strategy in Global Settings Specification section of configuration file.

       --without-strategy strat1,strat2,...
              The same as without_strategy keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       --add-strategy strategy_name:description
              The same as add_strategy keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       --fast-start
              The same as fast_start keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       --without-mmap
              The same as without_mmap keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       --stdin2stdout
              When applied with --inetd, each command obtained from stdin is output to stdout. This option is useful for debugging.

       -l option or --log option
              The same as log_option keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

       -d option
              The same as debug_option keyword in Global Settings Specification of configuration files.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       Introduction
              The configuration file defaults to /etc/dictd/dictd.conf but can be specified on the command line with the -c option (see above).

              The configuration file is read into memory at startup, and is not referenced again by dictd unless a signal 1 (SIGHUP) is received, which will cause dictd to reread the configuration file.

              The file is divided into sections.  The Access Section should come first, followed by the Database Section, and the User Section.  The Database Section is required; the others are optional,
              but they must be in the order listed here.

       Syntax The following keywords are valid in a configuration file: access, allow, deny, group, database, data, index, filter, prefilter, postfilter, name, include, user,  authonly,  site.   Keywords
              are  case  sensitive.   String arguments that contain spaces should be surrounded by double quotes.  Without quoting, strings may contain alphanumeric characters and _, -, ., and *, but not
              spaces.  Strings can be continued between lines.  \", \\, \n, \<NL> are treated as double quote, backslash, new line and no symbol respectively.  Comments start with # and extend to the end
              of the line.

       Global Settings Section

              global { global settings specification }
                     Used to set global dictd setting such as log file, syslog facility, locale and so on.

              EXAMPLE:
                     See examples/dictd4.conf file from the distribution.

       Access Section

              access { access specification }
                     This section contains access restrictions for the server and all of the databases collectively.  Per-database control is specified in the Database Section.

              EXAMPLE:
                     See examples/dictd3.conf file from the distribution.

       Database Section

              database string { database specification }
                     The string specifies the name of the database (e.g., wn or web1913).  (This is an arbitrary name selected by the administrator, and is not necessarily related to the file name or any
                     name listed in the data file.  A short, easy to type name is often selected for easy use with dict -d.)

                     EXAMPLE: See examples/dictd*.conf files from the distribution.

                     NOTE: If the files specified in the database specification do not exist on the system, dictd may silently fail.

              database_virtual string { virtual database specification }
                     This section specifies the virtual database.  The string specifies the name of the database (e.g., en-ru or fren).

                     EXAMPLE: See examples/dictd_virtual.conf or examples/dictd_complex.conf files from the distribution.

              database_plugin string { plugin specification }
                     This section specifies the plugin.  The string specifies the name of the database.

                     EXAMPLE: See examples/dictd_plugin_dbi.conf or examples/dictd_complex.conf files from the distribution.

              database_mime string { mime specification }
                     Traditionally, databases created for dictd contained plain text only because dictd releases before 1.10.0 didn't have full support of OPTION  MIME  option  (consult  with  RFC-2229).
                     This  section describes the special database which behaves differently depending on whether OPTION MIME command was received from client or was not, i.e. the database created by this
                     section allows one to return to the client either a plain text or specially formatted content depending on whether DICT client supports (or wants  to  receive)  MIMEized  content  or
                     doesn't.  The string specifies the name of the database.

                     NOTE: All this is about DEFINE command only.  MATCH, SHOW DB, SHOW STRAT, SHOW INFO, SHOW SERVER and HELP commands return texts prepended with empty line only.

                     EXAMPLE: See examples/dictd_mime.conf file from the distribution.

              database_exit
                     Excludes following databases from the '*' database.  By default '*' means all databases available.  Look at 'examples/dictd_virtual.conf' file for example configuration.

                     NOTE: If you use 'virtual' dictionaries, you should use this directive, otherwise you will search the same dictionary twice.

              User Section

                     user string string
                            The first string specifies the username, and the second string specifies the shared secret for this username.  When the AUTH command is used, the client will provide the user‐
                            name  and a hashed version of the shared secret.  If the shared secret matches, the user is said to have authenticated, and will have access to databases whose access specifi‐
                            cations allow that user (by name, or by wildcard).  If present, this section must appear last in the configuration file.  There may be many user entries.   The  shared  secret
                            should be kept secret, as anyone who has access to it can access the shared databases (assuming access is not denied by domain name).

              Access Specification
                     Access specifications may occur in the Access Section or in the Database Section.  The access specification will be described here.

                     For allow, deny, and authonly, a star (*) may be used as a wild card that matches any number of characters.  A question mark (?) may be used as a wildcard that matches a single char‐
                     acter.  For example, 10.0.0.* and *.edu are valid strings.

                     Further,  a range of IP addresses and an IP address followed by a netmask may be specified.  For example, 10.0.0.0:10.0.0.255, 10.0.0.0/24, and 10.0.0.* all specify the same range of
                     IP numbers.  Notation cannot be combined on the same line.  If the notation does not make sense, access will be denied by default.  Use the --debug auth option to debug related prob‐
                     lems.

                     Note that these specifications take only one string per specification line.  However, you can have multiple lines of each type.

                     The syntax is as follows:

                     allow string
                            The string specifies a domain name or IP address which is allowed access to the server (in the Access Section) or to a database (in the Database Section).  Note that more than
                            one string is not permitted for a single "allow" line, but more than one "allow" lines are permitted in the configuration file.

                     deny string
                            The string specifies a domain name or IP address which is denied access to the server (in the Access Section) or to a database (in the Database Section).  Note that if reverse
                            DNS is not working, then only the IP number will be checked.  Therefore, it is essential to deny networks based on IP number, since a denial based on domain name may  not  al‐
                            ways be checked.

                     authonly string
                            This  form  is only useful in the Access Section.  The string specifies a domain name or IP address which is allowed access to the server but not to any of the databases.  All
                            commands are valid except DEFINE, MATCH, and SHOW DB.  More specifically AUTH is a valid command, and commands which access the databases are not allowed.

                     user string
                            This form is only useful in the Database Section.  The string specifies a username that is allowed to access this database after a successful AUTH command is executed.

       Global Settings Specification
              This section describes the following parameters:

              port string_or_number
                     Specifies the port or service name (e.g., 2628).  The default is 2628, as specified in the DICT Protocol RFC, but may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICT_DEFAULT_SER‐
                     VICE).

              site string
                     Used to specify the filename for the site information file, a flat text file which will be displayed in response to the SHOW SERVER command.

                     EXAMPLE: See examples/dictd4.conf file from the distribution.

              site_no_banner boolean
                     By default SHOW SERVER command outputs information about dictd version and an operating system type.  This option disables this.

              site_no_uptime boolean
                     By default SHOW SERVER command outputs information about uptime of dictd , a number of forks since startup and forks per hour.  This option disables this.

              site_no_dblist boolean
                     By default SHOW SERVER command outputs internal information about databases, such as a number of headwords, index size and so on.  This option disables this.

              delay number
                     Specifies the number of seconds a client may be idle before the server will close the connection.  Idle time is defined to be the time the server is waiting for input  and  does  not
                     include the time the server spends searching the database. The default is 0 seconds (no limit), but may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICT_DEFAULT_DELAY).

                     NOTE: Setting delay option disables limit_time option. Only one of them (last specified in dictd.conf ) is in effect.

                     NOTE: Connections are closed without warning since no provision for premature connection termination is specified in the DICT protocol RFC.

              depth number
                     Specify  the queue length for listen(2).  Specifies the number of pending socket connections which are queued by the operating system.  Some operating systems may silently limit this
                     value to 5 (older BSD systems) or 128 (Linux).  The default is 10 but may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICT_QUEUE_DEPTH).

              limit_childs number
                     Specifies the number of daemons that may be running simultaneously.  Each daemon services a single connection.  If the limit is exceeded, a (serialized) connection will  be  made  by
                     the  server  process, and a response code 420 (server temporarily unavailable) will be sent to the client.  This parameter should be adjusted to prevent the server machine from being
                     overloaded by dict clients, but should not be set so low that many clients are denied useful connections. The default is 100, but may be changed in the defs.h file  at  compile  time
                     (DICT_DAEMON_LIMIT_CHILDS).

              limit number
                     Synonym for limit_childs.  For backward compatibility only.

              limit_matches number
                     Specifies the maximum number of matches that can be returned by MATCH query. Zero means no limit. The default is 2000.

              limit_definitions number
                     Specifies the maximum number of definitions that can be returned by DEFINE query. Zero means no limit. The default is 200.

              limit_time number
                     Specifies  the  number  of  seconds  a  client may talk to the server before the server will close the connection.  The default is 600 seconds (10 minutes), but may be changed in the
                     defs.h file at compile time (DICT_DEFAULT_LIMIT_TIME).

                     NOTE: Setting limit_time option disables delay option. Only one of them (last specified in dictd.conf ) is in effect.

                     NOTE: Connections are closed without warning since no provision for premature connection termination is specified in the DICT protocol RFC.

              limit_queries number
                     Specifies the number of queries (MATCH, DEFINE, SHOW DB etc.)  that client may send to the server before the server will close the connection.  Zero means no limit.  The  default  is
                     2000, but may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICT_DEFAULT_LIMIT_QUERIES).

              timestamp number
                     How often a timestamp should be logged (int minutes).  (This is effective only if logging has been enabled with the -s or -L option, or with a debugging option.)

              log_option option
                     Specify  a  logging option.  This is effective only if logging has been enabled with the -s or -L option or in configuration file, or logging to the console has been activated with a
                     debugging option (e.g., --debug nodetach.  Only one option may be set with each invocation of this option; however, multiple invocations of this option may be made  in  configuration
                     file or dictd command line.  For instance:
                     dictd -s --log stats --log found --log notfound
                     is a valid command line, and sets three logging options.

                     Some of the more verbose logging options are used primarily for debugging the server code, and are not practical for normal use.

                     server Log server diagnostics.  This is extremely verbose.

                     connect
                            Log all connections.

                     stats  Log all children terminations.

                     command
                            Log all commands.  This is extremely verbose.

                     client Log results of CLIENT command.

                     found  Log all words found in the databases.

                     notfound
                            Log all words not found in the databases.

                     timestamp
                            When logging to a file, use a full timestamp like that which syslog would produce.  Otherwise, no timestamp is made, making the files shorter.

                     host   Log name of foreign host.

                     auth   Log authentication failures.

                     min    Set  a  minimal  number  of options.  If logging is activated (to a file, or via syslog), and no options are set, then the minimal set of options will be used.  If options are
                            set, then only those options specified will be used.

                     all    Set all of the options.

                     none   Clear all of the options.

                     To facilitate location of interesting information in the log file, entries are marked with initial letters indicating the class of the line being logged:

                     I      Information about the server, connections, or termination statistics.  These lines are generally not designed to be parsed automatically.

                     E      Error messages.

                     C      CLIENT command information.

                     D      Definitions found in the databases searched.

                     M      Matches found in the database searched.

                     N      Matches which were not found in the databases searched.

                     T      Trace of exact line sent by client.

                     A      Authentication information.

                     To preserve anonymity of the client, do not use the connect or host options.  Clients may or may not send host information using the CLIENT command, but this should be an option that
                     is selectable on the client side.

              debug_option string
                     Activate a debugging option.  There are several, all of which are only useful to developers.  They are documented here for completeness.  A list can be obtained interactively by  us‐
                     ing -d with an illegal option.

                     verbose
                            The same as -v or --verbose.  Adds verbosity to other options.

                     scan   Debug the scanner for the configuration file.

                     parse  Debug the parser for the configuration file.

                     search Debug the character folding and binary search routines.

                     init   Report database initialization.

                     port   Log client-side port number to the log file.

                     lev    Debug Levenshtein search algorithm.

                     auth   Debug the authorization routines.

                     nodetach
                            Do not detach as a background process.  Implies that a copy of the log file will appear on the standard output.

                     nofork Do not fork daemons to service requests.  Be a single-threaded server.  This option implies nodetach, and is most useful for using a debugger to find the point at which daemon
                            processes are dumping core.

                     alt    Debugs altcompare in index.c.

              locale string
                     Specifies  the  locale  used  for  searching.  If no locale is specified, the "C" locale is used.  The locale used for the server should be the same as that used for dictfmt when the
                     database was built (specifically, the locale under which the index was sorted). The locale should be specified for both 8-bit and UTF-8 formats. If locale contains utf8 or utf-8 sub‐
                     string, UTF-8 format is expected.  Note that if your database is not in ASCII7 or UTF-8 format, then the dictd server will not be compliant to RFC 2229.

                     NOTE If utf-8 or 8-bit dictionaries are included in the configuration file, and the appropriate --locale has not been specified, dictd will fail to start.  This  implies  that  dictd
                     will not run with both utf-8 and 8-bit dictionaries in the configuration file.

              add_strategy strategy_name description
                     Adds strategy strategy_name with the description description.  This new search strategy may be implemented with a help of plugins.  Both strategy_name and description are strings.

              default_strategy string
                     Set  the  server's  default search strategy for MATCH search type.  The compiled-in default is 'lev'.  It is also possible to set default strategy per database.  See default_strategy
                     keyword in Database specification section.

              disable_strategy string
                     Disable specified strategies.  By default all implemented search strategies are enabled.  It is also possible to disable strategies per database.   See  disable_strategy  keyword  in
                     Database specification section.

              listen_to host
                     Local host name or IP address for bind.  If unspecified or *, dictd will bind to all interfaces.  Otherwise, dictd will bind to this address only.

              address_family family
                     If 4, address family is IPv4 (the default), if 6, address family is IPv6.

              syslog string
                     Log using the syslog(3) facility.

              syslog_facility string
                     Specifies  the  syslog  facility  to  use.  The use of this option implies the -s option to turn on logging via syslog.  When the operating system libraries support SYSLOG_NAMES, the
                     names used for this option should be those listed in syslog.conf(5).  Otherwise, the following names are used (assuming the particular facility is defined in the header files): auth,
                     authpriv, cron, daemon, ftp, kern, lpr, mail, news, syslog, user, uucp, local0, local1, local2, local3, local4, local5, local6, and local7.

              log_file string
                     Specify the file for logging.  The filename specified is recomputed on each use using the strftime(3) call.  For example, a filename ending in ".%Y%m%d" will write to log files  end‐
                     ing in the year, month, and date that the log entry was written.
                     NOTE: If dictd does not have write permission for this file, it will silently fail.

              pid_file string
                     The specified filename will be created to contain the process id of the main dictd process. The default is /var/run/dictd.pid

              fast_start
                     By default, dictd creates (in memory) additional index to make the search faster.  This option disables this behaviour and makes startup faster.

              without_mmap
                     do not use the mmap(2) function and read entire files into memory instead.  Use this option, if you know exactly what you are doing.

       Database Specification
              The database specification describes the database:

              data string
                     Specifies  the  filename for the flat text database.  If the filename does not begin with '.' or '/', it is prepended with $datadir/. It is a compile time option. You can change this
                     behaviour by editing Makefile or running ./configure --datadir=...

              index string
                     Specifies the filename for the index file.  Path matter is similar to that described above in "data" option .

              index_suffix string
                     This is optional index file to make 'suffix' search strategy faster (binary search).  It is generated by 'dictfmt_index2suffix'. Run "dictfmt_index2suffix --help" for  more  informa‐
                     tion.  Path matter is similar to that described above in "data" option .

              index_word string
                     This  is  optional  index  file to make 'word' search strategy faster (binary search).  It is generated by 'dictfmt_index2word'. Run "dictfmt_index2word --help" for more information.
                     Path matter is similar to that described above in "data" option .

              prefilter string
                     Specifies the  prefilter command.  When  a chunk of the compressed database is  read, it will be filtered  with  this filter before being decompressed.  This may be  used to  provide
                     some additional compression  that knows about the data and can provide better compression than the LZ77 algorithm used by zlib.

              postfilter string
                     Specifies the postfilter command.  When a chunk of the compressed database is read, it will be filtered with this filter before the offset and length for the entry are used to access
                     data.  This is provided for symmetry with the prefilter command, and may also be useful for providing additional database compression.

              filter string
                     Specifies  the filter command.  After the entry is extracted from the database, it will be filtered with this filter.  This may be used to provide formatting for the entry (e.g., for
                     html).

              name string
                     Specifies the short name of the database (e.g., "1913 Webster's").  If the string begins with @, then it specifies the headword to look up in the dictionary to find the short name of
                     the database.  The default is "@00-database-short", but this may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICT_SHORT_ENTRY_NAME).

              info string
                     Specifies the information about database.  If the string begins with @, then it specifies the headword to look up in the dictionary to find information.  The  default  is  "@00-data‐
                     base-info", but this may be changed in the defs.h file at compile time (DICT_INFO_ENTRY_NAME).

              invisible
                     Makes  dictionary  invisible to the clients i.e. this dictionary will not be recognized or shown by DEFINE, MATCH, SHOW INFO, SHOW SERVER and SHOW DB commands. If some definitions or
                     matches are found in invisible dictionary, the name of the upper visible virtual dictionary is returned.  Dictionaries '*' and '!' don't include invisible ones.  NOTE: Invisible dic‐
                     tionaries are completely inaccessible (and invisible) to the client unless they are included to the virtual or MIME dictionary (See database_virtual or  database_mime  database  sec‐
                     tions).

              disable_strategy string
                     Disables  the  specified  strategy  for  database.   This  may  be useful for slow dictionaries (plugins) or for dictionaries included to virtual ones.  For an example see file exam‐
                     ples/dictd_complex.conf.

              default_strategy string
                     Specifies the strategy which will be used if the database is accessed using the strategy '.'.  I.e. this directive is the way to set the preferred search strategy per  database.  For
                     example, instead of strategy lev , the strategy word may be preferred for databases mainly containing the multiword phrases but the single words.

       Virtual Database Specification
              The virtual database specification describes the virtual database:

              database_list string
                     Specifies a list of databases which are included into the virtual database.  Database names are in the string and are separated by comma.

              name string
                     Specifies the short name of the database. See database specification

              info string
                     Specifies the information about database. See database specification

              invisible
                     Makes dictionary invisible to the clients. See database specification

              disable_strategy string
                     Disables the specified strategy for database.  See database specification

       Plugin Specification

              plugin string
                     Specifies a filename of the plugin.

              data string
                     Specifies data for initializing plugin.

              name string
                     Specifies the short name of the database.  See Database Specification for more information.

              info string
                     Specifies the information about database.  See Database Specification for more information.

              invisible
                     Makes dictionary invisible to the clients.  See Database Specification for more information.

              disable_strategy string
                     Disables the specified strategy for database.  See Database Specification for more information.

              default_strategy string
                     Sets the default search strategy for database.  See Database Specification for more information.

       Mime Specification

              dbname_nomime string
                     Specifies the real database name which is used in case OPTION MIME command was NOT received from a client.

              dbname_mime string
                     Specifies  the real database name which is used in case OPTION MIME command WAS received from a client.  A necessary MIME header is set while creating a database.  See dictfmt(1) for
                     option --mime-header.

              name string
                     Specifies the short name of the database.  See Database Specification for more information.

              info string
                     Specifies the information about database.  See Database Specification for more information.

              invisible
                     Makes dictionary invisible to the clients.  See Database Specification for more information.

              disable_strategy string
                     Disables the specified strategy for database.  See Database Specification for more information.

              default_strategy string
                     Sets the default search strategy for database.  See Database Specification for more information.

       include string
              The text of the file "string" (usually a database specification) will be read as if it appeared at this location in the configuration file.  Nested includes are not permitted.

DETERMINATION OF ACCESS LEVEL
       When a client connects, the global access specification is scanned, in order, until a specification matches.  If no access specification exists, all access is allowed (e.g., the action is the same
       as if "allow *" was the only item in the specification).  For each item, both the hostname and IP are checked. For example, consider the following access specification:
              allow 10.42.*
              authonly *.edu
              deny *
       With this specification, all clients in the 10.42 network will be allowed access to unrestricted databases; all clients from *.edu sites will be allowed to authenticate, but will be denied  access
       to all databases, even those which are otherwise unrestricted; and all other clients will have their connection terminated immediately.  The 10.42 network clients can send an AUTH command and gain
       access to restricted databases.  The *.edu clients must send an AUTH command to gain access to any databases, restricted or unrestricted.

       When the AUTH command is sent, the access list for each database is scanned, in order, just as the global access list is scanned.  However, after authentication, the client has an associated user‐
       name.  For example, consider the following access specification:
              user u1
              deny *.com
              user u2
              allow *
       If  the  client authenticated as u1, then the client will have access to this database, even if the client comes from a *.com site.  In contrast, if the client authenticated as u2, the client will
       only have access if it does not come from a *.com site.  In this case, the "user u2" is redundant, since that client would also match "allow *".

       Warning: Checks are performed for domain names and for IP addresses.  However, if reverse DNS for a specific site is not working, it is possible that a domain name may not be available for  check‐
       ing.   Make sure that all denials use IP addresses.  (And consider a future enhancement: if a domain name is not available, should denials that depend on a domain name match anything?  This is the
       more conservative viewpoint, but it is not currently implemented.)

SEARCH ALGORITHMS
       The DICT standard specifies a few search algorithms that must be implemented, and permits others to be supported on a server-dependent basis.  The following search strategies are supported by this
       server.  Note that all strategies are case insensitive.  Most ignore non-alphanumeric, non-whitespace characters.

       exact  An exact match.  This algorithm uses a binary search and is one of the fastest search algorithms available.

       lev    The Levenshtein algorithm (string edit distance of one).  This algorithm searches for all words which are within an edit distance of one from the target word.  An "edit" means an insertion,
              deletion, or transposition.  This is a rapid algorithm for correcting spelling errors, since many spelling errors are within a Levenshtein distance of one from the original word.

       prefix Prefix match.  This algorithm also uses a binary search and is very fast.

       nprefix
              Like prefix but returns the specified range of matches. For example, when prefix strategy returns 1000 matches, you can get only 100 ones skipping the first 800 matches.  This  is  made  by
              specified these limits in a query like this: 800#100#app, where 800 is skip count, 100 is a number of matches you want to get and "app" is your query.  This strategy allows one to implement
              DICT client with fast autocompletion (although it is not trivial) just like many standalone dictionary programs do.

              NOTE: If you access the dictionary "*" (or virtual one) with nprefix strategy, the same range is set for each database in it, but globally for all matches found in all databases.

              NOTE: In case you access non-english dictionary the returned matches may be (and mostly will be) NOT ordered in alphabetic order.

       re     POSIX 1003.2 (modern) regular expression search.  Modern regular expressions are the ones used by egrep(1).  These regular expressions allow predefined character classes (e.g., [[:alnum:]],
              [[:alpha:]],  [[:digit:]],  and  [[:xdigit:]]  are  useful  for this application); uses * to match a sequence 0 or more matches of the previous atom; uses + to match a sequence of 1 or more
              matches of the previous atom; uses ? to match a sequence of 0 or 1 matches of the previous atom; used ^ to match the beginning of a word, uses $ to match the  end  of  a  word,  and  allows
              nested  subexpression  and alternation with () and |.  For example, "(foo|bar)" matches all words that contain either "foo" or "bar".  To match these special characters, they must be quoted
              with two backslashes (due to the quoting characteristics of the server).  Warning: Regular expression matches can take 10 to 300 times longer than substring matches.  On a busy server, with
              many databases, this can required more than 5 minutes of waiting time, depending on the complexity of the regular expression.

       regexp Old (basic) regular expressions.  These regular expressions don't support |, +, or ?.  Groups use escaped parentheses.  While modern regular expressions are generally easier to  use,  basic
              regular  expressions  have  a  back reference feature.  This can be used to match a second occurrence of something that was already matched.  For example, the following expression finds all
              words that begin and end with the same three letters:
                  ^\\(...\\).*\\1$

              Note the use of the double backslashes to escape the special characters.  This is required by the DICT protocol string specification (a single backslash quotes the next character -- we  use
              two to get a single backslash through to the regular expression engine).  Warning: Note that the use of backtracking is even slower than the use of general regular expressions.

       soundex
              The  Soundex  algorithm,  a classic algorithm for finding words that sound similar to each other.  The algorithm encodes each word using the first letter of the word and up to three digits.
              Since the first letter is known, this search is relatively fast, and it sometimes good for correcting spelling errors when the Levenshtein algorithm doesn't help.

       substring
              Match a substring anywhere in the headword.  This search strategy uses a modified Boyer-Moore-Horspool algorithm.  Since it must search the whole index file, it is not as fast as the  exact
              and prefix matches.

       suffix Suffix  match.   This search strategy also uses a modified Boyer-Moore-Horspool algorithm, and is as fast as the substring search.  If the optional index_suffix string file is listed in the
              configuration file this search is much faster.

       word   Match any single word, even if part of a multi-word entry.  If the optional index_word string file is listed in the configuration file this search strategy works much faster.

       first  Match the first word that begins a multi-word entry.

       last   Match the last word that ends a multi-word entry.  If the optional index_suffix string file is listed in the configuration file this search strategy works much faster.

DATABASE FORMAT
       Databases for dictd are distributed separately.  A database consists of two files.  One is a flat text file, the other is the index.

       The flat text file contains dictionary entries (or any other suitable data), and the index contains tab-delimited tuples consisting of the headword, the byte offset at which this entry  begins  in
       the  flat  text  file,  and the length of the entry in bytes.  The offset and length are encoded using base 64 encoding using the 64-character subset of International Alphabet IA5 discussed in RFC
       1421 (printable encoding) and RFC 1522 (base64 MIME).  Encoding the offsets in base 64 saves considerable space when compared with the usual base 10 encoding, while still permitting tab characters
       (ASCII 9) to be used for delimiting fields in a record.  Each record ends with a newline (ASCII 10), so the index file is human readable.

       Some headwords are used by dictd especially

       00-database-info Contains the information about database which is returned by SHOW INFO command, unless it is specified in the configuration file.

       00-database-short Contains the short name of the database which is returned by SHOW DB command, unless it is specified in the configuration file.  See dictfmt -s.

       00-database-url URL where original dictionary sources were obtained from.  See dictfmt -u.  This headword is not used by dictd

       00-database-utf8 Presents if dictionary is encoded using UTF-8.  See dictfmt --utf8

       00-database-8bit-new Presents if dictionary is encoded using 8-BIT character set (not ASCII and not UTF8).  See dictfmt --locale.

       The flat text file may be compressed using gzip(1) (not recommended) or dictzip(1) (highly recommended).  Optimal speed will be obtained using an uncompressed file.  However, the gzip  compression
       algorithm  works  very well on plain text, and can result in space savings typically between 60 and 80%.  Using a file compressed with gzip(1) is not recommended, however, because random access on
       the file can only be accomplished by serially decompressing the whole file, a process which is prohibitively slow.  dictzip(1) uses the same compression algorithm and file format as does  gzip(1),
       but  provides a table that can be used to randomly access compressed blocks in the file.  The use of 50-64kB blocks for compression typically degrades compression by less than 10%, while maintain‐
       ing acceptable random access capabilities for all data in the file.  As an added benefit, files compressed with dictzip(1) can be decompressed with gzip(1)  or  zcat(1).   (Note:  recompressing  a
       dictzip'd file using, for example, znew(1) will destroy the random access characteristics of the file.  Always compress data files using dictzip(1).)

SIGNALS
       SIGHUP causes dictd to reread configuration file and reinitialize databases.

       SIGUSR1  causes  dictd to unload databases. Then dictd returns 420 status (instead of 220). To load databases again, send SIGHUP signal. Because database files are mmap'ed(2) , it is impossible to
       update them while dictd is running.  So, if you need to update database files and reread configuration file, first, send SIGUSR1 signal to dictd to unload databases, update files,  and  then  send
       SUGHUP signal to load them again.

COPYING
       The main source files for the dictd server and the dictzip compression program were written by Rik Faith (faith@dict.org) and are distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.  If
       you need to distribute under other terms, write to the author.

       The  main libraries used by these programs (zlib, regex, libmaa) are distributed under different terms, so you may be able to use the libraries for applications which are incompatible with the GPL
       -- please see the copyright notices and license information that come with the libraries for more information, and consult with your attorney to resolve these issues.

BUGS
       The regular expression searches do not ignore non-whitespace, non-alphanumeric characters as do the other searches.  In practice, this isn't much of a problem.

WARNINGS
       Conformance of regular expressions (used by 're' and 'regexp' search strategies) to ERE and BRE depends on library you build dictd with.  Whether 're' and 'regex' strategies support  utf8  depends
       on library you build dictd with.

FILES
       /etc/dictd/dictd.conf
              dictd configuration file

       /usr/sbin/dictd
              dictd daemon itself

       /var/run/dictd.pid
              File for storing pid of dictd daemon

       /usr/share/dictd
              The default directory for dictd databases (.index and .dict[.dz] files)

SEE ALSO
       examples/dictd*.conf, dictfmt(1), dict(1), dictzip(1), gunzip(1), zcat(1), webster(1), RFC 2229

                                                                                               29 March 2002                                                                                       DICTD(8)
