METAXREF(1)                                                        General Commands Manual                                                        METAXREF(1)

NAME
       metaxref - builds cross-reference file/unit/item information

SYNOPSIS
       metaxref [ -dhkmsV ] [ -f manifest ] [ -L dir ]

DESCRIPTION
       Metaxref  is  a program that scans all the files in your MANIFEST file and produces three files which contains information about how the files in that
       MANIFEST reference items defined by metaconfig's unit files.

       The first two files, I.fui and I.uif reference the file, unit and items sorted differently. The third file, Obsolete, dumps  all  the  known  obsolete
       symbols, in which file they appear and the new symbol that should be used instead.

       Note  that obsolete symbols do not appear in the main cross-reference files, but are only listed in the Obsolete file. That's yet another incentive to
       use the new symbols in your sources. :-)

OPTIONS
       Metaxref recognizes the following options:

       -d        Turn on debug mode.

       -f manifest
                 Use an alternate manifest file.

       -h        Print help message and exit.

       -k        Keep temporary .MT directory.

       -m        Assume lots of memory and swap space. This will drastically improve the symbol lookup time in your source files, at the  expense  of  memory
                 usage.

       -s        Turn on silent mode.

       -L dir    Override default library location (where the U units directory can be found).

       -V        Print version number and exit.

       -X file   When  examining  the source files, ignore any symbols listed in the file.  This is useful in situations where a particular unit is known not
                 to be needed for your package's portability targets, but your source files nevertheless contain occurrences of words that look to metaconfig
                 like symbols defined in that unit. (For example, you might need the word "index" in a source file, but not need  the  unit  that  determines
                 whether strcpy or index should be used.)  The file can contain blank lines, comment lines introduced with '#', and lines containing a single
                 symbol.  If this option is not supplied, any  variable in .package is honored instead.

AUTHOR
       Harlan Stenn <harlan@mumps.pfcs.com>

FILES
       LIB/dist/mcon/U/*.U
                 Public unit files.
       U/*.U     Private unit files
       I.fui     Lists information sorted by file, unit and item.
       I.uif     Lists information sorted by unit, item and file.
       Obsolete  Lists all the obsolete symbols used by the sources.

                      where LIB is /usr/share/dist.

BUGS
       Metaxref  will  list  among the wanted items all those magic symbols defined within units on the ?M: lines. Those are relevant only when metaconfig is
       invoked with the -M option.

SEE ALSO
       metaconfig(1), metalint(1)

                                                                       Version 3.5 PL0                                                            METAXREF(1)
