pump(1)                                                            General Commands Manual                                                            pump(1)

NAME
       distcc-pump - accelerate remote compilation with distcc

SYNOPSIS
       distcc-pump BUILD-COMMAND [ARGS]  ...

       eval ` distcc-pump --startup `; BUILD-COMMAND [ARGS]  ...  ; distcc-pump --shutdown

DESCRIPTION
       distcc-pump is part of distcc.  It is used for distcc's pump mode.  Distcc's pump mode accelerates remote compilation with distcc by also distributing
       preprocessing to the servers.

       For  a  detailed description of pump mode, including most notably some important restrictions, see the distcc(1) man page, in particular the HOW PUMP-
       MODE WORKS section and the RESTRICTIONS ON PUMP MODE section.

       The simplest usage is the form
              distcc-pump COMMAND [ARG]  ...
       This will start an include server for distcc's "pump" mode; optionally run lsdistcc to compute the distcc host list; set  some  auxiliary  environment
       variables;  change  PATH  to use the distcc client in the same directory as the "distcc-pump" script; execute COMMAND with the specified ARG(s)  ; and
       then shut down the include server.  The COMMAND is typically a parallel build command, such as "make -j80", that will do many  concurrent  invocations
       of distcc.

       An alternative way of invoking distcc-pump is to explicitly invoke "distcc-pump --startup" to start the include server and "distcc-pump --shutdown" to
       stop the include server.  The "distcc-pump --startup" command will start up the include server, and will print out some environment variable settings.
       These  environment variables are used to communicate between the pump-mode "distcc" client and the include server, and to communicate between "distcc-
       pump --startup" and "distcc-pump --shutdown".  The caller of "distcc-pump --startup" is responsible for setting those environment variables before in‐
       voking "distcc" or "distcc-pump --shutdown".

       For example:
              eval `distcc-pump --startup`
              make -j80
              distcc-pump --shutdown

       Note that distcc's pump-mode assumes that sources files will not be
        modified during the lifetime of the include server, so modifying source files during a build may cause inconsistent results.

INVOKING LSDISTCC
       When invoked in either the simple " distcc-pump COMMAND [ARG] ... " form, or as " distcc-pump --startup ", the distcc-pump script will invoke lsdistcc
        whenever DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS is set and DISTCC_HOSTS isn't.  It will pass the value of DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS to lsdistcc and use  the  output  of
       lsdistcc to set DISTCC_HOSTS.

OPTIONS
       --help Displays summary instructions.

       --startup
              Starts an include server, and outputs the environment variable settings needed for distcc(1) or distcc-pump --shutdown to access it.

       --shutdown
              Shuts down an include server started up by distcc-pump --startup.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables are all optional.

       DISTCC_LOCATION
              The location of the distcc bin directory, which is normally inferred from the link-resolved dirname of argv[0]. If this location is in fact the
              bin  directory  inside  an  installation  (as  will be the case when the pump script in the installation executes), then Python executables and
              distcc itself will be retrieved from the parent directory of the location.

       DISTCC_MAX_DISCREPANCY
              see the distcc(1) man page.

       DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS
              The distcc servers that will be queried by lsdistcc in order to produce a value for DISTCC_HOSTS.  This value may be unset  or  null.  In  such
              cases,  lsdistcc will not be invoked, and distcc will use DISTCC_HOSTS or the distcc hosts configuration file, as described in the "Host Speci‐
              fications" section of distcc(1).

       DISTCC_HOSTS
              This variable is passed through to distcc but only if DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS is not set.

       LSDISTCC_ARGS
              Extra arguments to pass to lsdistcc.  See lsdistcc --help for more details.

       INCLUDE_SERVER_ARGS
              Extra arguments to pass to the include server.

       PYTHONOPTIMIZE
              If set to "", then Python optimization is disabled.

EXAMPLE
       distcc-pump make -j20

BUGS
       If you think you have found a distcc bug, please see the file reporting-bugs.txt in the documentation directory for information on how to report it.

AUTHORS
       The distcc-pump script and distcc's pump mode were written by Nils Klarlund, Manos Renieris, Fergus Henderson, and Craig  Silverstein.  Please  report
       bugs to <distcc@lists.samba.org>.

LICENCE
       distcc-pump  is  part  of  distcc.   You are free to use distcc.  distcc (including this manual) may be copied, modified or distributed only under the
       terms of the GNU General Public Licence version 2 or later.  distcc comes with absolutely no warranty.  A copy of the GPL  is  included  in  the  file
       COPYING.

SEE ALSO
       distcc(1), distccd(1), include_server(1), gcc(1), and make(1)

                                                                         9 June 2008                                                                  pump(1)
