
DJVUDIGITAL(1)                                                                                   DjVuLibre-3.5                                                                                   DJVUDIGITAL(1)

NAME
       djvudigital - creates DjVu files from PS or PDF files.

SYNOPSIS
       djvudigital  [options] inputfile [outputfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program creates a DjVu file from the PostScript (.ps), GZipped PostScript (.ps.gz), Encapsulated PostScript (.eps), or Portable Document Format (.pdf) file inputfile.

       The output file name is either given by argument outputfile or generated by replacing the input file name suffixes by the DjVu suffix (.djvu).

PREREQUISITES
       This program depends on a specific GhostScript driver.  If your GhostScript program does not provide this driver, please check http://djvu.sourceforge.net/gsdjvu.html.

OPTIONS
       --verbose, -v
              Displays more informational messages while converting the file.

       --quiet, -q
              Do not display informational messages while converting the file.

       --dpi=resolution
              Specify the desired resolution to resolution dots per inch.  The default is 300 dpi.

       --psrotate=angle
              Rotate the PostScript file by angle degrees clockwise.  Only the values 0, 90, 180, and 270 are supported.  This option only applies to PostScript files.  PDF files are always converted accord‐
              ing to their native orientation.

       --epsf=disposition
              Specify how to handle Encapsulated PostScript files.  Argument disposition can take the values crop, fit, and ignore.  The default disposition crop creates a DjVu file whose  size  matches  the
              bounding  box  of  the Encapsulated PostScript file. Value fit rescales the graphics to the default page size.  Value ignore disables all Encapsulated PostScript specific code.  This option re‐
              quires Ghostscript 7.07 or better.

       --exact-color
              Enables a more accurate rendering of the colors.  This option requires GhostScript 6.52 or better.

       --threshold=thres
              Specify a threshold for the foreground/background separation code.  Acceptable values of thres range from 0 to 100. Larger values place more information into the foreground layer.  The  default
              threshold value is 80.

       --bg-subsample=sub
              Specify the background subsampling ratio.  Argument sub must be an integer between 1 and 6.  The default value is 3.

       --bg-slices=n+...+n
              Specify the encoding quality of the background layer.  The syntax for the argument is similar to that described for the -slice option of command c44.  The default is 72+11+10+10.

       --fg-colors=ncolors
              Specify the maximum number of distinct colors in the foreground layer.  Argument ncolors can take integer values between 1 and 4000.  The default value is 256.

       --fg-image-colors=ncolors
              Specify the maximum number of distinct colors in an image for considering encoding it into the foreground layer.  Argument ncolors can take integer values between 1 and 4000.  The default value
              is 256.

       --words
              Extract the text from the PostScript code and incorporates this information into the DjVu file.  This option records the location of every word.

       --lines
              Extract the text from the PostScript code and incorporates this information into the DjVu file.  This option saves a few bytes by only recording the location of each line.

       --gsarg=arg1[,arg2,...,argN]
              Insert extra arguments on the GhostScript command line.

       --cseparg=arg1[,arg2,...,argN]
              Insert extra arguments on the command line of program csepdjvu or msepdjvu.

       --poppler=keywords
              This option causes djvudigital to extract additional information from PDF files using the tool pdftotext that comes bundled with the Poppler library.  Selected information is then added to  the
              djvu  file  as  a  postprocessing  step. This option is ignored when the input file is not a PDF file.  Argument keywords is a comma separated list of keywords.  When this list contains keyword
              meta, the metadata extracted by pdftotext is inserted into the djvu file.  When this list contains keyword text, the textual information extracted by pdftotext is inserted into the  djvu  file,
              possibly  replacing  the  information  gathered using the options --words or --lines.  This is useful for instance when a scanned PDF file contains a hidden text layer that is not recognized by
              Ghostscript and therefore not passed to the djvudigital backend.

       --sepfile
              Produces a separated data file instead of a DjVu file. Program csepdjvu can then convert the separated data file into a DjVu file.

       --check
              Display the names of the two auxiliary programs found by djvudigital, namely a suitable ghostscript interpreter and a suitable backend encoder.  See the next two section for details.

       --dryrun
              Simply display the ghostscript command line generated by djvudigital without running it.  No output file is produced

       --help Display the manual page for djvudigital.

GHOSTSCRIPT ISSUES
       Program djvudigital internally relies on a specific Ghostscript driver named djvusep.  This driver analyzes the logical structure of the sequence of PostScript rendering commands and decides  to  exe‐
       cute each command into either the foreground or the background layer.  The GhostScript driver produces a separated data file that is then compressed using the DjVuLibre program csepdjvu.

       Before  processing  the input file, program djvudigital searches a Ghostscript executable providing the djvusep driver. The search starts with the file specified by the environment variable GSDJVU and
       continues with command line executables named gs and gsdjvu.

       The DjVuLibre source code contains instruction to compile such a GhostScript executable.  More information can be obtained from http://djvu.sourceforge.net/gsdjvu.html.

CSEPDJVU ISSUES
       The output of the djvusep GhostScript driver must be processed by the DjVuLibre program csepdjvu.  This program can also be replaced by the the proprietary Lizardtech program  msepdjvu.   Before  pro‐
       cessing  the  input  file,  program djvudigital searches such an executable.  The search starts with the file specified by the environment variable CSEPDJVU and continues with command line executables
       named msepdjvu and csepdjvu.

OTHER PROGRAMS
       The option --poppler=keywords relies on the tool pdftotext that comes with the Poppler library and the tool djvused that comes with djvulibre.  Only recent versions of pdftotext that accept the option
       -bbox are supported.  Both tools are searched by first trying the files specified by the environment variables PDFTOTEXT and DJVUSED, and then trying executables named pdftotext or djvused found along
       the shell executable path.

CREDITS
       The first version of this converter was written by Léon Bottou <leonb@users.sourceforge.net> in AT&T Labs.  The DjVuLibre version is derived from code graciously  released  by  Lizardtech  in  January
       2004.

BUGS
       Program djvudigital can only process input files that GhostScript can process properly.

SEE ALSO
       djvu(1), csepdjvu(1), c44(1), gs(1), gzip(1)

DjVuLibre-3.5                                                                                      1/31/2004                                                                                     DJVUDIGITAL(1)
