
DJVUTXT(1)                                                                                       DjVuLibre-3.5                                                                                       DJVUTXT(1)

NAME
       djvutxt - Extract the hidden text from DjVu documents.

SYNOPSIS
       djvutxt [options] inputdjvufile [outputtxtfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Program  djvutxt  decodes  the  hidden text layer of a DjVu document inputdjvufile and prints it into file outputtxtfile or on the standard output.  The hidden text layer is usually generated with the
       help of an optical character recognition software.

       Without options -detail and -escape, this program simply outputs the UTF-8 text.  Option -detail cause the output of S-expressions describing the text and its location.  Option  -escape  uses  C-style
       escape sequences to represent nonprintable non-ASCII characters.

OPTIONS
       --page=pagespec
              Specify  which  pages should be processed.  When this option is not specified, the text of all pages of the documents is concatenated into the output file.  The page specification pagespec con‐
              tains one or more comma-separated page ranges.  A page range is either a page number, or two page numbers separated by a dash.  For instance, specification 1-10 outputs pages 1 to 10, and spec‐
              ification 1,3,99999-4 outputs pages 1 and 3, followed by all the document pages in reverse order up to page 4.

       --detail=keyword
              This  options  causes  djvutxt to output S-expressions specifying the position of the text in the page.  See the manual page djvused(1) for a description of the output format.  Argument keyword
              specifies the maximum level of detail for which text location is reported.  The recognized values are: page, column, region, para, line, word, and char.  All other  values  are  interpreted  as
              char.

       --escape
              Output escape sequences of the form  "ooo" for all non ASCII or non printable UTF-8 characters and for the backslash character.

REMARKS
       Use program djvused(1) for more control over the text layer.

CREDITS
       This  program was initially written by Andrei Erofeev <andrew_erofeev@yahoo.com> and was then improved Bill Riemers <docbill@sourceforge.net> and many others. It was then rewritten to use the ddjvuapi
       by Leon Bottou <leonb@sourceforge.net>.

SEE ALSO
       djvu(1), djvused(1)

DjVuLibre-3.5                                                                                      10/11/2001                                                                                        DJVUTXT(1)
