
DJVUXML(1)                                                                                    DjVuLibre XML Tools                                                                                    DJVUXML(1)

NAME
       djvutoxml, djvuxmlparser - DjVuLibre XML Tools.

SYNOPSIS
       djvutoxml [options] inputdjvufile [outputxmlfile]
       djvuxmlparser [ -o djvufile ] inputxmlfile

DESCRIPTION
       The  DjVuLibre XML Tools provide for editing the metadata, hyperlinks and hidden text associated with DjVu files.  Unlike djvused(1) the DjVuLibre XML Tools rely on the XML technology and can take ad‐
       vantage of XML editors and verifiers.

DJVUTOXML
       Program djvutoxml creates a XML file outputxmlfile containing a reference to the original DjVu document inputdjvufile as well as tags describing the metadata, hyperlinks, and  hidden  text  associated
       with the DjVu file.

       The following options are supported:

       --page pagenum
              Select a page in a multi-page document.  Without this option, djvutoxml outputs the XML corresponding to all pages of the document.

       --with-text
              Specifies  the  HIDDENTEXT  element  for  each page should be included in the output.  If specified without the --with-anno flag then the --without-anno is implied.  If none of the --with-text,
              --without-text, --with-anno, or --without-anno, flags are specified, then the --with-text and --with-anno flags are implied.

       --without-text
              Specifies not to output the HIDDENTEXT element for each page.  If specified without the --without-anno flag then the --with-anno flag is implied.

       --with-anno
              Specifies the area MAP element for each page should be included in the output.  If specified without the --with-text flag then the --without-text flag is implied.

       --without-anno
              Specifies the area MAP element for each page should not be included in the output.  If specified without the --without-text flag then the --with-text flag is implied.

DJVUXMLPARSER
       Files produced by djvutoxml can then be modified using either a text editor or a XML editor.  Program djvuxmlparser parses the XML file inputxmlfile in order to modify the metadata of the  correspond‐
       ing DjVu file.

       -o djvufile
              In principle the target DjVu file is the file referenced by the OBJECT element of the XML file.  This option provides the means to override the filename specified in the OBJECT element.

DJVUXML DOCUMENT TYPE DEFINITION
       The document type definition file (DTD)

         /usr/share/djvu/pubtext/DjVuXML-s.dtd

       defines the input and output of the DjVu XML tools.

       The DjVuXML-s DTD is a simplification of the HTML DTD:

         http://www.w3c.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/sgml/dtd.html

       with  a  few new attributes added specific to DjVu.  Each of the specified pages of a DjVu document are represented as OBJECT elements within the BODY element of the XML file.  Each OBJECT element may
       contain multiple PARAM elements to specify attributes like page name, resolution, and gamma factor.  Each OBJECT element may also contain one HIDDENTTEXT element to specify the  hidden  text  (usually
       generated  with  an  OCR engine) within the DjVu page.  In addition each OBJECT element may reference a single area MAP element which contains multiple AREA elements to represent all the hyperlink and
       highlight areas within the DjVu document.

   PARAM Elements
       Legal PARAM elements of a DjVu OBJECT include but are not limited to PAGE for specifying the page-name, GAMMA for specifying the gamma correction factor (normally 2.2), and DPI for specifying the page
       resolution.

   HIDDENTEXT Elements
       The HIDDENTEXT elements consists of nested elements of PAGECOLUMNS, REGION, PARAGRAPH, LINE, and WORD.  The most deeply nested element specified, should specify the bounding coordinates of the element
       in top-down orientation.  The body of the most deeply nested element should contain the text.  Most DjVu documents use either LINE or WORD as the lowest level element, but any element is legal as  the
       lowest  level element.  A white space is always added between WORD elements and a line feed is always added between LINE elements.  Since languages such as Japanese do not use spaces between words, it
       is quite common for Asian OCR engines to use WORD as characters instead.

   MAP Elements
       The body of the MAP elements consist of AREA elements.  In addition to the attributes listed in

         http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/struct/objects.html#edef-AREA,

       the attributes bordertype, bordercolor, border, and highlight have been added to specify border type, border color, border width, and highlight colors respectively.  Legal values for each of these at‐
       tributes are listed in the DjVuXML-s DTD.  In addition, the shape oval has been added to the legal list of shapes.  An oval uses a rectangular bounding box.

BUGS
       Perhaps it would have been better to use CC2 style sheets with standard HTML elements instead of defining the HIDDENTEXT element.

CREDITS
       The DjVu XML tools and DTD were written by Bill C. Riemers <docbill@sourceforge.net> and Fred Crary.

SEE ALSO
       djvu(1), djvused(1), and utf8(7).

DjVuLibre XML Tools                                                                                11/15/2002                                                                                        DJVUXML(1)
