DKOPP(1)                                                                                       Dkopp man page                                                                                      DKOPP(1)

NAME
          Dkopp - copy files to DVD or BD (Blue-ray) media

SYNOPSIS
          dkopp [ -job | -run ] jobfile
          dkopp [ -nogui ] -script scriptfile

DESCRIPTION
          Dkopp copies files to backup DVD or BD media. It supports full
          or incremental backups and full or incremental media verification.

OVERVIEW
          Dkopp is a menu-driven GUI (GTK) program operating in its own window.
          Dkopp copies files and directories specified in a job file to DVD or
          BD media. Dkopp can copy all files to empty media (full copy), or
          only new and modified files to previously used media (incremental).
          Files and directories to include or exclude can be selected from the
          file system hierarchy using a GUI navigator. Specifications are saved
          in a job file which can be re-edited and re-used. Script files can
          be run in batch mode using the -nogui option. Dkopp can be used to
          select and restore files previously copied, and owner and permission
          data is also restored. The DVD/BD media can also be accessed with
          file system tools like Nautilus.

          Dkopp supports the following functionalities:
          - Three backup modes: full, incremental, accumulate.
          - Three media verification modes: full, incremental, thorough.
          - Use write-once or re-writable DVD or BlueRay media (but not CD).
          - Report disk:backup differences in detail or summary form.
          - Select and restore files from a backup copy (or use drag and drop).
          - Search log files to find media where specified files are saved.

OPTIONS
          Command line options:
          [ -job ] jobfile                 open job file for editing
          -run jobfile                     execute a job file
          [ -nogui ] -script scriptfile    execute a script file

SEE ALSO
          The online user manual is available using the menu Help > contents.
          This manual explains Dkopp operation in great detail.

          Dkopp uses the batch programs grwoisofs and genisoimage.
          Dkopp is essentially a GUI front-end for these programs.

AUTHORS
          Written by Mike Cornelison <mkornelix@gmail.com>
          https://kornelix.net

Linux                                                                                            2024-01-01                                                                                        DKOPP(1)
