DMKTOOLS(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               DMKTOOLS(1)

NAME
       empty-dmk, dsk2dmk, svi2dmk, svicpm2dmk, der2dmk, combine-dmk, analyze-dmk - Tools for handling DMK disk image files

SYNOPSIS
       empty-dmk file.dmk
       dsk2dmk file.dsk file.dmk
       svi2dmk file.dsk file.dmk
       svicpm2dmk file.dsk file.dmk
       der2dmk file.dsk file.der file.dmk
       combine-dmk
       analyze-dmk file.dmk

DESCRIPTION
       These  tools  are  used to handle DMK disk images.  Those images can represent strangely formatted disks and are used by openmsx(1) to allow correct emulation of disks which use those features for
       copy protection.

       All tools except combine-dmk have a --help argument which explains their usage.

       empty-dmk creates a new empty DMK image file.

       dsk2dmk creates a new DMK image file and initializes it with the contents of a DSK image file.

       svi2dmk creates a new DMK image file and initializes it with the contents of a special image file.  See svi2dmk --help for more information.

       svicpm2dmk creates a new DMK image file and initializes it with the contents of a special image file (CP/M version).  See svicpm2dmk --help for more information.

       der2dmk creates a new DMK image file and initializes it with the contents of a DSK image file.  In addition, the error state from a DER disk error file is  used  to  initialize  the  disk's  error
       state.

       combine-dmk  reads  a  series of files named DMK-tt-h.DAT where tt is the track number, and h is the head, and creates a DMK image file named out.dmk, which is initialized with the data from those
       files.

       analyze-dmk reads a DMK image file and prints statistics about it to the standard output.

SEE ALSO
       openmsx(1)

                                                                                                 2018-12-20                                                                                     DMKTOOLS(1)
