
DNAINDEX(1)                                                                                       User Manuals                                                                                      DNAINDEX(1)

NAME
       dnaindex - index dna file for use with ANFO

SYNOPSIS
       dnaindex [ option ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       dnaindex builds an index for a dna file.  Dna files must be indexed to be useable with anfo(1), it is possible to have multiple indices for the same dna file.

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -o file, --output file
              Write output to file. file customarily ends in .idx.  Default is genomename_wordsize.idx.

       -g file, --genome file
              Read  the  genome from file.  This file name is also stored in the resulting index so it can be found automatically whenever the index is used.  It is therefore best if file is just a file name
              without path.

       -G dir, --genome-dir dir
              Add dir to the genome search path.  This is useful if the genome to be indexed is not yet in the place where it will later be used.

       -d text, --description text
              Add text as description to the index.  This is purely informative.

       -s size, --wordsize size
              Set the wordsize to size.  A smaller wordsize increases precision at the expense of higher computational investment.  The default is 12, which with a stride of 8 yields a good compromise.

       -S num, --stride num
              Set the stride to num.  Only one out of num possible words of dna is actually indexed.  A smaller stride increases precicion at the expense of a bigger index.  The default is 8, which  in  con‐
              junction with a wordsize of 12 yields a good compromise.

       -l lim, --limit lim
              Prevents  the  indexing  of words that occur more often than lim times.  This can be used to ignore repetitive seeds and save the space to store them.  A good default depends on the size of the
              genome being indexed, something like 500 works for the human genome with wordsize 12 and stride 8.

       -h, --histogram
              Produce a histogram of word frequencies.  This can be used to get an indea how the frequency distribution to select an appropriate value for --limit.

       -v, --verbose
              Print a progress indicator during operation.

NOTES
       dnaindex is limited to genomes no longer than 4 gigabases due to its use of 32 bit indices.  The index is quite large, so depending on parameters, a 64 bit platform is needed for genomes in the  giga‐
       base range.

       If a genome contains IUPAC ambiguity codes, the affected seeds need to be expanded.  If there are many ambiguity codes in a small region, that results in an unacceptably large index.

ENVIRONMENT
       ANFO_PATH
              Colon separated list of directories searched for genome files.

FILES
       /etc/popt
              The system wide configuration file for popt(3).  dnaindex identifies itself as "dnaindex" to popt.

       ~/.popt
              Per user configuration file for popt(3).

BUGS
       None known.

AUTHOR
       Udo Stenzel <udo_stenzel@eva.mpg.de>

SEE ALSO
       anfo(1), fa2dna(1), popt(3), fasta(5)

Applications                                                                                      OCTOBER 2009                                                                                      DNAINDEX(1)
