DNF4-TRANSACTION-JSON(5)                                                                            DNF                                                                            DNF4-TRANSACTION-JSON(5)

NAME
       dnf4-transaction-json - DNF Stored Transaction JSON

       The  stored transaction format is considered unstable and may change in an incompatible way at any time. It will work if the same version of dnf is used to store and replay (or between versions as
       long as it stays the same).

TOP-LEVEL OBJECT
       version
              Type: string

              The version of the stored transaction format, in the form MAJOR.MINOR.

              MAJOR version denotes backwards incompatible changes (old dnf won't work with new transaction JSON).

              MINOR version denotes extending the format without breaking backwards compatibility (old dnf can work with new transaction JSON).

       rpms   Type: an array of rpm objects

              A list of RPM packages in the transaction.

       groups Type: an array of group objects

              A list of groups in the transaction.

       environments
              Type: an array of group objects

              A list of environment groups in the transaction.

RPM OBJECT
       action Type: string

              Possible values: Downgrade, Downgraded, Install, Obsoleted, Reason Change, Reinstall, Reinstalled, Removed, Upgrade, Upgraded

              The action performed on the package in the transaction.

       nevra  Type: string

              NEVRA (name-epoch:version-release.arch) of the package.

       reason Type: string

              Possible values: dependency, clean, group, unknown, user, weak-dependency

              The reason why the package was pulled into the transaction.

       repo_id
              Type: string

              The id of the repository this package is coming from. Note repository ids are defined in the local repository configuration and may differ between systems.

GROUP OBJECT
       action Type: string

              Possible values: Install, Upgrade, Removed

              The action performed on the group in the transaction.

       id     Type: string

              The id of the group.

       package_types
              Type: string

              Possible values: conditional, default, mandatory, optional

              The types of packages in the group that will be installed. Valid only for the Install action.

       packages
              Type: an array of group-package objects

              The packages belonging to the group in the transaction.

ENVIRONMENT OBJECT
       action Type: string

              Possible values: Install, Upgrade, Removed

              The action performed on the environment group in the transaction.

       id     Type: string

              The id of the environment group.

       package_types
              Type: string

              Possible values: conditional, default, mandatory, optional

              The types of packages in the environment group that will be installed.  Valid only for the Install action.

       group  Type: an array of environment-group objects

              The groups belonging to the environment in the transaction.

GROUP-PACKAGE OBJECT
       installed
              Type: boolean

              Whether the package is considered installed as part of the group.

       name   Type: string

              The name of the package.

       package_type
              Type: string

              Possible values: conditional, default, mandatory, optional

              The type of the package in the group.

ENVIRONMENT-GROUP OBJECT
       group_type
              Type: string

              Possible values: mandatory, optional

              The type of the group in the environment.

       id     Type: string

              The id of the group.

       installed
              Type: boolean

              Whether the group is considered installed as part of the environment.

AUTHOR
       See AUTHORS in DNF source distribution.

COPYRIGHT
       2012-2020, Red Hat, Licensed under GPLv2+

4.23.0                                                                                          Mar 09, 2025                                                                       DNF4-TRANSACTION-JSON(5)
