DNSTWIST(1)                                                                                    User Commands                                                                                    DNSTWIST(1)

NAME
       dnstwist - domain name permutation engine

SYNOPSIS
       dnstwist [OPTION...] DOMAIN

DESCRIPTION
       Find similar-looking domain names that adversaries can use to attack you. Detect typosquatters, phishing attacks, fraud and brand impersonation.

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              Print all DNS records instead of the first ones.

       -b, --banners
              Determine HTTP and SMTP service banners.

       -d, --dictionary FILE
              Generate additional domains using a dictionary read from FILE.

       -f, --format FORMAT
              Select the output format. Supported values are: cli (default), csv, list, json.

       --fuzzers LIST
              Use only selected fuzzing algorithms (separated with commas).

       -g, --geoip
              Perform lookup for GeoIP location.

       --lsh [LSH]
              Evaluate web page similarity with LSH algorithm: ssdeep (default), tlsh

       --lsh-url URL
              Override URL to fetch the original web page from.

       -h, --help
              Display help message and exit.

       -m, --mxcheck
              Check if MX host can be used to intercept e-mails.

       -o, --output FILE
              Save output to FILE.

       -r, --registered
              Show only registered domain names.

       -u, --unregistered
              Show only unregistered domain names.

       -p, --phash
              Render web pages and compare their perceptual hashes to evaluate visual similarity.

       --phash-url URL
              Override URL to render the original web page from.

       --screenshots DIR
              Save web page screenshots into DIR.

       -t, --threads NUM
              Start specified NUM of threads.

       -w, --whois
              Lookup WHOIS database for creation date and registrar.

       --nameservers LIST
              DNS or DNS-over-HTTPS servers to query (comma-separated LIST).

       --tld FILE
              Generate additional domains by swapping TLD as read from FILE.

       --useragent STRING
              Set User-Agent STRING (default: Mozilla/5.0 (platform arch) dnstwist/version).

NOTES
       DNS fuzzing is an automated workflow for discovering potentially malicious domain names.

       The  tool  will  run the provided domain name through its fuzzing algorithms and generate a list of potential phishing domains along with DNS records.  Usually thousands of domain permutations are
       generated - especially for longer input domains. In such cases, it may be practical to display only registered (resolvable) ones using --registered argument.

       Ensure your local DNS server can handle thousands of requests within a short period of time. Otherwise, you can specify an external DNS or DNS-over-HTTPS server with --nameservers argument.

   Fuzzy hashing
       Manually checking each domain name in terms of serving a phishing site might be time-consuming. To address this, dnstwist makes use of so-called fuzzy hashes  (locality-sensitive  hash,  LSH)  and
       perceptual  hashes  (pHash). Fuzzy hashing is a concept that involves the ability to compare two inputs (HTML code) and determine a fundamental level of similarity, while perceptual hash is a fin‐
       gerprint derived from visual features of an image (web browser screenshot). The level of similarity is expressed as a percentage.

       Keep in mind it's rather unlikely to get 100% match for a dynamically generated web page. However, each notification is a strong indicator and should  be  inspected  carefully  regardless  of  the
       score.

   Dictionaries
       If domain permutations generated by the fuzzing algorithms are insufficient, please use --dictionary option with a file to generate more domain variants.  If you need to check whether domains with
       different TLDs exist, you can use --tld argument.

   Coverage
       Along  with the length of the domain, the number of variants generated by the algorithms increases considerably, and therefore the time and resources needed to verify them. It's mathematically im‐
       possible to check all domain permutations - especially for longer input domains which would require millions of DNS lookups. For this reason, this tool generates and checks domains very  close  to
       the original one. Theoretically, these are the most attractive domains from the attacker's point of view. However, be aware that the imagination of the aggressors is unlimited.

       Unicode  tables consist of thousands of characters with many of them visually similar to each other. However, despite the fact certain characters are encodable using punycode, most TLD authorities
       will reject them during domain registration process. In general, TLD authorities disallow mixing of characters coming from different Unicode scripts or maintain their own sets of acceptable  char‐
       acters. With that being said, the homoglyph fuzzer was build on top of carefully researched range of Unicode characters (homoglyphs) to ensure that generated domains can be registered in practice.

AUTHOR
       Marcin Ulikowski <marcin@ulikowski.pl>

                                                                                               December 2022                                                                                    DNSTWIST(1)
