utf8trans(1)                                                                  docbook2X                                                                 utf8trans(1)

NAME
       utf8trans - Transliterate UTF-8 characters according to a table

SYNOPSIS
       utf8trans charmap [file]...

DESCRIPTION
       utf8trans transliterates characters in the specified files (or standard input, if they are not specified) and writes the output to standard output. All input
       and output is in the UTF-8 encoding.

       This program is usually used to render characters in Unicode text files as some markup escapes or ASCII transliterations.  (It is not  intended  for  general
       charset conversions.)  It provides functionality similar to the character maps in XSLT 2.0 (XML Stylesheet Language – Transformations, version 2.0).

OPTIONS
       -m, --modify
              Modifies the given files in-place with their transliterated output, instead of sending it to standard output.

              This option is useful for efficient transliteration of many files at once.

       --help Show brief usage information and exit.

       --version
              Show version and exit.

USAGE
       The translation is done according to the rules in the ‘character map’, named in the file charmap. It has the following format:

       1.  Each line represents a translation entry, except for blank lines and comment lines, which are ignored.

       2.  Any amount of whitespace (space or tab) may precede the start of an entry.

       3.  Comment lines begin with #.  Everything on the same line is ignored.

       4.  Each  entry  consists  of  the  Unicode  codepoint  of the character to translate, in hexadecimal, followed one space or tab, followed by the translation
           string, up to the end of the line.

       5.  The translation string is taken literally, including any leading and trailing spaces (except the delimeter between  the  codepoint  and  the  translation
           string), and all types of characters. The newline at the end is not included.

       The  above  format is intended to be restrictive, to keep utf8trans simple. But if a XML-based format is desired, there is a xmlcharmap2utf8trans script that
       comes with the docbook2X distribution, that converts character maps in XSLT 2.0 format to the utf8trans format.

LIMITATIONS
       • utf8trans does not work with binary files, because malformed UTF-8 sequences in the input are substituted with U+FFFD characters. However, null  characters
         in the input are handled correctly. This limitation may be removed in the future.

       • There is no way to include a newline or null in the substitution string.

AUTHOR
       Steve Cheng <stevecheng@users.sourceforge.net>.

docbook2X 0.8.8                                                             3 March 2007                                                                utf8trans(1)
