DONUTS(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            DONUTS(1)

NAME
       donuts - analyze DNS zone files for errors and warnings

SYNOPSIS
         donuts [-v] [-l LEVEL] [-r RULEFILES] [-i IGNORELIST]
                [-C] [-c configfile] [-h] [-H] ZONEFILE DOMAINNAME...

DESCRIPTION
       donuts is a DNS lint application that examines DNS zone files looking
       for particular problems.  This is especially important for zones making
       use of DNSSEC security records, since many subtle problems can occur.
       The default mode of operation assumes you want to check for DNSSEC-
       related issues; to turn off the invocation of the DNSSEC-related rules
       run donuts with "-i DNSSEC".

       If the Text::Wrap Perl module is installed, donuts will give better
       output formatting.

   QUERYING LIVE ZONES
       If the ZONEFILE may be a live name prefixed with "live:" and the
       records afterwards will be queried and analyized as if it was in a
       zonefile.  For example, running donuts as:

         donuts -i NSEC live:badsign-a,good-a test.dnssec-tools.org

       Will query the test.dnssec-tools.org zone for the badsign-a and good-a
       records, collect the data and run them through the donuts analysis.
       Because other data is needed as well for the analysis to be useful,
       donuts will also automatically collect the DNSKEYs, SOAs, and NS
       records for the zone.  Because NSEC records aren't loaded, it is
       advisable to add that rule exclusion for rules to be run.

       Other data types may be queried by appending a ':' and the type name to
       a record.  For example:

         donuts -i NSEC live:good-a,good-aaaa:aaaa test.dnssec-tools.org

   QUERYING LIVE ZONES WITH AFXR
       If your host is allowed to query for afxr transfers of a particular
       zone, you may use the afxr: filename token to indicate it should pull
       the zone data using a AFXR transfer.

         donuts -i NSEC afxr: dnssec-tools.org

OPTIONS
   Rule Set Configuration:
       -l LEVEL
       --level=LEVEL
           Sets the level of errors to be displayed.  The default is level 5.
           The maximum value is level 9, which displays many debugging
           results.  You probably want to run no higher than level 8.

       -r RULEFILES
       --rules=RULEFILES
           A comma-separated list of rule files to load.  The strings will be
           passed to glob() so * wildcards can be used to specify multiple
           files.

           Defaults to /usr/local/share/dnssec-tools/donuts/rules/*.txt and
           $HOME/.dnssec-tools/donuts/rules/*.txt.

       -i IGNORELIST
       --ignore=IGNORELIST
           A comma-separated list of regex patterns which are checked against
           rule names to determine if some should be ignored.  Run with -v to
           figure out rule names if you're not sure which rule is generating
           errors you don't wish to see.

       -f LIST
       --features=LIST
           The --features option specifies additional rule features that
           should be executed.  Some rules are turned off by default because
           they are more intensive or require a live network connection, for
           instance.  Use the --features flag to turn them on.  The LIST
           argument should be a comma-separated list.  Example usage:

             --features live,nsec_check

           Features available in the default rule set distributed with donuts:

           live
               The live feature allows rules that need to perform live DNS
               queries to run.  Most of these live rules query parent and
               children of the current zone, when appropriate, to see that the
               parent/child relationships have been built properly.  For
               example, if you have a DS record which authenticates the key
               used in a child zone the live feature will let a rule run which
               checks to see if the child is actually publishing the DNSKEY
               that corresponds to the test zone's DS record.

           nsec_check
               This checks all the NSEC or NSEC3 records (as appropriate for
               the zone) to ensure the chain is complete and that no-overlaps
               exist.  It is fairly memory- and cpu-intensive in large zones.

   Configuration File Options:
       -c CONFIGFILE
       --config-file=CONFIGFILE
           Parse a configuration file to change constraints specified by
           rules.  This defaults to $HOME/.donuts.conf.

       -C
       --no-config
           Don't read user configuration files at all, such as those specified
           by the -c option or the $HOME/.donuts.conf file.

   Extra Live Query Options:
       Live Queries are enabled through the use of the -f live arguments.
       These options are only useful if that feature has been enabled.

       -t INTERFACE
       --tcpdump-capture=INTERFACE
           Specifies that tcpdump should be started on INTERFACE (e.g.,
           "eth0") just before donuts begins its run of rules for each domain
           and will stop it just after it has processed the rules.  This is
           useful when you wish to capture the traffic generated by the live
           feature, described above.

       -T FILTER
       --tcpdump-filter=FILTER
           When tcpdump is run, this FILTER is passed to it for purposes of
           filtering traffic.  By default, this is set to port 53 || ip[6:2] &
           0x1fff != 0, which limits the traffic to traffic destined to port
           53 (DNS) or fragmented packets.

       -o FILE
       --tcpdump-output-file=FILE
           Saves the tcpdump-captured packets to FILE.  The following special
           fields can be used to help generate unique file names:

           %d  This is replaced with the current domain name being analyzed
               (e.g., "example.com").

           %t  This is replaced with the current epoch time (i.e., the number
               of seconds since Jan 1, 1970).

           This field defaults to %d.%t.pcap.

       --show-gui
           [alpha code]

           Displays a browsable GUI screen showing the results of the donuts
           tests.

           The QWizard and Gtk2 Perl modules must be installed for this to
           work.

   Help Options
       -H  Displays the personal configuration file rules and tokens that are
           acceptable in a configuration file.  The output will consist of a
           rule name, a token, and a description of its meaning.

           Your configuration file (e.g., $HOME/.donuts.conf) may have lines
           in it that look like this:

             # change the default minimum number of legal NS records from 2 to 1
             name: DNS_MULTIPLE_NS
             minnsrecords: 1

             # change the level of the following rule from 8 to 5
             name: DNS_REASONABLE_TTLS
             level: 5

           This allows you to override certain aspects of how rules are
           executed.

       -R  Displays a list of all known rules along with their description (if
           available).

       -h  Displays a help message.

       --help
           Displays a help message more tailored to people who prefer long-
           style options.

       -q  Turns on a quieter output mode where only the errors and warnings
           are shown.  IE, the summary line of "N errors found ..." is not
           shown.

           -q is ignored if a -v argument is present; the -v argument requests
           a longer output summary and thus it doesn't make sense to use them
           both at the same time.

       -v  Turns on more verbose output.  Multiple -v's will turn on
           increasing amounts of output.  The number of -v's will dictate
           output:

       -s  Sorts the resource records so that the order they're processed in
           is always consistent.  If the incoming zone is not always
           consistently ordered, the output can vary unless the resource
           records are always in the same order.  When sorted, however,
           they're always evaluated in the same order even if the zone file
           (or similar) order changes, and thus the output is consistent,
           making it easier for tools like diff to detect where changes occur
           in the output.  This comes at a higher CPU cost, as it takes more
           time to sort the entries.

           1.  Describes which rules are being loaded and extra detail for
               rules that found errors (rule Level and extra text detail)

           2.  Even more detail about rules that found errors: file name, file
               line number, rule type.

           3.  Shows extra detail on the record text being analyzed (the
               detail is not always available, however).

           4.  Even more detail about rules that found errors: dumps the rule
               code itself.

           5.  Even more detail about rules that found errors: dumps the
               internal rule structure.

   Obsolete Options
       -L  Obsolete command line option.  Please use --features live instead.

EXAMPLES
       Run donuts in its default mode on the example.com zone which is
       contained in the db.example.com file:

         % donuts db.example.com example.com

       Run donuts with significantly more output, both in terms of verbosity
       and in terms of the number of rules that are run to analyze the file:

         % donuts -v -v --level 9 db.example.com example.com

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2004-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wes Hardaker <hardaker@users.sourceforge.net>

SEE ALSO
       For more information on the dnssec-tools project:

         http://www.dnssec-tools.org/

       For writing rules that can be loaded by donuts:

         B<Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::Donuts::Rule>,

       General DNS and DNSSEC usage:

         B<Net::DNS>, B<Net::DNS::SEC>

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                         DONUTS(1)
