UNTITLED()                                                                                         LOCAL                                                                                         UNTITLED()

NAME
       doomsday-shell-text - Utility for controlling and monitoring Doomsday servers

SYNOPSIS
       doomsday-shell-text

OPTIONS
       This version of doomsday-shell-text does not support any command line options.

INTRODUCTION
       The  Shell  is  a  utility for controlling and monitoring Doomsday servers. It has a curses-based terminal-friendly UI that allows one to connect to local and remote Doomsday servers. One can also
       start new servers on the local machine.

       Once connected to a server, a console command line is provided for controlling the server.

USER INTERFACE
   Menu
       Press F9, ^C, or ^Z to open the menu.

             Connect to...   Open a connection to a server at a given IP address.

             Disconnect      Disconnect the current connection. The server will not be stopped.

             Start local server
                             Starts a new Doomsday server on the local machine. A dialog will open for configuring the game mode, server's TCP port, and other launch options. You must ensure that  Dooms‐
                             day will be able to locate the required IWAD files (https://manual.dengine.net/IWAD). After the server launches, a connection to it is opened automatically.

             Scroll to bottom
                             Scrolls the log entry history down to the bottom of the buffer, to the latest received log entry.

             About           Information about the Shell utility.

             Exit            Exit the Shell. Any running servers will not be stopped.

   Console
       A console command line is provided for interacting with a connected server. These commands will get you started:

             help            Show some general level help about using the console interface.

             apropos         Look up commands and variables containing a specific word.

       The PageUp and PageDown keys scroll the log entry history.

SEE ALSO
       doomsday(6)

AUTHOR
       This documentation has been written by Jaakko Keränen <jaakko.keranen@iki.fi>.

Debian                                                                                       helmikuuta 4, 2021                                                                      DOOMSDAY-SHELL-TEXT(6)
