CHALLENGED(1)                                                                                      DOSE Tools                                                                                     CHALLENGED(1)

NAME
       dose-challenged - detect broken packages due to obsolete dependencies

SYNOPSIS
       dose-challenged [options] Packages file(s)

DESCRIPTION
       dose-challenged performs a speculative analysis of the repository to identify those packages that, if upgraded to a specific version, would break a large number of other packages in the repository.
       This tool would be particularly useful during the upgrade of a specific component to evaluate its impact on the software archive.

Input Specification
       The input of dose-challenged is a list of Debian Packages files

Output Specification
       The output of dose-challenged is in the yaml format.

Options
       -b --broken
               Print the list of broken packages

       -d --downgrade
               Check package downgrades

       -c      Print the list of packages in a cluster

       --checkonly package[,package] ...
               Specifies a list of packages to check. By default all packages are checked.  Takes a comma-separated list of package names and a version .

               Example: --checkonly "libc6 (=1.4), 2ping (= 1.2.3-1)"

       -v      Enable info / warnings / debug messages. This option may be repeated up to three times in order to increase verbosity.

       --progress
               Enable progress bars.

       -h, --help
               Display this list of options.

EXAMPLE
         dose-challenged -v --progress Packages.bz2 > result.yaml

NOTE
AUTHOR
       Pietro Abate and Roberto Di Cosmo

SEE ALSO
       dose-distcheck(1) dose-outdated(1)

       <http://www.mancoosi.org> is the home page of the Mancoosi project.

                                                                                                   2020-02-21                                                                                     CHALLENGED(1)
