DOT2TEX(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                DOT2TEX(1)

NAME
       dot2tex - Graphviz to LaTeX converter

SYNOPSIS
       dot2tex [--prog graphviz-command] [options] dot-file > tex-file
       dot2tex [options] xdot-file > tex-file
       graphviz-command -txdot dot-file | dot2tex [options] > tex-file

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the dot2tex command.

       dot2tex is a tool for converting graphs generated by Graphviz to formats suitable for use with LaTeX. Currently dot2tex generates code for PSTricks and PGF/TikZ.

       The purpose of dot2tex is to give graphs a more LaTeX look and feel. This is accomplished by:

           *   Typesetting labels with LaTeX, allowing mathematical notation.

           *   Using native PSTricks and PGF/TikZ commands for drawing arrows, edges and nodes.

           *   Using backend specific styles to customize the output.

USAGE
       Input data is read from standard input if no inputfile is specified. Output is written to standard output unless a destination file is set with the -o option.

       dot2tex  relies  on  the  xdot  format  generated  by Graphviz. dot2tex will automatically run dot(1) on the input data if it is in the plain dot format. If you want to use other layout tools like
       neato(1) and circo(1), use the --prog option.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       -h, --help
              Display help message.

       -f fmt, --format fmt
              Set output format. The following values of fmt are supported:
                 pgf    PGF/TikZ. Default.
                 pstricks or pst
                        Use PSTricks.
                 tikz   TikZ format.

       -t mode, --texmode mode
              Text mode. Specify how text is converted.
                 verbatim
                        Text is displayed with all special TeX chars escaped (default).
                 math   Output all text in math mode $$.
                 raw    Output text without any processing.

              Note that you can locally override the text mode by assigning a special texlbl attribute to a graph element, or by using the texmode attribute.

       -s, --straightedges
              Draw edges using straight lines. Graphviz uses bezier curves to draw straight edges. Use this option to force the use of line to operations instead of curves. Does  not  work  in  duplicate
              mode.

       -o filename, --output filename
              Write output to file.

       -d, --duplicate
              Duplicate the xdot output. Uses the drawing information embedded in the xdot output to draw nodes and edges.

       --template filename
              Use template from file. See the HTML documentation for more details.

       -V, --version
              Print version information and exit.

       -w, --switchdraworder
              Switch drawing order of nodes and edges. By default edges are drawn before nodes.

       -c, --crop
              Use preview.sty to crop the graph. Currently only implemented for the PGF/TikZ backend.

       --figonly
              Output the graph without a document preamble. Useful if the graph is to be included in a master document.

       --codeonly
              Output only the drawing commands, without wrapping it in a tikzpicture or pspicture environment. Useful when used with the dot2texi package.

       --preproc
              Preprocess the graph through LaTeX using the preview package. Will generate a new dot file where the height and widths of nodes and edge labels are set based on the results from preview.

       --cache
              Enables output caching.  dot2tex will check if the input graph has been processed before. If it has not changed the graph will not be converted.

       --autosize
              Preprocess the graph and run Graphviz on the output. Equivalent to:

              dot2tex --preproc dot-file | dot2tex

       --prog program
              Set graph layout program to use when the input is in plain dot format. Allowed values: dot (default), neato, circo, fdp, twopi.

       --usepdflatex
              Use pdflatex(1) instead of latex(1) for preprocessing the graph.

       --nominsize
              Ignore minimum node sizes during preprocessing.

       --valignmode mode
              Vertical alignment of node labels, where mode can have the values:
                 center Labels are placed in the middle of the node (default).
                 dot    Use the coordinate given by the xdot output from Graphviz.

       --alignstr str
              Used to pass a default alignment string to the PSTricks \rput command:

              \rput[alignstr] ...

              Only works for the PSTricks format. PGF/TikZ users can instead pass an anchor=... style using the graphstyle option.

       --tikzedgelabels
              Bypass Graphviz' edge label placement and use PGF/TikZ instead (tikz and pgf formats only).

       --styleonly
              Use TikZ only styles when drawing nodes. No draw or shape option is added (tikz format only).

       --nodeoptions tikzoptions
              Wrap node code in a scope environment with tikzoptions as parameter (tikz format only).

       --edgeoptions tikzoptions
              Wrap edge code in a scope environment with tikzoptions as parameter (tikz format only).

       --debug
              Write detailed debug information to the file dot2tex.log in the current directory.

       --pgf118
              Generate code compatible with PGF 1.18 and earlier.

       The following options are used by the output templates.

       -e encoding, --encoding encoding
              Set text encoding. Supported encodings are utf8 and latin1.

       --docpreamble TeXcode
              Insert TeX code in the document preamble.

       --figpreamble TeXcode
              Insert TeX code in the figure preamble.

       --figpostamble TeXcode
              Insert TeX code in the figure postamble.

       --graphstyle style
              Sets the <<graphstyle>> tag.

       --margin margin
              Set margin around the graph when using preview.sty. margin must be a valid TeX unit. By default margin is set to 0pt.

SEE ALSO
       dot(1), latex(1).

       /usr/share/doc/dot2tex/usage.html
              Full documentation for dot2tex

       /usr/share/doc/dot2tex/examples
              Example Graphviz dot files for use with dot2tex

AUTHOR
       dot2tex was written by Kjell Magne Fauske <kjellmf@gmail.com>

       This manual page was written by Peter Collingbourne <peter@pcc.me.uk>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                             November 11, 2006                                                                                   DOT2TEX(1)
