SIEVEC(1)                                                                  Dovecot                                                                  SIEVEC(1)

NAME
       sievec - Pigeonhole's Sieve script compiler

SYNOPSIS
       sievec [options] script-file [out-file]

DESCRIPTION
        command is part of Pigeonhole (pigeonhole(7)), which adds Sieve (RFC 5228) and ManageSieve (RFC 5804) support to Dovecot (dovecot(1)).

        command,  Sieve scripts can be compiled into a binary representation. The resulting binary can be used directly to process e-mail messages during the
       delivery process. The delivery of mail messages and - by means of the LDA Sieve plugin - also the execution of Sieve scripts is performed by Dovecot's
       local delivery agent (LDA) called dovecot-lda(1).

       , because dovecot-lda(1) will do this automatically if the binary is missing. However, in some cases dovecot-lda(1) does not have permission to  write
       the compiled binary to disk, forcing it to recompile the script every time it is executed. Using the

       The  Pigeonhole  Sieve implementation recognizes files with a .sieve extension as Sieve scripts and corresponding files with a .svbin extension as the
       associated compiled binary. This means for example that Dovecot's LDA process will first look for a binary file "dovecot.svbin" when it needs to  exe‐
       cute "dovecot.sieve". It will compile a new binary when it is missing or outdated.

        option it can output a textual (and thus human-readable) dump of the generated Sieve code to the specified file. The output is then identical to what
       the sieve-dump(1) command produces for a stored binary file. This output is mainly useful to find bugs in the compiler that yield corrupt binaries.

OPTIONS
       -c config-file

           Alternative Dovecot configuration file path.

       -d

            argument may also be omitted, which has the same effect as '-'. The output is identical to what the sieve-dump(1) command produces for a compiled
           Sieve binary file. Note that this option is not allowed when the

       -D

           Enable Sieve debugging.

       -o setting=value

           Overrides  the  configuration  setting from /etc/dovecot/dovecot.conf and from the userdb with the given value. In order to override multiple set‐
           tings, the -o option may be specified multiple times.

       -u user/mask

           Run the command only for the given user. It's also possible to use '*' and '?' wildcards (e.g. -u *@example.org).

       -x auth_info

           auth_info specifies additional conditions for the user command. The auth_info option string has to be given as name =  value  pair.  For  multiple
           conditions the -x option could be supplied multiple times.

           Possible names for the auth_info are:

           service

               The  service  for  which  the userdb lookup should be tested. The value may be the name of a service, commonly used with Dovecot. For example:
               imap, pop3 or smtp.

       session

           Session identifier.

       lip

           The local IP address (server) for the test.

       rip

           The remote IP address (client) for the test.

       lport

           The local port, e.g. 143

       rport

           The remote port, e.g. 24567

       real_lip

           The local IP to which the client connected on this host.

       real_rip

           The remote IP where client connected from to this host.

       real_lport

           The local port to which client connected to to this host.

       real_rport

           The remote port from where the client connected from to this host.

       forward_<field>

           Field to forward as %{forward:field} to auth process.

ARGUMENTS
       script-file

           Specifies the script to be compiled. If the script-file argument is a directory, all files in that directory with a .sieve extension are  compiled
           into  a  corresponding  .svbin  binary file. The compilation is not halted upon errors; it attempts to compile as many scripts in the directory as
           possible. Note that the -d option and the out-file argument are not allowed when the script-file argument is a directory.

       out-file

           Specifies where the (binary) output is to be written. This argument is optional. If this argument is omitted,  a  binary  compiled  from  <script‐
           name>.sieve is saved as <scriptname>.svbin. If this argument is omitted and -b is specified, the binary dump is output to stdout.

EXIT STATUS
       sievec will exit with one of the following values:

       0

           Compile was successful. (EX_OK, EXIT_SUCCESS)

       1

           Operation failed. This is returned for almost all failures. (EXIT_FAILURE)

       64

           Invalid parameter given. (EX_USAGE)

       67

           User does not exist.

       68

           Input file, address or other resource does not exist.

       73

           Cannot create output file.

       77

           Permission error.

       78

           Configuration error.

       127

           Unknown error.

FILES
       /etc/dovecot/dovecot.conf

           Dovecot's main configuration file.

       /etc/dovecot/conf.d/90-sieve.conf

           Sieve interpreter settings (included from Dovecot's main

           configuration file)

REPORTING BUGS
       Report  bugs,  including  doveconf  -n  output,  to  the Dovecot Mailing List ⟨dovecot@dovecot.org⟩. Information about reporting bugs is available at:
       https://dovecot.org/bugreport.html

SEE ALSO
       dovecot(1), dovecot-lda(1), sieve-dump(1), sieve-filter(1), sieve-test(1), pigeonhole(7)

65dfbff                                                                  October 2025                                                               SIEVEC(1)
