DOXX(1)                                                             General Commands Manual                                                           DOXX(1)

NAME
       doxx — terminal document viewer for .docx files

SYNOPSIS
       doxx [-o | --outline] [-p | --page page] [-s | --search term] [--export format] [--images] [--extract-images directory] [options] file
       doxx --debug-terminal

DESCRIPTION
       doxx  is a terminal-based document viewer for Microsoft Word .docx files.  It provides an interactive interface for viewing, searching, and navigating
       Word documents directly in the terminal, with support for outline view, image display, and multiple export formats.

       The viewer supports terminal image protocols (including Kitty, iTerm2, and Sixel) for inline image display, and provides various  export  options  for
       converting documents to plain text, Markdown, CSV, or JSON formats.

       When  invoked with a file argument, doxx opens the document in interactive mode if a TTY is detected.  In non-interactive environments, doxx automati‐
       cally provides formatted text output with document metadata, showing the first 20 elements of the document.  Use --force-ui to override TTY  detection
       and force interactive mode.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available when viewing documents:

   Viewing Options
       -o, --outline
               Start with outline view.  Display document structure and headings instead of full content.

       -p, --page page
               Jump to specific page number on startup.

       -s, --search term
               Search and highlight the specified term in the document.

       --force-ui
               Force interactive UI mode, bypassing TTY detection.

       --color
               Enable color support for text rendering.

   Image Options
       --images
               Display images inline in terminal.  Automatically detects terminal capabilities and uses appropriate protocol.

       --no-images
               Force text-only mode for images.  No inline image display.

       --extract-images directory
               Extract all images from the document to the specified directory.

       --image-width cols
               Maximum image width in terminal columns.  Default: auto-detect from terminal size.

       --image-height rows
               Maximum image height in terminal rows.  Default: auto-detect from terminal size.

       --image-scale scale
               Image scaling factor.  Value must be between 0.1 and 2.0.  Default: 1.0.

       --debug-terminal
               Test and display terminal image capabilities.

   Export Options
       --export format
               Export document to specified format and print to stdout.  Possible values:
               markdown  Convert document to Markdown format
               text      Convert to plain text
               csv       Export as comma-separated values
               json      Export document structure as JSON

   General Options
       -h, --help
               Print help information.

       -V, --version
               Print version information.

EXIT STATUS
       The doxx utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
       View a document in interactive mode:
             $ doxx document.docx

       Start viewing from page 5:
             $ doxx --page 5 document.docx

       Open document with outline view:
             $ doxx --outline document.docx

       Search for a term and highlight it:
             $ doxx --search "important" document.docx

       Export document to Markdown:
             $ doxx --export markdown document.docx > output.md

       Export to plain text:
             $ doxx --export text document.docx > output.txt

       View document with inline images:
             $ doxx --images document.docx

       Extract all images to a directory:
             $ doxx --extract-images ./images document.docx

       View with custom image scaling:
             $ doxx --images --image-scale 0.8 document.docx

       Test terminal image capabilities:
             $ doxx --debug-terminal

NOTES
   Interactive Controls
       When running in interactive mode, the following keyboard controls are available:

       Document View:
       q         Quit application
       o         Switch to outline view
       s         Enter search mode
       h, F1     Toggle help overlay
       c         Copy document content to clipboard (as plain text)
       k, Up     Scroll up one line
       j, Down   Scroll down one line
       PageUp    Scroll up one page (10 lines)
       PageDown  Scroll down one page (10 lines)
       Home      Jump to beginning of document
       End       Jump to end of document
       n         Next search result (when search results exist)
       p         Previous search result (when search results exist)
       Mouse wheel
                 Scroll up/down (3 lines per scroll)

       Outline View:
       q, Esc     Return to document view
       k, Up      Move selection up
       j, Down    Move selection down
       Enter      Jump to selected heading and return to document view
       c          Copy document outline to clipboard (with indentation)
       Mouse wheel
                  Scroll through outline items

       Search Mode:
       q, Esc     Return to document view
       characters
                  Type to build search query
       Backspace  Delete last character from query
       Enter, Down
                  Next search result
       Up         Previous search result
       F2         Copy search results to clipboard (formatted list)
       Mouse wheel
                  Navigate through search results

AUTHORS
       doxx was written by Brandon Greenwell <greenwell.brandon@gmail.com>

       This manual page was written by Nadzeya Hutsko <nadzya.info@gmail.com>

SEE ALSO
       pandoc(1), less(1)

Debian                                                                 October 14, 2025                                                               DOXX(1)
