DPUT.CF(5)                                                                                  File Formats Manual                                                                                  DPUT.CF(5)

NAME
       dput.cf - Debian package upload tool configuration file

DESCRIPTION
       This manpage gives a brief overview of dput's configuration file and the available options in it.  dput is a tool to upload Debian packages to the archive.

FORMAT
       dput.cf  consists  of  different groups of configuration options, one for each host where you want to be able to upload packages. Hosts are defined using an identifier header with a short name for
       the host, enclosed in square brackets.  For example, a section named foo.example.org is introduced with the header:
       [foo.example.org]

       Note that if multiple section names in the configuration match the specified hostname, only the last matching section is considered. This is done to avoid confusion when overriding a  global  con‐
       figuration file with a user-specific one.

       A special section name, DEFAULT, holds default parameters for all the hosts. The defaults can be overridden by redefining them again in each host section.

       The available parameters are listed below.

       fqdn = DOMAIN[:PORT]
              Connect to the remote host using the fully-qualified domain DOMAIN, connecting on port PORT.  The port is only relevant for HTTP or FTP protocols.

       login = USERNAME
              Authenticate  to this host with the username USERNAME.  If USERNAME is a single asterisk *, the scp and rsync methods will not supply a login name when invoking the ssh, scp, and rsync com‐
              mands.

       incoming = PATH
              Upload files to the filesystem path PATH on this host.

       method = METHOD
              Use the file transfer method METHOD for uploading files to this host.  Currently, dput accepts the following values for METHOD:

              ftp    The package will be uploaded via FTP, either anonymously or using a login and password.  Note that FTP is unencrypted so you should not use password authentication with this.

              http
              https  The package will be uploaded via HTTP or HTTPS using the PUT method as specified in WebDAV.  The upload method will prompt for a password if necessary.

              scp    The package will be uploaded using SSH's scp.  This transfers files using a secure SSH tunnel, and needs authentication credentials on the remote machine.

              rsync  The package will be uploaded using rsync over the SSH protocol.  This is similar to scp, but can save some bandwidth if the destination file already exists on the remote  server.  It
                     also needs authentication credentials for the remote machine as it uses SSH.

              local  The package will be "uploaded" locally using /usr/bin/install.  This transfers files to a local incoming directory, and needs appropriate permissions set on that directory.

       hash = ALGORITHM
              Use the hash algorithm ALGORITHM to compute the checksum of all files before the upload. If any hash does not match the value specified in the CHANGESFILE, the upload does not happen.  Cur‐
              rently, dput accepts the following values for ALGORITHM:

              md5    The MD5 algorithm.

              sha    The SHA-1 algorithm.

       allow_unsigned_uploads = FLAG
              If FLAG is true, dput may upload files without a GnuPG signature.

       allow_dcut = FLAG
              If FLAG is true, dcut may upload a queue commands file to remove or move files in the queue on this host.

       distributions = NAMES
              If defined, NAMES is a comma-separated list of distributions that this host accepts.  This is used to guess the host to use when none is specified on the command line.

       allowed_distributions = PATTERN
              If defined, dput will refuse the upload if the distribution field does not match REGEX using Python's re syntax.

       delayed = DAYS
              An  integer giving the “days” parameter for delayed uploads to this host.  If defined, dput will upload to the queue named DELAYED/DAYS (i.e. uploads to this host will be delayed the speci‐
              fied number of days). Defaults to the empty string, meaning no delay.  This only works with hosts that support delayed uploads.

       run_lintian = FLAG
              If FLAG is true, dput will run lintian(1) on the CHANGESFILE before uploading. If the package is not Lintian clean, the upload will not happen.

       run_dinstall = FLAG
              If FLAG is true, dput will run dinstall -n after the package has been uploaded.  This is an easy way to test if your package would be installed into the archive or not.

       check_version = FLAG
              This option defines if dput should check if the user has installed the package in his system for testing it before putting it into the archive. If the user has not installed and tested  it,
              dput will reject the upload.

       passive_ftp = FLAG
              This  option defines if dput should use passive ftp or active ftp for uploading a package to one of the upload queues.  By default, dput uses passive ftp connections. If you need to use ac‐
              tive ftp connections, set passive_ftp to 0.

       progress_indicator = STYLE
              Display a progress indicator using style STYLE for uploads to this host.  (Currently implemented for ftp method only.)

              Supported values for STYLE:

              0      (default) No progress indicator.

              1      Rotating progress indicator.

              2      Kilobyte counter.

       scp_compress = FLAG
              If FLAG is true and the METHOD is scp, enable SSH compression for uploads to this host.  This parameter has been found to decrease upload time for slow links, and increase upload times  for
              faster links.

       ssh_config_options = OPTIONS
              Specify  the  command-line options (text) to pass to all automatic invocations of ssh and scp.  The OPTIONS should be SSH client configuration options, as documented in ssh_config(5).  Note
              that you can define multiline (dput) configuration options by indenting the second line with whitespace (i.e. similar to RFC822 header continuations).

       post_upload_command = COMMAND
              If defined, dput will invoke the command COMMAND after a successful upload.

       pre_upload_command = COMMAND
              If defined, dput will invoke the command COMMAND before attempting an upload.

       default_host_main = HOSTNAME
              Specify to use the dput.cf section named HOSTNAME for packages that are allowed to be uploaded to the main archive.  This variable is used when guessing the host to upload to.

FILES
       /etc/dput.cf
              Global configuration file.

       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/dput/dput.cf (XDG standard)
       $HOME/.dput.cf (legacy)
              Per-user configuration file.  If the file at the XDG standard path can be opened, the legacy path is ignored.

SEE ALSO
       dput(1)

       ‘dput’ package documentation.

Debian                                                                                           2022-06-22                                                                                      DPUT.CF(5)
