UPDATE-INITRAMFS(8)                                                                        System Administration                                                                        UPDATE-INITRAMFS(8)

NAME
       update-initramfs - generate an initramfs image

SYNOPSIS
       update-initramfs {-c|-d|-u} [-k version] [-v] [-b directory] [-s timestamp]
       update-initramfs --version
       update-initramfs -h

DESCRIPTION
       The  update-initramfs  script  manages  your  initramfs images on your local box.  It keeps track of the existing initramfs archives in /boot.  There are three modes of operation create, update or
       delete.  You must at least specify one of those modes.

       The initramfs is a gzipped cpio archive.  At boot time, the kernel unpacks that archive into RAM disk, mounts and uses it as initial root file system. All finding of the  root  device  happens  in
       this early userspace.

OPTIONS
       -k  version
              Set  the  specific kernel version for whom the initramfs will be generated.  For example the output of uname -r for your currently running kernel.  This argument is optional for update. The
              default is the latest kernel version.

              The use of "all" for the version string specifies that update-initramfs should operate on all installed kernel versions (with -c), or on all installed kernel versions that already  have  an
              initramfs (with -d or -u).

       -c     This mode creates a new initramfs.

       -u     This mode updates an existing initramfs.

       -d     This mode deletes an existing initramfs.

       -v     This option increases the amount of information you are given during the chosen action.

       -b  directory
              Set an different bootdir for the image creation.

       -s  timestamp
              This  parameter sets a Unix time stamp (seconds since 1970) for the update mode.  An existing initramfs will only be updated if it is not newer than the specified Unix time stamp.  This pa‐
              rameter will be ignored if set to an empty string.

       --version
              Print the version information of the underlying initrd generation tool and exit.

       -h, --help
              Print a short help page describing the available options in update-initramfs.

EXAMPLES
       Update the initramfs of the newest kernel:

       update-initramfs -u

       Create the initramfs for a specific kernel:

       update-initramfs -c -k 6.8.0-52-generic

FILES
       /etc/initramfs-tools/update-initramfs.conf

AUTHOR
       The original update-initramfs command was part of initramfs-tools which was written by Maximilian Attems <maks@debian.org>, Jeff Bailey <jbailey@raspberryginger.com> and numerous others.  This up‐
       date-initramfs command has been adapted for dracut by Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>.

SEE ALSO
       dracut(8), dracut.cmdline(7), dracut.conf(5), lsinitrd(1).

dracut                                                                                           2025-07-29                                                                             UPDATE-INITRAMFS(8)
