DRAWVALMAP(1)         User Contributed Perl Documentation        DRAWVALMAP(1)

NAME
       drawvalmap - Generate a graphical output of validation status values
                    encountered by the validator library.

SYNOPSIS
       drawvalmap <logfile>

       drawvalmap

DESCRIPTION
       drawvalmap is a simple utility that can be used to display the
       validator status values in a graphical format.  The input to this
       script is a set of log messages that can be read either from file or
       from a socket.  The output is an image file containing an image of the
       various validator authentication chain status values.

       drawvalmap reads data from STDIN if the logfile and the socket option
       are both unspecified.  If the -f option is given, the output image file
       is embedded in an HTML file with the given name.  The HTML file auto-
       refreshes according to the refresh time supplied by the -r option,
       allowing changes to the validator graph to be constantly tracked.

       The typical usage of this script is in the following way:

           # drawvalmap <logfile>

       It would not be uncommon to use this script for troubleshooting
       purposes, in which case output generated by a driver program would be
       "piped" to this script in the manner shown below.

           # dt-validate -o6:stdout secure.example.com. | drawvalmap -f val_log_map.html

       In each case the script generates the results in a val_log_map.png
       file.  In the second case, an HTML file with the name val_log_map.html
       is also generated.

OPTIONS
       -a IP-address
           This changes the address to which drawvalmap binds itself to the
           specified value. This option takes effect only if the -s option is
           also specified.

       -f file.ext
           This creates an image of the type determined by the file extension

       -g xxxx (deprecated)
           Use -f instead.

       -h file.html
           This creates an HTML file with the given name, which contains the
           image of the validation map.

       -i ignore_pattern_string
           This causes drawvalmap to ignore log records that match the given
           ignore pattern.

       -l log_event1,log_event2
           This causes drawvalmap to enable display of events for the given
           list of log types. The following log event types are defined with
           their default enabled status indicated in parenthesis: SUCCESS(1),
           BOGUS(1), DATA_MISSING(1), ERROR(1), and IGNORED(0).

       -m match_pattern_string
           This causes drawvalmap to include only log records that match the
           given pattern.  If a given log record matches a pattern given by
           the -m option and also matches the pattern given by the -i option
           the effective result is that of ignoring the record.

       -p port
           This changes the port to which drawvalmap binds itself to the
           specified value. This option takes effect only if the -s option is
           also specified.

       -r refresh-period
           This changes the refresh period in the HTML file to the given
           value. The default is 5 seconds.

       -s  This changes the mode of operation to read input from a socket.
           The default address and port to which drawvalmap binds are
           127.0.0.1:1053.

PRE-REQUISITES
       GraphViz

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2005-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Suresh Krishnaswamy, hserus@users.sourceforge.net

SEE ALSO
       libval(3)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                     DRAWVALMAP(1)
