dwdump(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 dwdump(1)

NAME
       dwdump - dump kernel dropped packets to a file

SYNOPSIS
       dwdump [ OPTIONS ]

OPTIONS
       -w, --write FILE
              Dump packets to provided file in pcap format. Defaults to standard output.

       -t, --trunc LENGTH
              Ask the kernel to truncate packets to provided length. Defaults to no truncation.

       -q, --query
              Query the kernel for current configuration and exit.

       -l, --limit LIMIT
              Ask the kernel to set the per-CPU packet queue limit to provided limit.  Defaults to 1,000 packets.

       -p, --passive
              Only listen on notified packets with no configuration. This is useful if the kernel is already monitoring dropped packets and you only want to open another listening socket.

       -s, --stats
              Query the kernel for statistics and exit.

       -b, --bufsize SIZE
              Set the socket's receive buffer to provided size. Defaults to 1MB.

       -o, --origin { sw | hw }
              Ask the kernel to only monitor software or hardware originated drops. Defaults to both. See devlink-trap(8) for details on how to get hardware originated drops to the kernel.

       -e, --exit
              Ask the kernel to stop monitoring and exit.

EXAMPLES
       dwdump -w drops.pcap
           Dump dropped packets to a file.

       dwdump | tshark -V -r -
           Pipe dropped packets to Wireshark.

       dwdump -o sw -w drops.pcap
           Only monitor software originated drops.

       dwdump -q
           Query current configuration from the kernel and exit.

SEE ALSO
       dropwatch(1), devlink-trap(8), tshark(1),

Ido Schimmel                                                                                      Jan 2020                                                                                        dwdump(1)
