dskconv(1)                                                                                         Emulators                                                                                         dskconv(1)

NAME
       dskconv - Convert a disc image file from one format to another

SYNOPSIS
       dskconv [-itype TYPE] [-otype TYPE] [-icomp COMP] [-ocomp COMP] [-format FMT] INPUT-IMAGE OUTPUT-IMAGE
DESCRIPTION
       Dskconv  converts  a  disc image file from one format to another. Unlike dsktrans(1) it can handle files where different tracks have different sector layouts; however, it cannot handle copying to/from
       devices that are not disc image files (such as floppy drives or rcpmfs directories). See dsktrans(1) for a more general copy, and dskdump(1) for a slower but more accurate copy which may preserve more
       of these details.

OPTIONS
       -itype TYPE
              Determines which driver is to be used to read from the source disc. Some examples are:

              auto    Select according to the disc image file. This is the default.

              dsk     Use the DSK (CPCEmu format) image driver.

              edsk    Use the extended version of the DSK format.

              floppy  Use the floppy driver.

              ntwdm   (Under Windows 2000 and later) Use Simon Owen's FDRAWCMD floppy driver.

              myz80   Use the hard disk (MYZ80 format) image driver.  (This format cannot be autodetected.)

              cfi     Use the CFI (DOS fdcopy format) image driver.  (This format cannot be autodetected.)

              apridisk
                      Use the ApriDisk image driver (from the utility of the same name).  (This format cannot be autodetected.)

              raw     Use the raw driver.

              logical Similar  to  the raw driver, but the resulting disc image contains tracks laid out in logical filesystem order. Mainly used for imaging discs in formats (such as ADFS) where the mapping
                      of tracks to cylinders/heads does not match the way it's done on the PC.

              qm      Sydex's CopyQM format

              tele    Sydex's Teledisk format

       -otype TYPE
              Determines which driver is to be used to write to the destination disc. The drivers are as for -itype.

       -icomp COMP
              Select the compression method used on the source disc image file (has no effect when reading a floppy disc). Use 'none' to disable transparent decompression of gzipped disc images (for example,
              the Slackware installer rootdisks).

              auto    Detect from the first few bytes of the file. This is the default.

              sq      Huffman coded (SQ / USQ).

              gz      Gzipped (gzip / gunzip).

              bz2     Burrows-Wheeler compressed (bzip2 / bunzip2).

       -ocomp COMP
              Select the compression to be used on output. Compression methods are as for -icomp, except that bz2 cannot be used.

SEE ALSO
       dskdump(1), dsktrans(1)

AUTHOR
       John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.

       Darren Salt wrote the man pages.

Version 1.5.9                                                                                  17 September 2018                                                                                     dskconv(1)
