DTCK(1)               User Contributed Perl Documentation              DTCK(1)

NAME
       dtck - Check the DNSSEC-Tools data files for sanity.

SYNOPSIS
         dtck [options] [dtck_config_file]

DESCRIPTION
       dtck checks DNSSEC-Tools data files to determine if the entries are
       valid.  dtck checks the validity of DNSSEC-Tools configuration files,
       rollrec files, and keyrec files.  It does not perform the file checking
       itself, but runs checking programs specific to each type of data file.

       A dtck configuration file is consulted to determine the files to check.
       This file lists the DNSSEC-Tools data files and their types.  If a dtck
       configuration file is not given on the command line, dtck will only
       check the DNSSEC-Tools configuration file.  This is equivalent to
       running dtconfchk directly.

DTCK CONFIGURATION FILE
       A dtck configuration file contains a list of the files to be checked by
       dtck.  Except for comments, each line has the following format:

           keyword file directory

       keyword is one of "config", "rollrec", or "keyrec".  file is the
       pathname of the file to be checked.  directory is the name of the
       directory that holds file and is optional.

       The dtck configuration file contains the following types of records:

       config
           These lines define the DNSSEC-Tools configuration files that will
           be checked.  The dtconfchk program will be used to verify these
           files.

       rollrec
           These lines define the rollrec files that will be checked.  The
           rollchk program will be used to verify these files.

       keyrec
           These lines define the keyrec files that will be checked.  The
           krfcheck program will be used to verify these files.

       comments
           Any lines starting with an octothorpe (#) are comment lines and are
           ignored.

OPTIONS
       dtck takes two types of options.  Options of the first type are handled
       directly by dtck, controlling its output and processing.  Options of
       the second type are passed to the file-checking programs and are not
       further handled by dtck.

   Options Handled by dtck
       -defcon
           This option directs dtck to add the default DNSSEC-Tools
           configuration file to the list of configuration files to be
           checked.

       -list
           The names of the files will be listed as they are checked.

       -pretty
           Clarifying output is added to the output from dtck and the file-
           checking programs.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

   Options Not Handled by dtck
       -count
           The file-checking programs will display a final error count.

       -quiet
           No output will be given by the file-checking program.

       -verbose
           Verbose output will be given by the file-checking program.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for dtck and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2007-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       dtconfchk(8), krfcheck(8), rollchk(8)

       dnssec-tools.conf(5), keyrec(5), rollrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                           DTCK(1)
