DTCONFCHK(1)          User Contributed Perl Documentation         DTCONFCHK(1)

NAME
       dtconfchk - Check a DNSSEC-Tools configuration file for sanity

SYNOPSIS
         dtconfchk [options] [config_file]

DESCRIPTION
       dtconfchk checks a DNSSEC-Tools configuration file to determine if the
       entries are valid.  If a configuration file isn't specified, the system
       configuration file will be verified.

       Without any display options, dtconfchk displays error messages for
       problems found, followed by a summary line.  Display options will
       increase or decrease the amount of detail about the configuration
       file's sanity.  In all cases, the exit code is the count of errors
       found in the file.

       The tests are divided into five groups:  key-related checks, zone-
       related checks, path checks, rollover checks, and miscellaneous checks.
       The checks in each of these self-explanatory groups are described
       below.

       The default_keyrec configuration entry is not checked.  This entry
       specifies the default keyrec file name and isn't necessarily expected
       to exist in any particular place.

   Boolean Values
       The DNSSEC-Tools configuration file has a number of fields that are
       expected to hold boolean values.  The recognized values for booleans
       are as follows:

           true values  - 1, true,  t, yes, y
           false values - 0, false, f, no,  n

       Positive values greater than 1 are recognized as true values, but it
       probably would be best to use 1.

       Text values that aren't in the set above are not valid and will
       translate to false values.

   Key-related Checks
       The following key-related checks are performed:

       algorithm
               Ensure the algorithm field is valid.  The acceptable values may
               be found in the dnssec-keygen man page.

       ksklength
               Ensure the ksklength field is valid.  The acceptable values may
               be found in the dnssec-keygen man page.  This may also be
               specified as ksklen.

       ksklife Ensure the ksklife field is valid.  The acceptable values may
               be found in the defaults.pm man page.

       zskcount
               Ensure the zskcount field is valid.  The ZSK count must be
               positive.

       zsklength
               Ensure the zsklength field is valid.  The acceptable values may
               be found in the dnssec-keygen man page.  This may also be
               specified as zsklen.

       zsklife Ensure the zsklife field is valid.  The acceptable values may
               be found in the defaults.pm man page.

       random  Ensure the random field is valid.  This file must be a
               character device file.

   Zone-related Checks
       The following zone-related checks are performed:

       endtime Ensure the endtime field is valid.  This value is assumed to be
               in the "+NNNNNN" format.  There is a lower limit of two hours.
               (This is an artificial limit under which it may not make sense
               to have an end-time.)

   Path Checks
       Path checks are performed for several DNSSEC-Tools commands, several
       BIND commands, and a few miscellaneous files.

       The following path checks are performed for DNSSEC-Tools commands:

       genkrf  Ensure the genkrf field is valid.  If the filename starts with
               a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       keyarch Ensure the keyarch field is valid.  If the filename starts with
               a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       rollchk Ensure the rollchk field is valid.  If the filename starts with
               a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       rollctl Ensure the rollctl field is valid.  If the filename starts with
               a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       zonesigner
               Ensure the zonesigner field is valid.  If the filename starts
               with a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       The following path checks are performed for BIND tools:

       keygen  Ensure the keygen field is valid.  If the filename starts with
               a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       rndc    Ensure the rndc field is valid.  If the filename starts with a
               '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       zonecheck
               Ensure the zonecheck field is valid.  If the filename starts
               with a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       zonesign
               Ensure the zonesign field is valid.  If the filename starts
               with a '/', the file must be a regular executable file.

       The following path checks are performed for miscellaneous files and
       directories:

       random  Ensure the random field is valid.  The file must be a character
               device file.

       roll_logfile
               Ensure the roll_logfile field is a regular file.

       taresolvconf
               Ensure the taresolvconf field is a regular file.

       tatmpdir
               Ensure the tatmpdir field is a directory.

   Rollover Daemon Checks
       The following checks are performed for rollerd values:

       autosign
               Ensure that the autosign flag is a valid boolean.

       log_tz  Ensure the log_tz field is either 'gmt' or 'local'.

       prog_normal
       prog_ksk1 ... prog_ksk7
       prog_zsk1 ... prog_zsk4
               Ensure that the rollover phase commands are valid paths.   Each
               of these fields is a semicolon-separated command list.  The
               file checks are run on the commands to ensure the commands
               exist and are executable.  Options and arguments to the
               commands are ignored, as is the default keyword.

       roll_loadzone
               Ensure that the roll_loadzone flag is a valid boolean.

       roll_logfile
               Ensure that the log file for the rollerd is valid.  If the file
               exists, it must be a regular file.

       roll_loglevel
               Ensure that the logging level for the rollerd is reasonable.
               The log level must be one of the following text or numeric
               values:

                   tmi        1       Overly verbose informational messages.
                   expire     3       A verbose countdown of zone expiration is given.
                   info       4       Informational messages.
                   phase      6       Current state of zone.
                   err        8       Error messages.
                   fatal      9       Fatal errors.

               Specifying a particular log level will causes messages of a
               higher numeric value to also be displayed.

       roll_sleeptime
               Ensure that the rollerd's sleep-time is reasonable.  rollerd's
               sleep-time must be at least one minute.

       roll_username
               Ensure that the username for rollerd is valid.  If it's a
               username, it must be translatable to a uid; if it's a uid, it
               must translate to a known username.

       zone_errors
               Ensure that the zone error count is numeric and 0 or greater.

   NSEC3 Checks
       The following checks are performed for NSEC3-related values:

       nsec3iter
               Ensure that the nsec3iter iteration count falls within the
               range used by dnssec-signzone.  The current values are from 1 -
               65535.

       nsec3optout
               Ensure that the nsec3optout flag is a valid boolean.

       usensec3
               Ensure that the usensec3 flag is a valid boolean.

   Miscellaneous Checks
       The following miscellaneous checks are performed:

       admin-email
               Ensure that the admin-email field is defined and has a value.
               dtconfchk does not try to validate the email address itself.

       archivedir
               Ensure that the archivedir directory is actually a directory.
               This check is only performed if the savekeys flag is set on.

       entropy_msg
               Ensure that the entropy_msg flag is a valid boolean.

       savekeys
               Ensure that the savekeys flag is a valid boolean.  If this flag
               is set to 1, then the archivedir field will also be checked.

       usegui  Ensure that the usegui flag is a valid boolean.

       zonefile-parser
               Ensure that the zonefile-parser flag is a valid Perl module.
               This is checked by using the Perl "require" facility to load
               the specified module.

OPTIONS
       -expert
           This option will bypass the following checks:

               - KSK has a longer lifespan than the configuration
                 file's default minimum lifespan

               - KSK has a shorter lifespan than the configuration
                 file's default maximum lifespan

               - ZSKs have a longer lifespan than the configuration
                 file's default minimum lifespan

               - ZSKs have a shorter lifespan than the configuration
                 file's default maximum lifespan

       -quiet
           No output will be given.  The number of errors will be used as the
           exit code.

       -summary
           A final summary of success or failure will be printed.  The number
           of errors will be used as the exit code.

       -verbose
           Success or failure status of each check will be given.  A + or -
           prefix will be given for each valid and invalid entry.  The number
           of errors will be used as the exit code.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for dtconfchk and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2004-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       dtdefs(8), dtinitconf(8), rollerd(8), zonesigner(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::conf.pm(3), Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::defaults.pm(3)

       dnssec-tools.conf(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                      DTCONFCHK(1)
