DTREALMS(1)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          DTREALMS(1)

NAME
       dtrealms - Displays defaults defined for DNSSEC-Tools

SYNOPSIS
         dtrealms [options] <realm-file>

DESCRIPTION
       dtrealms manages multiple distinct DNSSEC-Tools rollover environments
       running simultaneously.  Each rollover environment, called a realm, is
       defined in a realms file.  dtrealms uses this file to determine how the
       rollover environment must be initialized such that it can run
       independently of the other rollover environments on a particular
       system.  This is useful for such things as managing very large
       collections of zones, segregating customer zones, and software tests.

       The realms file may be created with realminit.  Currently, the distinct
       environment for each realm must be created manually.  It is hoped that
       a tool will soon be available to assist with creating each realm's
       environment.

       dtrealms isn't necessary for running multiple realms.  However, it does
       make it easier to manage multiple realms running consecutively.

REALM SETUP
       A realm is primarily defined by its entry in a realms file.  Four
       fields in particular describe where the realm's files are located and
       how it runs.  These are the realm's configuration directory, state
       directory, realm directory, and rollrec file.  These directories are
       used to set the DT_STATEDIR and DT_SYSCONFDIR environment variables,
       and the rollrec file defines which zones are managed by the realm's
       rollover manager.

       https://www.dnssec-tools.org/wiki/index.php/Rollover_Realms:_Multiple,_Simultaneous,_Independent_Rollover_Environments
       has more information on creating realms.

       configdir
           The configdir field of the realms file contains the name of the
           realm's configuration directory.  This file gives command paths and
           configuration values for running the DNSSEC-Tools.  The DNSSEC-
           Tools modules expects this directory hierarchy to contain a dnssec-
           tools subdirectory, and a dnssec-tools.conf file within that
           subdirectory.  The path fields in the configuration file point to
           various things, such as commands and key archives.  It is
           recommended that these paths only point within the configdir
           hierarchy, other than for system utilities.

           The DT_SYSCONFDIR environment variable is set to the configdir
           field.  This will tell the DNSSEC-Tools programs and modules where
           to find their required data.

       statedir
           The statedir field of the realms file contains the name of the
           realm's state directory.  This directory contains such files as the
           rollrec lock file and the rollerd communications socket.  If a
           realm definition does not contain a statedir field, then that realm
           will use the configdir field as its statedir field.

           The DT_STATEDIR environment variable is set to the statedir field.
           This will tell the DNSSEC-Tools programs and modules where to find
           these files.

       realmdir
           The realmdir field of the realms file contains the name of the
           directory in which the realm executes.  This is where the realm's
           zone, key, and other files are located.

       rollrec
           The rollrec field of the realms file is the name of the file that
           controls zone rollover.  This file points to the various keyrec
           files that define the locations of the zone files and their
           associated key files.  A realm's rollrec file can locate these
           files anywhere on the system, but it is strongly recommended that
           they all remain within the realm's realmdir hierarchy.

       While the DNSSEC-Tools programs will work fine if a realm's
       configuration, state, and realm directories are actually one directory,
       it is recommended that at the least the realmdir files be separated
       from the configdir and statedir files.

       It is further recommended that the files for the various realms be
       segregated from each other.

OPTIONS
       The following options are handled by dtrealms.

       -directory
           Directory in which dtrealms will be executed.  Any relative paths
           given in realms configuration files will use this directory as
           their base.

       -display
           Start the grandvizier display program to give a graphical
           indication of realm status.

       -foreground
           Run dtrealms in the foreground instead of as a daemon.

       -logfile
           Logging file to use.

       -loglevel
           Logging level to use when writing to the log file.  See rolllog(3)
           for more details.

       -logtz
           Time zone to use with the log file.  This must be either "gmt" or
           "local".

       -Version
           Displays the version information for dtrealms and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

       -help
           Displays a help message and exits.

WARNING
       This is an early prototype.  Consider it to be beta quality.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2011-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       grandvizier(8), lsrealm(8), realminit(8), realmset(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::realm.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::realmmgr.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::rolllog.pm(3)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                       DTREALMS(1)
