DUMA(3)                                                                                   Library Functions Manual                                                                                  DUMA(3)

NAME
       DUMA - DUMA Malloc Debugger

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void * malloc (size_t size);

       void free (void *ptr);

       void * realloc (void *ptr, size_t size);

       void * calloc (size_t nelem, size_t elsize);

       void * memalign (size_t alignment, size_t size);

       void * valloc (size_t size);

       extern int DUMA_ALIGNMENT;

       extern int DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW;

       extern int DUMA_PROTECT_FREE;

       extern int DUMA_ALLOW_MALLOC_0;

       extern int DUMA_FILL;

DESCRIPTION
       DUMA  helps  you  detect two common programming bugs: software that overruns the boundaries of a malloc() memory allocation, and software that touches a memory allocation that has been released by
       free(). Unlike other malloc() debuggers, DUMA will detect read accesses as well as writes, and it will pinpoint the exact instruction that causes an error. It has been in use at Pixar since  1987,
       and at many other sites for years.

       DUMA  uses  the  virtual  memory  hardware  of your computer to place an inaccessible memory page immediately after (or before, at the user's option) each memory allocation. When software reads or
       writes this inaccessible page, the hardware issues a segmentation fault, stopping the program at the offending instruction. It is then trivial to find the erroneous statement using  your  favorite
       debugger. In a similar manner, memory that has been released by free() is made inaccessible, and any code that touches it will get a segmentation fault.

       Simply  linking your application with libduma.a will allow you to detect most, but not all, malloc buffer overruns and accesses of free memory.  If you want to be reasonably sure that you've found
       all bugs of this type, you'll have to read and understand the rest of this man page.

USAGE
       Link your program with the library libduma.a .  Make sure you are not linking with -lmalloc, -lmallocdebug, or with other malloc-debugger or malloc-enhancer libraries.  You can only use one  at  a
       time.   If  your  system  administrator  has installed DUMA for public use, you'll be able to use the -lduma argument to the linker, otherwise you'll have to put the path-name for libduma.a in the
       linker's command line.  You can also use dynamic linking. If you're using a Bourne shell, the statement export LD_PRELOAD=libduma.so.0.0 will cause DUMA to be loaded to run  all  dynamic  executa‐
       bles.  The command duma command runs a single command under DUMA.

       Some systems will require special arguments to the linker to assure that you are using the DUMA malloc() and not the one from your C library.

       Run  your  program  using  a debugger.  It's easier to work this way than to create a core file and post-mortem debug it. DUMA can create huge core files, and some operating systems will thus take
       minutes simply to dump core! Some operating systems will not create usable core files from programs that are linked with DUMA.  If your program has one of the errors detected by DUMA, it will  get
       a segmentation fault (SIGSEGV) at the offending instruction. Use the debugger to locate the erroneous statement, and repair it.

GLOBAL AND ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       DUMA  has four configuration switches that can be enabled via the shell environment, or by setting the value of global integer variables using a debugger. These switches change what bugs DUMA will
       detect, so it's important that you know how to use them.

       DUMA_ALIGNMENT
              This is an integer that specifies the alignment for any memory allocations that will be returned by malloc(), calloc(), and realloc().  The value is specified in bytes, thus a  value  of  4
              will  cause  memory to be aligned to 32-bit boundaries unless your system doesn't have a 8-bit characters. DUMA_ALIGNMENT is set to sizeof(int) by default, since that is generally the word-
              size of your CPU.  If your program requires that allocations be aligned to 64-bit boundaries and you have a 32-bit int you'll have to set this value to 8. This is the  case  when  compiling
              with  the  -mips2  flag on MIPS-based systems such as those from SGI.  The memory allocation that is returned by DUMA malloc() is aligned using the value in DUMA_ALIGNMENT, and its size the
              multiple of that value that is greater than or equal to the requested size.  For this reason, you will sometimes want to set DUMA_ALIGNMENT to 0 (no alignment), so that you can detect over‐
              runs of less than your CPU's word size. Be sure to read the section WORD-ALIGNMENT AND OVERRUN DETECTION in this manual page before you try this.  To change this value,  set  DUMA_ALIGNMENT
              in the shell environment to an integer value, or assign to the global integer variable DUMA_ALIGNMENT using a debugger.

       DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW
              DUMA  usually places an inaccessible page immediately after each memory allocation, so that software that runs past the end of the allocation will be detected. Setting DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW to
              1 causes DUMA to place the inaccessible page before the allocation in the address space, so that under-runs will be detected instead of  over-runs.   When  DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW  is  set,  the
              DUMA_ALIGNMENT parameter is ignored.  All allocations will be aligned to virtual-memory-page boundaries, and their size will be the exact size that was requested.  To change this value, set
              DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW in the shell environment to an integer value, or assign to the global integer variable DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW using a debugger.

       DUMA_PROTECT_FREE
              DUMA  usually returns free memory to a pool from which it may be re-allocated. If you suspect that a program may be touching free memory, set DUMA_PROTECT_FREE to 1. This will cause DUMA to
              never re-allocate memory once it has been freed, so that any access to free memory will be detected. Some programs will use tremendous amounts of memory when  this  parameter  is  set.   To
              change this value, set DUMA_PROTECT_FREE in the shell environment to an integer value, or assign to the global integer variable DUMA_PROTECT_FREE using a debugger.

       DUMA_ALLOW_MALLOC_0
              By  default,  DUMA  traps calls to malloc() with a size of zero, because they are often the result of a software bug. If DUMA_ALLOW_MALLOC_0 is non-zero, the software will not trap calls to
              malloc() with a size of zero.  To change this value, set DUMA_ALLOC_MALLOC_0 in the shell environment to an integer value, or assign to the global integer variable DUMA_ALLOC_MALLOC_0 using
              a debugger.

       DUMA_FILL
              When set to a value between 0 and 255, every byte of allocated memory is initialized to that value. This can help detect reads of uninitialized memory.  When  set  to  -1,  some  memory  is
              filled with zeroes (the operating system default on most systems) and some memory will retain the values written to it during its last use.

       DUMA_MEMCPY_OVERLAP
              Setting  this variable to 1 will make DUMA to ignore memcpy region overlapping when the destination address is less than source address. It was added as a workaround for ARM port where mem‐
              move implementation calls memcpy if the overlapping destination is safe and produces in false aborts.

WORD-ALIGNMENT AND OVERRUN DETECTION
       There is a conflict between the alignment restrictions that malloc() operates under and the debugging strategy used by DUMA. When detecting overruns, DUMA malloc() allocates two  or  more  virtual
       memory  pages for each allocation. The last page is made inaccessible in such a way that any read, write, or execute access will cause a segmentation fault.  Then, DUMA malloc() will return an ad‐
       dress such that the first byte after the end of the allocation is on the inaccessible page.  Thus, any overrun of the allocation will cause a segmentation fault.

       It follows that the address returned by malloc() is the address of the inaccessible page minus the size of the memory allocation.  Unfortunately, malloc() is required to return word-aligned  allo‐
       cations, since many CPUs can only access a word when its address is aligned.  The conflict happens when software makes a memory allocation using a size that is not a multiple of the word size, and
       expects  to do word accesses to that allocation. The location of the inaccessible page is fixed by hardware at a word-aligned address. If DUMA malloc() is to return an aligned address, it must in‐
       crease the size of the allocation to a multiple of the word size.  In addition, the functions memalign() and valloc() must honor explicit specifications on the alignment of the memory  allocation,
       and  this,  as  well  can only be implemented by increasing the size of the allocation.  Thus, there will be situations in which the end of a memory allocation contains some padding space, and ac‐
       cesses of that padding space will not be detected, even if they are overruns.

       DUMA provides the variable DUMA_ALIGNMENT so that the user can control the default alignment used by malloc(), calloc(), and realloc().  To debug overruns as small as a single byte,  you  can  set
       DUMA_ALIGNMENT  to  zero.  This will result in DUMA malloc() returning unaligned addresses for allocations with sizes that are not a multiple of the word size. This is not a problem in most cases,
       because compilers must pad the size of objects so that alignment restrictions are honored when storing those objects in arrays. The problem surfaces when software allocates odd-sized  buffers  for
       objects  that must be word-aligned. One case of this is software that allocates a buffer to contain a structure and a string, and the string has an odd size (this example was in a popular TIFF li‐
       brary). If word references are made to un-aligned buffers, you will see a bus error (SIGBUS) instead of a segmentation fault. The only way to fix this is to re-write the  offending  code  to  make
       byte references or not make odd-sized allocations, or to set DUMA_ALIGNMENT to the word size.

       Another  example  of  software  incompatible  with DUMA_ALIGNMENT < word-size is the strcmp() function and other string functions on SunOS (and probably Solaris), which make word-sized accesses to
       character strings, and may attempt to access up to three bytes beyond the end of a string. These result in a segmentation fault (SIGSEGV). The only way around this is to use versions of the string
       functions that perform byte references instead of word references.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEBUGGING YOUR PROGRAM
       1.     Link with libduma.a as explained above.

       2.     Run your program in a debugger and fix any overruns or accesses to free memory.

       3.     Quit the debugger.

       4.     Set DUMA_PROTECT_BELOW = 1 in the shell environment.

       5.     Repeat step 2, this time repairing underruns if they occur.

       6.     Quit the debugger.

       7.     Read the restrictions in the section on WORD-ALIGNMENT AND OVERRUN DETECTION.  See if you can set DUMA_ALIGNMENT to 0 and repeat step 2. Sometimes this will be too much work, or there  will
              be problems with library routines for which you don't have the source, that will prevent you from doing this.

MEMORY USAGE AND EXECUTION SPEED
       Since  DUMA  uses at least two virtual memory pages for each of its allocations, it's a terrible memory hog. I've sometimes found it necessary to add a swap file using swapon(8) so that the system
       would have enough virtual memory to debug my program. Also, the way we manipulate memory results in various cache and translation buffer entries being flushed with each call to malloc or free. The
       end result is that your program will be much slower and use more resources while you are debugging it with DUMA.

       Don't leave libduma.a linked into production software! Use it only for debugging.

AUTHOR
       Hayati Ayguen

WARNINGS
       I have tried to do as good a job as I can on this software, but I doubt that it is even theoretically possible to make it bug-free.  This software has no warranty. It will  not  detect  some  bugs
       that you might expect it to detect, and will indicate that some non-bugs are bugs.

LICENSE
       Copyright 1987-1999 Bruce Perens. All rights reserved.
       This  program  is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation. A copy of this
       license is distributed with this software in the file "COPYING".

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Read  the  file
       "COPYING" for more details.

CONTACTING THE AUTHOR
       Bruce Perens
       1563 Solano Ave. #349
       Berkeley, CA 94707
       Telephone: 510-526-1165
       Internet: bruce@perens.com

FILES
       /dev/zero: Source of memory pages (via mmap(2)).

SEE ALSO
       malloc(3), mmap(2), mprotect(2), swapon(8)

DIAGNOSTICS
       Segmentation Fault: Examine the offending statement for violation of the boundaries of a memory allocation.
       Bus Error: See the section on WORD-ALIGNMENT AND OVERRUN DETECTION.  in this manual page.

BUGS
       My explanation of the alignment issue could be improved.

       Some  Sun  systems  running  SunOS 4.1 were reported to signal an access to a protected page with SIGBUS rather than SIGSEGV, I suspect this is an undocumented feature of a particular Sun hardware
       version, not just the operating system.  On these systems, dumatest will fail with a bus error until you modify the Makefile to define PAGE_PROTECTION_VIOLATED_SIGNAL as SIGBUS.

       There are, without doubt, other bugs and porting issues. Please contact me via e-mail if you have any bug reports, ideas, etc.

WHAT'S BETTER
       Purify does a much more thorough job than DUMA, and does not have the huge memory overhead.  Checkergcc, a modified version of the GNU C Compiler that instruments all memory references, is  avail‐
       able on Linux systems and where GCC is used. It performs some of the same tasks as Purify, but only on code that it has compiled.

                                                                                             10-September-2005                                                                                      DUMA(3)
