RESTORE(8)                                                                               System management commands                                                                              RESTORE(8)

NAME
       restore - restore files or file systems from backups made with dump

SYNOPSIS
       restore -C [-cdHklMqvVy] [-b blocksize] [-D filesystem] [-f file] [-F script] [-L limit] [-s fileno] [-T directory]

       restore -i [-acdhHklmMNoquvVy] [-A file] [-b blocksize] [-f file] [-F script] [-Q file] [-s fileno] [-T directory]

       restore -P file [-acdhHklmMNquvVy] [-b blocksize] [-f file] [-F script] [-s fileno] [-T directory] [-X filelist] [ file ... ]

       restore -R [-cdHklMNquvVy] [-b blocksize] [-f file] [-F script] [-s fileno] [-T directory]

       restore -r [-cdHklMNquvVy] [-b blocksize] [-f file] [-F script] [-s fileno] [-T directory]

       restore -t [-cdhHklMNquvVy] [-A file] [-b blocksize] [-f file] [-F script] [-Q file] [-s fileno] [-T directory] [-X filelist] [ file ... ]

       restore -x [-adchHklmMNoquvVy] [-A file] [-b blocksize] [-f file] [-F script] [-Q file] [-s fileno] [-T directory] [-X filelist] [ file ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  restore  command  performs the inverse function of dump(8).  A full backup of a file system may be restored and subsequent incremental backups layered on top of it. Single files and directory
       subtrees may be restored from full or partial backups.  Restore works across a network; to do this see the -f flag described below. Other arguments to the command are file or directory names spec‐
       ifying the files that are to be restored. Unless the -h flag is specified (see below), the appearance of a directory name refers to the files and (recursively) subdirectories of that directory.

       Exactly one of the following flags is required:

       -C     This mode allows comparison of files from a dump.  Restore reads the backup and compares its contents with files present on the disk. It first changes its working directory to the  root  of
              the filesystem that was dumped and compares the tape with the files in its new current directory. See also the -L flag described below.

       -i     This mode allows interactive restoration of files from a dump. After reading in the directory information from the dump, restore provides a shell like interface that allows the user to move
              around the directory tree selecting files to be extracted. The available commands are given below; for those commands that require an argument, the default is the current directory.

              add [arg]
                     The  current  directory or specified argument is added to the list of files to be extracted.  If a directory is specified, then it and all its descendants are added to the extraction
                     list (unless the -h flag is specified on the command line). Files that are on the extraction list are prepended with a “*” when they are listed by ls.

              cd arg
                     Change the current working directory to the specified argument.

              delete [arg]
                     The current directory or specified argument is deleted from the list of files to be extracted. If a directory is specified, then it and all its descendants are deleted from  the  ex‐
                     traction  list  (unless  the -h flag is specified on the command line). The most expedient way to extract most of the files from a directory is to add the directory to the extraction
                     list and then delete those files that are not needed.

              extract
                     All files on the extraction list are extracted from the dump.  Restore will ask which volume the user wishes to mount. The fastest way to extract a few files is  to  start  with  the
                     last volume and work towards the first volume.

              help   List a summary of the available commands.

              ls [arg]
                     List  the  current or specified directory. Entries that are directories are appended with a “/”. Entries that have been marked for extraction are prepended with a “*”. If the verbose
                     flag is set, the inode number of each entry is also listed.

              pwd    Print the full pathname of the current working directory.

              quit   Restore immediately exits, even if the extraction list is not empty.

              setmodes
                     All directories that have been added to the extraction list have their owner, modes, and times set; nothing is extracted from the dump. This is useful for cleaning up after a restore
                     has been prematurely aborted.

              verbose
                     The sense of the -v flag is toggled. When set, the verbose flag causes the ls command to list the inode numbers of all entries. It also causes restore to print out information  about
                     each file as it is extracted.

       -P file
              Restore creates a new Quick File Access file file from an existing dump file without restoring its contents.

       -R     Restore requests a particular tape of a multi-volume set on which to restart a full restore (see the -r flag below). This is useful if the restore has been interrupted.

       -r     Restore  (rebuild)  a file system. The target file system should be made pristine with mke2fs(8), mounted, and the user cd'd into the pristine file system before starting the restoration of
              the initial level 0 backup. If the level 0 restores successfully, the -r flag may be used to restore any necessary incremental backups on top of the level 0. The -r flag precludes an inter‐
              active file extraction and can be detrimental to one's health (not to mention the disk) if not used carefully. An example:

                     mke2fs /dev/sda1

                     mount /dev/sda1 /mnt

                     cd /mnt

                     restore rf /dev/st0

              Note that restore leaves a file restoresymtable in the root directory to pass information between incremental restore passes.  This file should be removed when the last incremental has been
              restored.

              Restore, in conjunction with mke2fs(8) and dump(8), may be used to modify file system parameters such as size or block size.

       -t     The names of the specified files are listed if they occur on the backup. If no file argument is given, the root directory is listed, which results in the entire content of the backup  being
              listed, unless the -h flag has been specified.  Note that the -t flag replaces the function of the old dumpdir(8) program.  See also the -X option below.  If the -0 flag is used, the output
              separator is the null character (instead of the newline character).

       -x     The named files are read from the given media. If a named file matches a directory whose contents are on the backup and the -h flag is not specified, the directory is recursively extracted.
              The owner, modification time, and mode are restored (if possible). If no file argument is given, the root directory is extracted, which results in the entire content of the backup being ex‐
              tracted, unless the -h flag has been specified.  See also the -X option below.

OPTIONS
       The following additional options may be specified:

       -a, --no-ask-volume
              In  -i  or -x mode, restore does ask the user for the volume number on which the files to be extracted are supposed to be (in order to minimise the time by reading only the interesting vol‐
              umes). The -a option disables this behaviour and reads all the volumes starting with 1. This option is useful when the operator does not know on which volume the files to be  extracted  are
              and/or when he prefers the longer unattended mode rather than the shorter interactive mode.

       -A, --archive-file archive_file
              Read  the  table  of contents from archive_file instead of the media. This option can be used in combination with the -t, -i, or -x options, making it possible to check whether files are on
              the media without having to mount the media.

       -b, --block-size blocksize
              The number of kilobytes per dump record. If the -b option is not specified, restore tries to determine the media block size dynamically.

       -c, --old-format
              Normally, restore will try to determine dynamically whether the dump was made from an old (pre-4.4) or new format file system. The -c flag disables this check, and  only  allows  reading  a
              dump in the old format.

       -d, --debug
              The -d (debug) flag causes restore to print debug information.

       -D, --filesystem-name filesystem
              The -D flag allows the user to specify the filesystem name when using restore with the -C option to check the backup.

       -f, --input-file file
              Read  the backup from file; file may be a special device file like /dev/st0 (a tape drive), /dev/sda1 (a disk drive), an ordinary file, or - (the standard input). If the name of the file is
              of the form host:file or user@host:file, restore reads from the named file on the remote host using rmt(8).

       -F, --sot-script script
              Run script at the beginning of each tape. The device name and the current volume number are passed on the command line. The script must return 0 if restore should  continue  without  asking
              the user to change the tape, 1 if restore should continue but ask the user to change the tape. Any other exit code will cause restore to abort. For security reasons, restore reverts back to
              the real user ID and the real group ID before running the script.

       -h, --no-hierarchical-restore
              Extract the actual directory, rather than the files that it references. This prevents hierarchical restoration of complete subtrees from the dump.

       -H, --hash-size hash_size
              Use  a  hashtable having the specified number of entries for storing the directories entries instead of a linked list. This hashtable will considerably speed up inode lookups (visible espe‐
              cially in interactive mode when adding/removing files from the restore list), but at the price of much more memory usage. The default value is 1, meaning no hashtable is used.

       -k, --kerberos
              Use Kerberos authentication when contacting the remote tape server. (Only available if this options was enabled when restore was compiled.)

       -L, --max-miscompares limit
              The -L flag allows the user to specify a maximal number of miscompares when using restore with the -C option to check the backup. If this limit is reached, restore will abort with an  error
              message. A value of 0 (the default value) disables the check.

       -m, --extract-by-inode
              Extract by inode numbers rather than by file name. This is useful if only a few files are being extracted, and one wants to avoid regenerating the complete pathname to the file.

       -M, --multivolume
              Enables  the  multi-volume  feature  (for reading dumps made using the -M option of dump). The name specified with -f is treated as a prefix and restore tries to read in sequence from <pre‐
              fix>001, <prefix>002 etc.

       -N, --no-write
              The -N flag causes restore to perform a full execution as requested by one of -i, -R, -r, t or x command without actually writing any file on disk.

       -o, --set-curr-dir-perms
              The -o flag causes restore to automatically restore the current directory permissions without asking the operator whether to do so in one of -i or -x modes.

       -q, --abort-on-intervention
              The -q flag causes restore to abort immediately whenever operator attention is required, without prompting in case of read errors, tape changes etc.

       -Q, --QFAfile file
              Use the file file in order to read tape position as stored using the dump Quick File Access mode, in one of -i, -x or -t mode.

              It is recommended to set up the st driver to return logical tape positions rather than physical before calling dump/restore with parameter -Q.  Since not all tape devices  support  physical
              tape  positions  those  tape devices return an error during dump/restore when the st driver is set to the default physical setting. Please see the st(4) man page, option MTSETDRVBUFFER , or
              the mt(1) man page, on how to set the driver to return logical tape positions.

              Before calling restore with parameter -Q, always make sure the st driver is set to return the same type of tape position used during the call to dump.  Otherwise restore may be confused.

              This option can be used when restoring from local or remote tapes (see above) or from local or remote files.

       -s, --read-from-tape-fileno fileno
              Read from the specified fileno on a multi-file tape. File numbering starts at 1.

       -T, --tmp-dir directory
              The -T flag allows the user to specify a directory to use for the storage of temporary files. The default value is /tmp.  This flag is most useful when restoring files after  having  booted
              from a floppy. There might be little or no space on the floppy filesystem, but another source of space might exist.

       -u, --unlink-existing
              When creating certain types of files, restore may generate a warning diagnostic if they already exist in the target directory. To prevent this, the -u (unlink) flag causes restore to remove
              old entries before attempting to create new ones.

       -v, --verbose
              Normally restore does its work silently. The -v (verbose) flag causes it to type the name of each file it treats preceded by its file type.

       -0, --zero-terminator
              (zero terminated) flag causes the output lines to be zero terminated, not line feed terminated. This flag is recognized for -t (listing) only.

       -V, --multi-volume-non-tape-medium
              Enables reading multi-volume non-tape mediums like CDROMs.

       -X, --extractlist-file filelist
              Read  list of files to be listed or extracted from the text file filelist in addition to those specified on the command line. This can be used in conjunction with the -t or -x commands. The
              file filelist should contain file names separated by newlines.  filelist may be an ordinary file or - (the standard input).

       -y, --no-abort-on-error
              Do not ask the user whether to abort the restore in the event of an error.  Always try to skip over the bad block(s) and continue.

       --ignore-compression-flag-for-0.4b45-dumps
              v0.4b45 of dump had a bug that meant that while the tape recorded that compression had been selected, the tape was actually written uncompressed. This option tells dump to ignore  the  com‐
              pression flag and assume that the dump is uncompressed. This option is only useful for reading these old corrupted dumps and will cause errors reading any other compressed dump.

       (The 4.3BSD option syntax is implemented for backward compatibility but is not documented here.)

DIAGNOSTICS
       Complains if it gets a read error. If y has been specified, or the user responds y, restore will attempt to continue the restore.

       If  a  backup  was made using more than one tape volume, restore will notify the user when it is time to mount the next volume. If the -x or -i flag has been specified, restore will also ask which
       volume the user wishes to mount. The fastest way to extract a few files is to start with the last volume, and work towards the first volume.

       There are numerous consistency checks that can be listed by restore.  Most checks are self-explanatory or can “never happen”. Common errors are given below:

       Converting to new file system format
              A dump tape created from the old file system has been loaded. It is automatically converted to the new file system format.

       <filename>: not found on tape
              The specified file name was listed in the tape directory, but was not found on the tape. This is caused by tape read errors while looking for the file, and from using a dump tape created on
              an active file system.

       expected next file <inumber>, got <inumber>
              A file that was not listed in the directory showed up. This can occur when using a dump created on an active file system.

       Incremental dump too low
              When doing an incremental restore, a dump that was written before the previous incremental dump, or that has too low an incremental level has been loaded.

       Incremental dump too high
              When doing an incremental restore, a dump that does not begin its coverage where the previous incremental dump left off, or that has too high an incremental level has been loaded.

       Tape read error while restoring <filename>

       Tape read error while skipping over inode <inumber>

       Tape read error while trying to resynchronize
              A tape (or other media) read error has occurred. If a file name is specified, its contents are probably partially wrong. If an inode is being skipped or the tape is trying to resynchronize,
              no extracted files have been corrupted, though files may not be found on the tape.

       resync restore, skipped <num> blocks
              After a dump read error, restore may have to resynchronize itself. This message lists the number of blocks that were skipped over.

EXIT STATUS
       Restore exits with zero status on success. Tape errors are indicated with an exit code of 1.

       When doing a comparison of files from a dump, an exit code of 2 indicates that some files were modified or deleted since the dump was made.

ENVIRONMENT
       If the following environment variable exists it will be utilized by restore:

       TAPE   If no -f option was specified, restore will use the device specified via TAPE as the dump device.  TAPE may be of the form tapename, host:tapename or user@host:tapename.

       TMPDIR The directory given in TMPDIR will be used instead of /tmp to store temporary files.

       RMT    The environment variable RMT will be used to determine the pathname of the remote rmt(8) program.

       RSH    Restore uses the contents of this variable to determine the name of the remote shell command to use when doing a network restore (rsh, ssh etc.). If this variable is not set,  rcmd(3)  will
              be used, but only root will be able to do a network restore.

FILES
       /dev/st0
              the default tape drive

       /tmp/rstdir*
              file containing directories on the tape

       /tmp/rstmode*
              owner, mode, and time stamps for directories

       ./restoresymtable
              information passed between incremental restores

SEE ALSO
       dump(8), mount(8), mke2fs(8), rmt(8)

BUGS
       Restore can get confused when doing incremental restores from dumps that were made on active file systems.

       A level 0 dump must be done after a full restore. Because restore runs in user code, it has no control over inode allocation; thus a full dump must be done to get a new set of directories reflect‐
       ing the new inode numbering, even though the content of the files is unchanged.

       The  temporary  files /tmp/rstdir* and /tmp/rstmode* are generated with a unique name based on the date of the dump and the process ID (see mktemp(3)), except when -r or -R is used. Because -R al‐
       lows you to restart a -r operation that may have been interrupted, the temporary files should be the same across different processes. In all other cases, the files are unique because it is  possi‐
       ble to have two different dumps started at the same time, and separate operations shouldn't conflict with each other.

       To  do  a  network  restore,  you have to run restore as root or use a remote shell replacement (see RSH variable).  This is due to the previous security history of dump and restore.  ( restore is
       written to be setuid root, but we are not certain all bugs are gone from the code - run setuid at your own risk.)

       At the end of restores in -i or -x modes (unless -o option is in use), restore will ask the operator whether to set the permissions on the current directory. If the operator confirms this  action,
       the  permissions on the directory from where restore was launched will be replaced by the permissions on the dumped root inode. Although this behaviour is not really a bug, it has proven itself to
       be confusing for many users, so it is recommended to answer 'no', unless you're performing a full restore and you do want to restore the permissions on '/'.

       It should be underlined that because it runs in user code, restore , when run with the -C option, sees the files as the kernel presents them, whereas dump sees all the files on a given filesystem.
       In particular, this can cause some confusion when comparing a dumped filesystem a part of which is hidden by a filesystem mounted on top of it.

AUTHOR
       The dump/restore backup suite was ported to Linux's Second Extended File System by Remy Card <card@Linux.EU.Org>. He maintained the initial versions of dump (up and including  0.4b4,  released  in
       January 1997).

       Starting with 0.4b5, the new maintainer is Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>.

AVAILABILITY
       The dump/restore backup suite is available from <https://dump.sourceforge.io>

HISTORY
       The restore command appeared in 4.2BSD.

BSD                                                                                    version 0.4b52 of 01 May 2025                                                                             RESTORE(8)
