dupload(1)                                                              Debian Project                                                             dupload(1)

NAME
       dupload - Debian package upload tool

SYNOPSIS
       dupload [options...] [changes-file|directory...]

DESCRIPTION
       dupload is a tool that enables people maintaining Debian packages to easily upload them to a Debian repository.

       dupload checks each non-option argument to find readable files or directories. It parses the files as .changes files, or tries to find such files in
       the given directories.

       dupload will warn if the name of the file does not end with .changes. Further processing is done changing into the directories of the changes files.

       dupload tests the available checksums and size for each file listed in the .changes file, and fails if it finds a mismatch. If all this goes well,
       dupload checks if there is an .upload file with the basename of the .changes file.  If the file to be uploaded is recorded to have already been
       uploaded to the specified host, it is skipped.

       After the list of files to upload is finished, dupload tries to connect to the server and upload. Each successfully uploaded file is recorded in the
       .upload log file.

       If all files of a package are processed, the .changes file is mailed to the announcement address specified in the configuration file, see the
       Announcement section for more details.

   Upload methods
       The default transfer method is ftp.  Alternative methods are http, https, scp/SSH, scpb/SSH, rsync/SSH and copy.

       If you are using an upload queue, use ftp because it is fast.  If you are using an authenticated host, always use https, or one of scp or rsync via
       SSH, because ftp transmits the password in clear text.

       ftp
         If  no  login  (username)  is defined in the configuration file, anonymous is used.  The password is derived from your login name and your hostname,
         which is common for anonymous FTP logins.  For anonymous logins only, you can provide the "password" in the configuration file.

         For logins other than anonymous, you are asked for the password.  For security reasons there is no way to supply it  via  the  command-line  or  the
         environment.

       http (since 2.9.9) / https (since 2.9.9)
         There  is  no  default  login  nor  password.  If you specify a login, a password will be fetched from passwordcmd or if that is not defined via the
         Secret Service interface, otherwise it will be prompted.

       scp (since 1.8) / scpb (since 1.17)
         The default login is delegated to SSH and its own configuration.

         The scp/SSH method only works properly if no password is required (see ssh(1)).  When you use scp, it is recommended to set the "method" keyword  to
         scpb, which will transfer all files in a batch.

       rsync (since 2.4.1)
         The default login is delegated to SSH and its own configuration.

       copy (since 2.9.0)
         The copy method works by simply copying the files to another directory in the local filesystem.

   Announcement
       If the host has been configured to send announcement mails, the .changes file will be sent to the specified addresses.

       The contents of all the following files are prepended to the announcement mail body, if present:

       package.announce
       package_upstream-version.announce
       package_upstream-version-revision.announce

       Where  upstream-version  and  revision  are  to  be replaced with actual version numbers.  For example, if your package is called foobar, has upstream
       version 3.14, and Debian revision 2:

       • If you only want the announcement to be made with only ONE upload, you name it foobar_3.14-2.announce.

       • If you want it to be made with every upload of a particular upstream version, name it foobar_3.14.announce.

       • If you want it made with every upload of a given package, name it foobar.announce.

       By default, the announcement addresses are unset because dinstall sends mails instead.

OPTIONS
       -t, --to nickname
                   Upload to nickname'd host.  nickname is the key for doing lookups in the config file. You can use the default_host configuration option to
                   specify a host without --to.

       -c, --configfile filename
                   Read the file filename as a configuration file, in addition to the global configuration file.

       -f, --force Upload regardless of the transfers logged as already completed.

       -k, --keep  Keep going, skipping packages whose checksums does not match.

       -q, --quiet Be quiet, i.e., suppress normal output and progress bars.

       -d, --debug [level]
                   Enable more verbose output from the ftp, scp and scpb methods.

                   For scp and scpb (since 2.10.2) a -v per level is passed to the scp command.

       --no        Dry run, no files are changed, no upload is attempted, only tell what we would do.

       --nostats   Suppress printing download statistics.

                   Since version 2.10.2.

       --mta pathname
                   Use pathname as the sendmail compatible MTA.  The MTA specified must support the -f option to set the envelope sender address, and the  -F
                   option to set the sender's full name.  The default is /usr/sbin/sendmail.

                   Since version 2.9.8.

       --nomail    Suppress  announcement  for  this  run.  You  can send it later by just calling dupload again w/o this option. Note that this option is by
                   default implied for all hosts with the dinstall_runs option set to 1.

       --mailonly  Acts as if --no has been specified, but sends the announcements, unconditionally.

       --noarchive Adds an X-No-Archive: yes header so that the announcement will  not  be  archived.  You  can  use  the  per-host  archive  option  in  the
                   configuration file.

       --skip-hooks hook[,...]
                   Skip  running  the  comma-separated  list  of  hooks.   The  hook names can be the filename or the absolute pathname for the hook command,
                   excluding any argument.  This option can be specified multiple times.

                   Since version 2.11.0.

       -p, --print Print the "database" as read from the config files and exit.  If a host is specified via option --to, only this host's entry is displayed.

       --help      Prints the program usage message and exits.

       -V, --Version
                   Prints version and exits.

FILES
       /etc/dupload.conf
       ~/.dupload.conf
       --configfile config-file
           The configuration files are loaded if available in the order listed, overriding previous files.

       package.announce
       package_upstream-version.announce
       package_upstream-version-revision.announce
           If present, they will all be read to prepend to the announcement mail.

       .changes
       .dsc
       .orig.tar.*
       .debian.tar.*
       .diff.*
       .deb
           The .changes file to upload and all of its referenced files.

       package_version_arch.upload
           The file where dupload writes the upload log.

ENVIRONMENT
       DUPLOAD_SKIP_HOOKS
         A comma-separated list of hooks to skip running.  The --skip-hooks option overrides this setting.

         Since version 2.11.0.

BUGS
       dupload is tested on Debian systems only. It should not require too much effort to make it run under others systems, though.

SEE ALSO
       dupload.conf(5)

2.13.2build1                                                              2025-12-06                                                               dupload(1)
