DVDTAPE(1)                                                                                       Yggdrasil                                                                                       DVDTAPE(1)

NAME
       dvdtape - Write a DLT tape for manufacturing a Digital Versatile Disc.

SYNOPSIS
       dvdtape --inputfile=file [options]...

DESCRIPTION
       dvdtape should be used to write directly to a Digital Linear Tape to send to a DVD factory for manufacturing.  It writes all of the extra data that the factory needs in just the format that is ex‐
       pected.  This includes ANSI tape headers, DDP information, DDPMS information, "lead in", and the DVD data itself.

       --combined-length=length
              When  producing the first layer of a two layer opposite spiral track DVD, the dvdtape needs to know the combined length of both layers to record the length of the second layer in the leadin
              area of the first layer (opposite track DVD's only have one leadin area for both tracks).  This parameter provides a way to specify that value.  If  this  value  is  not  specified  and  is
              needed, it is inferred from the image contents, based on the assumption that the data being written is a "fat" ISO-9660 file system.

       --controlfile=file
              The file from which the DVD leadin data should be read.  The DVD leadin data is normally 32,768 bytes of data that contains information about the physical layout of the DVD-ROM, such as the
              number  of layers, number of sides, and so on.  This information does not appear as data sectors to programs reading the DVD-ROM, but is used internally by the DVD-ROM drive.  If this para‐
              meter is not specified, dvdtape will attempt to create its own leadin data by a possibly incorrect algorithm written from experiments on a proprietary  program  that  creates  leadin  data.
              Note also that leadin deliberately omitted for the second layer of an oppositely oriented dvd track.

       --diameter=8cm or --diameter=12cm
              The physical diameter of the disc being made.  12 centimeters is the default.

       --inputfile=file
              The file from which the DVD contents should be read.  This file usually contains an ISO-9660 or UDF file system.  This parameter is mandatory.  It has no default value.

       --layer=0 or --layer=1
              The  layer  number  being written.  The 4.7 gigabyte first layer is layer 0.  The optional 3.7 gigabyte second layer is layer 1.  Note that you must create a separate physical tape for each
              layer.  (DLT tapes have enough space to hold both layers, but the standard specifies two tapes.)  The default is layer=0.

       --layers=1 or --layers=2
              The total number of layers that the finished disc will comprise.  The tape itself only contains information about one layer, but the total number of layers is stored in the header  informa‐
              tion  on each tape.  The default behavior is to guess the number of layers by assuming that the image is a "fat" ISO-9660 file system, determining the file system size, and setting layers=1
              if the image will fit on one layer, and layers=2 otherwise.

       --length=NNNNNNNN
              The number of bytes to write for this layer of the DVD file system.  This data will be padded with nulls to make its size a multiple of 32768 (the required block size for the image  section
              of the tape).  If length is not specified, the default is to read the length, based on the assumption that the data is a "fat" ISO-9660 file system.

       --master-id=string
              Set  the  master  ID to the specified string, which can be up to 48 characters in length.  This string is a field in the tape header information, which sometimes displayed on the operator's
              console when the disc is being made.  It is useful for identifying tapes at the factor, and apparently has no other purpose.

       --offset=NNNNNNNN
              Skip this many bytes before starting to read the DVD image.  This is usually used for continuing a file system image on a second layer.  The default offset is 0 if  layer=0  and  4699979776
              (the size of layer 0) if layer=1.

       --outputfile=tape_device
              Write  the  output to tape_device.  You can write the output to a plain file, but the size of the tape blocks are 128 bytes in some sections and 32768 bytes in others, so you cannot write a
              proper tape later by simplying copying that file to a tape device.  The default is /dev/st0.

       --owner=string
              Fill in the "owner" field in the tape.  This option appears to be useful only if you want some specific information to appear before the operator  who  is  running  the  disc  manufacturing
              equipment.  The default is an empty string.

       --readout-speed=2 or --readout-speed=5 or --readout-speed=10
              The  leadin  data  contains  a parameter that specifies a minimum required readout speed for the DVD-ROM.  It can be 2.52, 5.04 or 10.08 megabits per second, which you can select by setting
              this argument to 2, 5, or 10, respectively.  The default is 2.52 megabits per second.  As far as this author can tell, there does not appear to be a way in the leadin format to  specify  no
              minimum readout speed.  This argument is only used when dvdtape generates its own leadin data.

       --side=0 or --side=1
              The  side number being written.  The first side is side 0.  Note that you must create a separate physical tape for each side.  (DLT tapes have enough space to hold both sides, but the stan‐
              dard is two tapes.)  The default value is 0.

       --sides=1 or --sides=2
              The total number of sides that the finished disc will comprise.  The tape itself only contains information about one side, but the total number of sides is stored in the header  information
              on each tape.  The default value is 1.

       --track-path=directionfR
              The  direction of translation of the second layer in the DVD.  This argument should have no effect for a single layer DVD, although it does fill in the corresponding field in the DVD header
              information.  For the standard parallel layer arrangement, direction can be specified by the synonyms "opposite", "out" or "outward".  For opposite track arrangment, direction can be  "par‐
              allel", "in" or "inward".  The default is parallel if there is only one layer and opposite if there are two layers.  The legality of opposite orientation and only one layer is unclear.

       --usertext=string
              Fill  in  the "user text" field in the tape.  This option appears to be useful only if you want some specific information to appear before the operator who is running the disc manufacturing
              equipment.  The default value is an empty string.

EXAMPLES
       dvdtape --inputfile=mydvd.iso-image
              Writes layer 0 to the tape on /dev/st0.

       dvdtape --inputfile=mydvd.iso-image --side=1
              Writes layer 1 to the tape on /dev/st0.  You only need to do this for an image that is too large to fit on one layer.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1999, 2000 Yggdrasil Computing, Inc.  dvdtape may be copied under the terms and conditions of version 2 of the GNU General Public License, as published by the  Free  Software  Foundation
       (Cambridge, MA, USA).

AUTHOR
       Written by Adam J. Richter (adam@yggdrasil.com)

Yggdrasil DVD Tools                                                                            February 2000                                                                                     DVDTAPE(1)
