ecasoundrc(5)                                                                               Multimedia software                                                                               ecasoundrc(5)

NAME
       ecasoundrc - ecasound rcfile

SYNOPSIS
       {prefix}/share/ecasound/ecasoundrc (for instance ’/usr/local/share/ecasound/ecasoundrc’) $HOME/.ecasound/ecasoundrc

DESCRIPTION
       ecasoundrc  is  the main configuration file for ecasound.  Any user-specific modification should be done to $HOME/.ecasound/ecasoundrc, not to the global resource file. Ecasound also allows one to
       disable the normal policy and only read from a specific resource file (see ecasound (1) and documentation for the -R option).

       The format is quite simple. One line consists of a configuration variable and its value. Variable and value are separated with either ’=’ or ’ ’. Lines beginning with a "#"  are  ignored  (comment
       lines).

VARIABLES
       midi-device
              MIDI-device. If the device name is given in rawmidi,/dev/midi* format, OSS/Linux or OSS/Lite drivers are used.  Device rawmidi,/dev/snd/midiCxDy opens an ALSA raw-MIDI device with card num‐
              ber ’x’ and device number ’y’.  See ecasound (1) man page (the ’-Md option) for more info.  Defaults to rawmidi,/dev/midi.

       default-output
              Output  device to use by default. If a chainsetup with zero outputs, but with one or more inputs, is connected, a default output is added and all the chains are connected to it. If the spe‐
              cial-case value ’autodetect’ is specified, ecasound will try to auto-detect a suitable device (JACK -> ALSA -> OSS -> rtnull).  Defaults to autodetect.

       default-audio-format
              Default values for sample format, channel count, sampling rate and  channel  interleaving.  Syntax  is  the  same  as  used  by  ecasound’s  -f  option  (see  ecasound  (1)).   Defaults  to
              s16_le,2,44100,i.

       default-to-precise-sample-rates
              Whether to ignore sample rate differences (and possibly avoid resampling). Currently only affects OSS-devices. Defaults to false.

       default-mix-mode
              If default-mix-mode is sum, engine will mix multiple channels into one output channel by summing all input channels. In mode avg, mixing is done by taking the average of all input channels.
              The avg mode is safe from clipping, while sum is closer to the way analog mixers work. Defaults to avg.

       bmode-defaults-nonrt
              Selects  the  default parameters to use with buffering mode ’nonrt’ (other modes are ’rt’ and ’rtlowlatency).  Parameters are given as a comma-separated tuple of values: 1) buffersize (num‐
              ber,-b), 2) raised priority (true/false,-r), 3) sched_priority (number,-r:X), 4) double buffering (true/false,-z:db), 5) db-bufsize (number,-z:db,X), and 6) max  intbuf  (true/false,-z:int‐
              buf). Defaults to 1024,false,50,false,100000,true.

       bmode-defaults-rt
              See ’bmode-defaults-nonrt’. Defaults to 1024,true,50,true,100000,true.

       bmode-defaults-rtlowlatency
              See ’bmode-defaults-nonrt’. Defaults to 256,true,50,true,100000,false.

       resource-directory
              Directory  for  global ecasound configuration files.  Defaults to {prefix-dir}/share/ecasound.  Note! User-specific resource files can be be stored to ’$(HOME)/.ecasound/’. For instance you
              can add your own presets definitions to ’$(HOME)/.ecasound/effect_presets’.

       resource-file-genosc-envelopes
              Configuration file for generic oscillators. Is located in the resource directory. Defaults to generic_oscillators.

       resource-file-effect-presets
              Configuration file for effect presets. Is located in the resource directory. Defaults to effect_presets.

       ladspa-plugin-directory
              Directory containing LADSPA effect plugins. Defaults to {prefix-dir}/lib/ladspa.  If environment variable LADSPA_PATH exists, directories specified in it are automatically searched for plu‐
              gins.  Note! To match the syntax of the LADSPA_PATH environment variable, ’ladspa-plugin-directory’ can contain multiple directories, separated by ’:’ characters.

       ext-cmd-text-editor
              If ext-cmd-text-editor-use-getenv is false or "EDITOR" is null, value of this field is used.

       ext-cmd-text-editor-use-getenv
              Should ecasound try to query environment variable "EDITOR".  Defaults to true.

       ext-cmd-mp3-input
              Command for starting mp3 input. Ecasound expects to read signed, 16bit, little-endian stereo audio samples from its standard input. Ecsound will query other audio format parameters by pars‐
              ing the mp3 file header. Before execution, %f is replaced with path to the input mp3. If exists, "%o" is replaced with he start offset in mp3 frames.  Double-quotes  and  backslash-espacing
              can be used to include white-space to individual parameters.  By default, mpg123 is launched.

       ext-cmd-mp3-output
              Command for starting mp3 output. Ecasound will write stereo, signed, 16bit, little-endian samples to standard output. Sample rate is configurable. Before execution, %f is replaced with path
              to the output mp3, %S with sample rate in kHz, and %B with encoding bitrate in kbps. Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include white-space to individual parameters. By de‐
              fault  Ecasound  will try to launch lame. As a special exception (added to Ecasound 2.7.0), if the output program is "lame" and options include "--big-endian", Ecasound will detect this and
              output big-endian samples.

       ext-cmd-ogg-input
              Command for starting Ogg Vorbis input. Ecasound expects that audio samples are written to standard output. It should be noted that Ecasound is not able to query the audio format  parameters
              from  ogg  files,  so  these  need to be set manually by the user.  Before execution, %f is replaced with path to the input ogg.  Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include
              white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to launch (ogg123).

       ext-cmd-ogg-output
              Command for starting Ogg Vorbis output. Ecasound will write samples in little-endian format to standard output. Other audio parameters are configurable. Before  execution,  %f  is  replaced
              with  path  to  the  output  ogg,  %c,  %s  and  %b with matching audio format parameters, and %B with encoding bitrate in kbps.  Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include
              white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to launch (oggenc).

       ext-cmd-mikmod
              Command for starting mikmod input. Ecasound expects that signed, 16bit, stereo audio samples are written to standard output. Before execution, %f is replaced with file path, and %s with se‐
              lected sample rate. Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to launch mikmod.

       ext-cmd-timidity
              Command for starting timidity++ input. Ecasound expects that signed, 16bit, stereo audio samples are written to standard output. Before execution, %f is replaced with file path, and %s with
              sample rate. Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include white-space to individual parameters.  By default Ecasound will try to launch timidity.

       ext-cmd-flac-input
              Command for starting FLAC input. Ecasound expects that audio samples are written to standard output. It should be noted that Ecasound is not able to query the audio format  parameters  from
              FLAC  files,  so  these  need to be set manually by the user.  Before execution, %f is replaced with path to the input FLAC file. Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include
              white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to launch (flac).

       ext-cmd-flac-output
              Command for starting FLAC output. Ecasound will write samples to standard output. All audio parameters are configurable. Before execution, %f is replaced with path to the output  flac,  %c,
              %b  and  %s  with  matching audio format parameters, %I with either ’signed’ or ’unsigned’, and %E with either ’little’ or ’big’. Double-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include
              white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to launch (flac).

       ext-cmd-aac-input
              Command for starting AAC input. Ecasound expects that signed, 16bit, stereo, big-endian audio samplesare written to standard output. It should be noted that    Ecasound is not able to query
              the input sample rate, so this needs to be set manually by the user.  Before execution, %f is replaced with path to the input AAC file. Note! FAAC must be compiled with  MP4  support.  Dou‐
              ble-quotes and backslash-espacing can be used to include white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to laucnh faad.

       ext-cmd-aac-output
              Command  for starting AAC output. Ecasound will write big-endian audio samples to standard output. All other audio parameters are configurable. Before execution, %f is replaced with path to
              the output AAC file, %c, %b and %s with matching audio format parameters. Note! FAAC must be compiled with  MP4  support.  Double-quotes  and  backslash-espacing  can  be  used  to  include
              white-space to individual parameters. By default Ecasound will try to launch faac.

DEPRECATED
       ext-cmd-wave-editor

SEE ALSO
       ecasound (1), ecatools (1), ecasound-iam (1)

AUTHOR
       Kai Vehmanen, <kvehmanen -at- eca -dot- cx <kvehmanen -at- eca -dot- cx>>

                                                                                                 22.03.2009                                                                                   ecasoundrc(5)
