
EDAC-UTIL(1)                                                                              EDAC error reporting utility                                                                             EDAC-UTIL(1)

NAME
       edac-util - EDAC error reporting utility.

SYNOPSIS
       edac-util [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       The  edac-util  program  reads  information from EDAC (Error Detection and Correction) drivers in the kernel, using files exported by these drivers in sysfs. With no options, edac-util will report any
       uncorrected error (UE) or corrected error (CE) information recorded by EDAC, along with any DIMM label information registered with EDAC.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display a summary of the command-line options.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet mode. For some reports, edac-util will report corrected and uncorrected error counts for all MC, csrow, and channel combinations, even if the current count of errors is zero. The  --quiet
              flag will suppress the display of any locations with zero errors, thus creating a more terse report. No output will be generated if there are zero total errors currently recorded by EDAC. Addi‐
              tionally, the use of --quiet will suppress all informational and debug messages, displaying only fatal errors.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase verbosity. Multiple -v´s may be used.

       -s, --status
              Displays the current status of EDAC drivers. edac-util will report whether it detects that EDAC drivers are loaded, and the number of memory controllers (MCs) found in sysfs. In  verbose  mode,
              the MC id and name of each controller will also be printed.

       -r, --report=report,...
              Specify  the  report to generate. Currently, the available reports are default, simple, full, ue, and ce.  These reports are detailed in the EDAC REPORTS section below. More than one report may
              be specified in a comma-separated list.

EDAC REPORTS
       default
              The default edac-util report is generated when the program is run without any options. If there are no errors logged by EDAC, this report will display "No errors to report." to  stdout.  Other‐
              wise, error counts for each MC, csrow, channel combination with attributed errors are displayed, along with corresponding DIMM labels, if these labels have been registered in sysfs.

              The  default  report  will also display any errors that do not have any DIMM information. These errors occur when errors are reported in the memory controller overflow register, indicating that
              more than one error occurred during a given EDAC poll cycle. It is usually obvious from which DIMM locations these errors were generated.

       simple The simple report reports total corrected and uncorrected errors for each MC detected on the system. It also displays a tally of total errors. With  the  --quiet  option,  only  non-zero  error
              counts are displayed.

       full   The  full  report generates a line of output for every MC, csrow, channel combination found in EDAC sysfs. This includes counts of errors with no information ("noinfo" errors). Output is of the
              form:

              MC:(csrow|noinfo):(label|all):(UE|CE):count

              With the --quiet option, only non-zero error counts will be displayed.

       ue     This report simply displays the total number of Uncorrected Errors (UEs) detected on the system.  With the --quiet option, output will be suppressed unless there are 1 or more errors to report.

       ce     This report simply displays the total number of Corrected Errors (CEs) detected on the system.  With the --quiet option, output will be suppressed unless there are 1 or more errors to report.

SEE ALSO
       edac(3), edac-ctl(8)

edac-utils-0.18-1                                                                                  2011-11-09                                                                                      EDAC-UTIL(1)
