electric(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               electric(1)

NAME
       electric - a VLSI design system

SYNOPSIS
       electric [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Electric  is  a general purpose system for all electrical design.  It currently knows about nMOS, CMOS, Bipolar, artwork, schematics, printed-circuit boards, and many other technologies.  It has a
       large set of tools including multiple design-rule checkers (both incremental and hierarchical), an electrical rules checker, over a dozen simulator interfaces, multiple  generators  (PLA  and  pad
       frame), multiple routers (stitching, maze, river), network comparison, compaction, compensation, a VHDL compiler, and a silicon compiler that places-and-routes standard cells.

       In addition to the text terminal used to invoke the program, Electric uses a color display with a mouse as a work station.  Separate windows are used for text and graphics.

       If a library disk file is mentioned on the command line, that file is read as the initial design for editing.  In addition, the following switches are recognized:

OPTIONS
       -mdi
              multiple document interface mode

       -sdi
              single document interface mode

       -NOMINMEM
              ignore minimum memory provided for JVM

       -s <script name>
              bean shell script to execute

       -version
              version information

       -v
              brief version information

       -debug
              debug mode. Extra information is available

       -threads <numThreads>
              recommended size of thread pool for Job execution.

       -logging <filePath>
              log server events in a binary file

       -socket <socket>
              socket port for client/server interaction

       -batch
              batch mode implies 'no GUI', and nothing more

       -server
              dump trace of snapshots

       -client <machine name>
              replay trace of snapshots

       -help
              this message

REPRESENTATION
       Circuits  are  represented  as networks that contain nodes and connecting arcs.  The nodes are electrical components such as transistors, logic gates, and contacts.  The arcs are simply wires that
       connect the nodes.  In addition, each node has a set of ports which are the sites of arc connection.  A technology, then, is simply a set of primitive nodes and arcs that are the  building  blocks
       of circuits designed in that environment.

       Collections  of  nodes  and arcs can also be aggregated into facets of cells which can be used higher in the hierarchy to act as nodes.  These user-defined nodes have ports that come from internal
       nodes whose ports are exported.  Facets are collected in libraries which contain a hierarchically consistent design.

       Arcs have properties that help constrain the design.  For example, an arc may rotate arbitrarily or be fixed in their angle.  Arcs can also be stretchable or rigid under modification of their con‐
       necting nodes.  These constraints propagate hierarchically from the bottom-up.

TECHNOLOGIES
       A large set of technologies is provided in Electric.  These can be modified with the technology editor, or completely new technologies can be created.  The following paragraphs  describe  some  of
       the basic technologies.

       The  nMOS  technologies  have  arcs  available  in Metal, Polysilicon, and Diffusion.  The primitive nodes include normal contacts, buried contacts, transistors, and "pins" for making arc corners.
       Transistors may be serpentine and the pure layer nodes may be polygonally described with the node trace command.  The "nmos" technology has the standard Mead&Conway design rules.

       The CMOS technologies have arcs available in Metal, Polysilicon, and Diffusion.  The Diffusion arcs may be found in a P-well implant or in a P+ implant.  Thus, there are two types of metal-to-dif‐
       fusion contacts, two types of diffusion pins, and two types of transistors: in P-well and in P+ implant.  As with nMOS, the transistors may be serpentine and  the  pure  layer  primitives  may  be
       polygonally defined.  The "cmos" technology has the standard design rules according to Griswold; the "mocmos" technology has design rules for the MOSIS CMOS process (double metal); the "mocmossub"
       technology has design rules for the MOSIS CMOS Submicron process (double poly and up to 6 metal); the "rcmos" technology has round geometry for the MOSIS CMOS process.

       The  "schematic"  technology  provides basic symbols for doing schematic capture.  It contains the logic symbols: BUFFER, AND, OR, and XOR.  Negating bubbles can be placed by negating a connecting
       arc.  There are also more complex components such as flip-flop, off-page-connector, black-box, meter, and power source.  Finally, there are the electrical components: transistor, resistor,  diode,
       capacitor, and inductor.  Two arc types exist for normal wires and variable-width busses.

       The "artwork" technology is a sketchpad environment for doing general-purpose graphics.  Components can be placed with arbitrary color and shape.

       The "generic" technology exists for those miscellaneous purposes that do not fall into the domain of other technologies.  It has the universal arc and pin which can connect to ANY other object and
       are  therefore  useful  in mixed-technology designs.  The invisible arc can be used for constraining two nodes without making a connection.  The unrouted arc can be used for electrical connections
       that are to be routed later with real wires.  The facet-center primitive, when placed in a facet, defines the cursor origin on instances of that facet.

DESIGN-RULE CHECKING
       The incremental design-rule checker is normally on and watches all changes made to the circuit.  It does not correct but prints error messages when design rules are  violated.   Hierarchy  is  not
       handled, so the contents of subfacets are not checked.

       The hierarchical checker looks all the way down the circuit for all design-rules.  Another option allows an input deck to prepared for ECAD's Dracula design-rule checker.

COMPACTION
       The  compactor  attempts  to reduce the size of a facet by removing unnecessary space between elements.  When invoked it will compact in the vertical and horizontal directions until it can find no
       way to compact the facet any further.  It does not do hierarchical compaction, does not guarantee optimal compaction, nor can it handle non-manhattan geometry properly.  The  compactor  will  also
       spread out the facet to guarantee no design-rule violations, if the "spread" option is set.

SIMULATION
       There  are  many  simulator  interfaces: ESIM (the default simulator: switch-level for nMOS without timing), RSIM (switch-level for MOS with timing), RNL (switch-level for MOS with timing and LISP
       front-end), MOSSIM (switch-level for MOS with timing), COSMOS (switch-level for MOS with timing), VERILOG (Cadence simulator), TEXSIM (a commercial simulator), SILOS (a commercial simulator), ABEL
       (PAL generator/simulator for schematic), and SPICE (circuit level).  MOSSIM, COSMOS, VERILOG, TEXSIM, SILOS, and ABEL do not actually simulate: they only write an input deck of your circuit.

       In preparation for most simulators, it is necessary to export those ports that you wish to manipulate or examine.  You must also export power and ground ports.

       In preparation for SPICE simulation, you must export power and ground signals and.  explicitly connect them to source nodes.  The source should then be parameterized to  indicate  the  amount  and
       whether  it is voltage or current.  For example, to make a 5 volt supply, create a source node and set the SPICE card to: "DC 5".  Next, all input ports must be exported and connected to the posi‐
       tive side of sources.  Next, all values that are being plotted must be exported and have meter nodes placed on them.  The node should have the top and bottom ports connected appropriately.

PLA GENERATION
       There are two PLA generators, one specific to nMOS layout, and another specific to CMOS layout.  The nMOS PLA generator reads a single personality table and generates the  array  and  all  driving
       circuitry including power and ground connections.  The CMOS PLA generator reads two personality tables (AND and OR) and also reads a library of PLA helper components (called "pla_mocmos") and gen‐
       erates the array.

ROUTING
       The  router  is able to do river routing, maze routing, and simple facet stitching (the explicit wiring of implicitly connected nodes that abut).  River routing runs a bus of wires between the two
       opposite sides of a routing channel.  The connections on each side must be in a line so that the bus runs between two parallel sets of points.  You must use the Unrouted arc from the Generic tech‐
       nology to indicate the ports to be connected.  The river router can also connect wires to the perpendicular sides of the routing channel if one or more Unrouted wires cross these sides.

       There are two stitching modes: auto stitching and mimic stitching.  In auto stitching, all ports that physically touch will be stitched.  Mimic stitching watches arcs that are created by the  user
       and adds similar ones at other places in the facet.

NETWORK COMPARISON
       The  network maintainer tool is able to compare the networks in the two facets being displayed on the screen.  Once compared, nodes in one facet can be equated with nodes in the other.  If the two
       networks are automorphic or otherwise difficult to distinguish, equivalence information can be specified prior to comparison by selecting a component in the first facet then selecting a  component
       in the second facet.

AUTHOR
       Steven M. Rubin
          Static Free Software
          4119 Alpine Road
          Portola Valley, Ca 94028

       Also a cast of thousands:
          Philip Attfield (Queens University): Polygon merging, facet dates
          Ron Bolton (University of Saskatchewan): Miscellaneous help
          Mark Brinsmead (Calgary): Apollo porting
          Stefano Concina (Schlumberger): Polygon clipping
          Peter Gallant (Queen's University): ALS simulation
          T. J. Goodman (University of Canterbury) TEXSIM simulation
          D. Guptill (Technical University of Nova Scotia): X-window interface
          Robert Hon (Columbia University): CIF input
          Sundaravarathan Iyengar (Case Western Reserve University): nMOS PLA generator
          Allan Jost (Technical University of Nova Scotia): X-window interface
          Wallace Kroeker (University of Calgary): Digital filter technology, CMOS PLA generator
          Andrew Kostiuk (Queen's University): QUISC 1.0 Silicon compiler
          Glen Lawson (S-MOS Systems): GDS-II input
          David Lewis (University of Toronto): Short circuit checker
          John Mohammed (Schlumberger): Miscellaneous help
          Mark Moraes (University of Toronto): X-window interface
          Sid Penstone (Queens University): many technologies, GDS-II output, SPICE improvements, SILOS simulation, GENERIC simulation
          J. P. Polonovski (Ecole Polytechnique, France): Memory management improvement
          Kevin Ryan (Technical University of Nova Scotia): X-window interface
          Nora Ryan (Schlumberger): Technology translation, Compaction
          Brent Serbin (Queen's University): ALS Simulator
          Lyndon Swab (Queen's University): Northern Telecom CMOS technologies
          Brian W. Thomson (University of Toronto): Mimic stitcher, RSIM interface
          Burnie West (Schlumberger): Network maintainer help, bipolar technology
          Telle Whitney (Schlumberger): River router
          Rob Winstanley (University of Calgary): CIF input, RNL interface
          Russell Wright (Queen's University): Lots of help
          David J. Yurach (Queen's University): QUISC 2.0 Silicon compiler

SEE ALSO
       Rubin, Steven M., "A General-Purpose Framework for CAD Algorithms", IEEE Communications, Special Issue on Communications and VLSI, May 1991.
       Rubin, Steven M., Computer Aids for VLSI Design, Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts, 1987.
       Rubin, Steven M., "An Integrated Aid for Top-Down Electrical Design", Proceedings, VLSI '83 (Anceau and Aas, eds.), North Holland, Amsterdam, 1983.
       Mead, C. and Conway, L., Introduction to VLSI Systems, Addison-Wesley, 1980.
       Electrical User's Guide.
       Electric Internals manual.

                                                                                                  11/12/00                                                                                      electric(1)
