ELIXIR(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                ELIXIR(1)

NAME
       elixir — The Elixir script runner

SYNOPSIS
       elixir [OPTIONS] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       The program starts the runtime system typically for the execution of one or more scripts. It is similar to iex(1), but elixir exits when the executed script does.

OPTIONS
       Note that many of the options mentioned here were borrowed from the Erlang shell, therefore erl(1) can be used as an additional source of information on the options.

       -h, --help
               Displays the help message to the standard error (stderr) and exits.

       -v, --version
               Displays the Elixir version to the standard output (stdout) and exits.

       -e, --eval expression
               Evaluates the specified expression (see the --rpc-eval option).

       -r file
               Requires the specified file. In other words, the file is checked for existence at the start of elixir.

       -S script
               Runs the specified script.

       -pa directory
               Adds the specified directory to the beginning of the code path. If the directory already exists, it will be removed from its old position and put to the beginning.

               See also the function Code.prepend_path/1.

       -pr file
               Does the same thing as -r (see above) but in parallel.

       -pz directory
               Adds the specified directory to the end of the code path. If the directory already exists, it will be neither removed from its old position nor put to the end.

               See also the function Code.append_path/1.

       --app application
               Starts the specified application and all its dependencies.

       --boot file
               Specifies  the  name  of  the boot file, file.boot, which is used to start the system. Unless File contains an absolute path, the system searches for file.boot in the current and $ROOT/bin
               directories.

               Defaults to $ROOT/bin/start.boot.

               The option is equivalent to Erlang's -boot.

       --boot-var var dir
               If the boot script contains a path variable var other than $ROOT, this variable is expanded to dir.  Used when applications are installed in another directory than $ROOT/lib.

               The option is equivalent to Erlang's -boot_var.

               See also the function :systools.make_script/1,2 in SASL.

       --erl parameters
               Serves the same purpose as ELIXIR_ERL_OPTIONS (see the ENVIRONMENT section)

       --erl-config file
               Specifies the name of a configuration file, file.config, which is used to configure applications. Note that the configuration file must be written in Erlang.

               The option is equivalent to Erlang's -config.

       --cookie value
               Specifies the magic cookie value. If the value isn't specified via the option when the node starts, it will be taken from the file ~/.erlang.cookie (see the  FILES  section).   Distributed
               nodes can interact with each other only when their magic cookies are equal.

               See also the function Node.set_cookie/2.

       --hidden
               Starts a hidden node.

               Connections  between  nodes are transitive. For example, if node A is connected to node B, and node B is connected to node C, then node A is connected to node C. The option --hidden allows
               creating a node which can be connected to another node, escaping redundant connections.

               The function Node.list/0 allows getting the list of nodes connected to the target node; however, the list won't include hidden  nodes.  Depending  on  the  input  parameter,  the  function
               Node.list/1 allows getting the list which contains only hidden nodes (the parameter :hidden) or both hidden and not hidden nodes (the parameter :connected).

       --logger-otp-reports val
               Enables or disables OTP reporting (val can be either true or false).

       --logger-sasl-reports val
               Enables or disables SASL reporting (val can be either true or false).

       --sname name
               Gives a node a short name and starts it. Short names take the form of name@host, where host is the name of the target host (hostname(1)) which runs the node. The nodes with short names can
               interact with each other only in the same local network.

       --name name
               Gives  a node a long name and starts it. Long names take the form of name@host, where host is the IP address of the host which runs the node. In contrast to the nodes with short names, the
               nodes with long names aren't limited by boundaries of a local network (see above).

       --pipe-to pipedir logdir
               Starts the Erlang VM as a named pipedir and logdir (only for Unix-like operating systems).

       --rpc-eval node expression
               Evaluates the specified expression on the specified node (see the --eval option).

       --vm-args file
               Reads the command-line arguments from file and passes them to the Erlang VM.

               The option is equivalent to Erlang's -args_file.

       --no-halt
               Does not halt the Erlang VM after execution.

       --      Separates the options passed to the compiler from the options passed to the executed code.

NOTES
       The following options can be given more than once: --boot-var, --erl-config, --eval, --rpc-eval.

ENVIRONMENT
       ELIXIR_ERL_OPTIONS
               Allows passing parameters to the Erlang runtime.

FILES
       ~/.erlang.cookie
               Stores the magic cookie value which is used only when it wasn't specified via the option --cookie (see above).  If the file doesn't exist when a node starts, it will be created.

SEE ALSO
       elixirc(1), iex(1), mix(1)

AUTHOR
       Elixir is maintained by The Elixir Team.

       This manual page was contributed by Evgeny Golyshev.

       Copyright (c) 2012 Plataformatec.

       Copyright (c) 2021 The Elixir Team.

INTERNET RESOURCES
       Main website: https://elixir-lang.org

       Documentation: https://elixir-lang.org/docs.html

       Package manager: https://hex.pm

Debian                                                                                        February 3, 2019                                                                                    ELIXIR(1)
