ELOGIND.JOURNAL-FIELDS(7)                                                                  elogind.journal-fields                                                                 ELOGIND.JOURNAL-FIELDS(7)

NAME
       elogind.journal-fields - Special journal fields rerouted to syslog by elogind

DESCRIPTION
       Systems that use elogind have no systemd-journald running. Applications that use structured log messages via sd-journal.h use specific variables for this structure. The following is a list of
       variables that are parsed by elogind and passed to syslog for logging.

       Note: Fields not listed here are ignored and their information is thrown away. This may change in the future.

USER JOURNAL FIELDS
       User fields are fields that are directly passed from clients and stored in the journal.

       MESSAGE=
           The human-readable message string for this entry. This is supposed to be the primary text shown to the user. It is usually not translated (but might be in some cases), and is not supposed to
           be parsed for metadata. In order to encode multiple lines in a single log entry, separate them by newline characters (ASCII code 10), but encode them as a single MESSAGE= field. Do not add
           multiple values of this field type to the same entry (also see above), as consuming applications generally do not expect this and are unlikely to show all values in that case.

       PRIORITY=
           A priority value between 0 ("emerg") and 7 ("debug") formatted as a decimal string. This field is compatible with syslog's priority concept.

       CODE_FILE=, CODE_LINE=, CODE_FUNC=
           The code location generating this message, if known. Contains the source filename, the line number and the function name.

SEE ALSO
       elogind(8)

elogind 255                                                                                                                                                                       ELOGIND.JOURNAL-FIELDS(7)
