ENCFSCTL(1)                                                                                 Encrypted Filesystem                                                                                ENCFSCTL(1)

NAME
       encfsctl - administrative tool for working with EncFS filesystems

SYNOPSIS
       encfsctl [command command_args]

       encfsctl [info] rootdir

       encfsctl passwd rootdir

       encfsctl showcruft rootdir

       encfsctl decode [--extpass=prog] rootdir [encoded name ...]

       encfsctl encode [--extpass=prog] rootdir [plaintext name ...]

       encfsctl cat [--extpass=prog] [--reverse] rootdir <(cipher|plain) filename>

DESCRIPTION
       encfsctl is an administrative tool for working with EncFS filesystems.  It is capable of changing the user supplied password, displaying basic information about an encrypted volume, and other
       related operations.

COMMANDS
       info
           Display  basic  information about the filesystem.  Takes a single argument, rootdir, which is the root directory of the encrypted filesystem.  The filesystem need not be mounted.  Info is also
           the default command if only a root directory is provided on the command line.

       passwd
           Allows changing the password of the encrypted filesystem.  The user will be prompted for the existing password and the new password.

       showcruft
           Recursively search through the entire volume and display all files which are not decodable (only checks filename encoding, not block MAC headers).  This might be useful  for  cleanup  in  case
           you've made use of features which create files which are not decodable under the primary key.

       decode
           Allows  you  to  specify an encoded name on the command line, and displays decoded version.  This is mostly useful for debugging, as debug messages always display encrypted filenames (to avoid
           leaking sensitive data through the debug channels).  So this command provides a way to decode the filenames.

           The --extpass option can be used to specify the program which returns the password - just like with encfs.

           If no names are specified on the command line, then a list of filenames will be read from stdin and decoded.

       encode
           Allows you to specify a filename on the command line, and displays its encoded version. This is useful if e.g. you are taking a backup of an encrypted directory and would like to exclude  some
           files.

           The --extpass option can be used to specify the program which returns the password - just like with encfs.

           If no names are specified on the command line, then a list of filenames will be read from stdin and encoded.

       cat Decodes and cats the content of an encrypted file.  The filename can be given in a plain or ciphered form.  With --reverse The file content will instead be encrypted.

EXAMPLES
       Show information about an encrypted filesystem:

        % encfsctl info ~/.crypt

        Version 5 configuration; created by EncFS 1.1 (revision 20040504)
        Filesystem cipher: "ssl/aes" , version 2:1:1
        Filename encoding: "nameio/block" , version 3:0:1
        Key Size: 192 bits
        Block Size: 512 bytes
        Each file contains 8 byte header with unique IV data.
        Filesname encoded using IV chaining mode.

DISCLAIMER
       This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Please refer to
       the "COPYING" file distributed with encfs for complete details.

AUTHORS
       EncFS was written by Valient Gough <vgough@pobox.com>.

SEE ALSO
       encfs(1)

1.9.5                                                                                            2025-03-18                                                                                     ENCFSCTL(1)
