MODULEFILE(5)                                                                                     Modules                                                                                     MODULEFILE(5)

NAME
       modulefile - files containing Tcl code for the Modules package

DESCRIPTION
       modulefiles  are  written  in  the  Tool  Command  Language, Tcl(n) and are interpreted by the modulecmd.tcl program via the module user interface. modulefiles can be loaded, unloaded, or switched
       on-the-fly while the user is working; and can be used to implement site policies regarding the access and use of applications.

       A modulefile begins with the #%Module file signature, also called the Modules magic cookie. A version number may be placed after this string. The version number is useful as the modulefile  format
       may  change thus it reflects the minimum version of modulecmd.tcl required to interpret the modulefile. If a version number doesn't exist, then modulecmd.tcl will assume the modulefile is compati‐
       ble. Files without the magic cookie or with a version number greater than the current version of modulecmd.tcl will not be interpreted. If the mcookie_version_check configuration is  disabled  the
       version number set is not checked.

       Each  modulefile  contains  the changes to a user's environment needed to access an application. Tcl is a simple programming language which permits modulefiles to be arbitrarily complex, depending
       upon the application's and the modulefile writer's needs. If support for extended tcl (tclX) has been configured for your installation of the Modules package, you may use all the extended commands
       provided by tclX, too.

       A typical modulefile is a simple bit of code that set or add entries to the PATH, MANPATH, or other environment variables. A Modulefile is evaluated  against  current  modulecmd.tcl's  mode  which
       leads to specific evaluation results. For instance if the modulefile sets a value to an environment variable, this variable is set when modulefile is loaded and unset when modulefile is unloaded.

       Tcl has conditional statements that are evaluated when the modulefile is interpreted. This is very effective for managing path or environment changes due to different OS releases or architectures.
       The  user  environment  information  is encapsulated into a single modulefile kept in a central location. The same modulefile is used by every user on any machine. So, from the user's perspective,
       starting an application is exactly the same irrespective of the machine or platform they are on.

       modulefiles also hide the notion of different types of shells. From the user's perspective, changing the environment for one shell looks exactly the same as changing the  environment  for  another
       shell.  This is useful for new or novice users and eliminates the need for statements such as "if you're using the C Shell do this ..., otherwise if you're using the Bourne shell do this ...". An‐
       nouncing and accessing new software is uniform and independent of the user's shell. From the modulefile writer's perspective, this means one set of information will take  care  of  every  type  of
       shell.

MODULES SPECIFIC TCL COMMANDS
       The  Modules  Package  uses commands which are extensions to the "standard" Tool Command Language Tcl(n) package. Unless otherwise specified, the Module commands return the empty string. Some com‐
       mands behave differently when a modulefile is loaded or unloaded. The command descriptions assume the modulefile is being loaded.

       add-property name value
              Associate module tag value to currently loading modulefile. Argument name is ignored. See module-tag command for more information on tags.

       always-load [options] modulefile...
              Load modulefile and apply the keep-loaded tag to it in order to avoid the automatic unload of this modulefile when modules dependent of it are unloaded.

              always-load command accepts the following options:

              • --modulepath modulepathlist

              • --optional

              • --tag taglist

              modulefile is declared as a requirement of currently loading module. This command acts as an alias of module load command. If more than one modulefile are specified, then this list acts  as
              a Boolean AND operation, which means all specified modulefiles are required.

              When the --optional option is set, each specified modulefile is declared as an optional requirement. A modulefile that cannot be loaded, will not stop the evaluation.

              The  --tag option accepts a list of module tags to apply to modulefile once loaded in addition to the keep-loaded tag. taglist corresponds to the concatenation of multiple tags separated by
              colon character. taglist should not contain tags inherited from modulefile state or from other modulefile commands. If module is already loaded, tags from taglist are added to the  list  of
              tags already applied to this module.

              The --modulepath option accepts a list of modulepath. modulepathlist corresponds to the concatenation of multiple modulepaths separated by colon character. When this option is set, required
              modulefile  should  be located within one of the listed modulepaths. A path in this list may correspond to the first path elements of an actual modulepath (e.g., /path/to will match module‐
              files located into the /path/to/modulefiles modulepath directory).

              If an attempt to load modulefile is performed and --modulepath option is set, modulefile will be searched in the enabled modulepaths whose start match one of the specified paths and in  the
              specified paths not matching any enabled modulepaths. For instance if this option is set to /path/to:/another/path and /path/to/modulefiles is currently the sole enabled modulepath, module‐
              file will be searched into /path/to/modulefiles and /another/path directories.

       append-path [-d C|--delim C|--delim=C] [--duplicates] variable value...
              See prepend-path.

       break  This  is  not  a  Modules-specific command, it's actually part of Tcl, which has been overloaded similar to the continue and exit commands to have the effect of causing the module not to be
              listed as loaded and not affect other modules being loaded concurrently. All non-environment commands within the module will be performed up to this point. Processing will  continue  on  to
              the  next module on the command line unless if abort_on_error configuration option is enabled for running module sub-command. The break command will only have this effect if not used within
              a Tcl loop though.

              An example: Suppose that a full selection of modulefiles are needed for various different architectures, but some of the modulefiles are not needed and the user should  be  alerted.  Having
              the unnecessary modulefile be a link to the following notavail modulefile will perform the task as required.

                 #%Module

                 module-help {This module does nothing but alert the user}
                 module-help "that the [module-info name] module is not available"

                 module-whatis {Notifies user that module is not available.}

                 set curMod [module-info name]
                 if {[module-info mode load]} {
                     puts stderr "Note: '$curMod' is not available for [uname sysname]."
                 }
                 break

              Modulefile using break command when unloading may be unloaded anyway if --force option is set. To forbid the unload of a modulefile, it is recommended to tag it super-sticky with module-tag
              command.

       chdir directory
              Set the current working directory to directory.

       complete shell name body
              Define  shell completion for command name with specified body if shell is the current shell under which modulecmd.tcl was invoked. Body corresponds to argument options accepted by the shell
              command which defines completion. When a modulefile is unloaded, complete becomes uncomplete.

              The following shells are supported: bash, tcsh, bash and fish. Please refer to the documentation of these shells to learn how to define completion. The command is ignored if an  unsupported
              shell is specified.

       conflict modulefile...
              conflict  controls whether or not the modulefile will be loaded.  The conflict command lists modulefiles which conflict with the current modulefile. If a list contains more than one module‐
              file, then each member of the list acts as a Boolean OR operation. Multiple conflict commands may be used to create a Boolean AND operation. If one of the requirements have not been  satis‐
              fied, an error is reported and the current modulefile makes no changes to the user's environment.

              If  an  argument  for  conflict is a directory and any other modulefile from that directory has been loaded, then a conflict will occur.  For example, specifying X11 as a conflict will stop
              X11/R4 and X11/R5 from being loaded at the same time.

              The parameter modulefile may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias. It may also leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see  Advanced  module  version
              specifiers section below).

              If the conflict_unload and auto_handling configuration options are enabled, conflict will attempt to unload all loaded modules that match specification. (see Automated module handling mech‐
              anisms in module).

       continue
              This  is  not a modules specific command but another overloaded Tcl command and is similar to the break or exit commands except the module will be listed as loaded as well as performing any
              environment or Tcl commands up to this point and then continuing on to the next module on the command line. The continue command will only have this effect if not used  within  a  Tcl  loop
              though.

       depends-on [options] modulefile...
              Alias of prereq-all command.

       depends-on-any [options] modulefile...
              Alias of prereq command.

       exit [N]
              This  is not a modules specific command but another overloaded Tcl command and is similar to the break or continue commands. However, this command will cause the immediate cessation of this
              module. Any additional modules on the command line will not be evaluated even if the abort_on_error configuration option is disabled for running module sub-command. This module and the sub‐
              sequent modules will not be listed as loaded. No environment commands will be performed in the current module.

       extensions modulefile...
              Alias of provide command.

       family name
              Defines loading modulefile as a member of family name. Only one member of a family could be loaded. Error is raised when attempting to load another member of the same family name.

              family corresponds to the definition of a conflict on name and the definition of a module-alias name targeting currently loading module.

              In addition, the MODULES_FAMILY_<NAME> environment variable is defined and set to the currently loading module name minus version. This variable helps to know what module provides  for  the
              family  name in the currently loaded environment. For instance if loading modulefile foo/1.0 defines being member of the bar family, the MODULES_FAMILY_BAR will be set to the foo value. For
              compatibility, the LMOD_FAMILY_<NAME> environment variable is also defined and set to the same value than MODULES_FAMILY_<NAME>.

              name should be a non-empty string only containing characters that could be part of an environment variable name (i.e., [a-zA-Z0-9_]).

              If the conflict_unload and auto_handling configuration options are enabled, an attempt to unload loaded module that defines the same family is made. (see Automated  module  handling  mecha‐
              nisms in module).

       getenv [--return-value] variable [value]
              Returns  value  of  environment  variable.  If  variable is not defined, value is returned if set, an empty string is returned otherwise. The getenv command should be preferred over the Tcl
              global variable env to query environment variables.

              When modulefile is evaluated in display mode, getenv returns variable name prefixed with dollar sign (e.g., $variable) unless if the --return-value option is set. When this  option  is  set
              the value of environment variable or defined fallback value is returned in display mode.

       getvariant [--return-value] variant [value]
              Returns  value  of  designated  variant.  If  variant  is  not  defined, value is returned if set, an empty string is returned otherwise. The getvariant command should be preferred over the
              ModuleVariant Tcl array to query a variant value.

              When modulefile is evaluated in display mode, getvariant returns variant name enclosed in curly braces (e.g., {variant}) unless if the --return-value option is set. When this option is  set
              the value of variant or defined fallback value is returned in display mode.

       haveDynamicMPATH
              haveDynamicMPATH  command  signals that a modulefile modifies the MODULEPATH environment variable. It is useful when the modulefile conditionally updates MODULEPATH and is processed by Lmod
              tool.

              Here in the Modules tool, this command is implemented as a no-operation, since the spider sub-command evaluates the modulefile in the context  of  the  current  user  to  determine  whether
              MODULEPATH is updated.

       hide-modulefile modulefile
              Alias of module-hide command.

       hide-version modulefile
              Alias of module-hide command.

       is-avail modulefile...
              The  is-avail  command returns a true value if any of the listed modulefiles exists in enabled MODULEPATH. If a list contains more than one modulefile, then each member acts as a boolean OR
              operation. If an argument for is-avail is a directory and a modulefile exists in the directory is-avail would return a true value.

              The parameter modulefile may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias. It may also leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see  Advanced  module  version
              specifiers section below).

       is-loaded [modulefile...]
              The  is-loaded command returns a true value if any of the listed modulefiles has been loaded or if any modulefile is loaded in case no argument is provided. If a list contains more than one
              modulefile, then each member acts as a boolean OR operation. If an argument for is-loaded is a directory and any modulefile from the directory has been loaded is-loaded would return a  true
              value.

              The  parameter  modulefile  may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias. It may also leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see Advanced module version
              specifiers section below).

       is-saved [collection...]
              The is-saved command returns a true value if any of the listed collections exists or if any collection exists in case no argument is provided. If a list contains more than  one  collection,
              then each member acts as a boolean OR operation.

              If  MODULES_COLLECTION_TARGET  is  set, a suffix equivalent to the value of this variable is appended to the passed collection name. In case no collection argument is provided, a true value
              will only be returned if a collection matching currently set target exists.

       is-used [directory...]
              The is-used command returns a true value if any of the listed directories has been enabled in MODULEPATH or if any directory is enabled in case no argument is provided. If a  list  contains
              more than one directory, then each member acts as a boolean OR operation.

       lsb-release field
              Provide certain Linux Standard Base (LSB) information. lsb-release will invoke the lsb_release(1) command to get each field information.

              field values are:

              • id: string id of distributor

              • release: release number of distribution

              • codename: codename according to distribution release

       module [sub-command] [sub-command-options] [sub-command-args]
              This command permits a modulefile to load or unload other modulefiles or to use or unuse modulepaths. No checks are made to ensure that the modulefile does not try to load itself.  Often it
              is  useful to have a single modulefile that performs a number of module load commands. For example, if every user on the system requires a basic set of applications loaded, then a core mod‐
              ulefile would contain the necessary module load commands.

              The --not-req option may be set for the load, try-load, load-any, unload and switch sub-commands to inhibit the definition of an implicit prereq or conflict requirement onto specified  mod‐
              ules.

              On try-load sub-command, modulefiles are considered optional prereq requirement. However an error is raised if they cannot be loaded unless if they are not found or forbidden.

              The load-any sub-command loads one modulefile from the specified list.  An error is obtained if no modulefile from the list can be loaded. No operation is performed if a modulefile from the
              list is found already loaded.

              The  unload  sub-command unloads one matching modulefile for each module specification provided as argument if auto_handling or conflict_unload configuration options are disabled. When both
              options are enabled, unload removes all loaded modules matching each module specification. When both options are enabled, modules dependent of the unloaded modules are also unloaded. Other‐
              wise an error is raised if module to unload has a dependent module loaded.

              If the require_via configuration option is enabled, the use sub-command defines a requirement of modulefiles stored in the added modulepath onto current modulefile.

              The unuse sub-command accepts the --remove-on-unload, --noop-on-unload, --append-on-unload and --prepend-on-unload options to control the behavior to apply when modulefile is unloaded.  See
              remove-path for further explanation.

              The load, try-load, load-any and switch sub-commands accept the --tag option to apply specified tags to modulefile once loaded.  Option accepts a concatenation of multiple module tags sepa‐
              rated  by colon character. taglist should not contain tags inherited from modulefile state or from other modulefile commands. If module is already loaded, tags from taglist are added to the
              list of tags already applied to this module.

              Command line switches --auto, --no-auto and --force are ignored when passed to a module command set in a modulefile.

              Not all the sub-commands described in the Module Sub-Commands section of the module man page are available when module is used as a Modules specific Tcl command. The following table  summa‐
              rizes the different sub-commands available for each interpretation context.
                          ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
                          │ Sub-commands  available from modulefile interpreta‐ │ Sub-commands available  from  initrc  configuration │ Sub-commands  available  from run-command (rc) file │
                          │ tion                                                │ file and sourced script file                        │ interpretation                                      │
                          ├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
                          │ load, load-any, switch,  try-load,  unload,  unuse, │ Same sub-commands available than for modulefile and │ None                                                │
                          │ use.   Also  available  but not recommended for use │ config sub-command.                                 │                                                     │
                          │ from regular modulefile: aliases,  avail,  display, │                                                     │                                                     │
                          │ initadd,  initclear, initlist, initprepend, initrm, │                                                     │                                                     │
                          │ initswitch, list,  purge,  reload,  restore,  save, │                                                     │                                                     │
                          │ savelist, saverm, saveshow, search, test, whatis    │                                                     │                                                     │
                          └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

       module-alias name modulefile
              Assigns the modulefile to the alias name. This command should be placed in one of the modulecmd.tcl rc files in order to provide shorthand invocations of frequently used modulefile names.

              The parameter modulefile may be either

              • a fully qualified modulefile with name and version

              • a symbolic modulefile name

              • another modulefile alias

       module-forbid [options] modulefile...
              Forbid use of modulefile. An error is obtained when trying to evaluate a forbidden module. This command should be placed in one of the modulecmd.tcl rc files.

              module-forbid command accepts the following options:

              • --after datetime

              • --before datetime

              • --not-user {user...}

              • --not-group {group...}

              • --user {user...}

              • --group {group...}

              • --message {text message}

              • --nearly-message {text message}

              If --after option is set, forbidding is only effective after specified date time. Following the same principle, if --before option is set, forbidding is only effective before specified date
              time. Accepted date time format is YYYY-MM-DD[THH:MM]. If no time (HH:MM) is specified, 00:00 is assumed. --after and --before options are not supported on Tcl versions prior to 8.5.

              If --not-user option is set, forbidding is not applied if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username specified. Following the same approach, if
              --not-group  option  is set, forbidding is not applied if current user is member of one of the groups specified. When both options are set, forbidding is not applied if a match is found for
              --not-user or --not-group.

              If --user option is set, forbidding is applied only if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username specified. Following the  same  approach,  if
              --group  option  is set, forbidding is applied only if current user is member of one of the groups specified. When both options are set, forbidding is applied if a match is found for --user
              or --group. If the same user name is set on both --user and --not-user options, --user prevails over --not-user. If the same group name is set on both --group and --not-group, --group  pre‐
              vails over --not-group.

              Error message returned when trying to evaluate a forbidden module can be supplemented with the text message set through --message option.

              If   --after  option  is  set,  modules  are  considered  nearly  forbidden  during  a  number  of  days  defined  by  the  nearly_forbidden_days  modulecmd.tcl  configuration  option  (see
              MODULES_NEARLY_FORBIDDEN_DAYS), prior reaching the expiry date fixed by --after option. When a nearly forbidden module is evaluated a warning message is issued to inform module will soon be
              forbidden. This warning message can be supplemented with the text message set through --nearly-message option.

              If a module-forbid command applies to a modulefile also targeted by a module-hide --hard command, this module is unveiled when precisely named to return an access error.

              Forbidden modules included in the result of avail or spider sub-commands are reported with a forbidden tag applied to them. Nearly forbidden modules included in the result of avail, list or
              spider sub-commands are reported with a nearly-forbidden tag applied to them. See Module tags section in module.

              The parameter modulefile may leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see Advanced module version specifiers section below). It may also be a full path file name to  pre‐
              cisely designate one module in a specific modulepath.

       module-help string
              Defines a string which is displayed in case of the invocation of the module help command. This command takes no action on non-help modulefile evaluation.

              Multi-word string should be enclosed in curly-braces or double-quotes.  There may be more than one module-help command call in a modulefile. In which case each command call is reported as a
              separate line.

              If a modulefile also defines a ModulesHelp procedure, the text defined with module-help is printed before running this procedure on help evaluation mode.

       module-hide [options] modulefile...
              Hide modulefile to exclude it from available module search or module selection unless query refers to modulefile by its exact name. This command should be placed in one of the modulecmd.tcl
              rc files.

              module-hide command accepts the following options:

              • --soft|--hard

              • --hidden-loaded

              • --after datetime

              • --before datetime

              • --not-user {user...}

              • --not-group {group...}

              • --user {user...}

              • --group {group...}

              When --soft option is set, modulefile is also set hidden, but hiding is disabled when search or selection query's root name matches module's root name. This soft hiding mode enables to hide
              modulefiles from bare module availability listing yet keeping the ability to select such module for load with the regular resolution mechanism (i.e., no need to use module exact name to se‐
              lect it)

              When --hard option is set, modulefile is also set hidden and stays hidden even if search or selection query refers to modulefile by its exact name.

              When  --hidden-loaded  option  is  set, hidden state also applies to the modulefile when it is loaded. Hidden loaded modules do not appear on list sub-command output, unless --all option is
              set.  Their loading or unloading informational messages are not reported unless the verbosity of Modules is set to a level higher than verbose. Hidden loaded modules  are  detected  in  any
              cases by state query commands like is-loaded.

              If  --after  option is set, hiding is only effective after specified date time. Following the same principle, if --before option is set, hiding is only effective before specified date time.
              Accepted date time format is YYYY-MM-DD[THH:MM]. If no time (HH:MM) is specified, 00:00 is assumed. --after and --before options are not supported on Tcl versions prior to 8.5.

              If --not-user option is set, hiding is not applied if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username specified. Following  the  same  approach,  if
              --not-group  option  is  set,  hiding  is  not  applied  if  current  user is member of one of the groups specified. When both options are set, hiding is not applied if a match is found for
              --not-user or --not-group.

              If --user option is set, hiding is applied only if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of  username  specified.  Following  the  same  approach,  if
              --group  option  is  set,  hiding  is  applied only if current user is member of one of the groups specified.  When both options are set, hiding is applied if a match is found for --user or
              --group. If the same user name is set on both --user and --not-user options, --user prevails over --not-user. If the same group name is set on both --group and --not-group, --group prevails
              over --not-group.

              If the --all option is set on avail, aliases, whatis, search or spider sub-commands, hiding is disabled thus hidden modulefiles are included in module search.   Hard-hidden  modules  (i.e.,
              declared  hidden  with  --hard option) are not affected by --all and stay hidden even if option is set.  --all option does not apply to module selection sub-commands like load. Thus in such
              context a hidden module should always be referred by its exact full name (e.g., foo/1.2.3 not foo) unless if it has been hidden in --soft mode. A hard-hidden module cannot  be  unveiled  or
              selected in any case.

              If  several module-hide commands target the same modulefile, the strongest hiding level is retained which means if both a regular, a --soft hiding command match a given module, regular hid‐
              ing mode is considered. If both a regular and a --hard hiding command match a given module, hard hiding mode is retained. A set --hidden-loaded option is retained even  if  the  module-hide
              statement on which it is declared is superseded by a stronger module-hide statement with no --hidden-loaded option set.

              Hidden  modules  included  in the result of avail or spider sub-commands are reported with a hidden tag applied to them. Hidden loaded modules included in the result of list sub-command are
              reported with a hidden-loaded tag applied to them. This tag is not reported on avail or spider sub-commands context. See Module tags section in module.

              The parameter modulefile may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias. It may also leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see  Advanced  module  version
              specifiers section below).  Moreover it may also be a full path file name to precisely designate one module in a specific modulepath.

       module-info option [info-args]
              Provide  information  about  the modulecmd.tcl program's state. Some of the information is specific to the internals of modulecmd.tcl.  option is the type of information to be provided, and
              info-args are any arguments needed.

              module-info alias name
                 Returns the full modulefile name to which the modulefile alias name is assigned

              module-info command [commandname]
                 Returns the currently running modulecmd.tcl's command as a string if no commandname is given.

                 Returns 1 if modulecmd.tcl's command is commandname.  commandname can be: load, unload, refresh, reload, source, switch, display, avail, aliases, list, whatis,  search,  purge,  restore,
                 help, test, try-load, load-any, mod-to-sh, reset, stash, stashpop or spider.

              module-info loaded modulefile
                 Returns the names of currently loaded modules matching passed modulefile.  The parameter modulefile might either be a fully qualified modulefile with name and version or just a directory
                 which in case all loaded modulefiles from the directory will be returned. The parameter modulefile may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias.

                 This command only returns the name and version of designated loaded module.  The defined variants of the loaded module are not included in the returned string.

              module-info mode [modetype]
                 Returns the current modulecmd.tcl's mode as a string if no modetype is given.

                 Returns  1  if  modulecmd.tcl's  mode is modetype. modetype can be: load, unload, remove (alias of unload), switch, refresh, nonpersist (alias of refresh), display, help, test, whatis or
                 scan.

              module-info name
                 Return the name of the modulefile. This is not the full pathname for modulefile. See the Modules Variables section for information on the full pathname.

                 This command only returns the name and version of currently evaluating modulefile. The defined variants are not included in the returned string.  See getvariant command or  ModuleVariant
                 array variable to get defined variant values for currently evaluating modulefile.

              module-info shell [shellname]
                 Return the current shell under which modulecmd.tcl was invoked if no shellname is given. The current shell is the first parameter of modulecmd.tcl, which is normally hidden by the module
                 alias.

                 If  a  shellname  is  given,  returns  1  if modulecmd.tcl's current shell is shellname, returns 0 otherwise. shellname can be: sh, bash, ksh, zsh, csh, tcsh, fish, cmd, pwsh, tcl, perl,
                 python, ruby, lisp, cmake, r.

              module-info shelltype [shelltypename]
                 Return the family of the shell under which modulefile was invoked if no shelltypename is given. As of module-info shell this depends on the first parameter of modulecmd.tcl.  The  output
                 reflects a shell type determining the shell syntax of the commands produced by modulecmd.tcl.

                 If  a  shelltypename  is given, returns 1 if modulecmd.tcl's current shell type is shelltypename, returns 0 otherwise.  shelltypename can be: sh, csh, fish, cmd, pwsh, tcl, perl, python,
                 ruby, lisp, cmake, r.

              module-info specified
                 Return the module designation (name, version and variants) specified that led to current modulefile evaluation.

              module-info symbols modulefile
                 Returns a list of all symbolic versions assigned to the passed modulefile. The parameter modulefile might either be a full qualified modulefile with name and  version,  another  symbolic
                 modulefile name or a modulefile alias.

              module-info tags [tag]
                 Returns all tags assigned to currently evaluated modulefile as a list of strings if no tag name is given (see Module tags section in module)

                 When tags are assigned to specific module variants, they are returned only if this variant is the one currently evaluated.

                 Returns 1 if one of the tags applying to currently evaluated modulefile is tag. Returns 0 otherwise.

              module-info type
                 Returns either C or Tcl to indicate which module command is being executed, either the C version or the Tcl-only version, to allow the modulefile writer to handle any differences between
                 the two.

              module-info usergroups [name]
                 Returns all the groups the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is member of as a list of strings if no name is given.

                 Returns 1 if one of the group current user running modulecmd.tcl is member of is name. Returns 0 otherwise.

                 If the Modules Tcl extension library is disabled, the id(1) command is invoked to fetch groups of current user.

              module-info username [name]
                 Returns the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl as a string if no name is given.

                 Returns 1 if username of current user running modulecmd.tcl is name. Returns 0 otherwise.

                 If the Modules Tcl extension library is disabled, the id(1) command is invoked to fetch username of current user.

              module-info version modulefile
                 Returns  the  physical  module name and version of the passed symbolic version modulefile. The parameter modulefile might either be a full qualified modulefile with name and version, an‐
                 other symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias.

       module-tag [options] tag modulefile...
              Associate tag to designated modulefile. This tag information will be reported along modulefile on avail, list and spider sub-commands (see Module tags section in  module).  Tag  information
              can be queried during modulefile evaluation with the module-info tags modulefile command. module-tag commands should be placed in one of the modulecmd.tcl rc files.

              module-tag command accepts the following options:

              • --not-user {user...}

              • --not-group {group...}

              • --user {user...}

              • --group {group...}

              If  --not-user  option  is set, the tag is not applied if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username specified. Following the same approach, if
              --not-group option is set, the tag is not applied if current user is member of one of the groups specified. When both options are set, the tag is  not  applied  if  a  match  is  found  for
              --not-user or --not-group.

              If  --user  option  is  set,  the  tag is applied only if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username specified. Following the same approach, if
              --group option is set, the tag is applied only if current user is member of one of the groups specified.  When both options are set, the tag is applied if a match is  found  for  --user  or
              --group. If the same user name is set on both --user and --not-user options, --user prevails over --not-user. If the same group name is set on both --group and --not-group, --group prevails
              over --not-group.

              The  parameter  modulefile  may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias. It may also leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see Advanced module version
              specifiers section below).  Moreover it may also be a full path file name to precisely designate one module in a specific modulepath.

              Tags inherited from other modulefile commands or module states cannot be set with module-tag. Otherwise an error is returned. Those special tags are: auto-loaded,  forbidden,  hidden,  hid‐
              den-loaded, loaded, nearly-forbidden and warning.

              When tag equals sticky or super-sticky, designated modulefile is defined Sticky modules.

              When tag equals keep-loaded, designated modulefile is not automatically unloaded when it has been auto-loaded and its dependent modules are getting unloaded.

       module-version modulefile version-name...
              Assigns  the symbolic version-name to the modulefile. This command should be placed in one of the modulecmd.tcl rc files in order to provide shorthand invocations of frequently used module‐
              file names.

              The special version-name default specifies the default version to be used for module commands, if no specific version is given. This replaces the definitions made in the  .version  file  in
              former modulecmd.tcl releases.

              The parameter modulefile may be either

              • a  fully or partially qualified modulefile with name / version. If name is . (dot) then the current directory name is assumed to be the module name. (Use this for deep modulefile directo‐
                ries.)

              • a symbolic modulefile name

              • another modulefile alias

       module-virtual name modulefile
              Assigns the modulefile to the virtual module name. This command should be placed in rc files in order to define virtual modules.

              A virtual module stands for a module name associated to a modulefile. The modulefile is the script interpreted when loading or unloading the virtual module which appears  or  can  be  found
              with its virtual name.

              The parameter modulefile corresponds to the relative or absolute file location of a modulefile.

       module-warn [options] --message {text message} modulefile...
              Print  warning  message when evaluating modulefile. This command could be placed in one of the modulecmd.tcl rc files or within modulefiles.  Warning is emitted when modulefile is evaluated
              in load, display, test, help.

              module-warn command accepts the following options:

              • --after datetime

              • --before datetime

              • --not-user {user...}

              • --not-group {group...}

              • --user {user...}

              • --group {group...}

              If --after option is set, warning is only effective after specified date time. Following the same principle, if --before option is set, warning is only effective before specified date time.
              Accepted date time format is YYYY-MM-DD[THH:MM]. If no time (HH:MM) is specified, 00:00 is assumed. --after and --before options are not supported on Tcl versions prior to 8.5.

              If --not-user option is set, warning is not applied if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username specified. Following the  same  approach,  if
              --not-group  option  is  set,  warning  is  not  applied  if current user is member of one of the groups specified. When both options are set, warning is not applied if a match is found for
              --not-user or --not-group.

              If --user option is set, warning is applied only if the username of the user currently running modulecmd.tcl is part of the list of username  specified.  Following  the  same  approach,  if
              --group  option  is  set,  warning is applied only if current user is member of one of the groups specified.  When both options are set, warning is applied if a match is found for --user or
              --group. If the same user name is set on both --user and --not-user options, --user prevails over --not-user. If the same group name is set on both --group and --not-group, --group prevails
              over --not-group.

              Modules in warning included in the result of avail, list or spider sub-commands are reported with a warning tag applied to them. See Module tags section in module.

              The parameter modulefile may leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see Advanced module version specifiers section below). It may also be a full path file name to  pre‐
              cisely designate one module in a specific modulepath.

       module-whatis string
              Defines  a  string which is displayed in case of the invocation of the module whatis command. There may be more than one module-whatis line in a modulefile. This command takes no actions in
              case of load, display, etc. invocations of modulecmd.tcl.

              The string parameter has to be enclosed in double-quotes if there's more than one word specified. Words are defined to be separated by whitespace characters (space, tab, cr).

       modulepath-label directory label
              Assigns label string to modulepath directory. This label is used on avail, whatis, search and spider output to refer to the modulepath.

              The parameter directory corresponds to a fully or partially qualified modulepath. If directory is . (dot) then the current directory of the modulerc file defining this command is assumed.

       prepend-path [-d C|--delim C|--delim=C] [--duplicates] variable value...
              Append or prepend value to environment variable. The variable is a colon, or delimiter, separated list such as PATH=directory:directory:directory. The default delimiter is a colon :, but an
              arbitrary one can be given by the --delim option. For example a space can be used instead (which will need to be handled in the Tcl specially by enclosing it in " " or { }). A  space,  how‐
              ever, can not be specified by the --delim=C form.

              A reference counter environment variable is also set to know the number of times value has been added to environment variable when it is added more than one time. This reference counter en‐
              vironment variable is named by prefixing variable by __MODULES_SHARE_.

              When  value  is  already defined in environment variable, it is not added again or moved at the end or at the beginning of variable. Exception is made when the --duplicates option is set in
              which case value is added again to variable.

              If the variable is not set, it is created. When a modulefile is unloaded, append-path and prepend-path become remove-path.

              If value corresponds to the concatenation of multiple elements separated by colon, or delimiter, character, each element is treated separately.

              If the variable is MODULEPATH and require_via configuration option is activated, the modulefile is considered a dependency by the loaded modulefiles stored in the added modulepaths.

       prereq [options] modulefile...
              prereq controls whether or not the modulefile will be loaded. The prereq command lists modulefiles which must have been previously loaded before the current modulefile will be loaded. If  a
              list  contains  more  than one modulefile, then each member of the list acts as a Boolean OR operation. Multiple prereq commands may be used to create a Boolean AND operation. If one of the
              requirements have not been satisfied, an error is reported and the current modulefile makes no changes to the user's environment.

              If an argument for prereq is a directory and any modulefile from the directory has been loaded, then the prerequisite is met. For example, specifying X11 as a prereq means that any  version
              of X11, X11/R4 or X11/R5, must be loaded before proceeding.

              The  parameter  modulefile  may also be a symbolic modulefile name or a modulefile alias. It may also leverage a specific syntax to finely select module version (see Advanced module version
              specifiers section below).

              prereq command accepts the following options:

              • --modulepath modulepathlist

              • --optional

              • --tag taglist

              When the --optional option is set, the whole list of specified modulefiles is declared as an optional requirement list. Evaluation is not stopped if no modulefile from the list is loaded.

              If the auto_handling configuration option is enabled prereq will attempt to load specified modulefile if not found loaded yet (see Automated module handling mechanisms in module).

              The --tag option accepts a list of module tags to apply to modulefile once loaded. taglist corresponds to the concatenation of multiple tags separated by colon character. taglist should not
              contain tags inherited from modulefile state or from other modulefile commands. If module is already loaded, tags from taglist are added to the list of tags already applied to this module.

              The --modulepath option accepts a list of modulepath. modulepathlist corresponds to the concatenation of multiple modulepaths separated by colon character. When this option is set, required
              modulefile should be located within one of the listed modulepaths. A path in this list may correspond to the first path elements of an actual modulepath (e.g., /path/to will  match  module‐
              files located into the /path/to/modulefiles modulepath directory).

              If  an attempt to load modulefile is performed and --modulepath option is set, modulefile will be searched in the enabled modulepaths whose start match one of the specified paths and in the
              specified paths not matching any enabled modulepaths. For instance if this option is set to /path/to:/another/path and /path/to/modulefiles is currently the sole enabled modulepath, module‐
              file will be searched into /path/to/modulefiles and /another/path directories.

       prereq-all [options] modulefile...
              Declare modulefile as a requirement of currently loading module. This command acts as an alias of prereq command. If more than one modulefile are specified, then this list acts as a Boolean
              AND operation, which means all specified modulefiles are required.

              prereq-all command accepts the following options:

              • --modulepath modulepathlist

              • --optional

              • --tag taglist

              When the --optional option is set, each specified modulefile is declared as an optional requirement. A modulefile that cannot be loaded, will not stop the evaluation.

       prereq-any [options] modulefile...
              Alias of prereq command.

       provide modulefile...
              Define each specified modulefile as a module alias of currently evaluating module. provide command helps to declare the additional elements included in a modulefile.

              The provide command should be paired with a conflict command if the specified alias should be uniquely provided in the currently loaded environment.

              Note: A module alias defined using provide command will not be recognized during module resolution. It is recommended to use the module-alias command to define an alias that points  to  the
              default resolution target.

       pushenv variable value
              Set  environment  variable  to value and save previous value of variable to restore it when modulefile is unloaded. Like for setenv modulefile command, changes made to variable with pushenv
              are applied to variable in Tcl's env array to update environment variable value in current evaluation context.

              When modulefile is unloaded, the value saved from the pushenv command of this modulefile is removed from saved value stack list. variable is then set to the remaining value on  top  of  the
              stack or it is unset if stack becomes empty.

              Saved value stack list for variable is stored in an environment variable which is named by prefixing variable by __MODULES_PUSHENV_.

       puts [-nonewline] [channelId] string
              Writes the characters given by string to the channel given by channelId.  This command is part of the regular set of Tcl commands but it is enhanced with specific features in the modulefile
              evaluation  context. See the puts(n) Tcl man page for the basic description of this command.  Specific features for modulefile evaluation context are described in the remainder of this sec‐
              tion.

              Content written to the stderr channel is rendered as output message produced by modulefile. Content written to the stdout channel is rendered as shell command evaluated in the user  current
              shell environment. Content sent to stdout is spooled to be rendered after the environment changes made by modulefile.

              When channelId equals prestdout, content is rendered as shell command evaluated in current shell environment. This content is spooled and rendered prior any other environment changes.

              When channelId equals log, content is sent to the log system through the defined logger command.

       remove-path [options] variable value... [--append-on-unload|--prepend-on-unload value...]
              Remove value from the colon, or delimiter, separated list in variable.

              remove-path command accepts the following options:

              • -d C|--delim C|--delim=C

              • --index

              • --glob

              • --remove-on-unload|--noop-on-unload|--append-on-unload|--prepend-on-unload

              See  prepend-path  or  append-path  for  further explanation of using an arbitrary delimiter. Every string between colons, or delimiters, in variable is compared to value. If the two match,
              value is removed from variable if its reference counter is equal to 1 or unknown.

              When --index option is set, value refers to an index in variable list. The string element pointed by this index is set for removal.

              When --glob option is set, value refers to a glob-style pattern which is matched against values in variable to find those to remove. * character in value matches any sequence of characters,
              including a null string. ? character in value matches any single character. See string(n) Tcl command for the full list of special characters.

              When modulefile is unloaded, no operation is performed by default or if the --noop-on-unload option is set. If the --remove-on-unload option is set, value is removed. If the --append-on-un‐
              load option is set, append back value removed at load time or specific value if any set. If the --prepend-on-unload option is set, prepend back value removed at load time or specific  value
              if any set. These options cannot be set if --index option is also set. The --append-on-unload and --prepend-on-unload options cannot be set if --glob option is also set.

              Reference  counter  of value in variable denotes the number of times value has been added to variable. This information is stored in environment __MODULES_SHARE_variable. When attempting to
              remove value from variable, relative reference counter is checked and value is removed only if counter is equal to 1 or not defined.  Otherwise value  is  kept  in  variable  and  reference
              counter is decreased by 1. If counter equals 1 after being decreased, value and its counter are removed from reference counter variable.

              If value corresponds to the concatenation of multiple elements separated by colon, or delimiter, character, each element is treated separately.

              An error is raised if value equals delimiter character.

       reportError string
              Output  string  as an error message during modulefile evaluation and raise error count. reportError does not abort modulefile evaluation. Use the error(n) Tcl command to abort evaluation in
              addition to emit an error message.

       reportWarning string
              Output string as a warning message during modulefile evaluation.

       require-fullname
              Abort load evaluation of modulefile if name specified to designate it is not the fully qualified one. Module alias or a symbolic version names are considered fully qualified  names,  excep‐
              tion made for the default symbol.

       set-alias alias-name alias-string
              Sets  an alias with the name alias-name in the user's environment to the string alias-string. For some shells, aliases are not possible and the command has no effect (see Shell support sec‐
              tion). When a modulefile is unloaded, set-alias becomes unset-alias.

       set-function function-name function-string
              Creates a function with the name function-name in the user's environment with the function body function-string. For some shells, functions are not possible and the command  has  no  effect
              (see Shell support section). When a modulefile is unloaded, set-function becomes unset-function.

       setenv [--set-if-undef] variable value
              Set  environment  variable  to value. The setenv command will also change the process' environment. A reference using Tcl's env associative array will reference changes made with the setenv
              command. Changes made using Tcl's env associative array will NOT change the user's environment variable like the setenv command. An environment change made this way  will  only  affect  the
              module  parsing  process.  The setenv command is also useful for changing the environment prior to the exec or system command. When a modulefile is unloaded, setenv becomes unsetenv. If the
              environment variable had been defined it will be overwritten while loading the modulefile. A subsequent unload will unset the environment variable - the previous value cannot  be  restored!
              (Unless you handle it explicitly or if you use the pushenv modulefile command instead of setenv)

              When the --set-if-undef option is set, environment variable is defined when modulefile is loaded only if not yet defined.

              Any newline character in value is chopped if using csh or tcsh shells.

       source-sh [--ignore eltlist] shell script [arg...]
              Evaluate  with shell the designated script with defined arguments to find out the environment changes it does. Those changes obtained by comparing environment prior and after script evalua‐
              tion are then translated into corresponding modulefile commands, which are then applied during modulefile evaluation as if they were directly written in it.

              When modulefile is unloaded, environment changes done are reserved by evaluating in the unload context the resulting modulefile commands, which were recorded in the __MODULES_LMSOURCESH en‐
              vironment variable at load time.

              Changes on environment variables, shell aliases, shell functions, shell completions and current working directory are tracked.

              Changes made on environment variable intended for Modules private use (e.g., LOADEDMODULES, _LMFILES_, __MODULES_*) are ignored.

              Shell could be specified as a command name or a fully qualified pathname.  The following shells are supported: sh, dash, csh, tcsh, bash, ksh, ksh93, zsh and fish.

              Shell could also be set to bash-eval. In this mode, bash shell script is not sourced but the output resulting from its execution is evaluated to determine the environment changes it does.

              The --ignore option accepts a list of shell elements whose changes made by script should be ignored. eltlist corresponds to the concatenation of multiple shell element  separated  by  colon
              character. Accepted shell elements are: envvar, alias, function, chdir and complete.

       system string
              Run string command through shell. On Unix, command is passed to the /bin/sh shell whereas on Windows it is passed to cmd.exe.  modulecmd.tcl redirects stdout to stderr since stdout would be
              parsed by the evaluating shell. The exit status of the executed command is returned.

       uname field
              Provide lookup of system information. Most field information are retrieved from the tcl_platform array (see the tclvars(n) man page).  Uname will return the string unknown if information is
              unavailable for the field.

              uname will invoke the uname(1) command in order to get the operating system version and domainname(1) to figure out the name of the domain.

              field values are:

              • sysname: the operating system name

              • nodename: the hostname

              • domain: the name of the domain

              • release: the operating system release

              • version: the operating system version

              • machine: a standard name that identifies the system's hardware

       uncomplete name
              Unsets completion for command name in the user's environment. When a modulefile is unloaded, no operation is performed.

              The following shells are supported: bash, tcsh and fish.

       unset-alias alias-name
              Unsets an alias with the name alias-name in the user's environment.

       unset-function function-name
              Removes a function with the name function-name from the user's environment.

       unsetenv [options] variable [value]
              Unsets  environment  variable.  When a modulefile is unloaded, no operation is performed unless if an optional value is defined, in which case variable is set to value. The unsetenv command
              changes the process' environment like setenv.

              If the --noop-on-unload option is set, no operation is performed when modulefile is unloaded. If the --unset-on-unload option is set, environment variable is also unset when  modulefile  is
              unloaded. These behaviors are applied even if an optional value is defined.

       variant [--boolean] [--default value] name [value...]
              Declare module variant name with list of accepted value and instantiate it in the ModuleVariant array variable.

              Variant's value is selected through the module designation that leads to the modulefile evaluation. See Advanced module version specifiers section to learn how variants could be specified.

              Selected  variant value is transmitted to the evaluating modulefile. A value must be specified for variant name and it must corresponds to a value in the accepted value list if such list is
              defined. Otherwise an error is raised. An exception is made if modulefile is evaluated in display mode: no error is raised if no value is specified for a given variant and  variant  is  not
              instantiated in the ModuleVariant array variable. When no list of accepted value is defined, variant could be set to any value.

              When the --default option is set, variant name is set to the value associated with this option in case no value is specified for variant in module designation.

              If the --boolean option is set, variant name is defined as a Boolean variant. No list of accepted value should be defined in this case. All values recognized as Boolean value in Tcl are ac‐
              cepted (i.e., 1, true, t, yes, y, on, 0, false, f, no, n or off). Boolean variants are instantiated in ModuleVariant using Tcl canonical form of Boolean value (i.e., 0 or 1).

              A variant which is not defined as a Boolean variant cannot define Boolean values in its accepted value list, exception made for the 0 and 1 integers. An error is raised otherwise.

              Variant name should only be composed of characters part of the A-Za-z0-9_- range. Also, a variant name cannot start with - (minus) character and the overall name cannot just be a number. An
              error is raised if specified name does not match these rules.

              A variant cannot be named version. An error is raised otherwise.

       versioncmp version1 version2
              Compare version string version1 against version string version2. Returns -1, 0 or 1 respectively if version1 is less than, equal to or greater than version2.

       x-resource [resource-string|filename]
              Merge resources into the X11 resource database. The resources are used to control look and behavior of X11 applications. The command will attempt to read resources from filename. If the ar‐
              gument isn't a valid file name, then string will be interpreted as a resource. Either filename or resource-string is then passed down to be xrdb(1) command.

              modulefiles that use this command, should in most cases contain one or more x-resource lines, each defining one X11 resource. The DISPLAY environment variable should be properly set and the
              X11 server should be accessible. If x-resource can't manipulate the X11 resource database, the modulefile will exit with an error message.

              Examples:

              x-resource /u2/staff/leif/.xres/Ileaf
                 The content of the Ileaf file is merged into the X11 resource database.

              x-resource [glob ~/.xres/ileaf]
                 The Tcl glob function is used to have the modulefile read different resource files for different users.

              x-resource {Ileaf.popup.saveUnder: True}
                 Merge the Ileaf resource into the X11 resource database.

       Modulefiles and run-command (rc) files are differently interpreted. A limited number of the Modules specific Tcl commands are available for rc files interpretation since such files are intended to
       set  parameters for modulefiles (like defining alias, hiding, tagging, etc) and not to change user environment. The following table summarizes the different commands available for each interpreta‐
       tion context.
                                          ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
                                          │ Commands available from modulefile interpretation  │ Commands available from run-command (rc) file interpretation         │
                                          ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
                                          │ All the Modules specific and standard Tcl commands │ hide-modulefile,  hide-version,  is-loaded,  is-used,   lsb-release, │
                                          │                                                    │ module-alias,  module-forbid,  module-hide, module-info, module-tag, │
                                          │                                                    │ module-version,   module-virtual,   module-warn,   modulepath-label, │
                                          │                                                    │ system, uname, versioncmp and standard Tcl commands                  │
                                          └────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

       NOTE:
          Global and user run-command files are interpreted like modulefiles and benefit from all Modules specific Tcl commands. However it not advised to perform environment changes from such files.

MODULES VARIABLES
       ModulesCurrentModulefile
              The ModulesCurrentModulefile variable contains the full pathname of the modulefile being interpreted.

       ModulesVersion
              The  ModulesVersion variable can be set in .version file to designate the name of the modulefile version which should be considered as default in current directory (see Locating Modulefiles
              section below).

       ModuleTool
              The ModuleTool variable contains the name of the module implementation currently in use. The value of this variable is set to Modules for this implementation.

       ModuleToolVersion
              The ModuleToolVersion variable contains the version of the module implementation currently in use. The value of this variable is set to 5.6.0 for this version of Modules.

       ModuleVariant
              The ModuleVariant array variable contains an element entry for each defined variant associated to the value of this variant (e.g., the $ModuleVariant(foo) syntax corresponds to the value of
              variant foo if defined). A Tcl evaluation error is obtained when accessing an undefined variant in ModuleVariant array. Use preferably the getvariant command to  retrieve  a  variant  value
              when this variant state is not known.

              The list of the currently defined variants can be retrieved with [array names ModuleVariant] Tcl code.

LOCATING MODULEFILES
       Every  directory  in  MODULEPATH is searched to find the modulefile. A directory in MODULEPATH can have an arbitrary number of sub-directories. If the user names a modulefile to be loaded which is
       actually a directory, the directory is opened and a search begins for an actual modulefile. First, modulecmd.tcl looks for a file with the name .modulerc in the directory. If this file exists, its
       contents will be evaluated as if it was a modulefile to be loaded. You may place module-version, module-alias and module-virtual commands inside this file.

       Additionally, before seeking for .modulerc files in the module directory, the global modulerc file and the .modulerc file found at the root of the modulepath directory are sourced, too. If a named
       version default now exists for the modulefile to be loaded, the assigned modulefile now will be sourced. Otherwise the file .version is looked up in the module directory.

       If the .version file exists, it is opened and interpreted as Tcl code and takes precedence over a .modulerc file in the same directory. If the Tcl variable ModulesVersion is set  by  the  .version
       file,  modulecmd.tcl will use the name as if it specifies a modulefile in this directory. This will become the default modulefile in this case.  ModulesVersion cannot refer to a modulefile located
       in a different directory.

       If ModulesVersion is a directory, the search begins anew down that directory. If the name does not match any files located in the current directory, the search continues through the remaining  di‐
       rectories in MODULEPATH.

       Every  .version  and  .modulerc file found is interpreted as Tcl code. The difference is that .version only applies to the current directory, and the .modulerc applies to the current directory and
       all subdirectories. Changes made in these files will affect the subsequently interpreted modulefile.

       If a .modulecache file is found at the root of a modulepath directory, this file is interpreted as Tcl code to learn all .modulerc, .version and modulefiles available. Modulepath content  is  read
       from module cache file. Modulepath directory is only walked through to check if limited access modulefiles or directories are available to current user.

       If  no  default version may be figured out, an implicit default is selected when this behavior is enabled (see MODULES_IMPLICIT_DEFAULT in module). If disabled, module names should be fully quali‐
       fied when no explicit default is defined for them, otherwise no default version is found and an error is returned. If enabled, then the highest numerically sorted  modulefile,  virtual  module  or
       module alias under the directory will be used.  The dictionary comparison method of the lsort(n) Tcl command is used to achieve this sort. If highest numerically sorted element is an alias, search
       continues on its modulefile target.

       For example, it is possible for a user to have a directory named X11 which simply contains a .version file specifying which version of X11 is to be loaded. Such a file would look like:

          #%Module
          set ModulesVersion R4

       The equivalent .modulerc would look like:

          #%Module
          module-version ./R4 default

       If the extended default mechanism is enabled (see MODULES_EXTENDED_DEFAULT in module) the module version specified is matched against starting portion of existing module versions, where portion is
       a substring separated from the rest of version string by a . character.

       When the implicit default mechanism and the Advanced module version specifiers are both enabled, a default and latest symbolic versions are automatically defined for each module name (also at each
       directory level in case of deep modulefile). Unless a symbolic version, alias, or regular module version already exists for these version names.

       Every  file  in searched directories is checked to see if it begins with the Modules magic cookie (i.e., #%Module file signature) to determine if it is a modulefile (see DESCRIPTION section). When
       the mcookie_check configuration is set to eval, this check is skipped and all files in search directories are considered modulefiles.

       If user names a modulefile that cannot be found in the first modulepath directory, modulefile will be searched in next modulepath directory and so on until  a  matching  modulefile  is  found.  If
       search  goes  through  a  module  alias  or a symbolic version, this alias or symbol is resolved by first looking at the modulefiles in the modulepath where this alias or symbol is defined. If not
       found, resolution looks at the other modulepaths in their definition order.

       When locating modulefiles, if a .modulerc, a .version, a directory or a modulefile cannot be read during the search it is simply ignored with no error message produced. Visibility  of  modulefiles
       can  thus  be  adapted to the rights the user has been granted. Exception is made when trying to directly access a directory or a modulefile. In this case, the access issue is returned as an error
       message.

       Depending on their name, their file permissions or the use of specific modulefile commands, modulefile, virtual module, module alias or symbolic version may be set hidden which  impacts  available
       modules search or module selection processes (see Hiding modulefiles section below).

HIDING MODULEFILES
       A  modulefile, virtual module, module alias or symbolic version whose name or element in their name starts with a dot character (.) or who are targeted by a module-hide command are considered hid‐
       den. Hidden modules are not displayed or taken into account except if they are explicitly named (e.g., foo/1.2.3 or foo/.2.0 not foo). If module has been hidden  with  the  --soft  option  of  the
       module-hide  command set, it is not considered hidden if the root name of the query to search it matches module root name (e.g., searching foo will return a foo/1.2.3 modulefile targeted by a mod‐
       ule-hide --soft command). If module has been hidden with the --hard option of the module-hide command set, it is always considered hidden thus it is never displayed nor taken into account even  if
       it is explicitly named.

       A modulefile, virtual module, module alias or symbolic version who are targeted by a module-hide --hard command and a module-forbid command or whose file access permissions are restricted are con‐
       sidered hard-hidden and forbidden. Such modules are not displayed or taken into account. When explicitly named for evaluation selection, such modules are unveiled to return an access error.

       NOTE:
          When  the  mcookie_check  configuration  is set to eval, file access permissions are not checked thus files with restricted permissions are included in search results but still lead to error if
          evaluated.

       A symbolic version-name assigned to a hidden module is displayed or taken into account only if explicitly named and if module is not hard-hidden. Non-hidden module alias targeting a hidden module‐
       file appears like any other non-hidden module alias. Finally, a hidden symbolic version targeting a non-hidden module is displayed or taken into account only  if  not  hard-hidden  and  explicitly
       named to refer to its non-hidden target.

       The automatic version symbols (e.g., default and latest) are unaffected by hiding. Moreover when a regular default or latest version is set hidden, the corresponding automatic version symbol takes
       the left spot. For instance, if foo/default which targets foo/1.2.3 is set hard-hidden, the default automatic version symbol will be set onto foo/2.1.3, the highest available version of foo.

       When  loading  a  modulefile  or  a  virtual module targeted by a module-hide --hidden-loaded command, this module inherits the hidden-loaded tag. Hidden loaded modules are not reported among list
       sub-command results.

       If the --all option is set on avail, aliases, whatis, search or spider sub-commands, hidden modules are taken into account in search. Hard-hidden modules are unaffected by this option.

       If the --all option is set on list sub-command, hidden loaded modules are included in result output.

       A behavior equivalent to the use of the --all option is obtained on avail, list and spider sub-commands by adding the hidden element to the output configuration option controlling regular or terse
       reporting of these sub-commands: avail_output, avail_terse_output, list_output, list_terse_output, spider_output, spider_terse_output.

ADVANCED MODULE VERSION SPECIFIERS
       When the advanced module version specifiers mechanism is enabled (see MODULES_ADVANCED_VERSION_SPEC in module), the specification of modulefile passed on Modules  specific  Tcl  commands  changes.
       After the module name a version constraint and variants may be added.

   Version specifiers
       After the module name a version constraint prefixed by the @ character may be added. It could be directly appended to the module name or separated from it with a space character.

       Constraints can be expressed to refine the selection of module version to:

       • a single version with the @version syntax, for instance foo@1.2.3 syntax will select module foo/1.2.3

       • a list of versions with the @version1,version2,... syntax, for instance foo@1.2.3,1.10 will match modules foo/1.2.3 and foo/1.10

       • a  range of versions with the @version1:, @:version2 and @version1:version2 syntaxes, for instance foo@1.2: will select all versions of module foo greater than or equal to 1.2, foo@:1.3 will se‐
         lect all versions less than or equal to 1.3 and foo@1.2:1.3 matches all versions between 1.2 and 1.3 including 1.2 and 1.3 versions

       Advanced specification of single version or list of versions may benefit from the activation of the extended default mechanism (see MODULES_EXTENDED_DEFAULT in module) to use an abbreviated  nota‐
       tion like @1 to refer to more precise version numbers like 1.2.3.  Range of versions on its side natively handles abbreviated versions.

       In  order to be specified in a range of versions or compared to a range of versions, the version major element should corresponds to a number. For instance 10a, 1.2.3, 1.foo are versions valid for
       range comparison whereas default or foo.2 versions are invalid for range comparison.

       Range of versions can be specified in version list, for instance foo@:1.2,1.4:1.6,1.8:. Such specification helps to exclude specific versions, like versions 1.3 and 1.7 in previous example.

       If the implicit default mechanism is also enabled (see MODULES_IMPLICIT_DEFAULT in module), a default and latest symbolic versions are automatically defined for each module name (also at each  di‐
       rectory  level  for  deep  modulefiles).  These automatic version symbols are defined unless a symbolic version, alias, or regular module version already exists for these default or latest version
       names.  Using the mod@latest (or mod/latest) syntax ensures highest available version will be selected.

   Variants
       After the module name, variants can be specified. Module variants are alternative evaluation of the same modulefile. A variant is specified by associating a value to its name.  This  specification
       is then transmitted to the evaluating modulefile which instantiates the variant in the ModuleVariant array variable when reaching the variant modulefile command declaring this variant.

       Variant can be specified with the name=value syntax where name is the declared variant name and value, the value this variant is set to when evaluating the modulefile.

       Boolean  variants can be specified with the +name syntax to set this variant on and with the -name or ~name syntaxes to set this variant off. The -name syntax is not supported on ml command as the
       minus sign already means to unload designated module. The ~name and +name syntaxes could also be defined appended to another specification word (e.g., the module name, version or  another  variant
       specification), whereas -name syntax must be the start of a new specification word.

       Boolean variants may also be specified with the name=value syntax. value should be set to 1, true, t, yes, y or on to enable the variant or it should be set to 0, false, f, no, n or off to disable
       the variant.

       Shortcuts may be used to abbreviate variant specification. The variant_shortcut configuration option associates shortcut character to variant name. With a shortcut defined, variant could be speci‐
       fied with the <shortcut>value syntax. For instance if character % is set as a shortcut for variant foo, the %value syntax is equivalent to the foo=value syntax.

       Variant name should only be composed of characters part of the A-Za-z0-9_- range. Also, a variant name cannot start with - (minus) character and the overall name cannot just be a number.

       Specific  characters  used in variant specification syntax cannot be used as part of the name or version of a module. These specific characters are +, ~, = and all characters set as variant short‐
       cut. Exception is made for + and ~ characters if string that follows after does not correspond to a valid variant name (e.g., name+, name++, name/version+1).

DEPENDENCIES BETWEEN MODULEFILES
       A modulefile may express dependencies on other modulefiles. Two kind of dependency exist: pre-requirement and conflict. The former means specified modulefiles should be loaded prior the modulefile
       that express the requirement. The latter means specified modulefiles should not be loaded for the modulefile that express the conflict to be loaded too.

       Pre-requirement could be expressed with prereq, prereq-any, prereq-all, depends-on, depends-on-any, always-load, module load, module switch, module try-load or module load-any modulefile commands.
       When the auto_handling configuration option is disabled, required modulefile should be manually loaded prior their dependent modulefile when expressed  with  the  prereq,  prereq-any,  prereq-all,
       depends-on or depends-on-any modulefile commands. For other commands or when auto_handling is enabled, pre-required modulefiles are automatically loaded.

       Another form of pre-requirement is expressed through the use of the modulefile commands module use, append-path MODULEPATH, or prepend-path MODULEPATH, when the require_via configuration option is
       enabled.  In  this  context, a modulefile that adds a modulepath is treated as a requirement for the modulefiles loaded from that path. This pre-requirement is considered when such modules are al‐
       ready loaded, helping to maintain consistency when attempting to unload a modulefile that enables a modulepath.

       Conflict is expressed with conflict, family or module unload modulefile commands. When the auto_handling or conflict_unload configuration options are  disabled,  a  conflicting  loaded  modulefile
       should be manually unloaded prior loading the modulefile that express such conflict when defined with conflict or family. It is automatically unloaded when expressed with module unload (unless de‐
       pendent modulefiles are loaded) or if auto_handling and conflict_unload options are enabled. An error is raised when trying to load a module that is already loaded but with a different variant set
       or coming from a different modulepath. If both options are enabled the loaded module is automatically unloaded to satisfy the new set of variant or modulepath asked.

       It is strongly advised to define dependencies prior environment changes in a modulefile. Dependency resolution should be done before any environment change to ensure the environment is getting set
       in  the  same order whether pre-requirements are already loaded, or if they are automatically loaded when loading the modulefile which depends on them, or if all loaded modules are reloaded or re‐
       freshed. This is especially important when the modulefile updates an environment variable also altered by other modulefiles like PATH. As the order of the path elements in  such  variable  defines
       priority, it is important that this order does not change depending on the way the modulefiles are loaded.

       module  keeps  environment  consistent  which means a modulefile cannot be loaded if its requirements are not loaded or if a conflicting module is loaded. In addition a loaded module cannot be un‐
       loaded if other loaded modules depends on it. The automated module handling mechanisms attempt to solve the dependencies  expressed  by  loading  or  unloading  additional  modulefiles.  When  the
       --no-auto  option  is  set on module command when loading or unload modulefile, automated module handling mechanisms are disabled and dependencies have to be solved manually. When dependencies are
       not satisfied, modulefile fails to load or unload.

       Adding the --not-req option when expressing dependencies in modulefile with the module command will attempt to load or unload the designated modulefile but it will not mark them as pre-requirement
       or conflict.

       Adding the --optional option on prereq, prereq-any, prereq-all, depends-on, depends-on-any or always-load modulefile commands declares the pre-requirement as optional. If an optional  pre-require‐
       ment  is  not found loaded or cannot be automatically loaded, the dependency expressed is yet considered satisfied.  When an optional requirement is loaded afterward, the dependent module will get
       automatically reloaded if the auto_handling configuration option is enabled.

       By adding the --force option to the module command when loading or unloading modulefile, the consistency checks are by-passed. This option cannot be used when expressing  dependencies  in  module‐
       files. If a module has been force loaded whereas its requirements are not loaded or whereas a conflicting module is also loaded, the user environment is said inconsistent.

       Note that a pre-requirement should be found in the loaded module list prior its dependent module. User environment is considered inconsistent if pre-requirement module is found loaded after depen‐
       dent module, as the environment changes may have been done in the wrong priority order.

       When  user  environment  is  considered inconsistent global operations achieved by refresh, reload and save sub-commands cannot perform. This mechanism is there to avoid the situation to worsen by
       re-evaluating all loaded modules or recording this environment.

       When the auto_handling configuration option is enabled, if missing pre-requirement modulefile gets loaded or conflicting modulefile gets unloaded the inconsistent loaded module will  be  automati‐
       cally reloaded to make user environment consistent again.

MODULEFILE SPECIFIC HELP
       Users  can  request  help about a specific modulefile through the module command. The modulefile can print helpful information or start help oriented programs by defining a ModulesHelp subroutine.
       The subroutine will be called when the module help modulefile command is used.

       Help text may also be defined within modulefile with module-help command. Text defined such way is printed before evaluation of ModulesHelp subroutine if any.

MODULEFILE SPECIFIC TEST
       Users can request test of a specific modulefile through the module command. The modulefile can perform some sanity checks on its definition or on its underlying programs by defining a  ModulesTest
       subroutine.  The subroutine will be called when the module test modulefile command is used. The subroutine should return 1 in case of success. If no or any other value is returned, test is consid‐
       ered failed.

MODULEFILE DISPLAY
       The module display modulefile command will detail all changes that will be made to the environment. After displaying all of the environment changes modulecmd.tcl will call the ModulesDisplay  sub‐
       routine. The ModulesDisplay subroutine is a good place to put additional descriptive information about the modulefile.

COMPATIBILITY WITH LMOD TCL MODULEFILE
       The  modulecmd.tcl  program  supports Tcl modulefile or modulerc written for Lmod, the alternative module implementation developed in Lua.  Except for the specific cases listed below, such module‐
       files can be evaluated by Modules without producing errors. Key differences between the two implementations are outlined below.

       The remove-property modulefile command is evaluated as a no-operation command. No error is obtained if this command is used in modulefiles but no change occurs.

       The haveDynamicMPATH is evaluated as a no-operation modulefile command. If modulefile conditionally updates MODULEPATH environment variable, this command is needed to help Lmod know  that  module‐
       file changes MODULEPATH. spider sub-command on Modules does not need this information as modulefile is evaluated in the context of the current user to determine whether MODULEPATH is updated.

       The break command does not accept any argument. A msg argument can be set on Lmod to provide a customized break error message.

       The  setenv,  unsetenv,  prepend-path,  append-path, remove-path, pushenv and module load, load-any, try-load and unload modulefile commands do not support the --mode option. An error is raised if
       this option is used.

       The setenv and unsetenv modulefile commands do not support the --respect option. An error is raised if this option is used.

       Use of reportError command aborts modulefile evaluation on Lmod. This command only reports an error message on Modules.

       The require-fullname command only aborts load modulefile evaluation whereas the Lmod implementation also aborts unload and display evaluations.

       When processing a family command, the LMOD_FAMILY_<NAME> environment variable is also defined to be compatible with modulefiles or scripts relying on such variable.

       When unloading a modulefile, the pushenv command does not update the value of the environment variable if this modulefile was not defining the value currently in use.

       The third optional argument of append-path and prepend-path commands corresponds to a priority specification on Lmod whereas these two commands accept multiple path element arguments on Modules.

       The prereq command is equivalent to the prereq-any command on Modules whereas on Lmod it is equivalent to the prereq-all command.

       If the auto_handling configuration option is disabled, the requirements defined with the depends-on or depends-on-any commands are not automatically loaded and an error is raised if none of  these
       requirements are found loaded.

       If  the auto_handling or conflict_unload configuration options are disabled, the conflicts defined with the family command are not automatically unloaded and an error is raised when trying to load
       a module defining a family already defined by a loaded module.

       On module load-any sub-command and modulefile command, a modulefile evaluation error is not reported and module load-any continues to the next modulefile instead of aborting the whole process.  No
       attempt to load listed modulefiles is made if one of these modulefiles is found already loaded.

       On  module try-load modulefile command, each modulefile specified is considered an optional pre-requirement. If it is loaded afterward and if the auto_handling configuration option is enabled, the
       dependent module will get automatically reloaded.

SHELL SUPPORT
       The modulecmd.tcl program that evaluates modulefiles supports a variety of shells or languages: sh family shells (sh, bash, ksh and zsh), csh family shells (csh and tcsh), fish, cmd, pwsh, python,
       perl, ruby, tcl, cmake, r, and lisp.

       Modulefiles produce environment changes when evaluated, like defining an environment variable. The modulecmd.tcl program outputs the corresponding code for the selected  "shell".  Thereafter  this
       code is evaluated by the module alias or function to update the current environment.

       Depending  on  the  "shell" kind, not all the environment changes that can be defined in modulefiles are supported. The following table summarizes the changes that are supported by the shells sup‐
       ported by modulecmd.tcl.
                                 ┌────────┬───────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┬───────┬────────────┐
                                 │        │ Environment variables  (‐ │ Shell  alias  (set-alias, │ Shell    functions     (‐ │ Command   completion   (‐ │ chdir │ x-resource │
                                 │        │ setenv,         unsetenv, │ unset-alias)              │ set-function,             │ complete, uncomplete)     │       │            │
                                 │        │ pushenv,     append-path, │                           │ unset-function)           │                           │       │            │
                                 │        │ prepend-path,             │                           │                           │                           │       │            │
                                 │        │ remove-path)              │                           │                           │                           │       │            │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ sh     │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ bash   │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ ksh    │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ zsh    │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ csh    │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ tcsh   │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │                           │ ⦁                         │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ fish   │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ cmd    │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │ ⦁     │            │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ pwsh   │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁                         │ ⦁     │            │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ python │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ perl   │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ ruby   │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ tcl    │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ cmake  │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │       │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ r      │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 ├────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼───────┼────────────┤
                                 │ lisp   │ ⦁                         │                           │                           │                           │ ⦁     │ ⦁          │
                                 └────────┴───────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┴───────┴────────────┘

       The source-sh command evaluates a shell script and produces the modulefile commands corresponding to the environment changes made by this script. source-sh is able to evaluate sh, bash, ksh,  zsh,
       csh,  tcsh and fish shell scripts. source-sh produces environment changes corresponding to the kinds listed in the above table.  Based on the evaluated script, refer to the above table to know the
       environment changes that will be rendered for the shell specified to modulecmd.tcl program.

ENVIRONMENT
       See the ENVIRONMENT section in the module man page.

SEE ALSO
       module, ml, envml, Tcl(n), TclX(n), id(1), xrdb(1), exec(n), uname(1), domainname(1), tclvars(n), lsort(n), string(n)

NOTES
       Tcl was developed by John Ousterhout at the University of California at Berkeley.

       TclX was developed by Karl Lehenbauer and Mark Diekhans.

COPYRIGHT
       1996-2025, Modules Contributors

5.6.0                                                                                            2025-07-31                                                                                   MODULEFILE(5)
