EQN2GRAPH(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                EQN2GRAPH(1)

NAME
       eqn2graph - convert an EQN equation into a cropped image

SYNOPSIS
       eqn2graph [-format output-format] [convert-arguments]

       eqn2graph --help

       eqn2graph -v
       eqn2graph --version

DESCRIPTION
       eqn2graph reads a one-line eqn(1) equation from the standard input and writes an image file, by default in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format, to the standard output.

       The input EQN code should not be preceded by the .EQ macro that normally precedes it within groff(1) macros; nor do you need to have dollar-sign or other delimiters around the equation.

       Arguments not recognized by eqn2graph are passed to the ImageMagick or GraphicsMagick program convert(1).  By specifying these, you can give your image a border, set the image's pixel density, or per‐
       form other useful transformations.

       The output image is clipped using convert's -trim option to the smallest possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.

OPTIONS
       -format output-format
              Write the image in output-format, which must be understood by convert; the default is PNG.

       --help Display a usage message and exit.

       -v
       --version
              Display version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_TMPDIR
       TMPDIR
       TMP
       TEMP   These environment variables are searched in the given order to determine the directory where temporary files will be created.  If none are set, /tmp is used.

AUTHORS
       eqn2graph was written by Eric S. Raymond ⟨esr@thyrsus.com⟩, based on a recipe for pic2graph(1), by W. Richard Stevens.

SEE ALSO
       pic2graph(1), grap2graph(1), eqn(1), groff(1), convert(1)

groff 1.22.4                                                                                     21 March 2020                                                                                     EQN2GRAPH(1)
