ERF(1)                                                                                    BSD General Commands Manual                                                                                    ERF(1)

NAME
     erf — BioWare ERF (.erf, .mod, .nwm, .sav) archive packer

SYNOPSIS
     erf [options] output_archive [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     erf packs files together into a BioWare ERF archive, found in many BioWare Games as files with the extension .erf, .mod, .nwm or .sav.  Moreover, in some games, a .rim file might be an ERF instead of a
     RIM.

     There's several different versions of ERFs.  This tool supports only version V1.0, as used by Neverwinter Nights, Knights of the Old Republic, Knights of the Old Republic II, Jade Empire and The
     Witcher.

     Unsupported Features:
     •   Generation of archives with stripped filenames.
     •   Generation of zlib-compressed archives.
     •   Generation of Blowfish-encrypted archives.
     •   Generation of XOR-encrypted archives.
     •   Setting of a description for archives.
     •   Usage of paths in archives.

OPTIONS
     -h
     --help
           Show a help text and exit.
     --version
           Show version information and exit.
     --erf
           Set archive ID to ERF.
     --mod
           Set archive ID to MOD.
     --hak
           Set archive ID to HAK.
     --sav
           Set archive ID to SAV.
     --jade
           Unalias file types according to Jade Empire rules.

           Jade Empire reuses a few file extension IDs differently than other BioWare games.  To correctly write Jade Empire ERF archives, use this flag.
     output_archive
           The ERF archive to be written.
     files
           One or more files to pack together.

EXAMPLES
     Pack some files together into an ERF archive:

           $ erf archive.erf file1.dat file2.dat file3.dat

     Pack some files together into a SAV archive:

           $ erf --sav archive.sav file1.dat file2.dat file3.dat

SEE ALSO
     unerf(1), unherf(1)

     More information about the xoreos project can be found on its website: https://xoreos.org/

AUTHORS
     This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.  Please see the AUTHORS file for details.

BSD                                                                                              June 27, 2018                                                                                              BSD
