Escp2topbm User Manual(0)                            Escp2topbm User Manual(0)

NAME
       escp2topbm - convert an ESC/P2 printer file to a PBM image

SYNOPSIS
       escp2topbm [printfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       escp2topbm  reads  an  ESC/P2 printer control stream as input.  It pro‐
       duces a PBM image as output.

       escp2topbm filters the raster graphic  content  from  an  Epson  ESC/P2
       printer  control  stream and writes the image it would print as a stan‐
       dard (raw) PBM image.

       The input is from the file named by the  printfile  argument,  or  from
       Standard  Input if you don't specify printfile.  The output is to Stan‐
       dard Output.

       escp2topbm understands compression modes 0 (uncompressed)  and  1  (RLE
       compressed) in the Epson input stream.

       Before  Netpbm  10.72 (September 2015), the Netpbm global option -plain
       has no effect on escp2topbm .

OPTIONS
       none

HINTS
       As escp2topbm is a simple program, created mainly to  test  pbmtoescp2,
       there are some restrictions:

       ·      escp2topbm  looks  only at "ESC." sequences and ignores all data
              outside these Escape sequences.

       ·      escp2topbm assumes that  only  one  raster  graphic  is  in  the
              printer stream.  If this isn't true, the result is garbage.

       ·      escp2topbm assumes that all "ESC."  sequences use the same width
              value.  If this isn't true, the result is garbage.

SEE ALSO
       pbmtoescp2(1), pbm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2003 by Ulrich Walcher (u.walcher@gmx.de).

HISTORY
       escp2topbm was added to Netpbm in Release 10.18 (August 2003);  it  was
       created around the same time.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/escp2topbm.html

netpbm documentation             14 July 2015        Escp2topbm User Manual(0)
