inmidas(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                inmidas(1)

NAME
       inmidas - MIDAS start-up procedure for users.

SYNOPSIS
       inmidas [ unit ] [ -h midashome ] [ -r midvers ]
       [ -d display ] [ -m mid_work ] [ -p/-P/-nop ] [ -noh ]
       [ -j midas-command-line ] [ -help ]

DESCRIPTION
       inmidas starts a new MIDAS session.

       Without arguments, inmidas initiates a MIDAS session with default definitions.  Some of these definitions can be modified with arguments in the command line of inmidas or by environment variables.
       Arguments in the command line are taken with preference to environment variables.

OPTIONS
       inmidas  has been configured by the operator at installation time to start a release of MIDAS located in $MIDASHOME0/$MIDVERS0 (defined internally in the script).  However alternative releases can
       be specified using the:

       -h midashome
              Home directory for MIDAS. Absolute pathname containing, at least, one release of MIDAS. It may also contain subdirectories for demo and calibration data.

       -r midvers
              Release of MIDAS to be executed. It must be a subdirectory under midashome.

       -d display
              Specifies another X server for the display and graphical MIDAS windows ( NOTE: be aware of allowed access to a remote X server using the xhost(1) command.)

       -p/-P/-nop
              Options -p and -P set the MIDAS environment variable MIDOPTION to PARALLEL while option -nop sets it to NOPARALLEL (default: NOPARALLEL).  In NOPARALLEL mode all intermediate MIDAS  working
              files  in  the  MIDAS startup directory are deleted when starting MIDAS via inmidas.  In PARALLEL mode no intermediate files are deleted, and this is necessary to run several MIDAS sessions
              with the same startup directory.  With -P option and if not unit is given the system will select automatically one free unit for you. With -p option and no unit , the user will be requested
              to enter one.

       unit   Unit to be associated to the MIDAS session (default: 00 only if MIDAS is working in NOPARALLEL mode). Valid values for this option are in the range (00, 01, ..., 99, xa, ..., zz) where  nu‐
              merical  values  indicates  that the user is working on a X11 environment (DISPLAY environment or argument -d should be given), and the rest indicates an ASCII or graphical terminals others
              than X11.

       -m mid_work
              Specifies the MIDAS startup directory (default: $HOME/midwork). MIDAS will create this directory if it does not exist and writes in there temporary files used by  MIDAS  (e.g.:  FORGRnn.LOG
              that  logs  the  MIDAS session). It is also the directory for automatic start procedures like the "login.prg" file and for the "devices.sh" file containing particular MIDAS device-names de‐
              fined by users.  At the end of the MIDAS session inmidas will saved the MIDAS session in a hidden file located in this directory.  This file will be then used later by the  gomidas  command
              to resume this MIDAS session where it exited.

       -noh   Starts MIDAS without clearing the terminal and without any welcome message.

       -j midas command line
              midas-command-line  will  be  executed in MIDAS as if it were the first command line typed in the MIDAS monitor. This option sets also -noh option.  NOTE: midas-command-line should be typed
              between single quotes to be interpreted by inmidas as a single argument and to be passed to the MIDAS monitor as it is.

       -help  Display a brief description of all options and exits quietly.

ENVIRONMENT
       inmidas can also use the following definitions in the environment with the same performance as previous described arguments.
       NOTE: Arguments in the inmidas command line are taken with preference to environment variables.

       MIDASHOME
              Home directory for MIDAS.

       MIDVERS
              Release of MIDAS.

       DISPLAY
              X server for the display and graphical MIDAS windows.

       MIDOPTION
              Set to PARALLEL or NOPARALLEL.

       MID_WORK
              Startup directory for MIDAS.

SEE ALSO
       gomidas(1)

MIDAS                                                                                         11 November 1994                                                                                   inmidas(1)
