
eth2rm(8)                                                                                    EFSFFCLIRG (Man Page)                                                                                    eth2rm(8)

NAME
       eth2rm

       Permits the generation of configuration files for FastFabric or resource managers from a topology xml file.

       When  using  a  topology  spreadsheet  and ethxlattopology to design and prepare for deployment verification of a fabric, eth2rm may be used to generate resource manager configuration from the planned
       cluster design. Using this approach will allow the resulting configuration files to be complete, even if some nodes in the fabric have not yet been installed or made operational. Alternatively, ethre‐
       port -o topology can be used to generate a topology XML file for input to eth2rm. In this case, only the currently present nodes will be included.

       When  working  with  SLURM, the eth2rm -o slurm option should typically be used. This option will generate a SLURM configuration file that lists the hosts directly connected to each switch in a syntax
       that can be used by SLURM's topology/tree plugin. It also generates a single "fake" switch shown as connecting all the other switches together. This approach allows  for  SLURM  job  placement  to  be
       improved while avoiding undo overhead in SLURM. This option also allows for topologies that are not a pure fat-tree.

       When  the  configuration  is  a pure fat tree or oversubscribed fat tree, the eth2rm -o slurmfull option may be used to generate the full description of the fabric, including all intermediate and core
       switches in the fat tree topology. This option may permit better job placement optimization than the output from the eth2rm -o slurm option. However for larger fabrics, it may also increase the  over‐
       head within SLURM.

Syntax
       eth2rm [-v] [-q] -o  output [-g|-u|-t] [-F  point] [-p  prefix] [-s  suffix] topology_input

Options
       --help

                 Produces full help text.

       -v/--verbose

                 Specifies verbose output.

       -q/--quiet

                 Disables progress reports.

       -o/--output output

                 Specifies the output type:

                 slurm     SLURM tree nodes. Supports a variety of topologies.

                 slurmfull SLURM fat tree nodes and ISLs. Only supports pure trees.

                 hosts     FastFabric hosts file omitting this host

       -g/--guid

                 Specifies the output switch GUIDs instead of names.

       -u/--underscore

                 Changes spaces in switch names to underscores.

       -t/--trunc

                 Truncates switch names at first space.

                 This will treat large director switches as a single, big switch.

                 If -g, -u or -t are not specified, the switch name's suffix, after the first space, will be placed at the start of the name. For example, 'core5 Leaf 101' becomes 'Leaf101_core5'.

       -p/--prefix prefix

                 Specifies the prefix to prepend to all NIC hostnames.

       -s/--suffix suffix

                 Specifies the suffix to append to all NIC hostnames.

       -F/--focus point

                 Specifies the focus area for output. Limits the scope of output to links that match any of the given focus points. May be specified up to 10 times.

       -C/--check

                 Performs more topology file validation. Requires all links to resolve against nodes, all nodes connected to same fabric, and treats any resolution errors as fatal.

       -S/--strict

                 Performs strict topology file validation. Performs all checks in -C, and requires all nodes to list PortNum and all node list ports used.

       topology_input

                 Specifies the topology_input file to use. '-' may be used to specify stdin.

Point Syntax
       node:value

                 value is node description (node name).

       node:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is node description (node name); value2 is port number.

       nodepat:value

                 value is glob pattern for node description (node name).

       nodepat:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is glob pattern for node description (node name); value2 is port number.

       nodetype:value

                 value is node type (SW or NIC).

       nodetype:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is node type (SW or NIC); value2 is port number.

       rate:value

                 value is string for rate (25g, 50g, 75g, 100g).

       mtucap:value

                 value is MTU size (2048, 4096, 8192, 10240); omits switch mgmt port 0.

       linkdetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for link details.

       portdetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for port details to value.

Examples
       eth2rm -o slurm topology.xml

       eth2rm -o slurm -F 'nodepat:compute*' -F 'nodepat:ethcore1 *'
       topology.xml

       eth2rm -o nodes -F 'nodedetpat:compute*' topology.xml

       eth2rm -o hosts topology.xml

Copyright(C) 2020                                                                              Intel Corporation                                                                                      eth2rm(8)
