
ethcapture(1)                                                                                EFSFFCLIRG (Man Page)                                                                                ethcapture(1)

NAME
       ethcapture

       Captures critical system information into a zipped tar file. The resulting tar file should be sent to Customer Support along with any Intel(R) Ethernet Fabric problem report regarding this system.

       NOTE:  The  resulting  host capture file can require significant amounts of space on the host. The actual size varies, but sizes can be multiple megabytes. Intel recommends ensuring that adequate disk
       space is available on the host system.

Syntax
       ethcapture [-d  detail]  output_tgz_file

Options
       --help

                 Produces full help text.

       -d detail

                 Captures level of detail:

                 1 (Local) Obtains local information from host. This is the default if no options are entered.

                 2 (Fabric)
                           In addition to Local, also obtains basic fabric information by queries to the SM and fabric error analysis using ethreport.

                 3 (Analysis)
                           In addition to Fabric, also obtains ethallanalysis results. If ethallanalysis has not yet been run, it is run as part of the capture.

       NOTE: Detail levels 2 - 3 can be used when fabric operational problems occur. If the problem is node-specific, detail level 1 should be sufficient. Detail levels 2 - 3 require an  operational  Fabric.
       Typically your support representative requests a given detail level. If a given detail level takes excessively long or fails to be gathered, try a lower detail level.

       For detail levels 2 - 3, the additional information is only available on a node with Intel(R) Ethernet Fabric Suite FastFabric Toolset installed.

       output_tgz_file

                 Specifies  the  name  of a file to be created by ethcapture. The file name specified is overwritten if it already exists. Intel recommends using the .tgz suffix in the file name supplied. If
                 the filename given does not have a .tgz suffix, the .tgz suffix is added.

Examples
       ethcapture mycapture.tgz

       ethcapture -d 3 030127capture.tgz

Copyright(C) 2020                                                                              Intel Corporation                                                                                  ethcapture(1)
