
ethextractmissinglinks(8)                                                                    EFSFFCLIRG (Man Page)                                                                    ethextractmissinglinks(8)

NAME
       ethextractmissinglinks

       Produces  a  CSV  file  listing  all  or  some of the links in the fabric. ethextractmissinglinks is a front end to the ethreport tool that generates a report listing all or some of the links that are
       present in the supplied topology file, but are missing in the fabric. The output from this tool can be imported into a spreadsheet or parsed by other scripts.

Syntax
       ethextractmissinglinks [-T topology_input] [-o report]
       [ethreport  options]

Options
       --help

                 Produces full help text.

       -T/--topology topology_input

                 Specifies the topology file to verify against. Default is /etc/eth-tools/topology.0:0.xml

       -o/--output report

                 Specifies the report type for output. Refer to Report Types for details.

       ethreport options

                 The following options are passed to ethreport. This subset is considered typical and useful for this command.

                 -X/--infile snapshot_input
                           Generates a report using the data in the snapshot_input file. snapshot_input must have been generated during a previous -o snapshot run. '-' may be used as  the  snapshot_input  to
                           specify stdin.

                 -E/--eth config_file
                           Specifies the Intel Ethernet configuration file. Default is /etc/eth-tools/mgt_config.xml file.

                 -F/--focus point
                           Specifies the focus area for report. Used to limit scope of report. Refer to Point Syntax for details.

Report Types
       verifylinks

                 Compares fabric (or snapshot) links to supplied topology and identifies differences and omissions.

       verifyextlinks

                 Compares fabric (or snapshot) links to supplied topology and identifies differences and omissions. Limits analysis to links external to systems.

       verifyniclinks

                 Compares fabric (or snapshot) links to supplied topology and identify differences and omissions. Limits analysis to links to NICs.

       verifyislinks

                 Compares fabric (or snapshot) links to supplied topology and identify differences and omissions. Limits analysis to inter-switch links.

       verifyextislinks

                 Compares fabric (or snapshot) links to supplied topology and identify differences and omissions. Limits analysis to inter-switch links external to systems.

       verifyall

                 Returns verifynics, verifysws, and verifylinks reports.

Point Syntax
       ifid:value

                 value is numeric ifid.

       ifid:value:node

                 value is numeric ifid, selects node with given ifid.

       ifid:value:port:value2

                 value is numeric ifid of node, value2 is port number.

       mgmtifaddr:value

                 value is numeric port mgmtifaddr.

       ifaddr:value

                 value is numeric node ifaddr.

       ifaddr:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is numeric node ifaddr, value2 is port number.

       chassisid:value

                 value is numeric chassisid.

       chassisid:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is numeric chassisid, value2 is port number.

       node:value

                 value is node description (node name).

       node:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is node description (node name), value2 is port number.

       nodepat:value

                 value is glob pattern for node description (node name).

       nodepat:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is the glob pattern for the node description (node name), value2 is port number.

       nodedetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for node details.

       nodedetpat:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is the glob pattern for the node details, value2 is port number.

       nodetype:value

                 value is node type (SW or NIC).

       nodetype:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is node type (SW or NIC), value2 is port number.

       rate:value

                 value is string for rate (25g, 50g, 75g, 100g), omits switch mgmt port 0.

       portstate:value

                 value is a string for state (up, down, testing, unknown, dormant, notactive).

       portphysstate:value

                 value is a string for PHYs state (other, unknown, operational, standby, shutdown, reset)

       mtucap:value

                 value is MTU size (maximum size 65535), omits switch mgmt port 0.

       linkdetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for link details.

       portdetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for port details.

       nodepatfile:FILENAME

                 Specifies the name of file with the list of nodepats or node descriptions.

       nodepairpatfile:FILENAME

                 Specifies the name of file with the list of node pairs, separated by a colon.

       ldr

                 Specifies the ports with a non-zero link down reason or neighbor link down reason.

       ldr:value

                 Specifies the ports with a link down reason or neighbor link down reason equal to value.

Examples
       List all the missing links in the fabric:

            ethextractmissinglinks

       List all the missing links to a switch named "coresw1":

            ethextractmissinglinks -T topology.0:0.xml -F "node:coresw1"

       List all the missing connections to end-nodes:

            ethextractmissinglinks -o verifyniclinks

       List all the missing links between two switches:

            ethextractmissinglinks -o verifyislinks -T topology.0:0.xml

Copyright(C) 2020                                                                              Intel Corporation                                                                      ethextractmissinglinks(8)
