
ethextracterror(8)                                                                           EFSFFCLIRG (Man Page)                                                                           ethextracterror(8)

NAME
       ethextracterror

       Produces  a  CSV  file  listing  all  or some of the errors in the current fabric. ethextracterror is a front end to the ethreport tool. The output from this tool can be imported into a spreadsheet or
       parsed by other scripts.

Syntax
       ethextracterror [ethreport  options]

Options
       --help

                 Produces full help text.

       ethreport options

                 The following options are passed to ethreport. This subset is considered typical and useful for this command. By design, the tool ignores -o/--output report option.

                 -X/--infile snapshot_input
                           Generates a report using the data in the snapshot_input file. snapshot_input must have been generated during a previous -o snapshot run. '-' may be used as  the  snapshot_input  to
                           specify stdin.

                 -T/--topology topology_input
                           Uses  topology_input  file  to  augment and verify fabric information. When used, various reports can be augmented with information not available electronically. '-' may be used to
                           specify stdin.

                 -A/--allports
                           Gets PortInfo for down switch ports.

                 -E/--eth config_file
                           Specifies the Intel Ethernet configuration file. Default is /etc/eth-tools/mgt_config.xml file.

                 -F/--focus point
                           Specifies the focus area for report. Used to limit scope of report. Refer to Point Syntax for details.

Point Syntax
       ifid:value

                 value is numeric ifid.

       ifid:value:node

                 value is numeric ifid, selects node with given ifid.

       ifid:value:port:value2

                 value is numeric ifid of node, value2 is port number.

       mgmtifaddr:value

                 value is numeric port mgmtifaddr.

       ifaddr:value

                 value is numeric node ifaddr.

       ifaddr:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is numeric node ifaddr, value2 is port number.

       chassisid:value

                 value is numeric chassisid.

       chassisid:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is numeric chassisid, value2 is port number.

       node:value

                 value is node description (node name).

       node:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is node description (node name), value2 is port number.

       nodepat:value

                 value is glob pattern for node description (node name).

       nodepat:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is the glob pattern for the node description (node name), value2 is port number.

       nodedetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for node details.

       nodedetpat:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is the glob pattern for the node details, value2 is port number.

       nodetype:value

                 value is node type (SW or NIC).

       nodetype:value1:port:value2

                 value1 is node type (SW or NIC), value2 is port number.

       rate:value

                 value is string for rate (25g, 50g, 75g, 100g), omits switch mgmt port 0.

       portstate:value

                 value is a string for state (up, down, testing, unknown, dormant, notactive).

       portphysstate:value

                 value is a string for PHYs state (other, unknown, operational, standby, shutdown, reset)

       mtucap:value

                 value is MTU size (maximum size 65535), omits switch mgmt port 0.

       linkdetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for link details.

       portdetpat:value

                 value is glob pattern for port details.

       nodepatfile:FILENAME

                 Specifies the name of file with the list of nodepats or node descriptions.

       nodepairpatfile:FILENAME

                 Specifies the name of file with the list of node pairs, separated by a colon.

       ldr

                 Specifies the ports with a non-zero link down reason or neighbor link down reason.

       ldr:value

                 Specifies the ports with a link down reason or neighbor link down reason equal to value.

Examples
       # List all the link errors in the fabric:

       ethextracterror

       # List all the link errors related to a switch named "coresw1":

       ethextracterror -F "node:coresw1"

       # List all the link errors for end-nodes:

       ethextracterror -F "nodetype:NIC"

Copyright(C) 2020                                                                              Intel Corporation                                                                             ethextracterror(8)
