
NAME
       exabgp — Influence or control network using BGP

SYNOPSIS
       exabgp  [--help  |  -h]  [--version  |  -v]  [--env  env-config  |  -e  env-config]  [--full-ini  |  --fi]  [--diff-ini  |  --di]  [--full-env | --fe]
              [--diff-env | --de] [--debug | -d] [--signal time] [--once | -1] [--pdb | -p] [--memory | -s] [--profile profile] [--validate]  [--test  |  -t]
              [--decode hex-message | -x hex-message] [configuration ...]

DESCRIPTION
       exabgp  allows  engineers to control their network from commodity servers.  Possible uses include DDoS mitigation, network visualisation, service high
       availability and implementing anycast.  exabgp does not perform any FIB manipulation on the system it runs on; if you need that this is not  the  pro‐
       gram for you.  exabgp can also print received BGP messages into readable plain text or JSON formatted text.

       The arguments are as follows:

       --env env-config | -e env-config
               Specify where the environment configuration file can be found.

       --full-env | --fe
               Display the full environment configuration on stdout using the env format.

       --diff-env | --de
               Display the non-default environment configuration on stdout using the env format.

       --full-ini | --fi
               Display the full environment configuration used on stdout using the ini format.

       --diff-ini | --di
               Display the non-default environment configuration on stdout using the ini format.

       --debug | -d
               Start  the  python  debugger  on  serious  logging  and  on  reception  of  the  SIGTERM  signal.   This  implies  exabgp.log.all=true and ex‐
               abgp.log.level=DEBUG.

       --signal time
               Issue a SIGUSR1 signal to reload the configuration after the specified number of seconds, only useful for code debugging.

       --once | -1
               Only perform one attempt to connect to peers, used mostly for debugging.

       --pdb | -p
               Start the python debugger on critical logging, reception of SIGTERM, and on uncaught python exceptions.  This is a shortcut for exabgp.pdb.en‐
               able=true.

       --memory | -s
               Display memory usage information on program exit.

       --profile profile
               Enable collection of profiling information to the given file.  This is a shortcut for exabgp.profile.enable=true and  exabgp.profile.file=pro‐
               file.

       --test | -t
               Only do a configuration validity check.

       --validate
               Validate the configuration file format only.

       --decode hex-message | -x hex-message
               Decode a raw route packet in hexadecimal string.

       --help | -h
               Display summary of usage and configuration of exabgp.

       --version | -v
               Display the exabgp version number and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       The configuration of exabgp is split in two:

       •   The environment configuration which controls the basic execution of exabgp such as logging, daemonizing, pid-file, profiling etc.
       •   The BGP configuration of exabgp, which specifies which neighbors it should talk BGP with and all other aspects of the BGP configuration.

       The environment configuration can be specified a number of different ways, with different priority:

       1.   Command line values using dot-separated notation.
       2.   Environment variables using dot-separated notation.
       3.   Command line values using underscore-separated notation.
       4.   Environment variables using underscore-separated notation.
       5.   The values from the ini configuration file, /etc/exabgp/exabgp.env
       6.   The built-in default values.

       The following environment variables can be used to configure the basic execution of exabgp:

       exabgp.api.ack        Acknowledge api comman(s) and report issues.  Default: true.

       exabgp.api.chunk      Maximum number of lines to print before yielding in "show routes" api.  Default: 1.

       exabgp.api.cli        Determines if exabgp should create a named pipe for the CLI.  Default: true.

       exabgp.api.compact    Determines whether exabgp should use shorter JSON encoding for IPv4/IPv6 unicast NLRI.  Default: false.

       exabgp.api.encoder    (experimental) default encoder to use with external API (text or json).  Default: text.

       exabgp.api.pipename   Base name to be used for the exabgp pipe for the CLI interface.  Default: exabgp.

       exabgp.api.respawn    Controls whether to respawn a helper process if it dies.  Default: false.

       exabgp.api.terminate  Controls whether to exit if any helper process dies.  Default: false.

       exabgp.bgp.openwait   Controls how many seconds we should wait for a BGP open message once the TCP session is established.  Default: 60 seconds.

       exabgp.cache.attributes Controls whether all attributes (configuration and wire) should be cached for faster parsing.  Default: true.

       exabgp.cache.nexthops (deprecated, next-hops are always cached) Default: true.

       exabgp.daemon.daemonize Controls whether exabgp should run in the background.  Default: false.

       exabgp.daemon.drop    Determines if exabgp should drop privileges before forking processes.  Default: true.

       exabgp.daemon.pid     Where to save the PID of exabgp if we manage it.  Default: '' (not set).

       exabgp.daemon.umask   Controls umask to set, controls permissions of created files, e.g. logs.  Default: 0137.

       exabgp.daemon.user    The user to run exabgp as.  Should be an unprivileged user.  Default: nobody.

       exabgp.log.all        Controls whether debug logging should be done for everything.  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.configuration Controls whether logging should be done for the configuration and command parsing.  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.daemon     Controls whether logging should be done for PID change, forking, etc.  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.destination  Controls  where  logging should be sent.  syslog (or no setting) sends the data to the local syslog server with the LOG_DAEMON
                             facility (used to be LOG_USER).  host:<location> sends the data to a remote syslog server.  stdout sends  the  data  to  stdout.
                             stderr sends the data to stderr.  <filename> sends the data to the named file.  Default: stdout.

       exabgp.log.enable     Controls whether logging should be done.  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.level      Sets the minimum severity level to log.  Default: INFO.

       exabgp.log.message    Controls logging of changes in route announcement in config reload.  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.network    Controls logging of networking information (TCP/IP state, network state etc.).  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.statistics Controls logging of packet statistics (counters).  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.packets    Controls logging of BGP packets sent and received.  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.parser     Controls logging of BGP message parsing details.  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.processes  Controls logging of forked processes.  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.reactor    Controls logging of signals received and command reload.  Default: true.

       exabgp.log.rib        Controls logging of changes in locally configured routes.  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.routes     Controls logging of received routes.  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.short      Coontrols whether to use long or short log format (not prepended with time, level, pid and source).  Default: false.

       exabgp.log.timers     Controls logging of keepalive timers.  Default: false.

       exabgp.pdb.enable     Controls whether pdb, the python interactive debugger should be started on program faults.  Default: false.

       exabgp.profile.enable Controls whether profiling of the code should be done.  Default: false.

       exabgp.profile.file   Controls where profiling results should be written.  None/empty means stdout.  Default: empty.

       exabgp.reactor.speed  Controls the time of one reactor loop.  Use only if you understand the code.  Default: 1.0.

       exabgp.tcp.acl        (experimental, unimplemented).  Default: empty.

       exabgp.tcp.bind       List of IP addresses to bind to when listening (no ip to disable).  Default: empty.

       exabgp.tcp.delay      Start to announce routes when the minutes in the hour is a modulo of this number.  Default: 0.

       exabgp.tcp.once       Only perform one TCP connection attempt per peer, for debugging scripts.  Default: false.

       exabgp.tcp.port       Port to bind to when listening.  Default: 179.

FILES
       /etc/exabgp/exabgp.env is the default file for setting the "environment" variables controlling the execution of exabgp.  An alaternative "env" config‐
       uration  file  can  be  supplied via the --env env-config argument.  The format of this file is "Windows INI format".  All the default settings can be
       shown with the exabgp --test --full-init command, an example showing parts of this output is:

          [exabgp.api]
          encoder = text
          respawn = false

          [exabgp.bgp]
          openwait = 60

       Additionally, the user will need to  supply  a  configuration  file  controlling  the  BGP  configuration  of  exabgp,  in  the  format  described  in
       exabgp.conf(5).

SIGNALS
       exabgp catches a few different signals to control specific actions.  They are:

       ALRM   Restarts exabgp.
       USR1   Causes exabgp to reload the configuration.
       USR2   Causes exabgp to reload the configuration and restart any forked processes.
       TERM   Terminates exabgp.
       HUP    Also terminates exabgp (does not reload the configuration anymore).

       Reloading large configurations using signals is currently not recommended, because the configuration parsing code is currently blocking.  Therefore if
       you have a large configuration change, it could cause the peer to miss some keepalive and cause a session flap.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The  --test  argument  is useful to validate the syntax of the configuration file.  The --debug flag will provide copious debug output to wherever the
       various exabgp.log variable settings dictate.

SEE ALSO
       exabgp.conf(5)

STANDARDS
       A list of the standards exabgp implements which is indicative of the features implemented is:

       RFC 4893    BGP Support for Four-octet AS Number Space
       RFC 4760    Multiprotocol Extension for BGP-4
       RFC 4659    BGP-MPLS IP Virtual Private Network (VPN) Extension for IPv6 VPN
       RFC 4762    Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) Using Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) Signalling
       RFC 5575    Dissemination of Flow Specification Rules
       RFC 4724    Graceful Restart Mechanism for BGP
       RFC 7313    Enhanced Route Refresh Capability for BGP-4
       RFC 7311    The Accumulated IGP Metric Attribute for BGP
       draft-raszuk-idr-flow-spec-v6-03 (draft-ietf-idr-flow-spec-v6-06), Dissemination of Flow Specification Rules for IPv6
       draft-simpson-idr-flowspec-redirect-00 (-02) BGP Flow-Spec Redirect to IP Action
       draft-ietf-idr-flowspec-redirect-00 (-02) BGP Flow-Spec Redirect to IP Action
       draft-ietf-idr-add-paths-08 (-10) Advertisement of Multiple Paths in BGP
       draft-ietf-idr-bgp-multisession-07 (??)
       draft-scudder-bmp-01 (??)

       A list of other more basic BGP-related standard entirely or partially implemented is:

       RFC 1997    BGP Communities Attribute
       RFC 8092    BGP Large Communities Attribute
       RFC 2385    Protection of BGP Sessions via the TCP MD5 Signature
       RFC 2545    Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions for IPv6 Inter-Domain Routing
       RFC 2918    Route Refresh Capability for BGP-4
       RFC 3107    Carrying Label Information in BGP-4
       RFC 3765    NOPEER Community for Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Route Scope Control
       RFC 7999    BLACKHOLE BGP Community for Blackholing
       RFC 4271    A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)
       RFC 4360    BGP Extended Communities Attribute
       RFC 4364    Constrained Route Distribution for BGP/MPLS IP VPNs
       RFC 4456    BGP Route Reflection: An Alternative to Full Mesh Internal BGP (iBGP)
       RFC 5396    Textual Representation of Autonomous System (AS) Numbers
       RFC 5492    Capabilities Advertisement with BGP-4
       RFC 6286    Autonomous-System-Wide Unique BGP Identifier for BGP-4
       RFC 6608    Subcodes for BGP Finite State Machine Error
       RFC 7752    North-Bound Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP
       draft-gredler-idr-bgp-ls-segment-routing-ext-03 BGP Link-State extensions for Segment Routing
       draft-ietf-idr-bgp-prefix-sid-05 Segment Routing Prefix SID extensions for BGP

                                                                       October 14, 2022                                                             EXABGP(1)
