EXCELLENT-BIFURCATION(6)                                                                        Games Manual                                                                       EXCELLENT-BIFURCATION(6)

NAME
       excellent-bifurcation - an abstract two-sided vertical shooter

SYNOPSIS
       excellent-bifurcation

DESCRIPTION
       The aliens have attacked, and their ability to exist in either or both of their world and ours has given them an almost unsurpassable advantage.

       Take command of a special fighter craft capable of existing in both realities at once and drive them back!

       The form your fighter takes on the left has double fast-firing cannons and can charge to release up to eight seekers. It is ideal for destroying small and weak but numerous enemies. The right-hand
       form  has  a  single  powerful cannon which fires slowly but does far more damage, and is more suited to taking out larger enemies.  It can charge up to release a wave which passes through things,
       damaging them as it goes (unlike the beam weapons, which only hit anything once no matter how thick it is). You can switch them between the worlds depending on what  kind  of  firepower  you  need
       where.

KEYS
       Left, Right, Up, Down
              move the fighter across the screen

       Z      fire the main weapon

       X      charges your weapons

       C      switches your two forms between the two worlds (screens)

       A      turns on or off the autofire mode (autofire is just like holding down Z)

       Esc    return to the main menu

       Key controls can be modified inside the game options menu.

CONFIGURATION
       excellent-bifurcation  doesn't  accept any command line arguments.  Configuration is via the file ~/.config/excellent-bifurcation/init.txt (or a different path if the environment variable XDG_CON‐
       FIG_HOME has been modified), which also records scores and configured key controls.

       The following configuration can only be done by editing init.txt (under the heading [Misc]):

       Windowed
              Use Windowed = 0 for fullscreen, Windowed = 1 to run in a window (default).

       vsync  Turning vsync on (vsync = 1) eliminates a graphic shearing effect which some people might find annoying, but can slow things down on older systems.  Default is vsync = 0.

AUTHOR
       excellent-bifurcation was written by Linley Henzell.

       This manual page was written by Barry deFreese <bdefreese@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

                                                                                                January 2015                                                                       EXCELLENT-BIFURCATION(6)
