EXIM(8)                                                                                     System Manager's Manual                                                                                     EXIM(8)

NAME
       exim - a Mail Transfer Agent

SYNOPSIS
       exim [options] arguments ...
       mailq [options] arguments ...
       rsmtp [options] arguments ...
       rmail [options] arguments ...
       runq [options] arguments ...
       newaliases [options] arguments ...

DESCRIPTION

       Exim  is  a mail transfer agent (MTA) developed at the University of Cambridge.  It is a large program with very many facilities. For a full specification, see the reference manual. This man page con‐
       tains only a description of the command line options. It has been automatically generated from the reference manual source, hopefully without too much mangling.

       Like other MTAs, Exim replaces Sendmail, and is normally called by user agents (MUAs)  using  the  path  /usr/sbin/sendmail  when  they  submit  messages  for  delivery  (some  operating  systems  use
       /usr/lib/sendmail). This path is normally set up as a symbolic link to the Exim binary. It may also be used by boot scripts to start the Exim daemon. Many of Exim's command line options are compatible
       with Sendmail so that it can act as a drop-in replacement.

DEFAULT ACTION

       If no options are present that require a specific action (such as starting the daemon or a queue runner, testing an address, receiving a message in a specific format, or listing the queue), and  there
       are no arguments on the command line, Exim outputs a brief message about itself and exits.

       However,  if  there  is  at  least one command line argument, -bm (accept a local message on the standard input, with the arguments specifying the recipients) is assumed. Thus, for example, if Exim is
       installed in /usr/sbin, you can send a message from the command line like this:

         /usr/sbin/exim -i <recipient-address(es)>
         <message content, including all the header lines>
         CTRL-D

       The -i option prevents a line containing just a dot from terminating the message. Only an end-of-file (generated by typing CTRL-D if the input is from a terminal) does so.

SETTING OPTIONS BY PROGRAM NAME

       If an Exim binary is called using one of the names listed in this section (typically via a symbolic link), certain options are assumed.

       mailq  Behave as if the option -bp were present before any other options.  The -bp option requests a listing of the contents of the mail queue on the standard output.

       rsmtp  Behaves as if the option -bS were present before any other options, for compatibility with Smail. The -bS option is used for reading in a number of messages in batched SMTP format.

       rmail  Behave as if the -i and -oee options were present before any other options, for compatibility with Smail. The name rmail is used as an interface by some UUCP systems. The  -i  option  specifies
              that a dot on a line by itself does not terminate a non-SMTP message; -oee requests that errors detected in non-SMTP messages be reported by emailing the sender.

       runq   Behave  as  if  the option -q were present before any other options, for compatibility with Smail. The -q option causes a single queue runner process to be started. It processes the queue once,
              then exits.

       newaliases
              Behave as if the option -bi were present before any other options, for compatibility with Sendmail. This option is used for rebuilding Sendmail's alias file. Exim does not have the concept of a
              single alias file, but can be configured to run a specified command if called with the -bi option.

OPTIONS

       --        This is a pseudo-option whose only purpose is to terminate the options and therefore to cause subsequent command line items to be treated as arguments rather than options, even if they begin
                 with hyphens.

       --help    This option causes Exim to output a few sentences stating what it is.  The same output is generated if the Exim binary is called with no options and no arguments.

       --version This option is an alias for -bV and causes version information to be displayed.

       -Ac       -Am These options are used by Sendmail for selecting configuration files and are ignored by Exim.

       -B<type>  This is a Sendmail option for selecting 7 or 8 bit processing. Exim is 8-bit clean; it ignores this option.

       -bd       This option runs Exim as a daemon, awaiting incoming SMTP connections. Usually the -bd option is combined with the -q<time> option, to specify that the daemon should also  initiate  periodic
                 queue runs.

                 The  -bd  option can be used only by an admin user. If either of the -d (debugging) or -v (verifying) options are set, the daemon does not disconnect from the controlling terminal. When run‐
                 ning this way, it can be stopped by pressing ctrl-C.

                 By default, Exim listens for incoming connections to the standard SMTP port on all the host's running interfaces. However, it is possible to listen on other ports,  on  multiple  ports,  and
                 only on specific interfaces.

                 When  a  listening  daemon is started without the use of -oX (that is, without overriding the normal configuration), it writes its process id to a file called exim-daemon.pid in Exim's spool
                 directory. This location can be overridden by setting PID_FILE_PATH in Local/Makefile. The file is written while Exim is still running as root.

                 When -oX is used on the command line to start a listening daemon, the process id is not written to the normal pid file path. However, -oP can be used to specify a path on the command line if
                 a pid file is required.

                 The  SIGHUP  signal  can  be  used  to cause the daemon to re-execute itself. This should be done whenever Exim's configuration file, or any file that is incorporated into it by means of the
                 .include facility, is changed, and also whenever a new version of Exim is installed. It is not necessary to do this when other files that are referenced from the configuration (for  example,
                 alias files) are changed, because these are reread each time they are used.

       -bdf      This option has the same effect as -bd except that it never disconnects from the controlling terminal, even when no debugging is specified.

       -be       Run  Exim  in  expansion  testing mode. Exim discards its root privilege, to prevent ordinary users from using this mode to read otherwise inaccessible files. If no arguments are given, Exim
                 runs interactively, prompting for lines of data. Otherwise, it processes each argument in turn.

                 If Exim was built with USE_READLINE=yes in Local/Makefile, it tries to load the libreadline library dynamically whenever the -be option is used without command line arguments. If successful,
                 it uses the readline() function, which provides extensive line-editing facilities, for reading the test data. A line history is supported.

                 Long  expansion  expressions  can be split over several lines by using backslash continuations. As in Exim's runtime configuration, white space at the start of continuation lines is ignored.
                 Each argument or data line is passed through the string expansion mechanism, and the result is output. Variable values from the configuration file (for example, $qualify_domain)  are  avail‐
                 able, but no message-specific values (such as $message_exim_id) are set, because no message is being processed (but see -bem and -Mset).

                 Note:  If  you  use  this  mechanism to test lookups, and you change the data files or databases you are using, you must exit and restart Exim before trying the same lookup again. Otherwise,
                 because each Exim process caches the results of lookups, you will just get the same result as before.

                 Macro processing is done on lines before string-expansion: new macros can be defined and macros will be expanded.  Because macros in the config file are often used  for  secrets,  those  are
                 only available to admin users.

       -bem <filename>
                 This option operates like -be except that it must be followed by the name of a file. For example:

                   exim -bem /tmp/testmessage

                 The  file  is  read as a message (as if receiving a locally-submitted non-SMTP message) before any of the test expansions are done. Thus, message-specific variables such as $message_size and
                 $header_from: are available. However, no Received: header is added to the message. If the -t option is set, recipients are read from the headers in the normal  way,  and  are  shown  in  the
                 $recipients variable. Note that recipients cannot be given on the command line, because further arguments are taken as strings to expand (just like -be).

       -bF <filename>
                 This option is the same as -bf except that it assumes that the filter being tested is a system filter. The additional commands that are available only in system filters are recognized.

       -bf <filename>
                 This  option  runs  Exim  in  user filter testing mode; the file is the filter file to be tested, and a test message must be supplied on the standard input. If there are no message-dependent
                 tests in the filter, an empty file can be supplied.

                 If you want to test a system filter file, use -bF instead of -bf. You can use both -bF and -bf on the same command, in order to test a system filter and a user filter in the  same  run.  For
                 example:

                   exim -bF /system/filter -bf /user/filter </test/message

                 This is helpful when the system filter adds header lines or sets filter variables that are used by the user filter.

                 If the test filter file does not begin with one of the special lines

                   # Exim filter
                   # Sieve filter

                 it is taken to be a normal .forward file, and is tested for validity under that interpretation.

                 The  result  of  an  Exim command that uses -bf, provided no errors are detected, is a list of the actions that Exim would try to take if presented with the message for real. More details of
                 filter testing are given in the separate document entitled Exim's interfaces to mail filtering.

                 When testing a filter file, the envelope sender can be set by the -f option, or by a "From " line at the start of the test message. Various parameters that would normally be taken  from  the
                 envelope recipient address of the message can be set by means of additional command line options (see the next four options).

       -bfd <domain>
                 This sets the domain of the recipient address when a filter file is being tested by means of the -bf option. The default is the value of $qualify_domain.

       -bfl <local part>
                 This  sets  the  local  part  of the recipient address when a filter file is being tested by means of the -bf option. The default is the username of the process that calls Exim. A local part
                 should be specified with any prefix or suffix stripped, because that is how it appears to the filter when a message is actually being delivered.

       -bfp <prefix>
                 This sets the prefix of the local part of the recipient address when a filter file is being tested by means of the -bf option. The default is an empty prefix.

       -bfs <suffix>
                 This sets the suffix of the local part of the recipient address when a filter file is being tested by means of the -bf option. The default is an empty suffix.

       -bh <IP address>
                 This option runs a fake SMTP session as if from the given IP address, using the standard input and output. The IP address may include a port number at the end, after a full stop.  For  exam‐
                 ple:

                   exim -bh 10.9.8.7.1234
                   exim -bh fe80::a00:20ff:fe86:a061.5678

                 When  an  IPv6  address  is  given,  it is converted into canonical form. In the case of the second example above, the value of $sender_host_address after conversion to the canonical form is
                 fe80:0000:0000:0a00:20ff:fe86:a061.5678.

                 Comments as to what is going on are written to the standard error file. These include lines beginning with "LOG" for anything that would have been logged.   This  facility  is  provided  for
                 testing configuration options for incoming messages, to make sure they implement the required policy. For example, you can test your relay controls using -bh.

                 Warning  1: You can test features of the configuration that rely on ident (RFC 1413) information by using the -oMt option. However, Exim cannot actually perform an ident callout when testing
                 using -bh because there is no incoming SMTP connection.

                 Warning 2: Address verification callouts are also skipped when testing using -bh. If you want these callouts to occur, use -bhc instead.

                 Messages supplied during the testing session are discarded, and nothing is written to any of the real log files. There may be pauses when DNS (and other) lookups are  taking  place,  and  of
                 course these may time out. The -oMi option can be used to specify a specific IP interface and port if this is important, and -oMaa and -oMai can be used to set parameters as if the SMTP ses‐
                 sion were authenticated.

                 The exim_checkaccess utility is a "packaged" version of -bh whose output just states whether a given recipient address from a given host is acceptable or not.

                 Features such as authentication and encryption, where the client input is not plain text, cannot easily be tested with -bh. Instead, you should use a specialized SMTP test  program  such  as
                 swaks.

       -bhc <IP address>
                 This option operates in the same way as -bh, except that address verification callouts are performed if required. This includes consulting and updating the callout cache database.

       -bi       Sendmail  interprets  the  -bi option as a request to rebuild its alias file.  Exim does not have the concept of a single alias file, and so it cannot mimic this behaviour. However, calls to
                 /usr/lib/sendmail with the -bi option tend to appear in various scripts such as NIS make files, so the option must be recognized.

                 If -bi is encountered, the command specified by the bi_command configuration option is run, under the uid and gid of the caller of Exim. If the -oA option is used, its value is passed to the
                 command  as  an  argument.   The  command  set  by bi_command may not contain arguments. The command can use the exim_dbmbuild utility, or some other means, to rebuild alias files if this is
                 required. If the bi_command option is not set, calling Exim with -bi is a no-op.

       -bI:help  We shall provide various options starting -bI: for querying Exim for information.  The output of many of these will be intended for machine consumption.   This  one  is  not.   The  -bI:help
                 option asks Exim for a synopsis of supported options beginning -bI:.  Use of any of these options shall cause Exim to exit after producing the requested output.

       -bI:dscp  This option causes Exim to emit an alphabetically sorted list of all recognised DSCP names.

       -bI:sieve This option causes Exim to emit an alphabetically sorted list of all supported Sieve protocol extensions on stdout, one per line.  This is anticipated to be useful for ManageSieve (RFC 5804)
                 implementations, in providing that protocol's SIEVE capability response line.  As the precise list may depend upon compile-time build options, which this option will adapt to,  this  is  the
                 only way to guarantee a correct response.

       -bm       This  option  runs  an  Exim receiving process that accepts an incoming, locally-generated message on the standard input. The recipients are given as the command arguments (except when -t is
                 also present - see below). Each argument can be a comma-separated list of RFC 2822 addresses. This is the default option for selecting the overall action of an Exim call; it is assumed if no
                 other conflicting option is present.

                 If  any  addresses  in the message are unqualified (have no domain), they are qualified by the values of the qualify_domain or qualify_recipient options, as appropriate. The -bnq option (see
                 below) provides a way of suppressing this for special cases.

                 Policy checks on the contents of local messages can be enforced by means of the non-SMTP ACL.

                 The return code is zero if the message is successfully accepted. Otherwise, the action is controlled by the -oex option setting - see below.

                 The format of the message must be as defined in RFC 2822, except that, for compatibility with Sendmail and Smail, a line in one of the forms

                   From sender Fri Jan  5 12:55 GMT 1997
                   From sender Fri, 5 Jan 97 12:55:01

                 (with the weekday optional, and possibly with additional text after the date) is permitted to appear at the start of the message. There appears to be no authoritative  specification  of  the
                 format of this line. Exim recognizes it by matching against the regular expression defined by the uucp_from_pattern option, which can be changed if necessary.

                 The  specified  sender  is  treated as if it were given as the argument to the -f option, but if a -f option is also present, its argument is used in preference to the address taken from the
                 message. The caller of Exim must be a trusted user for the sender of a message to be set in this way.

       -bmalware <filename>
                 This debugging option causes Exim to scan the given file or directory (depending on the used scanner interface), using the malware scanning framework.  The option  of  av_scanner  influences
                 this  option,  so  if av_scanner's value is dependent upon an expansion then the expansion should have defaults which apply to this invocation.  ACLs are not invoked, so if av_scanner refer‐
                 ences an ACL variable then that variable will never be populated and -bmalware will fail.

                 Exim will have changed working directory before resolving the filename, so using fully qualified pathnames is advisable.  Exim will be running as the Exim user when  it  tries  to  open  the
                 file, rather than as the invoking user.  This option requires admin privileges.

                 The  -bmalware  option will not be extended to be more generally useful, there are better tools for file-scanning.  This option exists to help administrators verify their Exim and AV scanner
                 configuration.

       -bnq      By default, Exim automatically qualifies unqualified addresses (those without domains) that appear in messages that are submitted locally (that  is,  not  over  TCP/IP).  This  qualification
                 applies both to addresses in envelopes, and addresses in header lines. Sender addresses are qualified using qualify_domain, and recipient addresses using qualify_recipient (which defaults to
                 the value of qualify_domain).

                 Sometimes, qualification is not wanted. For example, if -bS (batch SMTP) is being used to re-submit messages that originally came from remote hosts after content scanning,  you  probably  do
                 not want to qualify unqualified addresses in header lines. (Such lines will be present only if you have not enabled a header syntax check in the appropriate ACL.)

                 The  -bnq  option  suppresses all qualification of unqualified addresses in messages that originate on the local host. When this is used, unqualified addresses in the envelope provoke errors
                 (causing message rejection) and unqualified addresses in header lines are left alone.

       -bP       If this option is given with no arguments, it causes the values of all Exim's main configuration options to be written to the standard output. The values of one or more specific options  can
                 be requested by giving their names as arguments, for example:

                   exim -bP qualify_domain hold_domains

                 However, any option setting that is preceded by the word "hide" in the configuration file is not shown in full, except to an admin user. For other users, the output is as in this example:

                   mysql_servers = <value not displayable>

                 If config is given as an argument, the config is output, as it was parsed, any include file resolved, any comment removed.

                 If  config_file  is  given as an argument, the name of the runtime configuration file is output. (configure_file works too, for backward compatibility.)  If a list of configuration files was
                 supplied, the value that is output here is the name of the file that was actually used.

                 If the -n flag is given, then for most modes of -bP operation the name will not be output.

                 If log_file_path or pid_file_path are given, the names of the directories where log files and daemon pid files are written are output, respectively. If these values are unset, log files  are
                 written in a sub-directory of the spool directory called log, and the pid file is written directly into the spool directory.

                 If -bP is followed by a name preceded by +, for example,

                   exim -bP +local_domains

                 it searches for a matching named list of any type (domain, host, address, or local part) and outputs what it finds.

                 If one of the words router, transport, or authenticator is given, followed by the name of an appropriate driver instance, the option settings for that driver are output. For example:

                   exim -bP transport local_delivery

                 The  generic  driver  options  are  output  first,  followed  by  the  driver's private options. A list of the names of drivers of a particular type can be obtained by using one of the words
                 router_list, transport_list, or authenticator_list, and a complete list of all drivers with their option settings can be obtained by using routers, transports, or authenticators.

                 If environment is given as an argument, the set of environment variables is output, line by line. Using the -n flag suppresses the value of the variables.

                 If invoked by an admin user, then macro, macro_list and macros are available, similarly to the drivers.  Because macros are sometimes used for storing passwords, this option  is  restricted.
                 The output format is one item per line.  For the "-bP macro <name>" form, if no such macro is found the exit status will be nonzero.

       -bp       This  option  requests a listing of the contents of the mail queue on the standard output. If the -bp option is followed by a list of message ids, just those messages are listed. By default,
                 this option can be used only by an admin user. However, the queue_list_requires_admin option can be set false to allow any user to see the queue.

                 Each message in the queue is displayed as in the following example:

                   25m  2.9K 0t5C6f-0000c8-00 <alice@wonderland.fict.example>
                             red.king@looking-glass.fict.example
                             <other addresses>

                 The first line contains the length of time the message has been in the queue (in this case 25 minutes), the size of the message (2.9K), the unique local identifier for the message,  and  the
                 message  sender,  as  contained in the envelope. For bounce messages, the sender address is empty, and appears as "<>". If the message was submitted locally by an untrusted user who overrode
                 the default sender address, the user's login name is shown in parentheses before the sender address.

                 If the message is frozen (attempts to deliver it are suspended) then the text "*** frozen ***" is displayed at the end of this line.

                 The recipients of the message (taken from the envelope, not the headers) are displayed on subsequent lines. Those addresses to which the message has already been delivered  are  marked  with
                 the letter D. If an original address gets expanded into several addresses via an alias or forward file, the original is displayed with a D only when deliveries for all of its child addresses
                 are complete.

       -bpa      This option operates like -bp, but in addition it shows delivered addresses that were generated from the original top level address(es) in each message by  alias  or  forwarding  operations.
                 These addresses are flagged with "+D" instead of just "D".

       -bpc      This option counts the number of messages in the queue, and writes the total to the standard output. It is restricted to admin users, unless queue_list_requires_admin is set false.

       -bpr      This  option  operates  like -bp, but the output is not sorted into chronological order of message arrival. This can speed it up when there are lots of messages in the queue, and is particu‐
                 larly useful if the output is going to be post-processed in a way that doesn't need the sorting.

       -bpra     This option is a combination of -bpr and -bpa.

       -bpru     This option is a combination of -bpr and -bpu.

       -bpu      This option operates like -bp but shows only undelivered top-level addresses for each message displayed. Addresses generated by aliasing or forwarding are not shown, unless the  message  was
                 deferred after processing by a router with the one_time option set.

       -brt      This option is for testing retry rules, and it must be followed by up to three arguments. It causes Exim to look for a retry rule that matches the values and to write it to the standard out‐
                 put. For example:

                   exim -brt bach.comp.mus.example
                   Retry rule: *.comp.mus.example  F,2h,15m; F,4d,30m;

                  The first argument, which is required, can be a complete address in the form local_part@domain, or it can be just a domain name. If the second argument contains a dot, it is interpreted  as
                 an  optional  second domain name; if no retry rule is found for the first argument, the second is tried. This ties in with Exim's behaviour when looking for retry rules for remote hosts - if
                 no rule is found that matches the host, one that matches the mail domain is sought. Finally, an argument that is the name of a specific delivery error, as used in setting up retry rules, can
                 be given. For example:

                   exim -brt haydn.comp.mus.example quota_3d
                   Retry rule: *@haydn.comp.mus.example quota_3d  F,1h,15m

       -brw      This option is for testing address rewriting rules, and it must be followed by a single argument, consisting of either a local part without a domain, or a complete address with a fully qual‐
                 ified domain. Exim outputs how this address would be rewritten for each possible place it might appear.

       -bS       This option is used for batched SMTP input, which is an alternative interface for non-interactive local message submission. A number of messages can be submitted in a  single  run.  However,
                 despite  its  name,  this  is  not  really  SMTP  input. Exim reads each message's envelope from SMTP commands on the standard input, but generates no responses. If the caller is trusted, or
                 untrusted_set_sender is set, the senders in the SMTP MAIL commands are believed; otherwise the sender is always the caller of Exim.

                 The message itself is read from the standard input, in SMTP format (leading dots doubled), terminated by a line containing just a single dot. An error is provoked if the terminating  dot  is
                 missing. A further message may then follow.

                 As  for  other  local  message submissions, the contents of incoming batch SMTP messages can be checked using the non-SMTP ACL.  Unqualified addresses are automatically qualified using qual‐
                 ify_domain and qualify_recipient, as appropriate, unless the -bnq option is used.

                 Some other SMTP commands are recognized in the input. HELO and EHLO act as RSET; VRFY, EXPN, ETRN, and HELP act as NOOP; QUIT quits, ignoring the rest of the standard input.

                 If any error is encountered, reports are written to the standard output and error streams, and Exim gives up immediately. The return code is 0 if no error was detected; it is  1  if  one  or
                 more messages were accepted before the error was detected; otherwise it is 2.

       -bs       This  option causes Exim to accept one or more messages by reading SMTP commands on the standard input, and producing SMTP replies on the standard output. SMTP policy controls, as defined in
                 ACLs are applied.  Some user agents use this interface as a way of passing locally-generated messages to the MTA.

                 In this usage, if the caller of Exim is trusted, or untrusted_set_sender is set, the senders of messages are taken from the SMTP MAIL commands.  Otherwise the content of  these  commands  is
                 ignored  and the sender is set up as the calling user. Unqualified addresses are automatically qualified using qualify_domain and qualify_recipient, as appropriate, unless the -bnq option is
                 used.

                 The -bs option is also used to run Exim from inetd, as an alternative to using a listening daemon. Exim can distinguish the two cases by checking whether  the  standard  input  is  a  TCP/IP
                 socket.  When  Exim  is  called  from inetd, the source of the mail is assumed to be remote, and the comments above concerning senders and qualification do not apply. In this situation, Exim
                 behaves in exactly the same way as it does when receiving a message via the listening daemon.

       -bt       This option runs Exim in address testing mode, in which each argument is taken as a recipient address to be tested for deliverability. The results are written to the standard  output.  If  a
                 test fails, and the caller is not an admin user, no details of the failure are output, because these might contain sensitive information such as usernames and passwords for database lookups.

                 If no arguments are given, Exim runs in an interactive manner, prompting with a right angle bracket for addresses to be tested.

                 Unlike the -be test option, you cannot arrange for Exim to use the readline() function, because it is running as root and there are security issues.

                 Each  address is handled as if it were the recipient address of a message (compare the -bv option). It is passed to the routers and the result is written to the standard output. However, any
                 router that has no_address_test set is bypassed. This can make -bt easier to use for genuine routing tests if your first router passes everything to a scanner program.

                 The return code is 2 if any address failed outright; it is 1 if no address failed outright but at least one could not be resolved for some reason. Return  code  0  is  given  only  when  all
                 addresses succeed.

                 Note: When actually delivering a message, Exim removes duplicate recipient addresses after routing is complete, so that only one delivery takes place.  This does not happen when testing with
                 -bt; the full results of routing are always shown.

                 Warning: -bt can only do relatively simple testing. If any of the routers in the configuration makes any tests on the sender address of a message, you can use the -f option to set an  appro‐
                 priate  sender  when running -bt tests. Without it, the sender is assumed to be the calling user at the default qualifying domain. However, if you have set up (for example) routers whose be‐
                 haviour depends on the contents of an incoming message, you cannot test those conditions using -bt. The -N option provides a possible way of doing such tests.

       -bV       This option causes Exim to write the current version number, compilation number, and compilation date of the exim binary to the standard output.  It also lists the DBM library that is  being
                 used, the optional modules (such as specific lookup types), the drivers that are included in the binary, and the name of the runtime configuration file that is in use.

                 As  part of its operation, -bV causes Exim to read and syntax check its configuration file. However, this is a static check only. It cannot check values that are to be expanded. For example,
                 although a misspelt ACL verb is detected, an error in the verb's arguments is not. You cannot rely on -bV alone to discover (for example) all the typos in the configuration;  some  realistic
                 testing is needed. The -bh and -N options provide more dynamic testing facilities.

       -bv       This  option  runs Exim in address verification mode, in which each argument is taken as a recipient address to be verified by the routers. (This does not involve any verification callouts).
                 During normal operation, verification happens mostly as a consequence processing a verify condition in an ACL. If you want to test an entire ACL, possibly including callouts, see the -bh and
                 -bhc options.

                 If  verification fails, and the caller is not an admin user, no details of the failure are output, because these might contain sensitive information such as usernames and passwords for data‐
                 base lookups.

                 If no arguments are given, Exim runs in an interactive manner, prompting with a right angle bracket for addresses to be verified.

                 Unlike the -be test option, you cannot arrange for Exim to use the readline() function, because it is running as exim and there are security issues.

                 Verification differs from address testing (the -bt option) in that routers that have no_verify set are skipped, and if the address is accepted by a router that has fail_verify set, verifica‐
                 tion fails. The address is verified as a recipient if -bv is used; to test verification for a sender address, -bvs should be used.

                 If  the  -v  option  is not set, the output consists of a single line for each address, stating whether it was verified or not, and giving a reason in the latter case. Without -v, generating
                 more than one address by redirection causes verification to end successfully, without considering the generated addresses. However, if just one address is  generated,  processing  continues,
                 and the generated address must verify successfully for the overall verification to succeed.

                 When  -v is set, more details are given of how the address has been handled, and in the case of address redirection, all the generated addresses are also considered. Verification may succeed
                 for some and fail for others.

                 The return code is 2 if any address failed outright; it is 1 if no address failed outright but at least one could not be resolved for some reason. Return  code  0  is  given  only  when  all
                 addresses succeed.

                 If  any  of the routers in the configuration makes any tests on the sender address of a message, you should use the -f option to set an appropriate sender when running -bv tests. Without it,
                 the sender is assumed to be the calling user at the default qualifying domain.

       -bvs      This option acts like -bv, but verifies the address as a sender rather than a recipient address. This affects any rewriting and qualification that might happen.

       -bw       This option runs Exim as a daemon, awaiting incoming SMTP connections, similarly to the -bd option.  All port specifications on the command-line and in the configuration  file  are  ignored.
                 Queue-running may not be specified.

                 In  this  mode,  Exim expects to be passed a socket as fd 0 (stdin) which is listening for connections.  This permits the system to start up and have inetd (or equivalent) listen on the SMTP
                 ports, starting an Exim daemon for each port only when the first connection is received.

                 If the option is given as -bw<time> then the time is a timeout, after which the daemon will exit, which should cause inetd to listen once more.

       -C <filelist>
                 This option causes Exim to find the runtime configuration file from the given list instead of from the list specified by the CONFIGURE_FILE compile-time setting. Usually, the list will  con‐
                 sist  of  just a single filename, but it can be a colon-separated list of names. In this case, the first file that exists is used. Failure to open an existing file stops Exim from proceeding
                 any further along the list, and an error is generated.

                 When this option is used by a caller other than root, and the list is different from the compiled-in list, Exim gives up its root privilege immediately, and runs with the real and  effective
                 uid  and  gid  set  to those of the caller.  However, if a TRUSTED_CONFIG_LIST file is defined in Local/Makefile, that file contains a list of full pathnames, one per line, for configuration
                 files which are trusted. Root privilege is retained for any configuration file so listed, as long as the caller is the Exim user (or the user specified  in  the  CONFIGURE_OWNER  option,  if
                 any), and as long as the configuration file is not writeable by inappropriate users or groups.

                 Leaving TRUSTED_CONFIG_LIST unset precludes the possibility of testing a configuration using -C right through message reception and delivery, even if the caller is root. The reception works,
                 but by that time, Exim is running as the Exim user, so when it re-executes to regain privilege for the delivery, the use of -C causes privilege to be lost. However, root can  test  reception
                 and delivery using two separate commands (one to put a message in the queue, using -odq, and another to do the delivery, using -M).

                 If  ALT_CONFIG_PREFIX  is defined in Local/Makefile, it specifies a prefix string with which any file named in a -C command line option must start. In addition, the filename must not contain
                 the sequence /../.  However, if the value of the -C option is identical to the value of CONFIGURE_FILE in Local/Makefile, Exim ignores -C and proceeds as usual. There is no  default  setting
                 for ALT_CONFIG_PREFIX; when it is unset, any filename can be used with -C.

                 ALT_CONFIG_PREFIX can be used to confine alternative configuration files to a directory to which only root has access. This prevents someone who has broken into the Exim account from running
                 a privileged Exim with an arbitrary configuration file.

                 The -C facility is useful for ensuring that configuration files are syntactically correct, but cannot be used for test deliveries, unless the caller is privileged, or unless it is an  exotic
                 configuration that does not require privilege. No check is made on the owner or group of the files specified by this option.

       -D<macro>=<value>
                 This  option can be used to override macro definitions in the configuration file. However, like -C, if it is used by an unprivileged caller, it causes Exim to give up its root privilege.  If
                 DISABLE_D_OPTION is defined in Local/Makefile, the use of -D is completely disabled, and its use causes an immediate error exit.

                 If WHITELIST_D_MACROS is defined in Local/Makefile then it should be a colon-separated list of macros which are considered safe and, if -D only supplies macros from this list, and the values
                 are acceptable, then Exim will not give up root privilege if the caller is root, the Exim run-time user, or the CONFIGURE_OWNER, if set.  This is a transition mechanism and is expected to be
                 removed in the future.  Acceptable values for the macros satisfy the regexp: ^[A-Za-z0-9_/.-]*$

                 The entire option (including equals sign if present) must all be within one command line item. -D can be used to set the value of a macro to the empty string, in which case the  equals  sign
                 is optional. These two commands are synonymous:

                   exim -DABC  ...
                   exim -DABC= ...

                 To include spaces in a macro definition item, quotes must be used. If you use quotes, spaces are permitted around the macro name and the equals sign. For example:

                   exim '-D ABC = something' ...

                 -D may be repeated up to 10 times on a command line.  Only macro names up to 22 letters long can be set.

       -d<debug options>
                 This  option causes debugging information to be written to the standard error stream. It is restricted to admin users because debugging output may show database queries that contain password
                 information. Also, the details of users' filter files should be protected. If a non-admin user uses -d, Exim writes an error message to the standard error stream and exits  with  a  non-zero
                 return code.

                 When  -d  is  used, -v is assumed. If -d is given on its own, a lot of standard debugging data is output. This can be reduced, or increased to include some more rarely needed information, by
                 directly following -d with a string made up of names preceded by plus or minus characters. These add or remove sets of debugging data, respectively. For example, -d+filter adds filter debug‐
                 ging, whereas -d-all+filter selects only filter debugging. Note that no spaces are allowed in the debug setting. The available debugging categories are:

                   acl             ACL interpretation
                   auth            authenticators
                   deliver         general delivery logic
                   dns             DNS lookups (see also resolver)
                   dnsbl           DNS black list (aka RBL) code
                   exec            arguments for execv() calls
                   expand          detailed debugging for string expansions
                   filter          filter handling
                   hints_lookup    hints data lookups
                   host_lookup     all types of name-to-IP address handling
                   ident           ident lookup
                   interface       lists of local interfaces
                   lists           matching things in lists
                   load            system load checks
                   local_scan      can be used by local_scan()
                   lookup          general lookup code and all lookups
                   memory          memory handling
                   noutf8          modifier: avoid UTF-8 line-drawing
                   pid             modifier: add pid to debug output lines
                   process_info    setting info for the process log
                   queue_run       queue runs
                   receive         general message reception logic
                   resolver        turn on the DNS resolver's debugging output
                   retry           retry handling
                   rewrite         address rewriting
                   route           address routing
                   timestamp       modifier: add timestamp to debug output lines
                   tls             TLS logic
                   transport       transports
                   uid             changes of uid/gid and looking up uid/gid
                   verify          address verification logic
                   all             almost all of the above (see below), and also -v

                 The  all option excludes memory when used as +all, but includes it for -all. The reason for this is that +all is something that people tend to use when generating debug output for Exim main‐
                 tainers. If +memory is included, an awful lot of output that is very rarely of interest is generated, so it now has to be explicitly requested. However, -all does turn everything off.

                 The resolver option produces output only if the DNS resolver was compiled with DEBUG enabled. This is not the case in some operating systems. Also, unfortunately, debugging output  from  the
                 DNS resolver is written to stdout rather than stderr.

                 The  default (-d with no argument) omits expand, filter, interface, load, memory, pid, resolver, and timestamp.  However, the pid selector is forced when debugging is turned on for a daemon,
                 which then passes it on to any re-executed Exims. Exim also automatically adds the pid to debug lines when several remote deliveries are run in parallel.

                 The timestamp selector causes the current time to be inserted at the start of all debug output lines. This can be useful when trying to track down delays in processing.

                 The noutf8 selector disables the use of UTF-8 line-drawing characters to group related information.  When disabled. ascii-art is used instead.  Using the +all option does not set this  modi‐
                 fier,

                 If the debug_print option is set in any driver, it produces output whenever any debugging is selected, or if -v is used.

       -dd<debug options>
                 This  option  behaves exactly like -d except when used on a command that starts a daemon process. In that case, debugging is turned off for the subprocesses that the daemon creates. Thus, it
                 is useful for monitoring the behaviour of the daemon without creating as much output as full debugging does.

       -dropcr   This is an obsolete option that is now a no-op. It used to affect the way Exim handled CR and LF characters in incoming messages.

       -E        This option specifies that an incoming message is a locally-generated delivery failure report. It is used internally by Exim when handling delivery failures and is not intended for  external
                 use. Its only effect is to stop Exim generating certain messages to the postmaster, as otherwise message cascades could occur in some situations. As part of the same option, a message id may
                 follow the characters -E. If it does, the log entry for the receipt of the new message contains the id, following "R=", as a cross-reference.

       -ex       There are a number of Sendmail options starting with -oe which seem to be called by various programs without the leading o in the option. For example, the vacation  program  uses  -eq.  Exim
                 treats all options of the form -ex as synonymous with the corresponding -oex options.

       -F <string>
                 This  option  sets the sender's full name for use when a locally-generated message is being accepted. In the absence of this option, the user's gecos entry from the password data is used. As
                 users are generally permitted to alter their gecos entries, no security considerations are involved. White space between -F and the <string> is optional.

       -f <address>
                 This option sets the address of the envelope sender of a locally-generated message (also known as  the  return  path).  The  option  can  normally  be  used  only  by  a  trusted  user,  but
                 untrusted_set_sender can be set to allow untrusted users to use it.

                 Processes  running  as root or the Exim user are always trusted. Other trusted users are defined by the trusted_users or trusted_groups options. In the absence of -f, or if the caller is not
                 trusted, the sender of a local message is set to the caller's login name at the default qualify domain.

                 There is one exception to the restriction on the use of -f: an empty sender can be specified by any user, trusted or not, to create a message that can never provoke a bounce. An empty sender
                 can be specified either as an empty string, or as a pair of angle brackets with nothing between them, as in these examples of shell commands:

                   exim -f '<>' user@domain
                   exim -f "" user@domain

                 In addition, the use of -f is not restricted when testing a filter file with -bf or when testing or verifying addresses using the -bt or -bv options.

                 Allowing  untrusted users to change the sender address does not of itself make it possible to send anonymous mail. Exim still checks that the From: header refers to the local user, and if it
                 does not, it adds a Sender: header, though this can be overridden by setting no_local_from_check.

                 White space between -f and the <address> is optional (that is, they can be given as two arguments or one combined argument). The sender of a locally-generated message can also be  set  (when
                 permitted) by an initial "From " line in the message - see the description of -bm above - but if -f is also present, it overrides "From ".

       -G        This option is equivalent to an ACL applying:

                   control = suppress_local_fixups

                 for every message received.  Note that Sendmail will complain about such bad formatting, where Exim silently just does not fix it up.  This may change in future.

                 As this affects audit information, the caller must be a trusted user to use this option.

       -h <number>
                 This option is accepted for compatibility with Sendmail, but has no effect. (In Sendmail it overrides the "hop count" obtained by counting Received: headers.)

       -i        This  option,  which  has  the same effect as -oi, specifies that a dot on a line by itself should not terminate an incoming, non-SMTP message. I can find no documentation for this option in
                 Solaris 2.4 Sendmail, but the mailx command in Solaris 2.4 uses it. See also -ti.

       -L <tag>  This option is equivalent to setting syslog_processname in the config file and setting log_file_path to syslog.  Its use is restricted to administrators.  The configuration file  has  to  be
                 read and parsed, to determine access rights, before this is set and takes effect, so early configuration file errors will not honour this flag.

                 The tag should not be longer than 32 characters.

       -M <message id> <message id> ...
                 This  option  requests  Exim  to run a delivery attempt on each message in turn. If any of the messages are frozen, they are automatically thawed before the delivery attempt. The settings of
                 queue_domains, queue_smtp_domains, and hold_domains are ignored.

                 Retry hints for any of the addresses are overridden - Exim tries to deliver even if the normal retry time has not yet been reached. This option requires the caller to be an admin user.  How‐
                 ever, there is an option called prod_requires_admin which can be set false to relax this restriction (and also the same requirement for the -q, -R, and -S options).

                 The  deliveries  happen  synchronously,  that  is, the original Exim process does not terminate until all the delivery attempts have finished. No output is produced unless there is a serious
                 error. If you want to see what is happening, use the -v option as well, or inspect Exim's main log.

       -Mar <message id> <address> <address> ...
                 This option requests Exim to add the addresses to the list of recipients of the message ("ar" for "add recipients"). The first argument must be a message id, and the remaining ones  must  be
                 email addresses. However, if the message is active (in the middle of a delivery attempt), it is not altered. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -MC <transport> <hostname> <host IP> <sequence number> <message id>
                 This  option  is  not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim to invoke another instance of itself to deliver a waiting message using an existing SMTP connection,
                 which is passed as the standard input. This must be the final option, and the caller must be root or the Exim user in order to use it.

       -MCA      This option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option. It signifies that the  connection  to  the  remote  host  has  been
                 authenticated.

       -MCD      This option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option. It signifies that the remote host supports the ESMTP DSN extension.

       -MCd      This option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -d option to pass on an information string on the purpose of the process.

       -MCG <queue name>
                 This  option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option. It signifies that an alternate queue is used, named by the follow‐
                 ing argument.

       -MCK      This option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option. It signifies that a remote host supports the ESMTP CHUNKING  exten‐
                 sion.

       -MCP      This  option  is  not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option. It signifies that the server to which Exim is connected supports
                 pipelining.

       -MCQ <process id> <pipe fd>
                 This option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option when the original delivery was started by a queue runner. It  passes
                 on  the process id of the queue runner, together with the file descriptor number of an open pipe. Closure of the pipe signals the final completion of the sequence of processes that are pass‐
                 ing messages through the same SMTP connection.

       -MCS      This option is not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option, and passes on the fact that the ESMTP SIZE option should be used on
                 messages delivered down the existing connection.

       -MCT      This  option  is  not  intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option, and passes on the fact that the host to which Exim is connected
                 supports TLS encryption.

       -MCr <SNI>
                 -MCs <SNI> These options are not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MCt option, and passes on the fact that a TLS Server Name  Indi‐
                 cation was sent as part of the channel establishment.  The argument gives the SNI string.  The "r" variant indicates a DANE-verified connection.

       -MCt <IP address> <port> <cipher>
                 This  option  is  not intended for use by external callers. It is used internally by Exim in conjunction with the -MC option, and passes on the fact that the connection is being proxied by a
                 parent process for handling TLS encryption.  The arguments give the local address and port being proxied, and the TLS cipher.

       -Mc <message id> <message id> ...
                 This option requests Exim to run a delivery attempt on each message, in turn, but unlike the -M option, it does check for retry hints, and respects any that are found.  This  option  is  not
                 very  useful to external callers. It is provided mainly for internal use by Exim when it needs to re-invoke itself in order to regain root privilege for a delivery.  However, -Mc can be use‐
                 ful when testing, in order to run a delivery that respects retry times and other options such as hold_domains that are overridden when -M is used. Such a delivery does not count as  a  queue
                 run.   If  you  want to run a specific delivery as if in a queue run, you should use -q with a message id argument. A distinction between queue run deliveries and other deliveries is made in
                 one or two places.

       -Mes <message id> <address>
                 This option requests Exim to change the sender address in the message to the given address, which must be a fully qualified address or "<>" ("es" for "edit sender"). There  must  be  exactly
                 two  arguments.  The  first  argument  must  be  a message id, and the second one an email address. However, if the message is active (in the middle of a delivery attempt), its status is not
                 altered.  This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mf <message id> <message id> ...
                 This option requests Exim to mark each listed message as "frozen". This prevents any delivery attempts taking place until the message is "thawed", either manually  or  as  a  result  of  the
                 auto_thaw configuration option.  However, if any of the messages are active (in the middle of a delivery attempt), their status is not altered. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mg <message id> <message id> ...
                 This  option  requests  Exim  to  give  up  trying to deliver the listed messages, including any that are frozen. However, if any of the messages are active, their status is not altered. For
                 non-bounce messages, a delivery error message is sent to the sender, containing the text "cancelled by administrator".  Bounce messages are just discarded. This option can be used only by an
                 admin user.

       -MG <queue name> <message id> <message id> ...
                 This option requests that each listed message be moved from its current queue to the given named queue.  The destination queue name argument is required, but can be an empty string to define
                 the default queue.  If the messages are not currently located in the default queue, a -qG<name> option will be required to define the source queue.

       -Mmad <message id> <message id> ...
                 This option requests Exim to mark all the recipient addresses in the messages as already delivered ("mad" for "mark all delivered"). However, if any message is active (in  the  middle  of  a
                 delivery attempt), its status is not altered. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mmd <message id> <address> <address> ...
                 This  option  requests  Exim  to  mark  the  given  addresses  as already delivered ("md" for "mark delivered"). The first argument must be a message id, and the remaining ones must be email
                 addresses. These are matched to recipient addresses in the message in a case-sensitive manner. If the message is active (in the middle of a delivery attempt), its status is not altered. This
                 option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mrm <message id> <message id> ...
                 This option requests Exim to remove the given messages from the queue. No bounce messages are sent; each message is simply forgotten. However, if any of the messages are active, their status
                 is not altered. This option can be used only by an admin user or by the user who originally caused the message to be placed in the queue.

       -Mset <message id>
                 This option is useful only in conjunction with -be (that is, when testing string expansions). Exim loads the given message from its spool before doing the test expansions, thus setting  mes‐
                 sage-specific  variables  such  as $message_size and the header variables. The $recipients variable is made available. This feature is provided to make it easier to test expansions that make
                 use of these variables. However, this option can be used only by an admin user. See also -bem.

       -Mt <message id> <message id> ...
                 This option requests Exim to "thaw" any of the listed messages that are "frozen", so that delivery attempts can resume. However, if any of the  messages  are  active,  their  status  is  not
                 altered. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mvb <message id>
                 This option causes the contents of the message body (-D) spool file to be written to the standard output. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mvc <message id>
                 This option causes a copy of the complete message (header lines plus body) to be written to the standard output in RFC 2822 format. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mvh <message id>
                 This option causes the contents of the message headers (-H) spool file to be written to the standard output. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -Mvl <message id>
                 This option causes the contents of the message log spool file to be written to the standard output. This option can be used only by an admin user.

       -m        This is apparently a synonym for -om that is accepted by Sendmail, so Exim treats it that way too.

       -N        This  is  a debugging option that inhibits delivery of a message at the transport level. It implies -v. Exim goes through many of the motions of delivery - it just doesn't actually transport
                 the message, but instead behaves as if it had successfully done so. However, it does not make any updates to the retry database, and the log entries for  deliveries  are  flagged  with  "*>"
                 rather than "=>".

                 Because  -N discards any message to which it applies, only root or the Exim user are allowed to use it with -bd, -q, -R or -M. In other words, an ordinary user can use it only when supplying
                 an incoming message to which it will apply. Although transportation never fails when -N is set, an address may be deferred because of a configuration problem on a  transport,  or  a  routing
                 problem. Once -N has been used for a delivery attempt, it sticks to the message, and applies to any subsequent delivery attempts that may happen for that message.

       -n        This option is interpreted by Sendmail to mean "no aliasing".  For normal modes of operation, it is ignored by Exim.  When combined with -bP it makes the output more terse (suppresses option
                 names, environment values and config pretty printing).

       -O <data> This option is interpreted by Sendmail to mean set option. It is ignored by Exim.

       -oA <file name>
                 This option is used by Sendmail in conjunction with -bi to specify an alternative alias filename. Exim handles -bi differently; see the description above.

       -oB <n>   This is a debugging option which limits the maximum number of messages that can be delivered down one SMTP connection, overriding the value set in any smtp transport. If <n> is omitted,  the
                 limit is set to 1.

       -odb      This  option  applies to all modes in which Exim accepts incoming messages, including the listening daemon. It requests "background" delivery of such messages, which means that the accepting
                 process automatically starts a delivery process for each message received, but does not wait for the delivery processes to finish.

                 When all the messages have been received, the reception process exits, leaving the delivery processes to finish in their own time. The standard output and error streams  are  closed  at  the
                 start of each delivery process.  This is the default action if none of the -od options are present.

                 If one of the queueing options in the configuration file (queue_only or queue_only_file, for example) is in effect, -odb overrides it if queue_only_override is set true, which is the default
                 setting. If queue_only_override is set false, -odb has no effect.

       -odf      This option requests "foreground" (synchronous) delivery when Exim has accepted a locally-generated message. (For the daemon it is exactly the same as -odb.) A delivery process is  automati‐
                 cally started to deliver the message, and Exim waits for it to complete before proceeding.

                 The original Exim reception process does not finish until the delivery process for the final message has ended. The standard error stream is left open during deliveries.

                 However, like -odb, this option has no effect if queue_only_override is false and one of the queueing options in the configuration file is in effect.

                 If there is a temporary delivery error during foreground delivery, the message is left in the queue for later delivery, and the original reception process exits.

       -odi      This option is synonymous with -odf. It is provided for compatibility with Sendmail.

       -odq      This  option  applies  to all modes in which Exim accepts incoming messages, including the listening daemon. It specifies that the accepting process should not automatically start a delivery
                 process for each message received. Messages are placed in the queue, and remain there until a subsequent queue runner process encounters them. There are several configuration  options  (such
                 as queue_only) that can be used to queue incoming messages under certain conditions. This option overrides all of them and also -odqs. It always forces queueing.

       -odqs     This  option is a hybrid between -odb/-odi and -odq.  However, like -odb and -odi, this option has no effect if queue_only_override is false and one of the queueing options in the configura‐
                 tion file is in effect.

                 When -odqs does operate, a delivery process is started for each incoming message, in the background by default, but in the foreground if -odi is also present.  The  recipient  addresses  are
                 routed,  and local deliveries are done in the normal way. However, if any SMTP deliveries are required, they are not done at this time, so the message remains in the queue until a subsequent
                 queue runner process encounters it. Because routing was done, Exim knows which messages are waiting for which hosts, and so a number of messages for the same host can be  sent  in  a  single
                 SMTP connection. The queue_smtp_domains configuration option has the same effect for specific domains. See also the -qq option.

       -oee      If an error is detected while a non-SMTP message is being received (for example, a malformed address), the error is reported to the sender in a mail message.

                 Provided this error message is successfully sent, the Exim receiving process exits with a return code of zero. If not, the return code is 2 if the problem is that the original message has no
                 recipients, or 1 for any other error.  This is the default -oex option if Exim is called as rmail.

       -oem      This is the same as -oee, except that Exim always exits with a non-zero return code, whether or not the error message was successfully sent.  This is the default -oex option, unless Exim  is
                 called as rmail.

       -oep      If an error is detected while a non-SMTP message is being received, the error is reported by writing a message to the standard error file (stderr).  The return code is 1 for all errors.

       -oeq      This option is supported for compatibility with Sendmail, but has the same effect as -oep.

       -oew      This option is supported for compatibility with Sendmail, but has the same effect as -oem.

       -oi       This option, which has the same effect as -i, specifies that a dot on a line by itself should not terminate an incoming, non-SMTP message. Otherwise, a single dot does terminate, though Exim
                 does no special processing for other lines that start with a dot. This option is set by default if Exim is called as rmail. See also -ti.

       -oitrue   This option is treated as synonymous with -oi.

       -oMa <host address>
                 A number of options starting with -oM can be used to set values associated with remote hosts on locally-submitted messages (that is, messages not received over TCP/IP). These options can  be
                 used by any caller in conjunction with the -bh, -be, -bf, -bF, -bt, or -bv testing options. In other circumstances, they are ignored unless the caller is trusted.

                 The -oMa option sets the sender host address. This may include a port number at the end, after a full stop (period). For example:

                   exim -bs -oMa 10.9.8.7.1234

                 An alternative syntax is to enclose the IP address in square brackets, followed by a colon and the port number:

                   exim -bs -oMa [10.9.8.7]:1234

                 The  IP  address  is  placed  in  the  $sender_host_address variable, and the port, if present, in $sender_host_port. If both -oMa and -bh are present on the command line, the sender host IP
                 address is taken from whichever one is last.

       -oMaa <name>
                 See -oMa above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMaa option sets the value of $sender_host_authenticated (the authenticator name).  This option can be used with -bh and -bs to
                 set up an authenticated SMTP session without actually using the SMTP AUTH command.

       -oMai <string>
                 See  -oMa  above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMai option sets the value of $authenticated_id (the id that was authenticated).  This overrides the default value (the call‐
                 er's login id, except with -bh, where there is no default) for messages from local sources.

       -oMas <address>
                 See -oMa above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMas option sets the authenticated sender value in $authenticated_sender. It overrides the sender address that is created  from
                 the  caller's  login  id for messages from local sources, except when -bh is used, when there is no default. For both -bh and -bs, an authenticated sender that is specified on a MAIL command
                 overrides this value.

       -oMi <interface address>
                 See -oMa above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMi option sets the IP interface address value. A port number may be included, using the same syntax as for -oMa. The interface
                 address is placed in $received_ip_address and the port number, if present, in $received_port.

       -oMm <message reference>
                 See  -oMa  above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMm option sets the message reference, e.g. message-id, and is logged during delivery. This is useful when some kind of audit
                 trail is required to tie messages together. The format of the message reference is checked and will abort if the format is invalid. The option will only be accepted if  exim  is  running  in
                 trusted mode, not as any regular user.

                 The best example of a message reference is when Exim sends a bounce message.  The message reference is the message-id of the original message for which Exim is sending the bounce.

       -oMr <protocol name>
                 See  -oMa  above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMr option sets the received protocol value that is stored in $received_protocol. However, it does not apply (and is ignored)
                 when -bh or -bs is used. For -bh, the protocol is forced to one of the standard SMTP protocol names. For -bs, the protocol is always "local-" followed by one of those  same  names.  For  -bS
                 (batched SMTP) however, the protocol can be set by -oMr. Repeated use of this option is not supported.

       -oMs <host name>
                 See -oMa above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMs option sets the sender host name in $sender_host_name. When this option is present, Exim does not attempt to look up a host
                 name from an IP address; it uses the name it is given.

       -oMt <ident string>
                 See -oMa above for general remarks about the -oM options. The -oMt option sets the sender ident value in $sender_ident. The default setting for local callers is the login id of  the  calling
                 process, except when -bh is used, when there is no default.

       -om       In  Sendmail,  this option means "me too", indicating that the sender of a message should receive a copy of the message if the sender appears in an alias expansion. Exim always does this, so
                 the option does nothing.

       -oo       This option is ignored. In Sendmail it specifies "old style headers", whatever that means.

       -oP <path>
                 This option is useful only in conjunction with -bd or -q with a time value. The option specifies the file to which the process id of the daemon is written. When -oX is used with -bd, or when
                 -q with a time is used without -bd, this is the only way of causing Exim to write a pid file, because in those cases, the normal pid file is not used.

       -oPX      This option is not intended for general use.  The daemon uses it when terminating due to a SIGTEM, possibly in combination with -oP <path>.  It causes the pid file to be removed.

       -or <time>
                 This option sets a timeout value for incoming non-SMTP messages. If it is not set, Exim will wait forever for the standard input. The value can also be set by the receive_timeout option.

       -os <time>
                 This  option  sets  a  timeout  value for incoming SMTP messages. The timeout applies to each SMTP command and block of data. The value can also be set by the smtp_receive_timeout option; it
                 defaults to 5 minutes.

       -ov       This option has exactly the same effect as -v.

       -oX <number or string>
                 This option is relevant only when the -bd (start listening daemon) option is also given. It controls which ports and interfaces the daemon uses. When -oX is used to start a  daemon,  no  pid
                 file is written unless -oP is also present to specify a pid filename.

       -pd       This  option  applies when an embedded Perl interpreter is linked with Exim. It overrides the setting of the perl_at_start option, forcing the starting of the interpreter to be delayed until
                 it is needed.

       -ps       This option applies when an embedded Perl interpreter is linked with Exim. It overrides the setting of the perl_at_start option, forcing the starting of the interpreter to occur as  soon  as
                 Exim is started.

       -p<rval>:<sval>
                 For compatibility with Sendmail, this option is equivalent to

                   -oMr <rval> -oMs <sval>

                 It  sets  the  incoming  protocol  and host name (for trusted callers). The host name and its colon can be omitted when only the protocol is to be set.  Note the Exim already has two private
                 options, -pd and -ps, that refer to embedded Perl. It is therefore impossible to set a protocol value of d or s using this option (but that does not seem a real limitation).  Repeated use of
                 this option is not supported.

       -q        This  option  is  normally  restricted to admin users. However, there is a configuration option called prod_requires_admin which can be set false to relax this restriction (and also the same
                 requirement for the -M, -R, and -S options).

                 If other commandline options do not specify an action, the -q option starts one queue runner process. This scans the queue of waiting messages, and runs a delivery process for  each  one  in
                 turn.  It  waits  for  each  delivery process to finish before starting the next one. A delivery process may not actually do any deliveries if the retry times for the addresses have not been
                 reached. Use -qf (see below) if you want to override this.

                 If the delivery process spawns other processes to deliver other messages down passed SMTP connections, the queue runner waits for these to finish before proceeding.

                 When all the queued messages have been considered, the original queue runner process terminates. In other words, a single pass is made over the waiting mail, one message at a  time.  Use  -q
                 with a time (see below) if you want this to be repeated periodically.

                 Exim  processes the waiting messages in an unpredictable order. It isn't very random, but it is likely to be different each time, which is all that matters.  If one particular message screws
                 up a remote MTA, other messages to the same MTA have a chance of getting through if they get tried first.

                 It is possible to cause the messages to be processed in lexical message id order, which is essentially the order in which they arrived, by setting the queue_run_in_order option, but this  is
                 not recommended for normal use.

       -q<qflags>
                 The  -q option may be followed by one or more flag letters that change its behaviour. They are all optional, but if more than one is present, they must appear in the correct order. Each flag
                 is described in a separate item below.

       -qq...    An option starting with -qq requests a two-stage queue run. In the first stage, the queue is scanned as if the queue_smtp_domains option matched every domain.  Addresses  are  routed,  local
                 deliveries happen, but no remote transports are run.  Performance will be best if the queue_run_in_order option is false.

                 The  hints  database  that remembers which messages are waiting for specific hosts is updated, as if delivery to those hosts had been deferred. After this is complete, a second, normal queue
                 scan happens, with routing and delivery taking place as normal. Messages that are routed to the same host should mostly be delivered down a single SMTP connection because of the  hints  that
                 were set up during the first queue scan.  This option may be useful for hosts that are connected to the Internet intermittently.

       -q[q]i... If  the  i flag is present, the queue runner runs delivery processes only for those messages that haven't previously been tried. (i stands for "initial delivery".) This can be helpful if you
                 are putting messages in the queue using -odq and want a queue runner just to process the new messages.

       -q[q][i]f...
                 If one f flag is present, a delivery attempt is forced for each non-frozen message, whereas without f only those non-frozen addresses that have passed their retry times are tried.

       -q[q][i]ff...
                 If ff is present, a delivery attempt is forced for every message, whether frozen or not.

       -q[q][i][f[f]]l
                 The l (the letter "ell") flag specifies that only local deliveries are to be done. If a message requires any remote deliveries, it remains in the queue for later delivery.

       -q[q][i][f[f]][l][G<name>[/<time>]]]
                 If the G flag and a name is present, the queue runner operates on the queue with the given name rather than the default queue.  The name should not contain a /  character.   For  a  periodic
                 queue run (see below) append to the name a slash and a time value.

                 If other commandline options specify an action, a -qG<name> option will specify a queue to operate on.  For example:

                   exim -bp -qGquarantine
                   mailq -qGquarantine
                   exim -qGoffpeak -Rf @special.domain.example

       -q<qflags> <start id> <end id>
                 When scanning the queue, Exim can be made to skip over messages whose ids are lexically less than a given value by following the -q option with a starting message id. For example:

                   exim -q 0t5C6f-0000c8-00

                 Messages  that  arrived earlier than 0t5C6f-0000c8-00 are not inspected. If a second message id is given, messages whose ids are lexically greater than it are also skipped. If the same id is
                 given twice, for example,

                   exim -q 0t5C6f-0000c8-00 0t5C6f-0000c8-00

                 just one delivery process is started, for that message. This differs from -M in that retry data is respected, and it also differs from -Mc in that it counts as a delivery from a  queue  run.
                 Note  that the selection mechanism does not affect the order in which the messages are scanned. There are also other ways of selecting specific sets of messages for delivery in a queue run -
                 see -R and -S.

       -q<qflags><time>
                 When a time value is present, the -q option causes Exim to run as a daemon, starting a queue runner process at intervals specified by the given time value. This form of the -q option is com‐
                 monly  combined  with the -bd option, in which case a single daemon process handles both functions. A common way of starting up a combined daemon at system boot time is to use a command such
                 as

                   /usr/exim/bin/exim -bd -q30m

                 Such a daemon listens for incoming SMTP calls, and also starts a queue runner process every 30 minutes.

                 When a daemon is started by -q with a time value, but without -bd, no pid file is written unless one is explicitly requested by the -oP option.

       -qR<rsflags> <string>
                 This option is synonymous with -R. It is provided for Sendmail compatibility.

       -qS<rsflags> <string>
                 This option is synonymous with -S.

       -R<rsflags> <string>
                 The <rsflags> may be empty, in which case the white space before the string is optional, unless the string is f, ff, r, rf, or rff, which are the possible values for <rsflags>.  White  space
                 is required if <rsflags> is not empty.

                 This  option  is similar to -q with no time value, that is, it causes Exim to perform a single queue run, except that, when scanning the messages on the queue, Exim processes only those that
                 have at least one undelivered recipient address containing the given string, which is checked in a case-independent way. If the <rsflags> start with r, <string> is interpreted as  a  regular
                 expression; otherwise it is a literal string.

                 If you want to do periodic queue runs for messages with specific recipients, you can combine -R with -q and a time value. For example:

                   exim -q25m -R @special.domain.example

                 This example does a queue run for messages with recipients in the given domain every 25 minutes. Any additional flags that are specified with -q are applied to each queue run.

                 Once a message is selected for delivery by this mechanism, all its addresses are processed. For the first selected message, Exim overrides any retry information and forces a delivery attempt
                 for each undelivered address. This means that if delivery of any address in the first message is successful, any existing retry information is deleted, and  so  delivery  attempts  for  that
                 address  in subsequently selected messages (which are processed without forcing) will run. However, if delivery of any address does not succeed, the retry information is updated, and in sub‐
                 sequently selected messages, the failing address will be skipped.

                 If the <rsflags> contain f or ff, the delivery forcing applies to all selected messages, not just the first; frozen messages are included when ff is present.

                 The -R option makes it straightforward to initiate delivery of all messages to a given domain after a host has been down for some time. When the SMTP command ETRN is accepted by its ACL, its
                 default effect is to run Exim with the -R option, but it can be configured to run an arbitrary command instead.

       -r        This is a documented (for Sendmail) obsolete alternative name for -f.

       -S<rsflags> <string>
                 This  option acts like -R except that it checks the string against each message's sender instead of against the recipients. If -R is also set, both conditions must be met for a message to be
                 selected. If either of the options has f or ff in its flags, the associated action is taken.

       -Tqt <times>
                 This is an option that is exclusively for use by the Exim testing suite. It is not recognized when Exim is run normally. It allows for the setting up of explicit "queue times" so that  vari‐
                 ous warning/retry features can be tested.

       -t        When Exim is receiving a locally-generated, non-SMTP message on its standard input, the -t option causes the recipients of the message to be obtained from the To:, Cc:, and Bcc: header lines
                 in the message instead of from the command arguments. The addresses are extracted before any rewriting takes place and the Bcc: header line, if present, is then removed.

                 If the command has any arguments, they specify addresses to which the message is not to be delivered. That is, the argument addresses are removed from the recipients list obtained  from  the
                 headers.  This  is  compatible  with Smail 3 and in accordance with the documented behaviour of several versions of Sendmail, as described in man pages on a number of operating systems (e.g.
                 Solaris 8, IRIX 6.5, HP-UX 11). However, some versions of Sendmail add argument addresses to those obtained from the headers, and the O'Reilly Sendmail book documents it that way.  Exim  can
                 be made to add argument addresses instead of subtracting them by setting the option extract_addresses_remove_arguments false.

                 If  there  are any Resent- header lines in the message, Exim extracts recipients from all Resent-To:, Resent-Cc:, and Resent-Bcc: header lines instead of from To:, Cc:, and Bcc:. This is for
                 compatibility with Sendmail and other MTAs. (Prior to release 4.20, Exim gave an error if -t was used in conjunction with Resent- header lines.)

                 RFC 2822 talks about different sets of Resent- header lines (for when a message is resent several times). The RFC also specifies that they should be added at the front of  the  message,  and
                 separated  by  Received: lines. It is not at all clear how -t should operate in the present of multiple sets, nor indeed exactly what constitutes a "set".  In practice, it seems that MUAs do
                 not follow the RFC. The Resent- lines are often added at the end of the header, and if a message is resent more than once, it is common for the original set of Resent- headers to be  renamed
                 as X-Resent- when a new set is added. This removes any possible ambiguity.

       -ti       This option is exactly equivalent to -t -i. It is provided for compatibility with Sendmail.

       -tls-on-connect
                 This option is available when Exim is compiled with TLS support. It forces all incoming SMTP connections to behave as if the incoming port is listed in the tls_on_connect_ports option.

       -U        Sendmail uses this option for "initial message submission", and its documentation states that in future releases, it may complain about syntactically invalid messages rather than fixing them
                 when this flag is not set. Exim ignores this option.

       -v        This option causes Exim to write information to the standard error stream, describing what it is doing. In particular, it shows the log lines for receiving and delivering a message,  and  if
                 an  SMTP  connection is made, the SMTP dialogue is shown. Some of the log lines shown may not actually be written to the log if the setting of log_selector discards them. Any relevant selec‐
                 tors are shown with each log line. If none are shown, the logging is unconditional.

       -x        AIX uses -x for a private purpose ("mail from a local mail program has National Language Support extended characters in the body of the mail item").  It sets -x when calling the MTA from its
                 mail command. Exim ignores this option.

       -X <logfile>
                 This option is interpreted by Sendmail to cause debug information to be sent to the named file.  It is ignored by Exim.

       -z <log-line>
                 This option writes its argument to Exim's logfile.  Use is restricted to administrators; the intent is for operational notes.  Quotes should be used to maintain a multi-word item as a single
                 argument, under most shells.

SEE ALSO

       The full Exim specification, the Exim book, and the Exim wiki.

                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIM(8)
