external-cryptobone-admin(8)                      external-cryptobone-admin(8)

NAME
       external-cryptobone-admin  - Administration tool for an external Crypto
       Bone device to store message keys

SYNOPSIS
       /usr/bin/external-cryptobone-admin

DESCRIPTION
       The program cryptobone is the graphical user  interface  for  a  secure
       messaging system that makes sure a user's email is always encrypted. In
       its default mode the cryptobone program uses an encrypted data base  of
       keys  that  are  stored on the same machine (ALL-IN-ONE mode).  The GUI
       has access to these message encryption keys via the  cryptobone  daemon
       running on the same machine.

       Additional  protection  of  the message keys can be achieved by using a
       second, external device for storing the encryption keys,  the  external
       Crypto  Bone.  This external device can be another Linux computer dedi‐
       cated to this task or a Beagle Bone or a Raspberry Pi.

       The program external-cryptobone-admin is used  for  all  administrative
       tasks to turn a Linux computer into an external Crypto Bone that can be
       used from a different machine with the cryptobone GUI.  While both com‐
       ponents,  the  ALL-IN-ONE  Crypto Bone and the EXTERNAL Crypto Bone are
       distributed in the same package, they are designed to run on  different
       computer  systems. When only one computer system is used for the Crypto
       Bone, using the ALL-IN-ONE version is recommended, because it  communi‐
       cates directly to the cryptobone daemon via a UNIX socket.

       After installation the external Crypto Bone is not enabled.

       When  the external Crypto Bone is enabled through the program external-
       cryptobone-admin, the system will create three secrets that need to  be
       transferred  to the Linux computer on which the cryptobone GUI is used.
       After enabling the external Crypto Bone,  the  system  tries  to  write
       these  secrets  to a mounted disk partition with the "BOOT" label, so a
       USB memory key with a file system, labeled "BOOT", must be inserted  in
       the  computer  when  the  daemon  is enabled. Use this USB partition to
       transfer the secrets manually to the main computer where  you  run  the
       cryptobone GUI.

       When  the  system hosting the external Crypto Bone boots a second time,
       the secrets are reliably destroyed on this system. In normal  operation
       the  master  key used to decrypt the message key data base must be pro‐
       vided from outside the system via the encrypted ssh link  to  the  main
       machine.

       The  administration  tool  also allows to replace the standard firewall
       daemon with a more restrictive firewall configuration that isolates the
       machine  on which the external Crypto Bone is running as much as possi‐
       ble.

       In additon to that the secure shell daemon can be hardened to  disallow
       password  login  and  root  login via port 22. The external Crypto Bone
       will be contacted via ssh  using  the  RSA  public  key  authentication
       method  only. The necessary RSA private key is one of the three secrets
       and must be transferred to the main Linux computer via USB.

       Note, that enabling the restrictive firewall and hardening sshd,  would
       impede  the use as a general-purpose computer, but that is exactly what
       is intended, when a system is used  as  an  isolated,  external  Crypto
       Bone.

       Finally,  the  external Crypto Bone can be reset, in which case the en‐
       crypted data base and all access information  for  the  ssh  tunnel  is
       lost.  Be  extra careful when using this reset button, because this op‐
       tion is for the unlikely event that you willfully want to  destroy  all
       external Crypto Bone data to re-start pristinely .

OPTIONS
       none

FILES
       /usr/bin/external-cryptobone-admin

SEE ALSO
       libclr(3), cryptoboned(8), cryptobone(8)

AUTHORS
       cryptobone has been written by Ralf Senderek <innovation@senderek.ie>.
       The core cryptographic library libclr.so which is used by the cryptobone daemon
       has been written by Peter Gutmann <pgut001@cs.auckland.ac.nz>.

BUGS
       Of course there aren't bugs, but if you find any, please sent them to innovation@senderek.ie.

Ralf Senderek                                     external-cryptobone-admin(8)
