
FA2DNA(1)                                                                                         User Manuals                                                                                        FA2DNA(1)

NAME
       fa2dna - format fasta database for use with ANFO

SYNOPSIS
       fa2dna [ option | file ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       fa2dna  reads  one or more files in fasta format and reformats them into a database suitable for anfo(1).  The input file(s) can contain more than one sequence, and each sequence can be broken up into
       multiple contigs by a stretch of Ns.  All IUPAC ambiguity codes are fully supported.

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -o file, --output file
              Write output to file.file should end in .dna, because anfo and some downstream tools might stumble over a different extension.  Default is the genome name with the .dna extension.

       -m N, --maxn N
              Sets the maximum number of Ns to be interpreted as IUPAC ambiguity codes to N; any longer stretch is interpreted as separing contigs.  Default is 2.

       -g name, --genome name
              Sets the genome name to name.  This name is stored in the output file and will be used by anfo to identify the matched genome in its output.  The genome should be a prefix of  the  output  file
              name to allow downstream tools to find it.  The name should be short, but unique, something like "hg18" or "pt2" for human or chimpanzee genomes would work fine.

       -d text, --description text
              Adds text as description to the metadata.  This is purely informational.

       -v, --verbose
              Causes a progress indicator to be printed.

FILES
       /etc/popt
              The system wide configuration file for popt(3).  fa2dna identifies itself as "fa2dna" to popt.

       ~/.popt
              Per user configuration file for popt(3).

BUGS
       None known.

AUTHOR
       Udo Stenzel <udo_stenzel@eva.mpg.de>

SEE ALSO
       anfo(1), fa2dna(1) popt(3), fasta(5)

Applications                                                                                      OCTOBER 2009                                                                                        FA2DNA(1)
