FAKENECT-RECORD(1)            libfreenect manual            FAKENECT-RECORD(1)

NAME
       fakenect-record - program to save dumps from kinect to file

SYNOPSIS
       fakenect-record [-h] [-ffmpeg] [-ffmpeg-opts options] outputdir

DESCRIPTION
       fakenect-record dumps the output of the kinect in outputdir folder. It
       saves the acceleration, depth, and rgb data as individual files with
       names in the form "TYPE-CURRENTIME-TIMESTAMP" where:

        * TYPE is either (a)ccel, (d)epth, or (r)gb

        * TIMESTAMP corresponds to the timestamp associated with the
          observation (or in the case of accel, the last timestamp seen)

        * CURRENTTIME corresponds to a floating point version of the time in
          seconds.

       The purpose of storing the current time is so that delays can be
       recreated exactly as they occurred.  For RGB and DEPTH the dump is just
       the entirety of the data provided in PPM and PGM formats respectively
       (just a 1 line header above the raw dump).  For ACCEL, the dump is the
       "freenect_raw_tilt_state".  Only the front part of the file name is
       used, with the rest left undefined (extension, extra info, etc).

       A file called INDEX.txt is also output with all of the filenames local
       to that directory to simplify the format (e.g., no need to read the
       directory structure).

       Once started, the program will continue to acquire data from the
       kinect.  When you want to stop it, hit Ctrl-C and the signal will be
       caught, runloop stopped, and everything will be stored cleanly.

OPTIONS
       -ffmpeg
              If present, send the the video stream to ffmpeg

       -ffmpeg-opts options
              When using ffmpeg, specify the options to be used with it. If
              unspecified, it will use the options "-aspect 4:3 -r 20 -vcodec
              msmpeg4 -b 30000k"

       -h     Display the command-line help

SEE ALSO
       fakenect(1)

libfreenect                       2012-01-29                FAKENECT-RECORD(1)
