falconeer.fal(1)              Falcon User Manuals             falconeer.fal(1)

NAME
       falconeer.fal - Falcon skeleton module startup configurator script

SYNOPSIS
       falconeer.fal -n moduleName [options]

DESCRIPTION
       The  falconeer.fal  script configures a directory containing the Falcon
       Skeleton Module so that it becomes ready for compilation under all  the
       systems supported by Falcon.

       Although not mandatory, a developer willing to write native modules for
       Falcon may use this facility to speed up the startup  phase  and  begin
       with an already compilable module.

       The configuration consists in the renaming of the module files into the
       module name specified in the command line, and in  the  update  of  the
       makefiles  and project files provided for the various development plat‐
       form Falcon can be built on.

       Other than the project name, the script allows to configure  other  op‐
       tions, that will affect the template variables that will be substituted
       in the modified files.

       Once configured and built,  the  skeleton  module  provides  already  a
       skeleton()  symbol  that  is exported to the VM, and a service that ex‐
       ports that function (defined in the fskelmod_mod.cpp file) to  C++  ap‐
       plications.

OPTIONS
       -a <author>
              Specifies the author name.

       -c "<copyright owner>"
              Indicates  the copyright owner, if different from the author, to
              be set on the copyright line, right beside the copyright year.

       -d <Description>
              Sets a brief description of the project.

       -l <File>
              Loads a license plate (a long statement indicating  the  license
              under  which the files are distributed) from a template file. If
              not given, the standard FPLL license plate  is  applied  to  the
              generated files.

       -n <name>
              Sets  the (short) name of the project. Files will be renamed ac‐
              cordingly to this value, and also the final module name will  be
              configured using this setting.

       -p <name>
              Sets  the  main  project  hood  under which the file is created.
              Usually, modules are part of wider projects, or can be  distrib‐
              uted  as sets. If not set, the text "The Falcon Programming Lan‐
              guage" will be used instead.

BUGS
       The file version.h cannot currently be properly configured. Edit it  by
       hand.

NOTES
       On some systems, falconeer.fal script can be "proxied" with a falconeer
       pseudo command (shell script, batch file and so on).

AUTHOR
       Giancarlo Niccolai <gc@falconpl.org>

SEE ALSO
       falcon(1)

LICENSE
       This document is released under the "GNU  Free  Documentation  License,
       version  1.2".   On Debian systems, the complete text of the Free Docu‐
       mentation License, version 1.2, can be found  in  /usr/share/common-li‐
       censes/.

Falcon toolset                     July 2007                  falconeer.fal(1)
