falpack(1)                    Falcon User Manuals                   falpack(1)

NAME
       falpack - The falcon application packaging tool

SYNOPSIS
       falpak [options] main_script

DESCRIPTION
       The  falpack  command  line  tool  is meant to copy all the modules and
       other dependencies needed for a standalone falcon  application  to  run
       into  a target directory. Falpack can copy also the system files needed
       to run the application, making the  final  application  totally  stand-
       alone,  or just store the needed modules so that a local falcon instal‐
       lation can be used to run the application.

       falpack searches for special attributes in the parsed modules to  store
       resources  data  files that an application may require.  It copies also
       needed internationalization translation tables, and eventually compiles
       sources  into  binary .fam modules. It can also remove sources from the
       final installation, so  that  pre-compiled  applications  only  can  be
       shipped.  Finally,  it creates a script that can be used to run the ap‐
       plication with a "single click" operation on the host platform.

       System relevant modules (as i.e. feathers or system-wide installed mod‐
       ules) are also stored together with the application.

       Anyhow, installation of falcon system files (which include feather mod‐
       ules) is optional.

       System files are copied into a fake root subdirectory (normally  called
       _system  ).  All  the modules not lying under the same directory of the
       application "main script" or in deeper trees, are  considered  "system-
       wide"  installed, and it is supposed that the script access them via -L
       option or via FALCON_LOAD_PATH  environment  variable.  They  are  then
       stored  in  the  system directory and a directory tree is re-created so
       that the simple addition of the fake root to the load path (i.e.  "fal‐
       con -L _system") is enough to access all of them.

       This  method  allows  the application to access modules by logical name
       and by filename, as the filename is made relative  to  the  load  path.
       However,  modules loaded with absolute filenames must be separately in‐
       stalled on the target system so that their  position  matches  the  re‐
       quired absolute path.

OPTIONS
       -b <module>
              Blacklists this module (by module name). Using this option it is
              possible to prevent default action on  the  given  module  (copy
              into the application tree or the fake root tree). It is possible
              to specify more blacklisted modules repeating this option.

       --bin <dir>
              Specify directory where falcon binary resides. Useful if falpack
              is  required to read an interpreter from a non-default installa‐
              tion, or if it can't find it.  NOTE: falpack uses  falcon  build
              environment  settings.  If  used under the build environment, it
              will copy files from the active build tree ignoring system  wide
              installations.

       -e <enc>
              Source  files encoding. In case the source file text encoding is
              different from the system default encoding,  the  module  loader
              may  detect  syntax errors or fail to load the sources; also, if
              .fam generation is required, the  strings  in  the  pre-compiled
              modules.

       -h     Usage help. A short in-line summary of options.

       --lib <dir>
              Specify  directory  where falcon engine dynamic link library re‐
              sides. Useful if falpack is required to read an interpreter from
              a  non-default installation, or if it can't find it.  NOTE: fal‐
              pack uses falcon build environment settings. If used  under  the
              build environment, it will copy files from the active build tree
              ignoring system wide installations.

       -L <dir>
              Redefine FALCON_LOAD_PATH. In case the main module needs a  spe‐
              cial load path which is not the system default or the one stored
              in the FALCON_LOAD_PATH environment variable. Notice  that  this
              setting  overwrites  system  and  environment variable settings.
              Also, notice that this load path is intended for  local  loading
              and compiling of the modules in the application; the modules are
              then arranged so that this setting is not needed  in  the  final
              application.

       -M     Pack also pre-compiled modules. If given, this option will cause
              .fam modules to be stored beside their  source  files  (.fal  or
              .ftd). It is incompatible with the -s option.

       -P <dir>
              Save  the  package in this directory. By default, the package is
              stored in a directory with the same name of the main module (its
              extension stripped), under the current work directory.  This op‐
              tion overrides the default and allows to store the package at an
              arbitrary location.

       -r <name>
              Install  <name>  instead  of  "falcon" as interpreter. Useful in
              case only pre-compiled modules are packaged, where falrun may be
              employed,  or  in  case  of  special system-specific interpreter
              build, as with sdl_falcon  MacOSX  framework  compatible  inter‐
              preter.

       -R <dir>
              Change fake root for system data into <dir>. If the default name
              for storage of system specific apparels (as binary modules, fal‐
              con  engine  library etc.), which is "_system", is not satisfac‐
              tory, it can be overridden through this option.

       -s     Strip sources. Using this option, source falcon  files  are  not
              copied  in the package; only the pre-compiled bytecode .fam mod‐
              ules are stored.

       -S     Do not store system files. Prevent copying of the falcon  inter‐
              preter, falcon engine dynamic library and feather modules.

       -v     Prints version and exit.

       -V     Verbose mode. Prints verbose messages of what falpack is doing.

SPECIAL ATTRIBUTES
       falpack  automatically packages needed ancillary files required by mod‐
       ules, as the translation table files (.ftr). However, the  modules  may
       specify  other files to be included through a set of special attributes
       which are interpreted by falpack as it loads and analyzes them.

       resources
              This attribute can indicate a list of resources that  should  be
              copied  together  with  the module.  The attribute needs to be a
              string, and different resources can be separated through a  semi
              comma  (;).  It is possible also to specify file masks using the
              "*.ext" pattern; whole subdirectories can be  stored  using  the
              "dir/*" pattern. Please, notice that this attribute doesn't work
              recursively; to include sub-directories in resource directories,
              specify all of them. For example:

                  resources: "images/*; images/icons/*"

       plugins
              Similar  to the resources attribute, the plugins attribute indi‐
              cates a single module or a  directory  containing  more  modules
              that may be used by the applications as dynamic plugins. Differ‐
              ently from the data considered in the resources  attribute,  the
              files  indicated  in  the  plugins  attribute  are loaded by the
              loader, and their dependencies, if any, are further resolved and
              become part of the installed application. Also, they are treated
              as any other module  in  any  respect;  for  example  associated
              translation files are copied, and in case falpack is required to
              strip sources, only the pre-compiled fam modules will be saved.

              It is possible to store all the modules found in a  certain  di‐
              rectory using the "*" wildcard.

              Similarly  to  the  resources  attribute,  the  plugin attribute
              doesn't descend recursively in sub-directories; to include other
              modules  laying  below the required directory, that subdirectory
              must be explicitly specified, as in this example:

                  plugins: "output/*; output/helpers/*"

       dynlib
              This attribute stores one or more system dynamic library  needed
              for  the falcon module to run. Depending on the host system, the
              target location may be in the fake root directory or besides the
              module  (depending on how the system module loader tries to find
              the modules). More dependencies may be  separated  with  a  semi
              comma (;).

BUGS
       Relative  paths  are not jailed; if the resource attribute or the rela‐
       tive path of a loaded module indicates a position above the main script
       directory  or above any position in the FALCON_LOAD_PATH specification,
       the files may be copied outside the target package location. Be careful
       when writing the application you want to package so that all the needed
       files can be reached at the same level or below the main script, or  at
       the same level or below directories in the load path.

       At  the  moment,  it's  quite complex to create cross platform packages
       (except for script-only applications which use local  falcon  installa‐
       tion  to  run). It is planned to provide this support in future via the
       ability to download pre-compiled modules from a central repository.

       In this version, dynlib attribute  is  not  working  for  MacOSX  style
       framework libraries. However, it will work for MacOSX dylib that can be
       found via the ldd command.

AUTHOR
       Giancarlo Niccolai <gc@falconpl.org>

SEE ALSO
       falcon(1) falrun(1)

LICENSE
       This document is released under the "GNU  Free  Documentation  License,
       version  1.2".   On Debian systems, the complete text of the Free Docu‐
       mentation License, version 1.2, can be found  in  /usr/share/common-li‐
       censes/.

Falcon toolset                   January 2010                       falpack(1)
