FATATTR(1)                                                                                     H. Peter Anvin                                                                                    FATATTR(1)

NAME
       fatattr - Display or change attributes on a FAT filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       fatattr [+-rhsvda67] files...

DESCRIPTION
       fatattr displays or changes attributes on an MS-DOS FAT filesystem.  If only a list of files (or directories) are given, it displays the attributes for those files or directories.  If given a list
       of attributes, it will add (+) or remove (-) the specified attributes from the given list of files or directories.

       The attributes are:

       r      File or directory is readonly.

       h      File or directory is hidden.

       s      File or directory is used by the system in a nonstandard way.  Standard defragmentation software will avoid this file.  Microsoft operating systems will treat any file or directory with the
              system attribute as hidden, even if the hidden bit is not set.

       v      Entry is a volume label.  This bit cannot be changed.

       d      Entry is a directory.  This bit cannot be changed.

       a      File has been changed.  This bit is set any time a file (but not a directory) is changed, and is typically cleared by backup software.

       6, 7   Unused attributes, set to zero when the file is created and otherwise unchanged.

BUGS
       Requires Linux kernel version 2.6.11 or later.

AUTHOR
       Written by H. Peter Anvin <hpa@zytor.com>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005 H. Peter Anvin.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       chmod(1), chattr(1)

fatattr                                                                                        3 January 2005                                                                                    FATATTR(1)
