FAXQ(8)                                                                                     System Manager's Manual                                                                                     FAXQ(8)

NAME
       faxq - HylaFAX queue manager process

SYNOPSIS
       /usr/sbin/faxq [ -D ] [ -q queue-dir ]

DESCRIPTION
       faxq  is  the  central  queueing agent for HylaFAX.  One (and only one) faxq process is normally running at all times.  faxq is responsible for scheduling, preparing, and initiating outbound facsimile
       jobs (and potentially other types of jobs as well).

       faxq may be run by itself to provide outbound-only services or it may be run together with one or more faxgetty(8) processes, in which case inbound services (e.g. receiving  facsimile)  are  provided.
       When  faxq  is  run by itself the set of available modems must be specified using the faxmodem(8) command.  Each modem specified in this way is assumed to exist and to be capable of use as a facsimile
       modem.  When faxq is run in conjunction with faxgetty processes, it is not necessary to use faxmodem to specify modems; instead the programs communicate information about the status  and  capabilities
       of each modem.  The latter setup provides a more robust and powerful system and is the intended way for the software to operate.

       faxq receives notification of outbound jobs to process from the hfaxd(8) process that implements the server-side of the HylaFAX client-server protocol.  Notification is through messages sent to a FIFO
       special file that faxq listens to.  This file is also used by other administrative programs such as faxquit(8).

       Many aspects of faxq operation may be controlled through a configuration file.  This file is located in the spooler hierarchy in the etc subdirectory and is named config (as opposed to  the  per-modem
       configuration  files  named  config.devid);  consult hylafax-config(5) for detailed information on this configuration file.  Note that faxq automatically re-reads its configuration file if it has been
       changed.  It is also possible to dynamically change configuration parameters in a running process with the faxconfig(8) program.  Beware however that parameters changed in this way will  be  reset  to
       the values specified in the configuration file if the file is re-read.

OPTIONS
       -q dir    The specified directory is treated as the spooling area.  The default spooling area, /var/spool/hylafax, is defined at the time the software is built.

       -D        This  option  forces  faxq to remain attached to the controlling tty from which it was invoked.  In normal operation faxq will fork(2) and disassociate itself from the controlling tty.  This
                 option is useful for debugging.

FILES
       /var/spool/hylafax/FIFO          FIFO special file for submitting commands
       /var/spool/hylafax/etc/config    configuration file

       Consult hylafax-server(5) for a complete discussion of the structure and content of the spooling area.

SEE ALSO
       faxabort(8), faxconfig(8), faxmodem(8), faxquit(8), faxstate(8), getty(8), hylafax-server(5), hylafax-config(5).

                                                                                                October 27, 1995                                                                                        FAXQ(8)
