FBI(1)                                                                                 Linux framebuffer imageviewer                                                                                 FBI(1)

NAME
       fbi - Linux framebuffer imageviewer

SYNOPSIS
       fbi [options] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       Fbi displays the specified file(s) on the linux console using the framebuffer device. PhotoCD, jpeg, ppm, gif, tiff, xpm, xwd, bmp, png and webp formats are supported natively. For other fbi tries
       to use ImageMagick(1)'s convert(1).

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Print usage info.

       -V, --version
              Print fbi version number.

       --store
              Write command line arguments to config file ~/.fbirc.

       -l file, --list file
              Read image filelist from file.

       -P, --text
              Enable  textreading mode. In this mode fbi will display large images without vertical offset (default is to center the images). The SPACE command will first try to scroll down and go to the
              next image only if it is already on the bottom of the page. Useful if the images you are watching are text pages, all you have to do to get the next piece of text is to press space...

       -a, --autozoom
              Enable autozoom.  Fbi will automagically pick a reasonable zoom factor when loading a new image.

       --(no)autoup
              Like autozoom, but scale up only.

       --(no)autodown
              Like autozoom, but scale down only.

       --(no)fitwidth
              Use width only for autoscaling.

       -v, --(no)verbose
              Be verbose: enable status line on the bottom of the screen (enabled by default).

       -u, --(no)random
              Randomize the order of the filenames.

       --(no)comments
              Display comment tags (if present) instead of the filename. Probably only useful if you added reasonable comments yourself (using wrjpgcom(1) for example), otherwise  you  likely  just  find
              texts pointing to the software which created the image.

       -e, --(no)edit
              Enable editing commands.

       --(no)backup
              Create backup files (when editing images).

       -p, --(no)preserve
              Preserve timestamps (when editing images).

       --(no)readahead
              Read ahead images into cache.

       --cachemem size
              Image cache size in megabytes (default is 256).

       --blend time
              Image blend time in milliseconds.

       -T n, --vt n
              Start on virtual console n.

       -s steps, --scroll steps
              Set scroll steps in pixels (default is 50).

       -t sec, --timeout sec
              Start a continuous slideshow where each image is loaded at sec second intervals without any keypress.

       -1, --(no)once
              Don't loop (only use with -t).

       -r n, --resolution n
              Select resolution, n = 1..5 (default is 3, only PhotoCD).

       -g n, --gamma n
              Gamma correction. Requires Pseudocolor or Directcolor visual, doesn't work for Truecolor (default is 1).

       -f <arg>, --font <arg>
              Set  font.  This  <arg> can be anything fontconfig accepts (see fonts-conf(5)).  Try fc-list(1) for a list of known fonts on your system. The fontconfig config file is evaluated as well, so
              any generic stuff defined there (such as mono, sans) will work as well. It is recommended to use monospaced fonts, the textboxes (help text, exif info) look better then.

       -d /dev/fbN, --device /dev/fbN
              Use /dev/fbN device framebuffer. Default is the one your virtual console is mapped to.

       -m videomode, --mode videomode
              Name of the video mode to use (video mode must be listed in /etc/fb.modes). Default is not to change the video mode.

       --(no)interactive
              Allow interactively controlling the program from the keyboard. This requires that stdin is a TTY. Default is to allow interactive control.

ENVIRONMENT
       Fbi uses the following environment variables:

       FBGAMMA
              This variable may be used to specify a default gamma correction.

COMMAND USAGE
       The commands take effect immediately; it is not necessary to type a carriage return.

       In the following commands, i is a numerical argument.

   Scrolling
       LEFT_ARROW, RIGHT_ARROW, UP_ARROW, DOWN_ARROW
              Scroll large images.

       PREV_SCREEN, k
              Previous image.

       NEXT_SCREEN, SPACE, j
              Next image.

       ig     Jump to image #i.

       RETURN Write the filename of the current image to stdout(3), then go to the next image.

       The RETURN vs. SPACE key thing can be used to create a file list while reviewing the images and use the list for batch processing later on:

           fbi file1.gif file2.jpg file3.jpg > fileimagelist.lst

           some RETURN and SPACE...

           fbi -l fileimagelist.lst

   Zoom
       a      Autozoom.

       +      In.

       -      Out.

       is     Set zoom to i%.

   Other
       ESQ, q Quit.

       v      Toggle status line.

       h      Display textbox with brief help.

       i      Display textbox with some EXIF info.

       p      Pause the slideshow (if started with -t, toggle).

   Edit mode
       Fbi also provides some very basic image editing facilities. You have to start fbi with the -e switch to use them.

       D, Shift+d
              Delete image.

       r      Rotate 90 degrees clockwise.

       l      Rotate 90 degrees counter-clock wise.

       x      Mirror image vertically (top / bottom).

       y      Mirror image horizontally (left to right).

       The delete function actually wants a capital letter D, thus you have to type Shift+d. This is done to avoid deleting images by mistake because there are no safety bells: If you ask fbi  to  delete
       the image, it will be deleted without questions asked.

       The rotate function actually works for JPEG images only. It does a lossless transformation of the image.

BUGS
       Fbi  needs  rw access to the framebuffer devices (/dev/fbN), i.e you (our your admin) have to make sure fbi can open the devices in rw mode. The IMHO most elegant way is to use PAM(7) to chown the
       devices to the user logged in on the console. Another way is to create some group, chown the special files to that group and put the users which are allowed to use the framebuffer device into  the
       group. You can also make the special files world writable, but be aware of the security implications this has. On a private box it might be fine to handle it this way though.

       Fbi  also  needs  access  to the linux console (/dev/ttyN) for sane console switch handling. That is obviously no problem for console logins, but any kind of a pseudo tty (xterm, ssh, screen, ...)
       will not work.

SEE ALSO
       convert(1), fbset(1), fc-list(1), imagemagick(1), wrjpgcom(1), fonts-conf(5), PAM(7)

AUTHOR
       Gerd Hoffmann <gerd@kraxel.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1999-2012 Gerd Hoffmann <gerd@kraxel.org>

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the  Li‐
       cense, or (at your option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Gen‐
       eral Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

FBI 2.09                                                                                (c) 1998-2012 Gerd Hoffmann                                                                                  FBI(1)
