FCHECK(8)                                                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                           FCHECK(8)

NAME
       fcheck - IDS filesystem baseline integrity checker

SYNOPSIS
       fcheck [OPTIONS]

OPTIONS
       The options to fcheck are defined below:

       -a  Automatic mode, do all directories in configuration file.

       -c  Create a new base line database for the given directory.

       -d  Directory names are to be monitored for changes also.

       -f filename
           Use alternate 'filename' as the configuration file.

       -i  Ignore creation times, check permissions, adds, deletes only.

       -h  Append the $HOSTNAME to the configuration filename.

       -l  Log information to logger rather than stdout messages.

       -r  Report mode, great for emailed status reports.

       -s  Sign each file with a CRC/hash signature.

       -v  Verbose mode, not used for report generation.

       -x  eXtended unix checks, # of links, UID, GID, Major/Minor checks.

DESCRIPTION
   Overview
       The fcheck utility is an IDS (Intrusion Detection System) which can be used to monitor changes to any given filesystem.

       Essentially,  fcheck has the ability to monitor directories, files or complete filesystems for any additions, deletions, and modifications.  It is configurable to exclude active log files, and can
       be ran as often as needed from the command line or cron making it extremely difficult to circumvent.

   Operation and Getting Started
       Flag passing is a fairly simple process. Primarily you will be using two commands. One builds (or rebuilds) your baseline  database  files  (system  snapshots).  The  second  runs  in  a  scanning
       comparison mode.

       "fcheck -ac"

       Builds the baseline database.

       "fcheck -a"

       Comparison scans the system against the baseline database.

       For  normal  operation:  Initially  you will run fcheck by issuing the command "fcheck -ac" to create the initial baseline file used for comparison. Any runs after the creation of the basline will
       normally be with the following flags "fcheck "-a"" to scan for any system modifications.

       After a scan is completed, you will probably want to have fcheck re-create its baseline database for the next comparison cycle. Otherwise you will be seeing every  system  modification  since  the
       last baseline re-build. In other words, run the "fcheck -ac" command again.

       (Advanced Note:) A more intensive system check would be accomplished by building your database to include GID/UID checks, directories, and CRC checks by using the following sample syntax:

         "fcheck -cadsxlf /etc/fcheck/fcheck.cfg"

       And provide periodic integrity scans from cron by using the following sample syntax:

         "fcheck -adsxlf /etc/fcheck/fcheck.cfg"

AUTHOR
       Author: Copyright (C) 1996 Michael A. Gumienny <gumienny@hotmail.com>

       Debianized by: Graham Simpson <gsi@eggconnect.net>

SEE ALSO
       Please also refer to the excellent README and INSTALL instructions provided with the package /usr/share/doc/fcheck.

perl v5.38.2                                                                                     2024-06-05                                                                                       FCHECK(8)
