DETOK(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  DETOK(1)

NAME
       detok - OpenBIOS detokenizer

SYNOPSIS
       detok [options] forth-file

DESCRIPTION
       detok is an open-source FCode detokenizer for the OpenBIOS project. It performs the reverse function, that is, it converts binary FCode into a form that can be read for purposes of verification.

OPTIONS
       -h, -? Print a brief help message and then exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Print additional messages: the hex value of each token processed, as well as a signature block.

       -o     Display the positions of the tokens relative to the start of the first FCode block after a PCI header (if one is present), and the destination-offset of each branch.
              Note that the combination of the Verbose and Offsets options yields the maximum amount of useful information.

       -n     Display the sequential number of each line of output.
              Note that the -n and -o options are mutually exclusive; if both are specified, -o will be favoured.

       -a     Do  not  stop  when  end0  has  been  encountered. This option is usually not needed, but may be useful in cases where a file has been corrupted or when something very strange has been tok‐
              enized...

       -f FCode-List-File
              Pre-load additional FCodes before processing. These might be, for instance, a set of vendor-specific FCodes that were generated for a specific vendor's products by  a  tokenizer  customized
              for that specific vendor.

SEE ALSO
       toke(1).

AUTHORS
       David L. Paktor <dlpaktor@us.ibm.com>

       This manual page was written by Aurelien Jarno <aurel32@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

                                                                                                May 15, 2007                                                                                       DETOK(1)
