Feather Wallet(1)                                                 Feather Wallet User Manuel                                                Feather Wallet(1)

NAME
       feather - a light-weight Monero GUI desktop wallet

SYNOPSIS
       feather [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Feather  is  a Monero desktop wallet written in C++ with the Qt framework. As contrasted with a typical Monero wallet, Feather does not need to have a
       copy of the entire Monero blockchain installed locally, which requires a lot of space, but rather connects to an on-line node of servers  and  queries
       their copy of the blockchain. This makes Feather small and fast. Feather is beginner friendly, but also caters to advanced Monero users by providing a
       feature  set  that  is on par with the official CLI. It ships with sane defaults that suit most users, but can also be configured for high or uncommon
       threat models.

       Monero (XMR) is an open-source cryptocurrency that focuses on privacy and decentralization. It aims to improve on existing  cryptocurrency  design  by
       obscuring sender, recipient and amount of every transaction.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Displays a list of the command line options.

       --help-all
              Displays all the help entries, including generic Qt options.

       -v, --version
              Displays version information.

       --use-local-tor
              Uses  the  system  wide installation of Tor instead of the version bundled with the feather binary.  This is the default (and only) behavior in
              the Debian package, as Tor is not compiled into the feather binary, but is enabled by installing the recommended tor package.

       --quiet
              Limits console output.

       --stagenet
              Use Stagenet, which is for development purposes only.

       --testnet
              Uses Testnet, which is for development purposes only.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for using Feather Wallet is available by pressing F1 inside of the GUI.

version 2.7.0                                                          11 November 2024                                                     Feather Wallet(1)
