FERROR(1)                            Frysk                           FERROR(1)

NAME
       ferror - print a stack trace when the given message is printed by the
       traced program

SYNOPSIS
       ferror [options] {program arg ...  | pid...}

DESCRIPTION
       ferror monitors the processes write system call for the specified
       MESSAGE, printing a stack trace of the process at the point of the
       write.

   Stack Print Options
       -number-of-frames count
           Limit the back-trace to count frames. The default is to limit the
           back-trace to 10 frames. Specify 0 or "all" to print all frames.

       -lite
           Perform a light-weight stack backtrace containing only minimal
           information. Equivalent to -print -.

       -rich
           Perform a detailed stack back-trace that includes, where possible,
           inlined function calls, parameter names and values, and
           debug-names. Equivalent to -print inline,params,debug-names.

       -print print-option,...
           Specify the level of detail to include in a stack back-trace.
           print-option can be any of:

           debug-names: use debug information, such as DWARF, to determine the
           name of functions

           paths: include the full path to source files and libraries

           inline: include in-line function in back-trace

           locals: to include local variables from each frame

           params: include the function parameters

           To negate a print-option prefix it with "-".

   Standard Frysk Options
       -exe
           The full path of the executable to read.

       -noexe
           Do not attempt to read the corresponding executable when loading a
           core file.

       -sysroot directory
           The system root directory under which all executables, libraries,
           and source are located.

       -debug class=level...
           Set internal debug-tracing of the specified Java class to level
           (level can be NONE, INFO, WARNING, FINE, and FINEST). If the level
           is absent, FINE is assumed; if the class is absent, the global
           level is set.

EXAMPLE
           ferror -e "No such file or directory" -- ls fake

SEE ALSO
       frysk(7)

BUGS
       Report bugs to http://sourceware.org/frysk

Frysk 0.4-81.fc35                 April 2008                         FERROR(1)
