
ffDiaporama(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              ffDiaporama(1)

NAME
       FFDIAPORAMA - Movie creator

SYNTAX
       ffDiaporama [-lang=] [-loglevel=] [Filename]

DESCRIPTION
       ffDiaporama is an application for assembling photos and videos especially for preserving holiday memories. It is inspired by presentation software such as Impress or Powerpoint. It can read nearly all
       image formats, a majority of cameras and camcorder video formats, and the most commonly used music formats. It includes 140 transitions and a device database for the generation  of  videos  with  more
       than 50 models of video viewing devices (including smartphones, tablets, and home cinema systems).

       ffDiaporama  can  manage several hundreds of slides.  Every slide can contain several tens of shots and several tens of blocks.  Every shot contains its own block settings.  The application calculates
       all the shot transformations.

OPTIONS
       Filename    Filename of the project file to load at application startup

       -lang=      The language to be used. can take the following values:
                     cz To use Czech
                     de To use German
                     en To use English
                     es To use Spanish
                     el To use Greek
                     fr To use French
                     it To use Italian
                     nl To use Dutch
                     pt To use Portuguese
                     ru To use Russian

       -loglevel=  Adjust the level of messages shown in the console:
                     1 Show Debug, Information, Warning and Error messages
                     2 Show Information, Warning and Error messages
                     3 Show Warning and Error messages
                     4 Show only Error messages

NOTES
       Messages appear only if you launched the program since a console. It is possible to redirect these messages in a log file by using >.

AUTHOR
       (C) 2010-2011 Dominique LEVRAY

SEE ALSO
       More information on WEB site : http://ffdiaporama.tuxfamily.org

                                                                                                     LOCAL                                                                                       ffDiaporama(1)
