FGELEV(1)                    FlightGear man pages                    FGELEV(1)

NAME
       fgelev  -  Compute  FlightGear  scenery  elevation  for a given list of
       points

SYNOPSIS
       fgelev   [--expire   num]   [--print-solidness]   [--fg-root   rootdir]
       [--fg-scenery scenerydir]

DESCRIPTION
       fgelev is a standalone utility that, given a list of points on standard
       input, prints the corresponding elevation for each of them on  standard
       output.  It  can  also (optionally) print whether the material covering
       that point is solid or not.

       The list of points must be in the following form:

           id lon lat

       where id is an arbitrary identifier for the point, lon is the longitude
       of  the point and lat is the latitude of the point. Positive longitudes
       (latitudes) correspond to points  located  in  the  Eastern  (Northern)
       hemisphere;  negative  ones correspond to points located in the Western
       (Southern) hemisphere.

       The list of elevations returned by fgelev is in the following form:

           id: elev solid

       where id is the identifier of the point passed as input,  elev  is  the
       elevation  of  the  point  in  meters (or -1000 if the elevation of the
       given point was not found) and solid is:

       •  the string solid if the parameter --print-solidness  was  passed  to
          fgelev and the material covering the point is solid;

       •  the string - if the parameter --print-solidness was passed to fgelev
          and the material covering the point is not solid;

       •  absent if the parameter --print-solidness was not passed to fgelev.

OPTIONS
       --expire num
              To speed up elevation data retrieval, fgelev  uses  an  internal
              cache.  This option lets the user specify the number of requests
              after which, if a point was not queried in them,  it  should  be
              marked as expired. By default, fgelev expires points not queried
              in the last 10 requests.

       --print-solidness
              Require fgelev to print the solidness of the  material  covering
              the queried point. See the DESCRIPTION section for more details.

       --fg-root rootdir
              Set the FlightGear data root directory ($FG_ROOT) to rootdir. If
              this option is not set, fgelev uses the path  specified  in  the
              FG_ROOT  environment  variable  or,  absent that, the FlightGear
              data directory chosen at the time the program was compiled.

       --fg-scenery scenerydir
              Set the FlightGear scenery directory ($FG_SCENERY)  to  scenery‐
              dir.   If this option is not set, fgelev uses the path specified
              in the FG_SCENERY environment  variable  or,  absent  that,  the
              Scenery subdirectory inside $FG_ROOT.

EXIT STATUS
       fgelev  exits  with EXIT_SUCCESS on success, with EXIT_FAILURE if it is
       unable to read data from standard input or to load the scenery.

ENVIRONMENT
       FG_ROOT
           If FG_ROOT is set and --fg-root is not set, it specifies  the  root
           data directory to use.

       FG_SCENERY
           If  FG_SCENERY is set and --fg-scenery is not set, it specifies the
           scenery directory to use.

SEE ALSO
       fgfs(1)

FlightGear                        2017-06-04                         FGELEV(1)
