FITGCP(1)                                                                                      User Commands                                                                                      FITGCP(1)

NAME
       fitgcp - fit mixtures of probability distributions to genome coverage profiles

SYNOPSIS
       fitgcp [options] NAME

DESCRIPTION
       Fits mixtures of probability distributions to genome coverage profiles using an EM-like iterative algorithm.

       The  script uses a SAM file as input and parses the mapping information and creates a Genome Coverage Profile (GCP). The GCP is written to a file, such that this step can be skipped the next time.
       The user provides a mixture model that is fitted to the GCP. Furthermore, the user may specify initial parameters for each model.

       As output, the script generates a text file containing the final set of fit parameters and additional information about the fitting process. A log file contains the the current set  of  parameters
       in each step of the iteration. If requested, a plot of the GCP and the fitted distributions can be created.

OPTIONS
       NAME: Name of SAM file to analyze.

       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit

       -d DIST, --distributions=DIST
              Distributions to fit. z->zero; n: nbinom (MOM); N: nbinom (MLE); p:binom; t: tail. Default: zn

       -i STEPS, --iterations=STEPS
              Maximum number of iterations. Default: 50

       -t THR, --threshold=THR
              Set the convergence threshold for the iteration. Stop if the change between two iterations is less than THR.  Default: 0.01

       -c CUTOFF, --cutoff=CUTOFF
              Specifies a coverage cutoff quantile such that only coverage values below this quantile are considered.  Default: 0.95

       -p, --plot
              Create a plot of the fitted mixture model. Default: False

       -m MEAN, --means=MEAN
              Specifies the initial values for the mean of each Poisson or Negative Binomial distribution. Usage: -m 12.4 -m 16.1 will specify the means for the first two non-zero/tail distributions. The
              default is calculated from the data.

       -a ALPHA, --alpha=ALPHA
              Specifies  the  initial  values  for the proportion alpha of each distribution. Usage: For three distributions -a 0.3 -a 0.3 specifies the proportions 0.3, 0.3 and 0.4. The default is equal
              proportions for all distributions.

       -l, --log
              Enable logging. Default: False

       --view Only view the GCP. Do not fit any distribution.  Respects cutoff (-c). Default: False

fitgcp 2013-04-18                                                                              February 2014                                                                                      FITGCP(1)
