FIXPREMIUMGFF(1)                                                                          BSD General Commands Manual                                                                          FIXPREMIUMGFF(1)

NAME
     fixpremiumgff — repair BioWare GFF files from encrypted NWN premium module HAKs

SYNOPSIS
     fixpremiumgff [options] input_file output_file

DESCRIPTION
     In addition to being encrypted, the main HAK (ERF archive) of Neverwinter Nights premium modules also contains GFF files that have been deliberately broken.  fixpremiumgff repairs those GFF files, turn‐
     ing them back into standard BioWare GFF files that can be read and manipulated by the usual GFF tools.

OPTIONS
     -h
     --help
           Show a help text and exit.
     --version
           Show version information and exit.
     --id id
           Write the string id into the ID fields of the repaired GFF.  By default, the ID is auto-detected from the file name of the broken file.  For example, a broken module.ifo will by default turned
           into a standard GFF with an ID of “IFO”, while an aribeth.dlg will get the “DLG” ID.
     input_file
           The GFF file to repair.
     output_file
           The repaired GFF file be be written there.  This can be the same as the input file, to repair a broken GFF file in-place.

EXAMPLES
     Repair the file module.ifo:

           $ fixpremiumgff module.ifo module_fixed.ifo

     Repair the file module.ifo, but overwrite the ID:

           $ fixpremiumgff --id DLG module.ifo module_fixed.ifo

     Repair the file module.ifo in-place:

           $ fixpremiumgff module.ifo module.ifo

SEE ALSO
     gff2xml(1), unerf(1)

     More information about the xoreos project can be found on its website: https://xoreos.org/

AUTHORS
     This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.  Please see the AUTHORS file for details.

BSD                                                                                            November 14, 2015                                                                                            BSD
