FLAMEROBIN(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                            FLAMEROBIN(1)

NAME
       flamerobin — management and data manipulation tool for the Firebird DBMS

SYNOPSIS
       flamerobin [-h directory | --home=directory] [-uh directory | --user-home=directory]

DESCRIPTION
       flamerobin  is a graphical frontend to the Firebird DBMS.  It is small and simple, yet offers all the basic features needed to create and manipulate databases, execute queries and perform adminis‐
       trative tasks.

       This manual page only documents the run-time options and environment of flamerobin.  Information about using the GUI may be obtained by selecting the Help -> Manual menu item once the  application
       is running.

       flamerobin  uses  two directory hierarchies for its normal operation.  The data directory contains the templates for property pages, the default configuration and the on-line documentation grouped
       into three sub-directories as follows:

       conf-defs       default configuration
       docs            on-line documentation
       html-templates  templates for property pages

       The user home directory contains the per-user configuration, comprising three entries:

       fr_databases.conf  this file stores the user's registered databases.
       fr_settings.conf   this file stores the user's preferences related to the flamerobin GUI.
       history            this directory holds the SQL statement history, one item per file.

       flamerobin accepts several options, which are described as follows:

       -h directory
       --home=directory
               Use directory as the data directory (but see “ENVIRONMENT” below).

       -uh directory
       --user-home=directory
               Use directory as the user home directory (but see “ENVIRONMENT” and “CAVEATS” below).

ENVIRONMENT
       FR_HOME
               Specifies an alternate location for the flamerobin data directory.

               If both -h (or --home) and this environment variable are set, the command line argument takes precedence.

       FR_USER_HOME
               Specifies an alternate location for the flamerobin user home directory.

               If both -uh (or --user-home) and this environment variable are set, the command line argument takes precedence.

FILES
       /usr/share/flamerobin
               The default flamerobin data directory.

       ~/.flamerobin
               The default flamerobin user home directory.

AUTHORS
       flamerobin was written by The FlameRobin Development Team ⟨http://www.flamerobin.org/⟩.

CAVEATS
       flamerobin only writes files under the user home directory.  If flamerobin is configured so that this directory and the files contained therein are shared among several  users  or  concurrent  in‐
       stances of flamerobin, no precaution is taken to avoid overwriting settings created by other users or other application instances.

NOTES
       The  specification  of the data directory and the user home directory (regardless of whether they occur in the environment or on the command line) may be the literal string “$app” which translates
       to a common data folder determined at compilation time, or “$user” which translates to the user local data directory. These options currently have effect only on Windows platform.

FlameRobin 0.7                                                                                 April 12, 2006                                                                                 FLAMEROBIN(1)
