FLORENCE(1)                                                        FLORENCE(1)

NAME
       florence - extensible and scalable virtual keyboard for GNOME

SYNOPSIS
       florence [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Florence is an extensible scalable virtual keyboard for GNOME. You need
       it if you can’t use a real hardware keyboard, for example because of
       injury, handicap, your keyboard is broken or because you use a tablet
       PC, but you must be able to use a pointing device (as a mouse, a
       trackball, a touchscreen or opengazer); If you can’t use a pointing
       device, there is gok, which can be used with just simple switches.

       Florence stays out of your way when you don’t need it: it appears on
       the screen only when you need it. A timer-based auto-click input method
       is available to help disabled people having difficulties to click. The
       ramble mode is another efficient input method that can help.

       Florence is primarily intended to be used with the GNOME desktop,
       although it can be used on any desktop environment by using the
       --no-gnome option.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Print help message and exit.

       -V, --version
           Print Florence version and exit.

       -c, --config
           Open configuration dialog.

       -d, --debug
           Launch Florence in verbose mode.

       -n, --no-gnome
           Use this option if you are not using the GNOME desktop environment.
           This will disable some GNOME specific features.

       -f , --focus[=WINDOW]
           With this option, any florence input will go to the selected
           window. The window argument is the name of the window (the one that
           most window managers put in the title bar). if the window argument
           is not provided, florence will select the last focused window. This
           option is useful for window managers that don’t support the "not
           focusable" hint and focus the keyboard window instead of the output
           one. It can also be useful if you want to input text to a window
           that is not focused. This option must be used for the keyboard to
           work in GDM.

       -u FILE, --use-config=FILE
           Use the configuration file provided instead of gconf. The
           configuration file is a key-value pair file with sections. An
           example of configuration file is provided at
           /usr/share/doc/florence/examples/florence.conf.

SEE ALSO
       Florence documentation in the GNOME help system.

       Florence website: http://florence.sourceforge.net/

AUTHOR
       François Agrech <f.agrech@gmail.com>

Florence                          09/26/2011                       FLORENCE(1)
