FONDU(1)                                                           General Commands Manual                                                           FONDU(1)

NAME
       fondu - convert Macintosh font files to UNIX font format

SYNOPSIS
       fondu [-force] [-inquire] [-show] [-latin1] [-afm] [-trackps] macfile...

DESCRIPTION
       The program fondu reads a series of Macintosh font files, checks their resource forks, and extracts all font related items into separate files.

       Input  files may be either macbinary files (.bin), binhex files (.hqx), bare Macintosh resource forks, or data fork resource files (.dfont, as used by
       MacOS X).  A bare resource fork may be generated easily be copying a file with a resource fork onto a diskette (or zip drive) using DOS  format.   The
       Macintosh will create a folder called resource.frk (invisible on the Macintosh itself), in which the resource fork will reside as a bare file.

       The command line should end with a list of one or more Macintosh font files, macfile...; these files should be macbinary (.bin), binhex(.hqx), or bare
       resource fork files.

OPTIONS
       -force Force overwriting of the original file.

       -inquire
              Prompt for input before overwriting files. This overrides -force.

       -show  Print out each file as it is created.

       -latin1
              Recode any macintosh bitmap fonts (NFNTs) from the macintosh roman encoding to latin1.

       -trackps
              If  the  macfiles  argument  mentions a file containing a FOND, and that FOND mentions external PostScript resource files, then attempt to open
              those PostScript files as well as processing the original file.

       -afm   For any macfile which contains a FOND and points to at least one PostScript resource file create an Adobe Font Metrics (afm) file.  Fondu  will
              merge width and bounding box information from the PostScript files, and kerning data from the FOND.

AUTHOR
       George Williams (gww@silcom.com).

       Manual  page  by  Ziying  Sherwin (sherwin@nlm.nih.gov) and R.P.C Rodgers (rodgers@nlm.nih.gov), Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communica‐
       tions, U.S. National Library of Medicine.

                                                                         27 May 2004                                                                 FONDU(1)
