FOOMATIC-GETPJLOPTIONS(8)                                                                   System Manager's Manual                                                                   FOOMATIC-GETPJLOPTIONS(8)

NAME
       foomatic-getpjloptions - <put a short description here>

SYNOPSIS
       foomatic-getpjloptions device

       foomatic-getpjloptions hostname port

DESCRIPTION
       foomatic-getpjloptions  Sends  a set of PJL commands and reads back the PJL options and status from a printer over a network connection or device bidirectional interface such as parallel, USB, serial.
       printers to standard output. The output can be piped into foomatic-addpjloptions to add options to the database.

   Options
       device    The interface to which a local printer is connected, e.g. /dev/lp0, /dev/usb/lp0, /dev/tty00, etc.  For a parallel port, you must have bidirectional support enabled at the BIOS level and the
                 parallel port driver must support the bidirectional mode.  Check your parallel port BIOS settings for  EPP/bi-directional mode.

       hostname  Host name or IP address of a network printer (HP JetDirect, DLINK, etc.).

       port      Port on which your network printer listens for socket (Appsocket) connections.  Most common ports are 9100 (JetDirect), 10000 (DLINK).  Usually you can configure the port via a configuration
                 interface.

EXIT STATUS
       foomatic-getpjloptions returns ???

AUTHOR
       Manfred Wassmann <manolo@NCC-1701.B.Shuttle.de> for the foomatic project using output from the associated binary.  Modified by Patrick Powell <papowell at lprng.com> to  provide  betters  support  for
       network printers, error messages, and remove CR and FF from output.

WARNINGS
       Uni-directional protocols as remote LPD are not supported as no status is returned.  Some network print servers which attach to a printer parallel port do not support bidirectional mode.

Foomatic Project                                                                                   2001-05-07                                                                         FOOMATIC-GETPJLOPTIONS(8)
