Foundry(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         Foundry(1)

NAME
       foundry - a command line development environment

SYNOPSIS
       foundry [OPTION]...  COMMAND [COMMAND-OPTIONS]...

DESCRIPTION
       foundry is a development environment and build system designed for the GNOME desktop.  It provides project management, build pipeline integration, SDK
       management, and various development tools for building applications and libraries.

COMMANDS
   Project Commands
       init   Initialize a new project in the current directory.

   Environment Commands
       enter  Enter the environment of the project in the current directory.

       devenv [-- command]
              Enter the build environment for the project similar to the build pipeline.

       shell [-- command]
              Start a shell in the project environment or run command.

   File Commands
       guess-language
              Detect the programming language of a file.

       grep   Grep files using the search and replace mechanism of Foundry.

       symbol-tree FILE
              List symbols in FILE as a tree.

       find-symbol-at FILE LINE LINE_OFFSET
              Find the symbol at a specific position in FILE at LINE and LINE_OFFSET (both starting from 1).  Use --tree to print parent symbols as a tree.

       ctags FILE
              Index FILE using the ctags service and output the ctags data to stdout.

   Build Commands
       build  Build the current build pipeline.

       run [-- command]
              Run a project command in the runtime environment.

   Pipeline Commands
       pipeline info
              Show information about the build pipeline.

       pipeline flags
              Show build flags for the build pipeline.

       pipeline targets
              List build targets for the build pipeline.

       pipeline which
              Show which pipeline is active.

       pipeline invalidate
              Invalidate the pipeline cache.

       pipeline link PHASE PROJECT_DIRECTORY LINKED_PHASE
              Link a workspace to the build pipeline. The stage will run at PHASE of the current pipeline and execute the linked pipeline at LINKED_PHASE.

       pipeline unlink PHASE PROJECT_DIRECTORY
              Unlink a workspace from the build pipeline. Removes entries matching PHASE and PROJECT_DIRECTORY from the linked workspaces.

   Configuration Commands
       config list
              List available configurations.

       config switch
              Change the active configuration.

   SDK Commands
       sdk list
              List available SDKs.

       sdk install SDK_ID
              Install a specific SDK.

       sdk switch SDK_ID
              Change the active SDK for the build pipeline.  This will update your current configuration to use the SDK when possible.

       sdk shell SDK_ID
              Enter a shell in the SDK environment.

       sdk which PROGRAM
              Show where

   Dependencies Commands
       dependencies list
              List project dependencies.

       dependencies update
              Update project dependencies.  This does not build the dependencies.  Use foundry build to build the dependencies.

   Device Commands
       device list
              List available devices.

       device switch
              Switch the current target device.

   Deployment Commands
       deploy Deploy the project to the active device.

   Test Commands
       test list
              List available unit tests.

       test run TEST_ID
              Run a unit test.

   Search Commands
       search Use global search engine to search across project.

       show FILE
              Open FILE in the preferred file browser.

   Settings Commands
       settings get SCHEMA KEY
              Get a setting value applying the priority of settings from the user overrides, project settings, and application-wide settings in that order.

       settings set SCHEMA KEY VALUE
              Set  a setting value. Use --global to make the setting the user default.  Use --project to make the setting the project default including other
              users who clone the project.  Otherwise, the setting applies to the current user for the current project only.

   Secret Commands
       secret get-api-keyHOSTNAMESERVICE
              Get an API key from the secret store.  For example, foundry secret get-api-key gitlab.gnome.org gitlab

       secret check-expires-atHOSTNAMESERVICE
              Check when an API key expires for a service on a specific hostname.  The expiration date will be printed in local timezone.

       secret rotateHOSTNAMESERVICE
              Rotate an API key for a service on a specific hostname.  The API key will be rotated using a registered key rotator plugin and the new key will
              be stored securely.

       secret set-api-keyHOSTNAMESERVICEAPI_KEY
              Store an API key in the secret store.

   Diagnosis Commands
       diagnose FILE
              Diagnose issues with FILE

CONDITIONAL COMMANDS
       The following commands are only available when certain features are enabled at build time:

   Git Commands (requires feature-git)
       clone  Clone a repository into a new project directory.

   Documentation Commands (requires feature-docs)
       doc bundle install
              Install a specific documentation bundle.

       doc bundle list
              List available documentation bundles.

       doc query KEYWORD
              Search for documentation.

   Forge Commands (requires feature-forge)
       forge list
              List available forge integrations.

       forge issues list
              List issues from the forge.

       forge merge-requests list
              List merge requests from the forge.

       forge project
              Show information about the forge project.

       forge switch FORGE_ID

       forge switch --clear
              Switch the active forge integration.  Use --clear to clear the forge setting instead of setting it.

       forge user
              Show information about the forge user.

   Text Editing Commands (requires feature-text)
       grep   Search for text patterns in source files.

   LLM Commands (requires feature-llm)
       llm list-models
              List available language models.

       llm list-resources
              List available resources.

       llm list-tools
              List available LLM tools.

       llm complete
              Complete text using a language model.

   MCP Commands (requires feature-mcp)
       mcp    Run MCP server.  The server communicates via stdin/stdout using the Model Context Protocol.

   LSP Commands (requires feature-lsp)
       lsp list
              List available language server plugins.

       lsp prefer
              Set preferred LSP for a language.

       lsp run
              Run a language server for a specific language.

   Template Commands (requires feature-templates)
       template create
              Create a new project from a template.

       template list
              List available project templates.

   Version Control Commands (requires feature-vcs)
       vcs blame
              Show blame information for files.

       vcs fetch
              Fetch changes from remote repositories.

       vcs ignored
              List ignored files.

       vcs list
              List version control information.

       vcs list-branches
              List branches in the repository.

       vcs list-files
              List files tracked by version control.

       vcs list-remotes
              List remote repositories.

       vcs list-tags
              List tags in the repository.

       vcs log FILE
              Show commit history for FILE.

       vcs switch
              Switch branches or checkouts.

OPTIONS
       --shared
              Use shared mode for the command.

       -h, --help
              Show help information for the command.

EXAMPLES
       Initialize a new project:
              foundry init

       Build the project:
              foundry build

       Run a project command:
              foundry run

       Enter the build environment:
              foundry devenv

       List available SDKs:
              foundry sdk list

       Install an SDK:
              foundry sdk install org.gnome.Sdk/x86_64/master

       Start a language server:
              foundry lsp run python3

FEATURES
       Foundry may be compiled with various features disabled or removed.  Some commands may be unavailable if the underlying feature was not  compiled  into
       your version of Foundry.

SEE ALSO
       For further information, visit the website https://devsuite.app/

BUGS
       Bug reports can be found and filed at https://gitlab.gnome.org/chergert/foundry/issues

                                                                        November 2025                                                              Foundry(1)
