CALCULATOR(1)               General Commands Manual              CALCULATOR(1)

NAME
       calculator - simple desktop calculator

SYNOPSIS
       calculator

DESCRIPTION
       The  FOX  Calculator  is  a simple desktop calculator geared toward the
       programmer.  It supports not only a full  complement  scientific  func‐
       tions,  but  also common operations that programmers need, such as bit‐
       wise operations, bitwise shifting, and base-2 logarithm and  exponents,
       and numeric conversion between hexadecimal, octal, binary, and decimal.

       The  FOX Calculator implements correct operator precedences, so expres‐
       sions like 2+3*5 yield the correct result, which is  17,  and  not  25.
       Also  featured is a constant memory, which permanently stores its value
       even if you exit the calculator and restart it later.

CONFIGURATION
       Pressing on the calculator icon brings up  the  Calculator  Preferences
       dialog.  The Calculator Preferences dialog comprises three settings:

       - Settings for the calculator itself;
       - Color settings of the button groups;
       - Information about the calculator.

       In the Calculator settings panel, you can change font used for the dis‐
       play, by pressing the "Set..." button to bring up the standard Font Se‐
       lection Dialog.

       You  can  change the way numbers are printed as well.  Checking "Always
       show exponent" will cause the calculator display always to display  the
       number  in  exponential  notation.  Checking "Never show exponent" will
       cause the calculator to render the number in simple dot notation.

       The precision can be set by means of the spin button; the default  pre‐
       cision  is  set to 16.  Finally, the calculator can be set to beep when
       errors occur.

       In the Color settings panel, you can change the colors of  the  various
       button groups.  The buttons are grouped by function; the numbers are in
       one group, and the operators are in another, and so on.

       In the About panel, some information is presented about the calculator,
       like version number and author's contact.

ENTERING NUMBERS
       You  can enter a number by clicking on the digit buttons, or simply hit
       the right digit on the keyboard.  Numbers in exponential  notation  are
       entered  by entering the mantissa first, then hitting the "EXP" button,
       and then entering the exponent.  Up to 3 digits may be entered for  the
       exponent; entering more than 3 will cause the digits to shift, i.e. the
       first digit entered will be dropped and replaced  by  the  second,  the
       second  digit  will be replaced by the third, and the third will be re‐
       placed by the new input.

       Changing the sign of the exponent is accomplished by hittin the At  any
       time,  you  can hit the Backspace key to delete the last digit entered.
       Two numbers, pi and e (euler's number) may be  entered  with  a  single
       button:

       pi - Enters the number 3.1415926535897932384626433833

       e  -  Enters  the  number 2.7182818284590452353602874713 (hit the "inv"
       button first)

OPERATORS
       The operators in the FOX Calculator are the usual suspects:

       +      Addition

       -      Substraction

       *      Multiplication

       /      Floating point division

       In addition, FOX Calculator also includes bitwise operators, such as:

       AND    Bit-wise logical and

       OR     Bit-wise logical or

       XOR    Bit-wise logical exclusive or

       NOT    Bit-wise logical not

       SHL    Bit-wise shift left

       SHR    Bit-wise shift right

       SAR    Bit-wise signed shift right (hit the "inv" button first)

       Also nice for programmers is the inclusion of integer operations:

       mod    Integer modulo

       div    Integer division (hit the

       All the operators have certain precedence relations with each other, so
       that an expression is evaluated correctly.

TRIGONOMETRIC FUNCTIONS
       The Calculator incorporates the usual trigonometric functions:

       sin    Sine

       cos    Cosine

       tan    Tangent

       asin   Inverse sine or arc sine (hit the "inv" button first)

       acos   Inverse cosine

       atan   Inverse tangent

       sinh   Hyperbolic sine (hit the "hyp" button first)

       cosh   Hyperbolic cosine

       tanh   Hyperbolic tangent

       asinh  Inverse hyperbolic sine (hit the "hyp" and "inv"buttons first)

       acosh  Inverse hyperbolic cosine

       atanh  Inverse hyperbolic tangent

       For  the first 6 functions, the angle mode determines whether the argu‐
       ment is specified in terms of degrees, radians, or grad.  Note that the
       angle mode is preserved across invocations of the Calculator.

OTHER FUNCTIONS
       Other functions supported by the calculator are the following:

       log    Base 10 logarithm

       ln     Natural logarithm

       2log   Base 2 logarithm

       x!     Factorial

       nPr    Permutations

       nCr    Combinations

       sqrt   Square root

       x^y    X raised to the power y

       1/x    Reciprocal

       10^x   Base 10 exponentiation (hit the "inv" button first)

       e^x    Exponentiation

       2^x    Base 2 exponentiation

       x^1/y  X raised to the power 1/y

       x^2    X squared

LIMITS
       The  calculator  works  in IEEE 746 double precision mode; for bit-wise
       operations, it uses 32 bit integers. Thus, the numeric  limits  are  as
       follows:

       Smallest real number: 2.2250738585072010e-308
       Largest real number:  1.7976931348623158e+308
       Smallest integer number: 0
       Largest integer number: 4294967295

AUTHOR
       This  manpage  was originally written by Bastian Kleineidam <calvin@de‐
       bian.org> for the Debian distribution of the FOX Toolkit.

       The main author of FOX is Jeroen van der Zijp <jeroen@fox-toolkit.org>.
       For a list of contributors see /usr/share/doc/libfox0.99/AUTHORS.

                                30 January 2002                  CALCULATOR(1)
