CALCULATOR(1)               General Commands Manual              CALCULATOR(1)

NAME
       shutterbug - screen snapshot application

SYNOPSIS
       shutterbug

DESCRIPTION
       Shutterbug  is  a  simple  screen  snapshot application inspired by SGI
       Snapshot.

       The user interface of Shutterbug consists  of  a  single,  unobstrusive
       icon.   All  functions  in  Shutterbug are invoked by right-clicking on
       this icon, which will bring up a popup menu.  A red  rectangle  identi‐
       fies the area of the screen being captured.

IDENTIFYING THE SCREEN AREA
       The  screen capture area is identified by a red rectangle.  The capture
       area can be moved around by right-mouse dragging,  or  by  holding  the
       shift- or control key during left-mouse dragging.  The size of the rec‐
       tangle can be changed by dragging on one of the four sides  or  on  the
       corners.

       The  capture area can also be set to a predefined, fixed size.  In that
       case the rectangle can not be resized, but only dragged to  a  specific
       position.

INVOKING COMMANDS
       To invoke the menu, right-click on the Shutterbug application icon.

       Snap   This command snaps a screen shot and brings up the file panel to
              save the image to file.

       Show Lasso
              This command hides the red lasso identifying the capture area.

       Size   Brings up a submenu with a number  of  predefined  capture  area
              sizes.   Selecting Custom will enable arbitrary capture area se‐
              lection.

       Weight This submenu can be used to change the line width of the capture
              area lasso rectangle.

       Lines inside
              Causes  the  lines to be inside, rather than outside the capture
              area rectangle.  This can be more accurate for small images.

       Color  Brings up the Color Dialog to change the color of the lasso rec‐
              tangle.  The default color is red.

       About  Pops  up  the  About  Dialog  which gives the version number and
              other information about Shutterbug.

       Quit   Terminates the program.

SUPPORTED IMAGE FORMATS
       Shutterbug supports the following image formats:

       GIF CompuServe Graphics Interchange Format, version 89a.

       BMP Microsoft Bitmap Format.

       XPM X Pixmap Format.

       XBM X Bitmap Format (black and white).

       PCX PC PaintBrush format.

       TGA Targa Image format.

       PPM Portable Pixmap Format.

       PNG Portable Network Graphics Format (if compiled in).

       JPG Joint Photographics Experts Group JPEG Format (if compiled in).

       TIFF Tagged Image File Format (if compiled in).

       SUN Raster Image Format.

       PostScript Adobe PostScipt format.

AUTHOR
       This man page was written by  Jeroen  van  der  Zijp  <jeroen@fox-tool‐
       kit.org>.

                                18 January 2004                  CALCULATOR(1)
