FPROFPP(1)                                                                            User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                            FPROFPP(1)

NAME
       fprofpp - Devel::FastProf post processor

SYNOPSIS
         $ fprofpp [-f filename] [-r] [-e] [-g] [-p] [-t num]

DESCRIPTION
       "fprofpp" reads the profile information generated when using Devel::FastProf (usually saved on a file named "fastprof.out") and prints a "human friendly" report.

   OPTIONS
       Those are the flags that can be used with "fprofpp":

       -f filename
           instead of the default "fastprof.out" reads the file given as an argument.

       -r  sorts the lines on the output by the number of times they have been called instead of by the time spent on them (that is the default).

       -t num
           only outputs the first "num" lines

       -e  account the time spent on code inside "eval "..."" constructions on the line where the eval starts.

           Time spent on subroutines defined inside an eval will also be accounted on that line even when the subs are latter called outside the eval.

           By default, every time an eval is executed its code is considered to be a different source file and accounted independently of the rest of the calls to the same eval.

           On the report, it points to the place (file and line) where the eval sits, but the line source is the code actually executed.

       -g  by default, on forking code, the time spent on every line by every process is accounted separately.

           when this option is set, instead, the time reported is the sum of the time spent by all the processes on every line.

       -p  include process information on the report.

       -H  Do not print the report header.

THE EMACS/XEMACS HACK
       The format of the report generated by "Devel::SmallProf" is similar to that generated by "gcc" or "grep -n" and so, easily parseable by "Emacs" (and I suppose it shouldn't be too difficult to do the
       same from "vi" and other editors).

       For instance, one way to do it from XEmacs is, starting from a buffer on the same directory where "fastprof.out" sits:

         M-! fprofpp -t 30
         M-x compilation-mode

       then, going to the hot spots of the profiled program would be as easy as clicking the mouse over the lines on the "fprofpp" output buffer.

SEE ALSO
       Devel::FastProf, perlrun.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2005 by Salvador Fandiño <sfandino@yahoo.com>.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.7 or, at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have
       available.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-22                                                                                        FPROFPP(1)
