FREECIV(6)                                                                                      Games Manual                                                                                     FREECIV(6)

NAME
       freeciv-mp-gtk4, freeciv-mp-gtk3, freeciv-mp-qt, freeciv-mp-cli - Custom content installers for the Freeciv game

SYNOPSIS
       freeciv-mp-XXX [ -d|--debug level ] [ -h|--help ] [ -i|--install URL ] [ -L|--List URL ] [ -p|--prefix directory ] [ -v|--version ]

DESCRIPTION
       Freeciv is a free turn-based multiplayer strategy game, in which each player becomes the leader of a civilization, fighting to obtain the ultimate goal: To become the greatest civilization.

       Players of Civilization II® by Microprose® should feel at home, since one aim of Freeciv is to have compatible rules.

       Freeciv is maintained by an international team of coders and enthusiasts, and is easily one of the most fun and addictive network games out there!

       This is the custom content installer program - see also freeciv-server(6) freeciv-client(6) .

       This  program  allows users to select and download add-on content ("modpacks") for Freeciv from the Internet, either from a list maintained by the Freeciv team, or by using a URL obtained by other
       means. It takes care of installing the files in the correct place under the user's home directory for this version of Freeciv; it does not install anything for system-wide use.

       freeciv-mp-cli is a version of the modpack installer usable from command line. By default it lists modpacks from the default list or from list specified with --List. One can then run it  again  by
       giving appropriate URL from the list for --install parameter.

       This manual page only lists the command line arguments. For details regarding the operation of freeciv-mp-XXX see README.modpack_installer in the Freeciv distribution, and the documentation at the
       Freeciv website

OPTIONS
       All options have a short form (single hyphen and single letter) and a long form (double hyphen and a complete word); their effects are identical.

       -d level, --debug level
              Sets the amount of debugging information to be logged.  Acceptable values for the level are:

              fatal     for fatal messages only.

              error     for fatal and error messages.

              warning   for fatal, error and warning messages

              normal    for fatal, error, warning and normal messages (default).

              verbose   for fatal, error, warning, normal, and verbose messages.

       -h, --help
              Prints a short summary of the command line options.

       -i URL, --install URL
              Automatically install modpack from a given URL.

       -L URL, --List URL
              Gets modpack list from given URL, rather than the standard location on the Freeciv team's servers.

       -p directory, --prefix directory
              Installs modpacks under given directory hierarchy.

       -v, --version
              Prints the version number and exits.

FILES
       freeciv modpack installer installs files to the following subdirectories of the user's home directory (or another directory specified with --prefix), as appropriate:

       • .freeciv/scenarios/

       • .freeciv/3.2/

       The modpack installer maintains a record of installed modpack names and versions in these files:

       • .freeciv/scenarios/.control/mp.db

       • .freeciv/3.2/.control/mp.db

       This  information is used for display, and for deciding whether any new modpacks' dependencies are already satisfied. It is not used by the other Freeciv programs, and can fairly safely be removed
       if it gets out of sync with the actual state of installed modpacks. These are sqlite files whose format is subject to change.

ENVIRONMENT
       freeciv modpack installer accepts these environment variables:

       HOME   Specifies the user's home directory.

       http_proxy
              Set this variable accordingly when using a proxy.

       LANG  or  LANGUAGE
              Sets the language and locale on some platforms.

       LC_ALL  or  LC_CTYPE
              Similar to LANG (see documentation for your system).

       USER   Specifies the username of the current user.

BUGS
       Please report bugs to the Freeciv bug tracker .

MORE INFO
       See the Freeciv homepage .

       Updates and new info is first posted there.

AUTHORS
       The Freeciv Team <freeciv-dev AT freelists.org>.

SEE ALSO
       freeciv-server(6) freeciv-client(6)

                                                                                               May 13th 2021                                                                                     FREECIV(6)
