cdbmake(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         cdbmake(1)

NAME
       cdbmake - create a constant database

SYNOPSIS
       cdbmake cdb cdb.tmp

DESCRIPTION
       cdbmake reads a series of encoded records from its standard input and writes a constant database to cdb.

       cdbmake  ensures  that cdb is updated atomically, so programs reading cdb never have to wait for cdbmake to finish.  It does this by first writing the
       database to cdb.tmp and then moving cdb.tmp on top of cdb.  If cdb.tmp already exists, it is destroyed.  The directories containing  cdb.tmp  and  cdb
       must be writable to cdbmake; they must also be on the same filesystem.

       cdbmake  always makes sure that cdb.tmp is safely written to disk before it replaces cdb.  If the input is in a bad format or if cdbmake has any trou‐
       ble writing cdb.tmp to disk, cdbmake complains and leaves cdb alone.

   RECORD FORMAT
       Records are indexed by keys.  A key is a string.  cdb is structured so that another program, starting from  a  key,  can  quickly  find  the  relevant
       record.   cdbmake allows several records with the same key, although most readers take only the first record, and cdbmake slows down somewhat if there
       are many records with the same key.

       cdbmake and cdbdump(1) preserve the order of records.

       A record is encoded for cdbmake as +klen,dlen:key->data followed by a newline.  Here klen is the number of bytes in key and  dlen  is  the  number  of
       bytes in data.  The end of data is indicated by an extra newline.  For example:

         +3,5:one->Hello
         +3,7:two->Goodbye

       key and data may contain any characters, including colons, dashes, newlines, and nulls.

       Keys and data do not have to fit into memory.  A database cannot exceed 4 gigabytes.

       cdb is portable across machines.

SEE ALSO
       cdbdump(1), cdbget(1), cdbstats(1)

                                                                                                                                                   cdbmake(1)
