FREEDOOM2(6)                                                                                                                                                                                   FREEDOOM2(6)

NAME
       freedoom2 - Automatically launch Freedoom with an engine

SYNOPSIS
       freedoom2 [-p DOOMPORT|--] [ARGS]

DESCRIPTION
       Freedoom is a project to create a complete free-content game based on the Doom engine (often called “source ports” or simply “ports”), which itself is free software. In addition, it maintains
       compatibility with Doom itself and is capable of playing the wide variety of modifications (“mods”) that have been released by an active community since 1993.

       This command is a simple shell script to assist in running Freedoom, which is not a game engine itself nor part of any engine project, but playing Freedoom should remain simple. The script tries
       to automatically select an engine based on a hard-coded list, but three overrides are available, in order of precedence: command-line argument, environment variable, and a $HOME/.doomport symbolic
       link. Passing -p DOOMPORT runs Freedoom using the DOOMPORT specified. Setting the DOOMPORT environment variable is similar, running the engine specified in the variable. An additional permanent
       setting is via the $HOME/.doomport symbolic link, which may point to an executable to run.

       Additional arguments passed to the program, or after specifying -- as the first option, will be passed to the engine being called. This can allow you to use options such as -file to load mods or
       anything else available with the engine of choice.

COPYRIGHT
       Freedoom is licensed under a permissive three-clause BSD license. For details, see the source tree or the COPYING/COPYRIGHT file that was installed by distribution packaging.

       This manual page and the launcher script are both placed under the public domain.

SEE ALSO
       chocolate-doom(6), crispy-doom(6), prboom-plus(6)

       https://doomwiki.org/wiki/Parameter

                                                                                                 2025-08-14                                                                                    FREEDOOM2(6)
