UNTITLED()                                                                                         LOCAL                                                                                         UNTITLED()

NAME
       freetds.conf — configuration file for FreeTDS

SYNOPSIS
       The  freetds.conf file describes Sybase and Microsoft database servers to the FreeTDS library.  It comprises sections headed by a servername, followed by a list of connection properties denoted as
       name-value pairs.  Defaults are defined via a [global] section.  This file supersedes the interfaces file that Sybase defines for the same purpose, although the latter is still supported.

DESCRIPTION
       A section begins with a servername — the name of the server — in square brackets. The servername is chosen at the client's descretion.  (One exception: with Sybase ASA the  servername  must  match
       the database name to be used.)

       Sections contain properties, one per line, in the form

             name = value

       where  name  is the connection property to be described.  Servernames and properties are not case sensitive.  Values are case-preserving i.e., copied literally.  Comments begin with either a semi‐
       colon (‘;’) or pound sign (‘#’) and continue to end of line.  Blank lines are ignored.  Whitespace surrounding the ‘=’ is ignored.

PROPERTIES
       client charset         encoding of client data; overrides locale(1) settings
                              Domain:   iconv character set names
                              Default:  ISO-8859-1
       connect timeout        seconds to wait for response from connect request
                              Domain:   0 to MAX_INT
                              Default:  none
       debug flags            logging granularity
                              Domain:   32-bit integer
                              Default:  0x4fff
       dump file              specifies location of a logfile and turns on logging
                              Domain:   valid file name
                              Default:  none
       dump file append       log data appended to file instead of re-writing for each connection
                              Domain:   yes/no
                              Default:  no
       emulate little endian  forces big endian machines to act as little endian to communicate with Microsoft Servers
                              Domain:   yes/no
                              Default:  no
       encryption
                              off     disables encryption
                              request
                                      use if available (default when tds version greater than 7.0)
                              required
                                      allow encrypted connections only
       host                   Name of the host the server is running on.
                              Domain:   host name or IP address
                              Default:  SYBASE
       initial block size     maximum size of a protocol block
                              Domain:   multiple of 512
                              Default:  512
       instance               name of Microsoft SQL Server instance to connect to (supersedes port)
                              Domain:   instance name
                              Default:  none
       port                   port number that the server is listening to
                              Domain:   any valid port
                              Default:  TDS 5.0, 5000; TDS 7.0 and up, 1433
       tds version            TDS protocol version to use
                              Domain:   4.2, 5.0, 7.0, 7.1, 7.2
                              Default:  --with-tdsver value (5.0 if unspecified)
       text size              default value of TEXTSIZE, in bytes
                              Domain:   0 to 4,294,967,295
                              Default:  4,294,967,295
       timeout                seconds to wait for response to a query
                              Domain:   0 to MAX_INT
                              Default:  none (wait forever)

       Do not define both port and instance.  One implies the other.

       Boolean property values may be denoted as on/off, true/false, or 1/0.

   DEBUG FLAGS
       The log's granularity can be controlled with the debug flags property.

             Value     Meaning
               0x02    severe error
               0x04    error
               0x08    warning
               0x10    network
               0x20    information level 1
               0x40    information level 2
               0x80    function trace and info
             0x1000    show pid
             0x2000    show time
             0x4000    show source level info (source file and line)
             0x8000    thread id (not implemented).

NAMES AND LOCATIONS
       The file is normally named /etc/freetds.conf or ${HOME}/.freetds.conf.  That name can be overridden with the FREETDSCONF environment variable.

       FreeTDS will search conf files for a servername in the following order:
             1.   a filename set programmatically via dbsetifile() that is in .conf format
             2.   a filename in the environment variable FREETDSCONF that is in .conf format
             3.   ${HOME}/.freetds.conf if extant
             4.   /etc/freetds/freetds.conf

       The search stops with the first file containing the servername.

       If no conf file is found, FreeTDS searches for an interfaces file in the following order:
             1.   a filename set programmatically via dbsetifile() that is in interfaces format
             2.   ${HOME}/.interfaces
             3.   $SYBASE/interfaces (where $SYBASE is an environment variable)

       If the requested servername is not found in any configuration file, the fallback mechanism is:
             1.   attempt to convert the name to an IP address with inet_addr(3), else
             2.   attempt to convert the name to an IP address with gethostbyname(3), else
             3.   attempt to look up the literal name “SYBASE”

ENVIRONMENT
       FREETDSCONF    overrides name and location of the system-wide conf file
       TDSDUMP        overrides the name and location of the FreeTDS log file
       TDSDUMPCONFIG  specifies a name and location of a file that logs the search of configuration files
       TDSHOST        overrides the host property
       TDSPORT        overrides the port property
       TDSQUERY       synonym for DSQUERY, the default servername
       TDSVER         overrides the version specified in the freetds.conf

       The environment variables TDSVER, TDSDUMP, TDSPORT, TDSQUERY, and TDSHOST override values set by a .conf or interfaces file.

FILES
       /etc/freetds/freetds.conf, ${HOME}/.freetds.conf

SEE ALSO
       FreeTDS User Guide

HISTORY
       .conf files first appeared with version 0.53 of FreeTDS.

FreeTDS 1.5.5                                                                                   May 2, 2017                                                                         FREETDS.CONF(FreeTDS 5)
