FREEIPMI(5)                                                             Configuration                                                             FREEIPMI(5)

NAME
       freeipmi.conf - specify default values to FreeIPMI

DESCRIPTION
       The  FreeIPMI  configuration file can be used to set alternate default values to many FreeIPMI tools so values don't have to be configured on the com‐
       mand line.  This allows users to avoid typing in a long list of command line options every time a command is executed. It can also  be  used  to  hide
       usernames, passwords, and other sensitive information from the ps(1) command.

       Currently,  the  tools that can be configured with the configuration file are: bmc-device(8), bmc-info(8), bmc-watchdog(8), ipmi-chassis(8), ipmi-con‐
       fig(8), ipmi-fru(8), ipmi-oem(8), ipmi-pet(8), ipmi-raw(8), ipmi-sel(8), ipmi-sensors(8), ipmiconsole(8), and ipmipower(8).

       By default, the configuration file is stored at /etc/freeipmi//freeipmi.conf.  But users may select a different configuration file at the command line
       with the --config-file option.

       Values specified on the command line override the configuration values specified in the configuration file.

FORMAT
       The configuration options that can be specified in the configuration file are listed below. Each configuration option must be  listed  on  a  separate
       line.  Arguments for an option are separated by any amount of whitespace. Multiple arguments are also separated by whitespace.  Comments can be marked
       by using the pound sign ("#") character, and lines can be continued on the next using backslash ("\").

       Note that it is possible to list the username, password and other potentially sensitive information in the configuration file. If this data is  stored
       in a configuration file, system administrators should limit access to this file.

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are options generally available to all tools, although specific options may be ignored by some. (For example, ipmiconsole(8) and
       ipmipower(8)  do not perform in-band communication, therefore they would ignore in-band communication options. Similarly bmc-watchdog(8) does not per‐
       form out-of-band communication, therefore it would ignore all out-of-band options).

       driver-type IPMIDRIVER
              Specify the default driver type to use.

       disable-auto-probe ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if IPMI devices should be probed for default settings.

       driver-address DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the default in-band driver address to use.

       driver-device DEVICE
              Specify the default in-band driver device path to use.

       register-spacing REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the default in-band driver register spacing to use.

       target-channel-number CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the default in-band driver target channel number.

       target-slave-address SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the default in-band driver target slave address.

       username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use.

       password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use.

       k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use. Prefix with '0x' to enter the key in hex.

       session-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default session timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       retransmission-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default retransmission timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the default authentication type to use. The following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use. The following cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use. The following privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify default workaround flags to use. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace. Please see tool  manpages  for  details
              about  available  workarounds  for each tool. The following workarounds are supported: assumeio, spinpoll, idzero, forcepermsg, unexpectedauth,
              endianseq, noauthcodecheck, authcap, nochecksumcheck, intel20, supermicro20, sun20, opensesspriv, integritycheckvalue, assumemaxsdrrecordcount,
              solpayloadsize, solport, solstatus, solchannelsupport, serialalertsdeferred, solpacketseq, skipchecks, assumesystemevent, discretereading,  ig‐
              norescanningdisabled,  assumebmcowner,  ignoreauthcode,  slowcommit, veryslowcommit, solchannelassumelanchannel, ignorestateflag, malformedack,
              guidformat, ipmiping.

SDR OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to tools that use the sensor data repository (SDR). They will be ignored by all other tools.

       quiet-cache ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if cache creation/deletion information should not be output by default.

       sdr-cache-directory DIRECTORY
              Specify the default sdr cache directory to use.

TIME OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to tools that may output time values. They will be ignored by all other tools.

       utc-to-localtime ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if time should be converted from assumed UTC to localtime by default.

       localtime-to-utc ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if time should be converted from localtime to UTC by default.

       utc-offset SECONDS
              Specify a default UTC offset to be added to timestamps.

HOSTRANGED OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to tools that support hostranged output. They will be ignored by all other tools.

       buffer-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if hostranged output should be buffered by default.

       consolidate-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if hostranged output should be consolidated by default.

       fanout COUNT
              Specify the default multiple host fanout to use.

       eliminate ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if undetected hosts should be eliminated by default.

       always-prefix ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be always prefixed by default.

BMC-DEVICE OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to bmc-device(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       bmc-device-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       bmc-device-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       bmc-device-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  en‐
              ter the key in hex.

       bmc-device-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the  default  authentication type to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above.
              The following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       bmc-device-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above.  The  fol‐
              lowing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       bmc-device-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The follow‐
              ing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       bmc-device-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags to use for bmc-device(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see bmc-device(8) manpage for available workarounds.

BMC-INFO OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to bmc-info(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       bmc-info-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       bmc-info-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       bmc-info-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  enter
              the key in hex.

       bmc-info-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       bmc-info-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The  follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       bmc-info-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The following
              privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       bmc-info-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to  use for bmc-info(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see bmc-info(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       bmc-info-interpret-oem-data ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if bmc-info should attempt to interpret OEM data by default or not.

BMC-WATCHDOG OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to bmc-watchdog(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       bmc-watchdog-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify default workaround flags to use for bmc-watchdog(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above.  Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see bmc-watchdog(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       bmc-watchdog-verbose-logging ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if logging will be verbose by default.

       bmc-watchdog-no-logging ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if logging will be disabled by default.

IPMI-CHASSIS OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-chassis(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-chassis-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-chassis-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-chassis-k_g str
              Specify  the  default  BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to
              enter the key in hex.

       ipmi-chassis-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the default authentication type to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type  above.
              The following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-chassis-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The fol‐
              lowing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-chassis-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify  the default privilege type to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The fol‐
              lowing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-chassis-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify default workaround flags to use for ipmi-chassis(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above.  Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-chassis(8) manpage for available workarounds.

IPMI-CONFIG OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-config(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-config-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-config-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-config-k_g str
              Specify  the  default  IPMI key (K_g) to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to
              enter the key in hex.

       ipmi-config-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the default authentication type to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general option  authentication-type  above.
              The following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-config-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify  the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The fol‐
              lowing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-config-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above.  The  fol‐
              lowing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-config-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround flags to use for ipmi-config(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-config(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-config-verbose-count COUNT
              Specify default verbose count to use for ipmi-config(8).

IPMI-DCMI OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-dcmi(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-dcmi-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-dcmi-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-dcmi-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmi-dcmi-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the default authentication type to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-dcmi-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-dcmi-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The  follow‐
              ing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-dcmi-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to use for ipmi-dcmi(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-dcmi(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-dcmi-interpret-oem-data ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-dcmi should attempt to interpret OEM data by default or not.

IPMI-FRU OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-fru(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-fru-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-fru-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-fru-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmi-fru-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-fru-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The  follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-fru-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The following
              privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-fru-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to  use for ipmi-fru(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-fru(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-fru-verbose-count COUNT
              Specify default verbose count to use for ipmi-fru(8).

       ipmi-fru-bridge-fru ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if FRU entries on other controllers should be read by default or not.

       ipmi-fru-interpret-oem-data ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-fru should attempt to interpret OEM data by default or not.

IPMI-OEM OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-oem(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-oem-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-oem-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-oem-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmi-oem-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-oem-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The  follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-oem-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The following
              privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-oem-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to  use for ipmi-oem(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-oem(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-oem-verbose-count COUNT
              Specify default verbose count to use for ipmi-oem(8).

IPMI-PET OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-pet(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-pet-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-pet-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-pet-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmi-pet-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-pet-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The  follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-pet-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The following
              privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-pet-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to  use for ipmi-pet(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-pet(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-pet-verbose-count COUNT
              Specify default verbose count to use for ipmi-pet(8).

       ipmi-pet-output-event-severity ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-pet should output the event severity state by default.

       ipmi-pet-output-event-state ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-pet should output the event state state by default.

       ipmi-pet-event-state-config-file FILE
              Specify the default event state configuration file.

       ipmi-pet-interpret-oem-data ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-pet should attempt to interpret OEM data by default or not.

       ipmi-pet-entity-sensor-names ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of sensor names should include entity ids and instances by default or not.

       ipmi-pet-no-sensor-type-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of the sensor type should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-pet-comma-separated-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be comma separated by default or not.

       ipmi-pet-no-header-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if column headers should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-pet-non-abbreviated-units ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should have units abbreviated by default or not.

IPMI-RAW OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-raw(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-raw-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-raw-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-raw-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmi-raw-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-raw-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The  follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-raw-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The following
              privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-raw-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to  use for ipmi-raw(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-raw(8) manpage for available workarounds.

IPMI-SEL OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-sel(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-sel-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-sel-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-sel-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to  enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmi-sel-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-sel-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The  follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-sel-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The following
              privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-sel-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to  use for ipmi-sel(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-sel(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-sel-verbose-count COUNT
              Specify default verbose count to use for ipmi-sel(8).

       ipmi-sel-types TYPE-LIST
              Specify default types to show SEL events for. Multiple types can be specified separated by whitespace. Users may specify sensor types by string
              or by number (decimal or hex). Please see ipmi-sel(8) --list-types option to see possible string input types.

       ipmi-sel-exclude-types ENSOR-TYPES-LIST Specify
              default sensor types to not show SEL events for. Multiple sensor types can be specified separated by whitespace. Users may specify sensor types
              by string or by number. Please see ipmi-sel(8) --list-types option to see possible string input types.

       ipmi-sel-system-event-only ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should only include system event records.

       ipmi-sel-oem-event-only ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should only include OEM event records.

       ipmi-sel-output-manufacturer-id ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of OEM event records should include manufacturer ID by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-output-event-state ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sel should output the event state state by default.

       ipmi-sel-event-state-config-file FILE
              Specify the default event state configuration file.

       ipmi-sel-interpret-oem-data ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sel should attempt to interpret OEM data by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-output-oem-event-strings ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sel should output OEM event strings by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-entity-sensor-names ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of sensor names should include entity ids and instances by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-no-sensor-type-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of the sensor type should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-comma-separated-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be comma separated by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-no-header-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if column headers should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-non-abbreviated-units ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should have units abbreviated by default or not.

       ipmi-sel-legacy-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be in legacy format by default or not.

IPMI-SENSORS OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-sensors(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmi-sensors-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmi-sensors-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmi-sensors-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix  with  '0x'  to
              enter the key in hex.

       ipmi-sensors-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify  the default authentication type to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above.
              The following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmi-sensors-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The fol‐
              lowing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmi-sensors-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The  fol‐
              lowing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmi-sensors-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default workaround flags to use for ipmi-sensors(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmi-sensors(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmi-sensors-verbose-count COUNT
              Specify default verbose count to use for ipmi-sensors(8).

       ipmi-sensors-quiet-readings ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if sensor reading values and thresholds should not be output by default.

       ipmi-sensors-record-ids ECORD-IDS-LIST
              Specify default record ids to show sensor outputs for. Multiple record ids can be specified separated by whitespace.

       ipmi-sensors-exclude-record-ids ECORD-IDS-LIST
              Specify default record ids to not show sensor outputs for. Multiple record ids can be specified separated by whitespace.

       ipmi-sensors-types TYPE-LIST
              Specify default types to show sensor outputs for. Multiple types can be specified separated by whitespace. Users may specify  sensor  types  by
              string or by number (decimal or hex). Please see ipmi-sensors(8) --list-types option to see possible string input types.

       ipmi-sensors-exclude-types ENSOR-TYPES-LIST Specify
              default  sensor  types to not show sensor outputs for. Multiple sensor types can be specified separated by whitespace. Users may specify sensor
              types by string or by number. Please see ipmi-sensors(8) --list-types option to see possible string input types.

       ipmi-sensors-bridge-sensors ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if non-BMC sensors should be bridged by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-shared-sensors ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if shared sensors should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-interpret-oem-data ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sensors should attempt to interpret OEM data by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-ignore-not-available-sensors ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sensors should ignore not-available (i.e. N/A) sensors by default.

       ipmi-sensors-ignore-unrecognized-events ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sensors should ignore unrecognized events (i.e. 'Unrecognized Event') in sensors output by default.

       ipmi-sensors-output-event-bitmask ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sensors should output event bitmasks instead of string representations by default.

       ipmi-sensors-output-sensor-state ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sensors should output the sensor state by default.

       ipmi-sensors-sensor-state-config-file FILE
              Specify the default sensor state configuration file.

       ipmi-sensors-entity-sensor-names ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of sensor names should include entity ids and instances by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-output-sensor-thresholds ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if ipmi-sensors should output sensor thresholds by default.

       ipmi-sensors-no-sensor-type-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output of the sensor type should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-comma-separated-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be comma separated by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-no-header-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if column headers should be output by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-non-abbreviated-units ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should have units abbreviated by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-legacy-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be in legacy format by default or not.

       ipmi-sensors-ipmimonitoring-legacy-output ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if output should be in ipmimonitoring legacy format by default or not.

IPMICONSOLE OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmiconsole(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmiconsole-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmiconsole-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmiconsole-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to en‐
              ter the key in hex.

       ipmiconsole-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the default authentication type to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general option  authentication-type  above.
              The following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmiconsole-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify  the default cipher suite id to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The fol‐
              lowing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmiconsole-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above.  The  fol‐
              lowing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmiconsole-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround flags to use for ipmiconsole(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmiconsole(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmiconsole-escape-char CHAR
              Specify the default escape character.

       ipmiconsole-dont-steal ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if in use SOL sessions should not be stolen by default.

       ipmiconsole-serial-keepalive ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if serial keepalive should be enabled by default.

       ipmiconsole-serial-keepalive-empty ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if serial keepalive empty should be enabled by default.

       ipmiconsole-sol-payload-instance NUM
              Specify the default SOL payload instance.

       ipmiconsole-deactivate-all-instances ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if SOL deactivate should deactivate all instances by default.

       ipmiconsole-lock-memory ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if memory should be locked by default.

IPMIPOWER OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmipower(8).  They will be ignored by other tools.

       ipmipower-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general option username above.

       ipmipower-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general option password above.

       ipmipower-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general option k_g above. Prefix with '0x' to enter
              the key in hex.

       ipmipower-authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the default authentication type to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general option authentication-type above. The
              following authentication types are supported: NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5.

       ipmipower-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general option cipher-suite-id above. The follow‐
              ing cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       ipmipower-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general option privilege-level above. The  follow‐
              ing privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       ipmipower-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  default  workaround  flags  to use for ipmipower(8).  If specified, will override the general options workaround-flags above. Multiple
              workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace.  Please see ipmipower(8) manpage for available workarounds.

       ipmipower-on-if-off ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if on-if-off functionality is enabled or disabled by default.

       ipmipower-wait-until-on ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if wait-until-on functionality is enabled or disabled by default.

       ipmipower-wait-until-off ENABLE|DISABLE
              Specify if wait-until-off functionality is enabled or disabled by default.

       ipmipower-oem-power-type OEM-POWER-TYPE
              Specify OEM power type to be used.

       ipmipower-retransmission-wait-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default retransmission wait timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       ipmipower-retransmission-backoff-count COUNT
              Specify the default retransmission backoff count to use for retransmissions.

       ipmipower-ping-interval MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default ping interval length to use in milliseconds.

       ipmipower-ping-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default ping timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       ipmipower-ping-packet-count COUNT
              Specify the default ping packet count size to use.

       ipmipower-ping-percent PERCENT
              Specify the default ping percent value to use.

       ipmipower-ping-consec-count COUNT
              Specify the default ping consecutive count value to use.

FILES
       /etc/freeipmi//freeipmi.conf

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2003-2015 FreeIPMI Core Team.

       FreeIPMI is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the  Free  Soft‐
       ware Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi(7),  bmc-device(8),  bmc-info(8), bmc-watchdog(8), ipmi-chassis(8), ipmi-config(8), ipmi-fru(8), ipmi-oem(8), ipmi-raw(8), ipmi-sel(8), ipmi-
       sensors(8), ipmiconsole(8), ipmipower(8)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

FreeIPMI 1.6.16                                                           2026-07-02                                                              FREEIPMI(5)
