FREECOL(6)                                                                                   FreeCol's Manpage                                                                                   FREECOL(6)

NAME
       freecol - A free clone of Colonization

SYNOPSIS
       freecol [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the freecol command.  This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       freecol  is  a  free  clone  of  the famous game Colonization. It's a turn based strategy game in which each player becomes leader of an European nation, fighting to obtain the independence of the
       mother country.

       A multiplayer mode has been added to the original game.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       --freecol-data DIR
              DIR should be the directory with FreeCol's data files, it has a subdirectory called images.

       --windowed
              Runs FreeCol in windowed mode instead of full screen mode.

       --no-sound
              Runs FreeCol without sound.

       --usage
              Shows summary of options.

       --version
              Shows version of program.

       --server PORT
              Starts a stand-alone server on the specified port.

LICENSE
       FreeCol is available under GPL license terms.

JAVA-WRAPPERS NOTE
       This program is a shell script wrapper based on java-wrappers(7).  You therefore benefit from several features; please see the java-wrappers(7) manual page.

SEE ALSO
       Homepage: http://freecol.org

       java-wrappers(7)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Jean Lepropre <jean_lepropre@users.sourceforge.net>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

       It was updated by Vincent Fourmond <fourmond@debian.org>

GNU                                                                                            July 28, 2004                                                                                     FREECOL(6)
