FROZEN-BUBBLE(1p)                                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                   FROZEN-BUBBLE(1p)

NAME
       frozen-bubble - arcade/reflex game

SYNOPSIS
           frozen-bubble [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       The Frozen-Bubble game is a free software implementation of a popular arcade/reflex game. The game mainly consists of firing randomly chosen bubbles across the board. If the shoot ends up having a
       clump of at least 3 bubbles of the same color, they all pop. If some bubbles were sticked only on the popping clump, they fall. In 1-player mode, the goal is to pop all the bubbles on the board as
       quickly as possible. In 2-players or network mode, you have to get your opponent to "die" before you.

CONTROL
       The default controlling mechanism is through the keyboard, but you can play with a joystick or a joypad if it is supported by the system (use the commandline option -ji to make sure frozen-bubble
       detected your joysticks). A key (or a joystick direction or button) is needed for moving the aim to the left, moving the aim to the right, center, and fire.

1-PLAYER GAME
       In single player mode, as a beginner the best training is to choose Play Default Levelset, which lets you run through 100 levels of an increasing difficulty. Pop all the bubbles of each level to
       advance to the next level.

       If you want to train for multiplayer, choose Multiplayer Training which reproduces the conditions of 2-player or network mode; the only difference is that created malus bubbles are counted in your
       score, and you must get the highest score you can in 2 minutes.

2-PLAYERS GAME
       In 2-players mode, you can play against a friend (or a foe, actually) on the same computer. The board is populated with random bubbles, and your goal is to make big clumps to send malus bubbles to
       your opponent.

NETWORK GAME
       If your computer has networking, you can choose LAN GAME to play games against others on your local network (up to 5 players).  Frozen-Bubble will look for a game server on the local network with
       a UDP broadcast, connect to it if found, or start a new game server if not found.

       If your computer is connected to Internet, you can choose NET GAME to play against others on Earth (or beyond?). Frozen-Bubble will retrieve the server list from the master server and propose you
       to choose between available servers. The flag in front of a server indicates the preferred language for chatting with others before the game is started. The ping is the roundtrip when talking with
       the server, choose a low ping when possible.

OPTIONS
       --help
           show command-line options summary

       --fullscreen
           start the game in fullscreen mode

       --no-fullscreen
           don't start the game in fullscreen mode

       --no-sound
           disable music and sound effects

       --no-music
           disable music (but not sound effects)

       --no-sfx
           disable sound effects (but not music)

       --playlist directory
           use all files of the given directory as music files and play them

       --playlist file
           use all files listed in the given file as music files and play them

       --slow-machine
           use this option if frozen-bubble runs too slowly on your machine (disables a few animations)

       --very-slow-machine
           same as before, if it is not enough (disables all that can be disabled)

       --solo
           directly start solo (1p) game, with random levels

       --direct
           directly start 2p game (don't display menu)

       --gameserver host[:port]
           directly start NET/LAN game connecting to this game server (if port is omitted, default port is used)

       --chain-reaction
           enable chain-reaction

       --level number
           start directly the game, at level number

       --colour-blind
           use special bubbles for colourblind people

       --no-time-limit
           disable time limit for shooting (e.g. kids mode)

       --player-malus number
           add number malus to the left player (can be negative - doesn't work in network mode)

       --mp-training-difficulty number
           set the average duration between receiving malus bubbles in 1 player multiplayer training (default 30 (= every 30 seconds on average), the lower the harder)

       --joysticks-info
           print information about detected joystick(s) on startup (if Frozen-Bubble doesn't see your joysticks/joypads, try loading the joydev module with modprobe joydev as root, then retry)

       --no-echo
           when sound is enabled, disable echoing each typed character with a typewriter sound (it may get on your nerves)

       --my-nick nick
           for  NET/LAN  games,  use  this  nick instead of username (max 10 chars, ASCII alphanumeric plus dash and underscore only) - notice that the /nick command is also available when connected to a
           server to set your nick

       --private
           after connecting to a server for a NET game, don't use http://hostip.info/ to retrieve your geographical position to send it to other players

       --record directory
           specify the recording directory (normally, records are saved in the directory '.frozen-bubble/records' down your home directory)

       --auto-record
           automatically record all applicable games (normally, a record is triggered by hitting the Print Screen key during a game)

       --comment '...'
           add the comment enclosed between simple quotes to records (must not contain anything else than ASCII), it will be shown on console when playing back the record later

       --replay record_file|URL
           playback the specified record file

       --save-frames directory
           specify a directory where all (game) frames will be recorded; as the game is slowed down, can only be used with --replay; warning, output is huge as 50 frames of each  900  KB  are  saved  per
           second (e.g. 43 MB per second); a typical use case is then to build a video out of the frames with e.g. this kind of command:

               mencoder mf:///tmp/fbframes/frame* -mf fps=50 -o /tmp/output.avi -ovc lavc -lavcopts vcodec=mpeg4

AUTHOR
       Written by Guillaume Cottenceau.  This manual page was originally written by Josselin Mouette <josselin.mouette at ens-lyon.org>.

       Visit official homepage: <http://www.frozen-bubble.org/>

SEE ALSO
       frozen-bubble-editor

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2000-2010 The Frozen-Bubble Team.

       This  is  Free  Software;  this  software  is  licensed  under the GPL version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
       PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

perl v5.40.0                                                                                     2024-10-15                                                                               FROZEN-BUBBLE(1p)
