fsck.gfs2(8)                System Manager's Manual               fsck.gfs2(8)

NAME
       fsck.gfs2 - offline GFS and GFS2 file system checker

SYNOPSIS
       fsck.gfs2 [options] device

WARNING
       All  computers  must  have  the  filesystem  unmounted  before  running
       fsck.gfs2.  Failure to unmount from all nodes in a cluster will  likely
       result in filesystem corruption.

DESCRIPTION
       fsck.gfs2  will  check  that the GFS or GFS2 file system on a device is
       structurally valid.  It should not be run on a mounted file system.  If
       file  system corruption is detected, it will attempt to repair the file
       system.  There is a limit to what fsck.gfs2 can do.  If important  file
       system structures are destroyed, such that the checker cannot determine
       what the repairs should be, reparations could fail.

       Other file system checkers will not check the  file  system  if  it  is
       "clean" (i.e. unmounted since the last use).  With gfs2, storage may be
       shared among several nodes in a cluster,  and  therefore  problems  may
       have  been  introduced  on  a different computer.  Therefore, fsck.gfs2
       will always check the file system unless the -p (preen) option is used,
       in which case it follows special rules (see below).

       fsck.gfs2 will log a message to the system log on start and exit to aid
       debugging and administration.

OPTIONS
       -a     Same as the -p (preen) option.

       -f     Force checking even if the file system seems clean.

       -h     Help.

              This prints out the proper command line usage syntax.

       -q     Quiet.

       -n     No to all questions. By specifying this option,  fsck.gfs2  will
              only  show  the  changes  that  would  be made, but not make any
              changes to the filesystem.

              This option may not be used with the -y or -p/-a options.

       -p     Automatically repair ("preen") the file system if  it  is  dirty
              and safe to do so, otherwise exit.

              If  the file system has locking protocol lock_nolock, it is con‐
              sidered a non-shared storage device and it is  considered  safe.
              If  the locking protocol is lock_dlm and -a or -p was specified,
              the check is  considered  unsafe  as  it  cannot  be  determined
              whether the device is mounted by other nodes in the cluster.  In
              this case a warning is given if any damage or dirty journals are
              found.  The  file system should then be unmounted from all nodes
              in the cluster and fsck.gfs2 should be run manually without  the
              -a or -p options.

              This option may not be used with the -n or -y options.

       -V     Print out the program version information.

       -v     Verbose operation.

              Print more information while running.

       -y     Yes  to all questions. By specifying this option, fsck.gfs2 will
              not prompt before making changes.

              This option may not be used with the -n or -p/-a options.

SEE ALSO
       gfs2(5), gfs2_jadd(8), gfs2_grow(8)

                                                                  fsck.gfs2(8)
