FTGRID(1)                   General Commands Manual                  FTGRID(1)

NAME
       ftgrid - simple glyph grid viewer

SYNOPSIS
       ftgrid [options] pt font ...

DESCRIPTION
       ftgrid  displays the glyphs of a font as outlines right before the con‐
       version from outlines to pixels take place.  It also displays  the  re‐
       sulting  bitmap.   It  is  possible to interactively change hinting and
       rendering options, thus visualizing the applied distortions to the out‐
       lines.

       pt     The  point  size  for  the  given  resolution.  If resolution is
              72dpi, this directly gives the ppem value (pixels per EM).

       font   The font file(s) to display.  For Type 1 font files, ftgrid also
              tries  to  attach the corresponding metrics file (with extension
              `.afm' or `.pfm').

       This program is part of the FreeType demos package.

OPTIONS
       -d WxH[xD]
              Set the window width to W px, the height to H px, and optionally
              the depth to D bpp (default: 640x480x24).

       -r r   Use resolution r dpi (default: 72dpi).

       -f index
              Specify first index to display (default: 0).

       -e enc Specify  encoding  tag  (default:  no encoding).  Common values:
              unic (Unicode),  symb  (symbol),  ADOB  (Adobe  standard),  ADBC
              (Adobe custom).

       -a "axis1 axis2 ..."
              For  Multiple  Master,  GX, or OpenType variation fonts, specify
              design coordinates for each axis at start-up.  This  option  im‐
              plies option -n.  Ignored for all other font formats.

       -n     Don't display named instances of variation fonts.

       -k keys
              Emulate sequence of keystrokes upon start-up.  If the keystrokes
              contain 'q', the program operates in batch mode.  Function  keys
              Fx   are   mapped  to  character  codes  0xFx;  as  an  example,
              -k $'\xF3q' is function key 'F3' followed by character 'q'.

       -v     Show version.

Freetype 2.11.0                    July 2021                         FTGRID(1)
