DCL2INC(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                DCL2INC(1)

NAME
       dcl2inc - postprocess ftnchek .dcl files to create separate INCLUDE files

SYNOPSIS
       dcl2inc *.dcl

DESCRIPTION
       dcl2inc  postprocessing  declaration  files output by ftnchek(1), replacing unique COMMON block definitions by Fortran INCLUDE statements.  For each input .dcl file, a modified output .dcn file is
       produced, together with include files named by the COMMON block name, with filename extension .inc.

       In addition, dcl2inc produces on stdout a list of Makefile dependencies for the UNIX make(1) utility.  These can be appended to the project Makefile to ensure that any subsequent changes  to  .inc
       files provoke recompilation of source files that include them.

       dcl2inc  warns about COMMONs which differ from their first occurrence, and simply copies them to the output .dcn file, instead of replacing them with an INCLUDE statement.  Thus, any COMMON state‐
       ments that are found in the output .dcn files should be examined carefully to determine why they differ: they may well be in error.

       Replication of identical data, and bugs arising from subsequent modification of only part of it, is a significant reason why Fortran programming projects should require  that  COMMON  declarations
       occur in separate include files, so that there is only a single point of definition of any global object.

       Even though the Fortran INCLUDE statement was tragically omitted from the 1977 Standard, it has long been implemented by virtually all compiler vendors, and is part of the 1990 Standard.  In prac‐
       tice,  there is therefore no portability problem associated with use of INCLUDE statements, provided that one avoids nonportable file names.  As long as the code obeys Fortran's limit of six-char‐
       acter alphanumeric names, the filenames generated by dcl2inc will be acceptable on all current popular operating systems.

       Fortran's default, or IMPLICIT, variable typing is deprecated in modern programming languages, because it encourages sloppy documentation, and worse, bugs due to misspelled variables, or variables
       that have been truncated because they extend past column 72.  If all variables used are explicitly typed, and a compiler option is used to reject all program units with untyped variables, variable
       spelling and truncation errors can be eliminated.

       Variable declarations that have been produced automatically by a tool like ftnchek(1) or pfort(1) have a consistent format that facilitates application of stream editors (e.g. to change array  di‐
       mensions or rename variables), and simple floating-point precision conversion tools like d2s(1), dtoq(1), dtos(1), qtod(1), s2d(1), and stod(1).

CAVEAT
       The  current  version  (2.9) of ftnchek(1) does not produce Fortran EQUIVALENCE statements in .dcl files, so you must be careful to preserve them when replacing original declarations with new ones
       from .dcl or .dcn files.

SEE ALSO
       d2s(1), dtoq(1), dtos(1), ftnchek(1), make(1), pfort(1), qtod(1), s2d(1), stod(1).

AUTHOR
       Nelson H. F. Beebe, Ph.D.
       Center for Scientific Computing
       Department of Mathematics
       University of Utah
       Salt Lake City, UT 84112
       Tel: +1 801 581 5254
       FAX: +1 801 581 4148
       Email: <beebe@math.utah.edu>

Version 1.00                                                                                   12 March 1995                                                                                     DCL2INC(1)
