FTP-UPLOAD(1p)                                                                      User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                      FTP-UPLOAD(1p)

NAME
       ftp-upload - batch transfer local files to an FTP server

SYNOPSIS
       ftp-upload [any-switch]... {[repeatable-switch]... file...}...

DESCRIPTION
       ftp-upload is used to send local files to an FTP server.  It isn't interactive, it's meant to be used from scripts.  It is disciplined about its exit value and it doesn't output informational
       messages by default.

       There are two kinds of switches.  Initial switches have to appear before any filenames, they affect the session as a whole.  Repeatable switches can appear interspersed with the file names, they
       affect the transfer of the files which appear after them on the command line.

OPTIONS
   Initial switches
       These have to be used before any file names listed on the command line.

       --debug
           Turn debugging on.

       --help
           Show the usage message and die.

       --ignore-quit-failure
           Don't  complain or set a failure exit code just because the QUIT command fails.  This can be necessary because some servers, in blatant disregard of RFC 959, close the command channel when you
           send them an ABOR command.

       -v, --verbose
           Print informational messages to stdout.

       --version
           Show the version number and exit.

   Initial switches which specify connection information
       These also have to be used before any file names listed on the command line.  They specify the information used to set up the FTP connection.

       --account account
           This specifies the account to be used when logging into the remote system.  This is distinct from the user name used to log in.  Few systems need this.  There is no default.

       -h, --host host
           Specify the host to which to connect.  There is no default, you have to specify this switch.

       --passive
           Force the use of passive (PASV) transfers.  Passive transfers are required with some firewall configurations, but if you have such you'd do better to configure Net::FTP so that it  knows  when
           to  use them (see Net::Config).  If you need to use passive transfers with certain (broken) servers, however, this switch is your best bet.  Alternatively, you can set $FTP_PASSIVE to 1 in the
           environment (see Net::FTP).

       --no-passive
           Force the use of active mode transfers.  Active mode is the default so this is only required if your Net::Config or $FTP_PASSIVE turn passive mode on.

       --password pw
           This gives the password which will be used to login.  The default is your email address.

           Note that you should not specify a real (secret) password this way, as on most systems anybody on the machine can see the arguments you pass to your  commands.   Use  one  of  other  password-
           setting switches instead.

       -s, --password-stdin
           This tells ftp-upload to read the password from standard input.  No prompt will be printed, and a single line will be read.  Most people will use this switch to specify the password.  Eg,

               echo 3x9sjJJh | ftp-upload -sh $host -u $user $file

           Using echo this way is safe where the --password switch isn't if the echo command is built in to the shell.

       --password-fd fd
           This is like --password-stdin except that it reads the password from the file descriptor numbered fd.

               ftp-upload -h $host -u $user --password-fd=3 3<$pw_file $file

       -u, --user user
           Specify the user name to use when logging in.  The default is "anonymous".

   Repeatable switches
       These switches can be used anywhere on the command line (except after the last file name).  They affect the transfer of files listed after them.

       --as remote-name
           Normally a file is transferred using the same name it has locally.  If you use this switch the next file transferred will be called remote-name on the other host instead.

               ftp-upload --host $host --as index.htm index.html

       -a, --ascii
           Perform transfers in ASCII mode.

       -b, --binary
           Perform transfers in binary mode.  This is the default.

       -d, --dir dir
           Change  directory  to  dir  on the FTP server before continuing.  You can use this multiple times between files, ftp-upload will chdir once for each time you specify it.  Using ".." as the dir
           will cause an FTP "CDUP" to be done rather than a "CWD".

       --full-path
           Normally uploaded files go into the current directory on the remote host, even when the local file name given contains slashes.  Eg, if you say

               ftp-upload -h $host /etc/motd

           ftp-upload will upload the file as motd, not /etc/motd.  This differs from how the standard ftp program works, and it also differs with how ftp-upload worked before version 1.3.

           If you specify --full-path, you'll get the other behavior.  A request to upload dir/file will tell the server to store dir/file rather than file.

           When you use --as the --full-path setting doesn't matter.  --full-path only tells the program what name to use when it's choosing the name.

       --no-full-path
           Disable --full-path.  This is the default.

       -l, --ls
           Try to get a remote directory listing of files after transferring them.  I say "try" because there's no guaranteed way to do this with the FTP protocol.  The command  I  run  is  "LIST  file".
           This will generally work if file doesn't contain any special characters.

       -L, --no-ls
           Disable the --ls behavior.

       --tmp-none
           Transfer  files  directly,  don't  do  anything  special  to  try  to  ensure  that they don't appear under their real names on the remote machine until the transfer is finished.  Each file is
           transferred with a single simple "STOR".  This is the default.

       --tmp-samedir
           Transfer files to the remote machine using a temporary name, then rename them when the transfer finishes.  This won't work if the remote server doesn't give  a  recognizable  response  to  the
           "STOU" command.

           If  the  server's  response  to  "STOU" isn't recognized by Net::FTP but is reasonable, Graham Barr might be willing to change Net::FTP to recognize it.  If you like you can send the "--debug"
           output to me and I'll coordinate such requests.

       --tmp-dir dir
           Transfer files to dir on the remote host, then rename them when the transfer is complete.  This is safer than --tmp-samedir because it doesn't use "STOU" and so it works with more servers.

               ftp-upload -h $host --tmp-dir incoming $file

       --tmp-format fmt
           Transfer files to "sprintf(fmt, file base name)", then rename them when the transfer is complete.  Like --tmp-dir, this is safer than --tmp-samedir because it doesn't  use  "STOU"  and  so  it
           works with more servers.

               ftp-upload -h $host --tmp-format tmp.%s $file

AUTHOR
       Roderick Schertler <roderick@argon.org>

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2022-11-21                                                                                  FTP-UPLOAD(1p)
