ftpwho(1)                   General Commands Manual                  ftpwho(1)

NAME
       ftpwho - show current process information for each FTP session

SYNOPSIS
       ftpwho

DESCRIPTION
       The  ftpwho  command  shows  process information for all active proftpd
       connections, and a count of all connected users  off  of  each  server.
       Proftpd  sesssions spawned from inetd are counted separately from those
       created by a master proftpd standalone server.

OPTIONS
       -h,--help   Display a short usage description, including all  available
                   options.

       -f,--file scoreboard-file
                   Specify the full path to proftpd's run-time scoreboard file
                   (configured   via   the   ScoreboardFile    directive    in
                   proftpd.conf  ).   If  proftpd's default directory has been
                   changed via this directive, ftpwho must  either  be  recom‐
                   piled,  or  this  option  must  be  used  in  order to find
                   proftpd's scoreboard.

       -o,--outform format
                   Specify an output format.   Currently,  three  formats  are
                   supported:  compat,oneline  and json.  The compat format is
                   used for backward compatibility.  The oneline format causes
                   all of the fields for a session to be displayed on a single
                   line, for ease of line-based  searches  (e.g.  grep).   The
                   json format emits all of the information as a JSON object.

       -v,--verbose
                   Reports additional information for each connection, such as
                   the remote host and current working directory.  -S,--server
                   server-name  Specify  the ServerName for a specific virtual
                   host.  If used, ftpwho will only show  session  information
                   for the given virtual host.

FILES
       /usr/bin/ftpwho
       /run/proftpd/proftpd.scoreboard

AUTHORS
       ProFTPD  is  written and maintained by a number of people, full credits
       can be found on http://www.proftpd.org/credits.html

SEE ALSO
       inetd(8),ftp(1),proftpd(8),ftpcount(1),ftptop(1),ftpshut(8)

       Full documentation on ProFTPD, including  configuration  and  FAQs,  is
       available at http://www.proftpd.org/

       For   help/support,   try   the  ProFTPD  mailing  lists,  detailed  on
       http://www.proftpd.org/lists.html

       Report bugs at http://bugs.proftpd.org/

                                  March 2003                         ftpwho(1)
