FTVALID(1)                  General Commands Manual                 FTVALID(1)

NAME
       ftvalid - font layout table validator

SYNOPSIS
       ftvalid [options] fontfile

DESCRIPTION
       ftvalid is an OpenType layout table validator.

       This program is part of the FreeType demos package.

OPTIONS
       -f index
              Select font index (default: 0).

       -t validator
              Select validator.  Available validators are ot, gx, and ckern.

              Note that the availability of validators depends on compile-time
              options of FreeType (this is, whether the modules `otvalid'  and
              `gxvalid' are compiled into the library).

       -T tbls
              [ot,  gx]  Select sfnt table name tags to be validated.  Use `:'
              to separate tags.

              Supported tables in ot validator are  BASE,  GDEF,  GPOS,  GSUB,
              JSTF, and MATH.

              Supported  tables  in  gx  validator are feat, mort, morx, bsln,
              just, kern, opbd, trak, prop, and lcar.

              Example: -T "feat:morx"

       -T dialect
              [ckern] Select classic kern dialect for validation.  Use `:'  to
              separate  dialect names.  If more than one dialect is specified,
              all dialects are accepted when validating.

              Supported dialects in ckern validator are ms and apple.

       -l     List the layout-related SFNT tables available in the font  file.
              The selected validator (with option -t) affects the list.

              ckern  is  applicable to `kern' table only.  Option -L lists di‐
              alects supported in ckern validator  only  if  `kern'  table  is
              available in the font file.

       -V level
              Validation  level.   Possible values are 0 (default), 1 (tight),
              and 2 (paranoid).

       -v     Show version.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       FT2_DEBUG
              You can specify `component:level' pairs for tracing.  level must
              be in the range [1,7].

              Available  components for ot validator are otvmodule, otvcommon,
              otvbase, otvgdef, otvgpos, otvgsub, and otvjstf.

              Available components for gx validator are gxvmodule,  gxvcommon,
              gxvfeat,  gxvmort,  gxvmorx, gxvbsln, gxvjust, gxvkern, gxvopbd,
              gxvtrak, gxvprop, and gxvlcar.

              Available component for ckern validator is gxvkern only.

              Example: FT2_DEBUG="otvcommon:5 gxvkern:7"

              FT2_DEBUG  only  works  if  tracing  support  is  compiled  into
              FreeType.

FreeType 2.11.0                    July 2021                        FTVALID(1)
