FUNGULOIDS(6)                                                                                Games Manual                                                                                FUNGULOIDS(6)

NAME
       funguloids - "Those Funny Funguloids!"

SYNOPSIS
       funguloids

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the funguloids command.

       funguloids is a the command to run and play the game "Those Funny Funguloids!".

SEE ALSO
       /usr/share/doc/funguloids
       http://funguloids.sourceforge.net

CREDITS
       "Those Funny Funguloids!" was primarily developed by:
       Code: Mika Halttunen <lsoftNOSPAM@mbnet.fi>
       Game Design: Teemu Ruokolainen
       Artwork: Mika Halttunen
       Sound Design & Music: Teemu Ruokolainen

LICENSE
       "Those Funny Funguloids!" is licensed under the zlib/libpng license.  Copyright (C) 2006-2007, Mika Halttunen & Teemu Ruokolainen

       This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.

       Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:

          1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
          that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an
          acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not
          required.
          2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
          misrepresented as being the original software.
          3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

       This manual page was written by Andres Mejia <mcitadel@gmail.com>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                             July 10, 2007                                                                               FUNGULOIDS(6)
