FUSEFATFS(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              FUSEFATFS(1)

NAME
       fusefatfs, vufusefatfs - mount FAT file systems using FUSE and vufuse

SYNOPSIS
       fusefatfs [-hVdfs] [-o options ] disk_image mountpoint

       in a umvu session:

       mount -t vufusefatfs [-o options ] disk_image mountpoint

DESCRIPTION
       fusefatfs mounts the file tree contained in disk_image on the directory mountpoint.  It supports FAT12, FAT16, FAT32 and exFAT formats.

       vufusefatfs is the VUOS/vufuse submodule of fusefatfs

OPTIONS
       fusefatfs  is  build upon FUSE (Filesystem in Userspace) library.  the complete set of available options depends upon the specific FUSE installed.  Execute fusefatfs -h to retrieve the actual com‐
       plete list.

   general options
       -o opt,[opt...]
              FUSE and file specific mount options.

       -h     display a usage and options summary

       -V   --version
              display version

   fusefatfs specific options
       -o ro  mount the file system in read-only mode.

       -o rw  mount the file system in read-write mode only if also -o force is present.  Read-write mounting can potentially manage the file system structure so an extra option is required to  test  the
              awareness fo the user.

       -o force
              confirm the request of read-write access.

       -o rw+ mount the file system in read-write mode, a shortcut of -o rw,force.

   main FUSE mount options
       These options are not valid in VUOS/vufuse.

       -d   -o debug
              enable debug output (implies -f)

       -f     foreground operation

       -s     disable multi-threaded operation

SEE ALSO
       fuse(8), umvu(1)

CREDITS
       fusefatfs is based on the FAT file system module for embedded systems fatfs developed by ChaN: http://elm-chan.org.

AUTHOR
       VirtualSquare.  Project leader: Renzo Davoli.

VirtualSquare                                                                                    March 2025                                                                                    FUSEFATFS(1)
