fuzzel.ini(5)                                                                               File Formats Manual                                                                               fuzzel.ini(5)

NAME
       fuzzel.ini - configuration file for fuzzel(1)

DESCRIPTION
       fuzzel  uses  the standard unix configuration format, with section based key/value pairs. The default section is usually unnamed, i.e. not prefixed with a [section]. However it can also be explic‐
       itly named [main], say if it needs to be reopened after any of the other sections.

       fuzzel will search for a configuration file in the following locations, in this order:

           •   XDG_CONFIG_HOME/fuzzel/fuzzel.ini (defaulting to ~/.config/fuzzel/fuzzel.ini if unset)
           •   XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/fuzzel/fuzzel.ini (defaulting to /etc/xdg/fuzzel/fuzzel.ini if unset)

       An example configuration file containing all options with their default value commented out will usually be installed to /etc/xdg/fuzzel/fuzzel.ini.

SECTION: main
       include
           Absolute path to configuration file to import.

           The import file has its own section scope. I.e. the including configuration is still in the default section after the include, regardless of which section the included file ends in.

               •   The path must be an absolute path, or start with ~/.
               •   Multiple include directives are allowed, but only one path per directive.
               •   Nested imports are allowed.

           Default: not set.

       output
           Output (monitor) to display on. You can list the available outputs with wlr-randr or with Sway using swaymsg -t get_outputs.

           Example: DP-1

           Default: Not set-- let the compositor choose output.

       font
           Comma separated list of fonts to use, in fontconfig format. That is, a font name followed by a list of colon-separated options. Most noteworthy is :size=n, which is used to set the font  size.
           Note that the font size is also affected by the dpi-aware option.

           Examples:
               •   Dina:weight=bold:slant=italic
               •   Courier New:size=12
               •   Fantasque Sans Mono:fontfeatures=ss01

           Default: monospace.

       use-bold
           Boolean. When set, fuzzel may use bold fonts. For example, for the currently selected item. Default: no

       dpi-aware
           auto, yes, or no.

           When set to yes, fonts are sized using the monitor's DPI, making a font of a given size have the same physical size, regardless of monitor.

           In this mode, the monitor's scaling factor is ignored; doubling the scaling factor will not double the font size.

           When set to no, the monitor's DPI is ignored. The font is instead sized using the monitor's scaling factor; doubling the scaling factor does double the font size.

           Finally,  if  set  to  auto,  fonts  will  be sized using the monitor's DPI if all monitors have a scaling factor of 1. If at least one monitor as a scaling factor larger than 1 (regardless of
           whether the fuzzel window is mapped on that monitor or not), fonts will be scaled using the scaling factor.

           Note that this option typically does not work with bitmap fonts, which only contains a pre-defined set of sizes, and cannot be dynamically scaled. Whichever size (of the available  ones)  that
           best matches the DPI or scaling factor, will be used.

           Also  note that if the font size has been specified in pixels (:pixelsize=N, instead of :size=N), DPI scaling (dpi-aware=yes) will have no effect (the specified pixel size will be used as is).
           But, if the monitor's scaling factor is used to size the font (dpi-aware=no), the font's pixel size will be multiplied with the scaling factor.

           Default: auto.

       placeholder
           Text to display as placeholder in the input box. Default: empty.

       prompt
           String to use as input prompt. Note that trailing spaces are trimmed, unless the string is quoted. Default: "> ".

       icon-theme
           Icon theme. Note that the name is case sensitive. Default: hicolor.

       icons-enabled
           Boolean. When enabled, application icons (from the selected icon-theme) will be rendered. Default: yes.

       hide-before-typing
           Boolean. When enabled, application list will be hidden until the first letter is typed. When the prompt is cleared again, the list will appear. Default: no.

       fields
           Comma separated list of XDG Desktop entry fields to match against.

           Even though fuzzel only displays the application names, matching can (and by default is) be done against other fields as well. Supported fields are:

           •   filename
           •   name
           •   generic
           •   exec
           •   categories
           •   keywords
           •   comment

           "filename" is the ".desktop" file name.

           Default: filename,name,generic.

       password-character
           Default character to use with the command line option --password. Note that this can be overridden on the command line, by explicitly specifying the character with --password=X. Default: *.

       match-mode
           One of exact, fzf and fuzzy.

           exact: what you type is matched exactly against each field in the fields list.

           fzf: fzf-style matching, where substrings from what you have typed are matched against each field in the fields list.

           fuzzy: levenshtein-based fuzzy matching of what you have typed against each field in the fields list.

           Default: fzf

       sort-result
           Boolean. Whether to sort the result or not. Disabling sorting means no comparisons will be made between match results. I.e. launch count, match length, etc will be  ignored.  This  effectively
           disables the cache (though, the cache is still updated on exit).

           This can improve search latency when searching very large data sets.

           Default: yes

       match-counter
           Boolean. When enabled, the match count and total count is displayed on the right-hand side of the input prompt. Disabling the counter also improves performance when loading a very large number
           of dmenu entries from STDIN.

           Default: no.

       filter-desktop
           Boolean. Filter desktop files based on the value of XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP.

       show-actions
           Boolean. Some desktop files define "actions", in addition to the application itself. Examples are "new window", "preferences", etc. When this option is enabled, those actions will be listed by
           fuzzel. Default: no.

       terminal
           terminal command to use when launching 'terminal' programs, e.g. "xterm -e". Default: $TERMINAL -e.

       list-executables-in-path
           Boolean. When enabled, the list will include executables from the PATH environment variable. Default: no.

       launch-prefix
           Prefix  to add before argv of executed program. If set, fuzzel will pass the Desktop File ID of the chosen application (see the Desktop Entry specification) in the FUZZEL_DESKTOP_FILE_ID envi‐
           ronment variables. Default: not set.

       anchor
           Set window anchor, i.e. where on screen the window will be displayed.  You can choose one from:

           •   top-left
           •   top
           •   top-right
           •   left
           •   center
           •   right
           •   bottom-left
           •   bottom
           •   bottom-right

           Default: center

       x-margin
           Horizontal margin away from the anchor point in pixels. Default: 0.

           Note: this option has no effect when anchor=center, top or bottom.

       y-margin
           Vertical margin away from the anchor point in pixels. Default: 0.

           Note: this option has no effect when anchor=center, left or right.

       lines
           Number of matches to show. Default: 15.

       width
           Window width, in characters. Border and margins are not included in this. Default: 30.

       tabs
           Number of spaces a tab is expanded to. Default: 8.

       horizontal-pad
           Horizontal padding, in pixels, between border and content. Default: 40.

       vertical-pad
           Vertical padding, in pixels, between border and content. Default: 8.

       inner-pad
           Vertical padding between prompt and match list, in pixels. Default: 0.

       image-size-ratio
           The ratio of the large image displayed when there are only a "few" matches, compared to the full window size. Set to 1 to disable the the large images. Default: 0.5.

       line-height
           Override line height from font metrics. Default: use font metrics.

       letter-spacing
           Additional letter spacing. Negative values are allowed. Default: 0.

       layer
           Which layer to render the fuzzel window on. Valid values are top and overlay.

           top renders above normal windows, but typically below fullscreen windows and lock screens.

           overlay renders on top of both normal windows and fullscreen windows. Note that the order is undefined if several windows use the same layer. Since e.g. lock  screens  typically  use  overlay,
           that means fuzzel may or may not appear on top of a lock screen.

           Default: overlay

       keyboard-focus
           Keyboard focusing mode, valid modes are exclusive and on-demand.

           exclusive locks keyboard focus to fuzzel, receiving all keyboard input until closed.

           on-demand  makes  fuzzel focus like a regular window, allowing other windows to take keyboard focus by e.g. clicking on them. By default switching keyboard focus will immediately close fuzzel,
           using exit-on-keyboard-focus-loss=no allows interacting with other windows while fuzzel is open.

           Default: exclusive

       exit-on-keyboard-focus-loss
           Boolean. If true, exit when the fuzzel window loses keyboard focus.

           Setting this to false can be useful on compositors where enabling "focus-follows-mouse" causes fuzzel to exit as soon as the mouse is moved over another window. Sway (<= 1.7) exhibits this be‐
           havior, for example.

           Default: yes

       render-workers
           Number of threads to use for rendering. Set to 0 to disable multithreading. Default: the number of available logical CPUs (including SMT). Note that this is not always the best value. In  some
           cases, the number of physical cores is better.

       match-workers
           Number  of  threads to use for matching. Set to 0 to disable multithreading. Default: the number of available logical CPUs (including SMT). Note that this is not always the best value. In some
           cases, the number of physical cores is better.

       delayed-filter-ms
           Time, in milliseconds, to delay refiltering when there are more matches than delayed-filter-limit. Default: 300.

       delayed-filter-limit
           When there are more matches than this, switch from immediate refiltering to delayed refiltering (see delayed-filter-ms). Default: 20000.

       cache
           Specify the default cache location. If unset, $XDG_CACHE_HOME/fuzzel will be used. Set to /dev/null to disable caching. Default: not set.

SECTION: colors
       All color values are in RGBA.

       background
           Background color. Default: fdf6e3ff.

       text
           Text (foreground) color of unselected entries. Default: 657b83ff.

       prompt
           Text (foreground) color of prompt character(s). Default: 586e75ff.

       placeholder
           Text (foreground) color of the placeholder string. Default: 93a1a1ff.

       input
           Text (foreground) color of input string. Default: 657b83ff.

       match
           Text (foreground) color of the matched substring. Default: cb4b16ff.

       selection
           Background color of the selected entry. Default: eee8d5ff.

       selection-text
           Text (foreground) color of the selected entry. Default: 586e75ff.

       selection-match
           Text (foreground) color of the matched substring of the selected entry. Default: cb4b16ff.

       counter=HEX
           The color of the match count stats printed at the right-hand side of the input prompt. See COLORS. Default: 93a1a1ff.

       border
           Border color. Default: 002b36ff.

SECTION: border
       width
           Width of the border, in pixels. Default: 1.

       radius
           Amount of corner "roundness". Default: 10.

SECTION: dmenu
       mode
           One of text or index. Determines what fuzzel prints on stdout when an entry is selected: text prints the entry itself, index prints the index of the selected entry. Index values start at  zero
           for the first entry. Default: text.

       exit-immediately-if-empty
           Boolean. If enabled, fuzzel will not run at all (i.e. it will not open a window, and will not print anything on stdout) if there's nothing on stdin. Default: no.

SECTION: key-bindings
       This section lets you override the default key bindings.

       The general format is action=combo1...comboN. That is, each action may have one or more key combinations, space separated. Each combination is in the form mod1+mod2+key. The names of the modifiers
       and the key must be valid XKB key names.

       Note that if Shift is one of the modifiers, the key must not be in upper case. For example, Control+Shift+V will never trigger, but Control+Shift+v will.

       Note that Alt is usually called Mod1.

       xkbcli interactive-wayland can be useful for finding keysym names.

       A  key  combination  can  only be mapped to one action. Lets say you want to bind Control+k to next. Since this is the default shortcut for delete-line-forward, you must unmap the default binding.
       This can be done by setting action=none; e.g. delete-line-forward=none.

       cancel
           Quit fuzzel without executing anything. Default: Control+g Control+c Control+bracketleft Escape.

       execute
           Execute the currently selected entry. Or, in dmenu mode, print the selected entry on stdout. Default: Return KP_Enter Control+y.

       execute-or-next
           If there is a single match, execute it. Or, in dmenu mode, print the selected entry on stdout. If there are more than one match, select the next entry. Wraps around when  the  last  entry  has
           been reached. Default: Tab.

       execute-input
           Execute the raw input as is, regardless of whether it matches anything in the list or not. In dmenu mode, prints the selected entry on stdout instead. Default: Shift+Return Shift+KP_Enter.

       cursor-left
           Moves the cursor one character to the left. Default: Left Control+b.

       cursor-left-word
           Moves the cursor one word to the left. Default: Control+Left Mod1+b.

       cursor-right
           Moves the cursor one character to the right. Default: Right Control+f.

       cursor-right-word
           Moves the cursor one word to the right. Default: Control+Right Mod1+f.

       cursor-home
           Moves the cursor to the beginning of the input. Default: Home Control+a.

       cursor-end
           Moves the cursor to the end of the input. Default: End Control+e.

       delete-input
           There is no standalone binding to clear the input. Use Control+a to go into the beginning of the input, followed the delete-line-forward binding. By default, Control+k.

       delete-line-backward
           Deletes everything before the cursor. Default: Control+u.

       delete-line-forward
           Deletes everything after the cursor. Default: Control+k.

       delete-prev
           Deletes the character before the cursor. Default: BackSpace Control+h.

       delete-prev-word
           Deletes the word before the cursor. Default: Mod1+BackSpace Control+BackSpace Control+w.

       delete-next
           Deletes the character after the cursor. Default: Delete.

       delete-next-word
           Deletes the word after the cursor. Default: Mod1+d Control+Delete.

       insert-selected
           Copies the selected entry to the prompt, replacing the current prompt. In application mode, the Exec line is inserted, and in dmenu mode the entry itself is used. Default: Control+Tab.

       expunge
           Removes the currently selected entry from the cache (of most commonly launched applications). Default: Shift+Delete.

       clipboard-paste
           Pastes from the clipbard. Default: Control+v XF86Paste.

       primary-paste
           Pastes from the primary selection. This action is also bound to the middle mouse button (this is currently not configurable). Default: Shift+Insert Shift+KP_Insert.

       prev
           Select the previous entry. Does not wrap around when the first entry has been reached. Default: Up Control+p.

       prev-with-wrap
           Select the previous entry. Wraps around when the first entry has been reached. Default: ISO_Left_Tap. (Shift+Tab)

       prev-page
           Switch to the previous page. Default: PageUp KP_PageUp.

       next
           Select the next entry. Does not wrap around when the last entry has been reached. Default: Down Control+n.

       next-with-wrap
           Select the next entry. Wraps around when the last entry has been reached. Default: unbound.

       next-page
           Switch to the next page. Default: Page_Down KP_Page_Down.

       first
           Select the first entry, on the first page. Default: Control+Home.

       last
           Select the last entry, on the last page. Default: Control+End.

       custom-1, custom-2, ..., custom-19
           Execute the currently selected entry, then exit with a non-zero exit code. custom-1 exits with exit code 10, custom-2 with 11, custom-3 with 12, and so on.

           Default:
               •   custom-1: Mod1+1
               •   custom-2: Mod1+2
               •   custom-3: Mod1+3
               •   custom-4: Mod1+4
               •   custom-5: Mod1+5
               •   custom-6: Mod1+6
               •   custom-7: Mod1+7
               •   custom-8: Mod1+8
               •   custom-9: Mod1+9
               •   custom-10: Mod1+10
               •   custom-11: Mod1+11
               •   custom-12: Mod1+12
               •   custom-13: Mod1+13
               •   custom-14: Mod1+14
               •   custom-15: Mod1+15
               •   custom-16: Mod1+16
               •   custom-17: Mod1+17
               •   custom-18: Mod1+18
               •   custom-19: Mod1+19

SEE ALSO
       •   fuzzel(1)
       •   https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html
       •   https://codeberg.org/dnkl/fuzzel

                                                                                                 2025-04-12                                                                                   fuzzel.ini(5)
