galileorc(5)                                                                                File Formats Manual                                                                                galileorc(5)

NAME
       galileorc - configuration files for the galileo Fitbit synchronization utility

DESCRIPTION
       The  galileorc  file is used to provide default settings to the galileo(1) utility. Any settings that would normally be passed as command-line arguments to galileo can, instead, be present in this
       configuration file to prevent having to repeat them again and again.

       Settings provided in the configuration files can be overridden by run-time command-line switches. See galileo(1)

FILES
       The following files will be read if present. Later one override previous settings and settings provided on the command-line override settings defined in configuration files.

       •      /etc/galileo/config

       •      $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/galileo/config (The XDG_CONFIG_HOME environment variable default to ~/.config if not defined)

       •      ~/.galileorc

       •      any file specified with the -c command-line switch

SYNTAX
       The settings file is defined in YAML format. Blank lines and comments (from the first hash character '#' to the end of the line) are ignored.

       The configuration file is parsed as a dictionary of settings, which means that each setting is defined using a keyword followed by a colon character. For single-value settings (the majority),  the
       value follows the colon, for example:

       do-upload: true

       For settings of type list (such as the tracker ID inclusion and exclusion lists), the values appear with an indentation on subsequent lines and prefixed with a dash, for example:

       include:
         - '123456789ABC'
         - '9876543210AB'

SETTINGS
       The  following  settings  can  be  added to the configuration files - not all options have to be specified; any that are not mentioned will leave the defaults in effect. See galileo(1) for details
       about the default values.

       logging
              controls the amount of progress output. Can be verbose to display progress during synchronization, debug for more detailed information useful for diagnosing problems, or  quiet  to  display
              only a warning and error messages.

       syslog setting  this  to  true  will  send  all logging output to the syslog facility. Due to the rate-limiting of some syslog servers, this option might not work in combination with the debug log
              level.

       include
              the list of tracker IDs to synchronize. If this is specified then only trackers from this list will be synchronised.

       exclude
              the list of tracker IDs not to synchronize.

       force-sync
              setting this to true causes trackers to be synchronized even if they report that they already have been synchronized recently.

       daemon-period
              this defines, in milliseconds, the period at which a synchronisation attempt will be performed when galileo is run in daemon mode.

       keep-dumps
              setting this to true causes galileo to save the data retrieved from trackers to the directory specified in dump-dir.

       dump-dir
              the directory used for saving tracker data if the keep-dumps option is set.

       do-upload
              setting this to false will prevent galileo from sending tracker data to the Fitbit web service.

       fitbit-server
              this setting allow to specify the name of the server to connect to when performing the synchronization.

       https-only
              setting this to false will allow galileo to fallback to unencrypted HTTP if HTTPS fails for sending tracker data to the Fitbit web service.

       hardcoded-ui
              This is a structured section that includes the answers needed during the pairing/firmware update process.

EXAMPLE
       The following is an example configuration file:

       daemon-period: 60000
       keep-dumps: false
       do-upload: true
       dump-dir: ~/.galileo-tracker-data
       logging: verbose
       force-sync: false
       https-only: false
       include:
         - '123456789ABC'
         - '9876543210AB'
       exclude:
         - 'AABBCCDDEEFF'
         - '881144BB1234'

SEE ALSO
       <http://www.yaml.org>
              The official YAML homepage, with more background information on the YAML file format.

       galileo(1)
              The galileo utility which uses these configuration files for default settings.

       <https://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo>
              The galileo homepage where additional information is available.

AUTHOR
       Written and maintained by Benoît Allard, with contributions from other authors.

BUGS
       Tracker IDs which consist of only numbers must be surrounded with single quotes (as in the EXAMPLE section above). It's probably a good idea to always quote tracker IDs to  avoid  possible  confu‐
       sion.

       Please report additional bugs to <https://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo/issues>.

0.5.1                                                                                            June 2014                                                                                     galileorc(5)
