GAUCHE-PACKAGE(1)               Gauche Commands              GAUCHE-PACKAGE(1)

NAME
       gauche-package - gauche package builder/manager

SYNOPSIS
       gauche-package COMMAND [OPTION...] [ARGS...]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the gauche-package command.

       This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the
       original program does not have a manual page. Instead, it has
       documentation in the GNU info(1) format; see below.

       gauche-package is a program to create, download, compile, install and
       list gauche extension packages.

COMMANDS
       A summary of commands is included below. For a complete description,
       see the info(1) files and the output of the help command.

       build
           Fetch and build package.

       compile
           Compile and link an extension module from sources.

       generate
           Generate template source tree for a new Gauche extension.

       help
           Show detailed help.

       install
           Fetch, build and install package.

       list
           List known installed packages.

       make-gpd
           Make gpd file (called from the configure script).

       make-tarball
           Make tarball of the package distribution..

       reconfigure
           Show configure options of package.

DIAGNOSTICS
       gauche-package exits with status 0 on success.

SEE ALSO
       The program is (will be?) documented fully by the Gauche Developers´
       Reference and the rference manual of Gauche available via the info(1)
       system and provides usage information via the help command.

AUTHORS
       Shiro Kawai <shiro@acm.org>
           Author.

       Jens Thiele <karme@karme.de>
           Wrote this manpage for the Debian system.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2010 Jens Thiele

       Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
       are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is,
       without any warranty.

Gauche 0.9.10                                                GAUCHE-PACKAGE(1)
