GAUCHE-CONFIG(1)                Gauche Commands               GAUCHE-CONFIG(1)

NAME
       gauche-config - retrieve configuration parameters of Gauche

SYNOPSIS
       gauche-config option

DESCRIPTION
       Gauche-config  displays  various parameters specified at the configura‐
       tion time of the Gauche Scheme implementation.  It can be used in Make‐
       file and other configuration scripts that uses Gauche.

OPTIONS
   General parameters
       -V   Gauche version.

       --reconfigure
            Prints  the  command line used to configure the current Gauche in‐
            stallation.  It is pretty handy to configure another Gauche source
            tree  with  the same configuration; just type `gauche-config --re‐
            configure | sh'.

   Parameters to compile an application using Gauche
       -I, -L, -l
              List of "-I" options (include directories),  "-L"  options  (li‐
              brary  directories),  and  "-l" options (libraries) for the com‐
              piler which are required  to  compile  applications  that  links
              Gauche library.

       --cc   Name of the compiler used to compile the current installation.

       --ac   Directory name that contains Gauche specific autoconf macro.

       --arch The architecture signature, which is used in the pathname of ar‐
              chitecture-dependent files, e.g. "i686-pc-linux-gnu".

   Parameters to install files
       --syslibdir, --sysarchdir, --sysincdir
              Directories where the Gauche core system's Scheme files,  archi‐
              tecture-dependent files, and header files are installed, respec‐
              tively.  These directories belong  to  Gauche  core;  additional
              packages should not put files in them.

       --sitelibdir, --sitearchdir, --siteincdir
              Directories where the additional packages will put Scheme files,
              architecture-dependent files, and header files, respectively.

       --pkglibdir, --pkgarchdir, --pkgincdir
              Same as --sitelibdir etc, except that the base directory name is
              left  as `${datadir}'.  The result is suitable to be embedded in
              Makefiles, for the base directory could be overridden  at  build
              time  rather  than  configure  time.   The  default template for
              Gauche extension packages use these options.

       --mandir, --infodir
              Directories where gauche manpage and info docs are installed.

   Parameters to compile Gauche extension
       --object-suffix
              Extension of the compiled objects (e.g. 'o').

       --executable-suffix
              Suffix of the executable (usually empty on  Unix  variants,  and
              '.exe'  on  Windows.   Note that '.' is a part of suffix in this
              option, as opposed to other -suffix options.

       --so-suffix
              Extension of  the  dynamically  loadable  (dlopen-able)  modules
              (e.g. 'so' or 'dll').

       --so-cflags
              Flags required to compile shared object.

       --so-ldflags
              Flags required to link a gauche extension.

       --so-libs
              Libraries to be linked with a gauche extension.

       --dylib-suffix
              Suffix for dynamically linked libraries.  Some unix variants re‐
              quire special suffix (such as 'dylib').  On other platforms this
              is the same as '--so-suffix'.

       --dylib-ldflags
              Flags  required  to  link dynamically linked library file.  Some
              unix variants require special flags.  On other platforms this is
              the same as '--so-ldflags'.

       --rpath-flag
              Compler flag(s) to embed RPATH in the binary.

       --libgauche-so
              The name of shared library of libgauche.

AUTHORS
       Shiro Kawai (shiro @ acm . org)

SEE ALSO
       gosh(1), gauche-package(1)

       Gauche Scheme script engine:
       https://practical-scheme.net/gauche/

Gauche 0.9.10                                                 GAUCHE-CONFIG(1)
