GBSPLAY(1)                                                           Gameboy sound player                                                          GBSPLAY(1)

NAME
       gbsplay - Gameboy sound player

SYNOPSIS
       gbsplay [OPTION]...  [--] GBS-FILE [START-AT-SUBSONG [STOP-AFTER-SUBSONG] ]

DESCRIPTION
       gbsplay emulates the sound hardware of the Nintendo Gameboy.  It is able to play the sounds from a Gameboy module dump (.GBS format) over /dev/dsp and
       other sound drivers.

OPTIONS
       -E endian
              Set endianness to endian.  Valid values are b, l and n for big, little and native endian respectively.

       -f fadeout-time
              Set fadeout time to fadeout-time seconds.  Instead of cutting the subsong off hard, do a soft fadeout.  Default value is 3 seconds.

       -g subsong-gap
              Set  subsong  gap  to  subsong-gap  seconds.  Before playing the next subsong after the subsong timeout, subsong-gap seconds of silence will be
              played.  Default value is 2 seconds.

       -h     Display short help and exit.

       -H filter
              Set output high-pass type to filter.  Valid values are dmg (Gameboy Classic), cgb (Gameboy Color) and off (no filter).  Default value is dmg.

       -l     Set loop mode to range (see LOOP MODES below).

       -L     Set loop mode to single (see LOOP MODES below).

       -o plugin
              Select sound output plugin plugin.  Select list to view a list of all available output plugins.  Default value depends on compilation options.

       -q     Be quieter, reduce verbosity.  Can be applied multiple times.  Default verbosity is 3.

       -r samplerate
              Set the samplerate to samplerate Hz.  Default value is 44100Hz.

       -R refresh-delay
              Set the refresh delay to refresh-delay milliseconds.  Larger values will lower CPU usage, but things as subsong changes, fadeouts, reactions to
              keypresses and the on-screen display will be delayed.  Default value is 33 milliseconds.

       -t subsong-timeout
              Set subsong timeout to subsong-timeout seconds.  When a subsong has been played for the given time, the player will skip to the  next  subsong.
              A timeout of 0 seconds disables automatic subsong changes.  Default value is 120 seconds.

       -T silence-timeout
              Set  silence timeout to silence-timeout seconds.  When a subsong contains silence for the given time, the player will skip to the next subsong.
              Default value is 2 seconds.

       -v     Increase verbosity, print more information.  Can be applied multiple times.  Default verbosity is 3.

       -V     Display version number and exit.

       -z     Play subsongs in shuffle mode.  Every subsong will be played once in random order.

       -Z     Play subsongs in random mode.  Like shuffle mode (-z), but a subsong can be played multiple times.

       -1     Mute channel 1 on start.

       -2     Mute channel 2 on start.

       -3     Mute channel 3 on start.

       -4     Mute channel 4 on start.

       --     Marks the end of options.  The next argument will be treated as a filename, even when starting with a -.

       GBS-FILE
              The sound file to play.  Must be in uncompressed .GBS format.

       START-AT-SUBSONG
              The subsong from the sound file to play first.  If not specified, the default song declared in the sound file will  be  played  unless  shuffle
              (-z) or random mode (-Z) are active.  An out-of-bounds number will be clipped to the possible range of subsongs.

       STOP-AFTER-SUBSONG
              The last subsong to be played.  See LOOP MODES below for further details.

KEYBOARD CONTROL
       gbsplay supports basic keyboard control.  The following commands are recognized:

       p      Skip to the previous subsong.

       n      Skip to the next subsong.

       q or Esc
              Quit gbsplay.

       Space  Toggle play/pause.

       1      Mute/unmute channel 1.

       2      Mute/unmute channel 2.

       3      Mute/unmute channel 3.

       4      Mute/unmute channel 4.

       l      Cycle through the available loop modes.  See LOOP MODES below for further details.

LOOP MODES
       gbsplay  supports  different  loop  modes that govern what happens when a subsong has finished playing.  The default loop mode is none.  When multiple
       loop modes are set, the last mode set wins.  The term first subsong refers to the parameter START-AT-SUBSONG if it is set, or the first subsong in the
       file otherwise.  The term next subsong refers to next subsong in numerical order unless shuffle mode (-z) or random mode (-Z) are  active.   The  term
       last subsong refers to the parameter STOP-AFTER-SUBSONG if it is set and not out-of-bounds, or the last subsong in the file otherwise.

       none   When a subsong has finished playing, the next subsong will start to play.  When the last subsong has finished playing, gbsplay will exit.

       range  When  a  subsong  has finished playing, the next subsong will start to play.  When the last subsong has finished playing, the fist subsong will
              start to play again.

       single When a subsong has finished playing, the same subsong will start to play again.  The STOP-AFTER-SUBSONG parameter will be ignored as no subsong
              change can occur.  The subsong-timeout parameter will be ignored as well, allowing the selected subsong to play endlessly  without  any  forced
              restarts.

OUTPUT PLUGINS
       Output  plugins  are sometimes called plugouts because that's shorter, so don't be confused.  Not all of the plugins listed here may be available, see
       `gbsplay -o list'.

       alsa   Use the ALSA sound driver for sound output.

       altmidi
              Alternative implementation of the MIDI output plugin (see midi below).  Should export more accurate note off events  (the  length  register  is
              taken  into  account),  but  generated MIDI files will be more complicated and fine grained and probably not suitable for editing or printing a
              score.

       devdsp Use the OSS sound driver for sound output via /dev/dsp.

       dsound Use the DirectSound sound driver for sound output on Microsoft Windows.

       iodumper
              Dump IO calls to the Gameboy sound hardware to stdout.  This reduces the verbosity to 0 (see -q) because stdout is used for the dumped data.

       midi   Write a simple MIDI conversion of the song into a separate file per subsong.  The files are called gbsplay-%d.mid, where %d  is  replaced  with
              the  subsong number.  The files are created in the current working directory and existing files are silently overwritten.  Only channels 1 to 3
              are converted to MIDI, because channel 4 contains noise data that can't be converted into MIDI note events.  Every GBS channel is exported to a
              separate MIDI channel.  When multiple voices share a channel, they will not be separated in the output.  The conversion  is  rather  basic  and
              complicated GBS files using tricks and hacks will not be converted properly.

       nas    Use the NAS sound driver for sound output to a Network Audio Server.

       pipewire
              Use the PipeWire sound driver for sound output.

       pulse  Use the Pulseaudio sound driver for sound output.

       sdl    Use  SDL  sound driver for sound output.  On Microsoft Windows, libSDL might use the wasapi audio backend by default which can result in choppy
              sound.  To fix this, set the environment variable SDL_AUDIODRIVER to directsound to select a different libSDL audio backend (or switch  to  the
              dsound plugout instead).

       stdout Dump  the  raw  audio stream to stdout.  This reduces the verbosity to 0 (see -q) because stdout is used for the dumped data.  The raw audio is
              always stereo (2 channels), 16 bit signed PCM.  Sample rate and endianness can be set via -r and -E.

       vgm    Write separate VGM files for every subsong.  The files are called gbsplay-%d.vgm, where %d is replaced with the subsong number.  The files  are
              created in the current working directory and existing files are silently overwritten.

       wav    Write  separate  WAV  files  (RIFF WAVE) for every subsong.  The files are called gbsplay-%d.wav, where %d is replaced with the subsong number.
              The files are created in the current working directory and existing files are silently overwritten.  The output is always encoded as stereo  (2
              channels), 16 bit signed PCM in little endian (the -E switch is ignored).  Sample rate can be set via -r.

FILES
       /etc/gbsplayrc
              Default location of the global configuration file.

       ~/.gbsplayrc
              User configuration file.

BUGS
       If you encounter bugs, please report them via https://github.com/mmitch/gbsplay/issues

AUTHORS
       gbsplay was written by Tobias Diedrich <ranma+gbsplay@tdiedrich.de> (with contributions from others, see README.md).

COPYRIGHT
       gbsplay is licensed under GNU GPL v1 or, at your option, any later version.

SEE ALSO
       gbsinfo(1), gbsplayrc(5)

Tobias Diedrich                                                            0.0.102                                                                 GBSPLAY(1)
