GDCMANON(1)                   DICOM Manipulation.                  GDCMANON(1)

NAME
       gdcmanon - Tool to anonymize a DICOM file.

SYNOPSIS
           gdcmanon [options] file-in file-out
           gdcmanon [options] dir-in  dir-out

DESCRIPTION
       The gdcmanon tool is an implementation of PS 3.15 / E.1 / Basic
       Application Level Confidentiality Profile (Implementation of E.1.1
       De-identify & E.1.2 Re-identify)

       This tool is split into two very different operating mode:

       •   An implementation of PS 3.15, see -e and -d flags

       •   A dumb mode, see –dumb

       Dumb mode and PS 3.15 do not work well together, you should really only
       use one type of anonymization. In case of doubt, avoid using –dumb.

       In order to use the PS 3.15 implementation (-d & -e flag), you'll need
       a certificate to do de-identification operations, and the associated
       private key to do the re-identification operation. If you are only
       doing a one-shot anonymization and do not need to properly re-identify
       the DICOM file, you can safely discard the private key and only keep
       the certificate. See OpenSSL refsection below for an example on how to
       generate the private key/certificate pair.

       gdcmanon will exit early if OpenSSL was not configured/build properly
       into the library (see GDCM_USE_SYSTEM_OPENSSL in cmake).

PARAMETERS
           file-in   DICOM input filename

           file-out  DICOM output filename

       or

           file-in   DICOM input directory

           file-out  DICOM output directory

OPTIONS
       You need to specify at least one operating mode, from the following
       list (and only one):

   Required parameters
             -e --de-identify            De-identify DICOM (default)
             -d --re-identify            Re-identify DICOM
                --dumb                   Dumb mode anonymizer

       Warning when operating in dumb mode, you need to also specify an
       operation to do, such as 'remove' or 'empty' a tag, see below the dumb
       mode options.

   specific options
             -i --input                  DICOM filename / directory
             -o --output                 DICOM filename / directory
             -r --recursive              recursively process (sub-)directories.
                --continue               Do not stop when file found is not DICOM.
                --root-uid               Root UID.
                --resources-path         Resources path.
             -k --key                    Path to RSA Private Key.
             -c --certificate            Path to Certificate.
             -p --password               Encryption passphrase.

   Crypto library options
                --crypto=
                      openssl            OpenSSL (default on non-Windows systems).
                      capi               Microsoft CryptoAPI (default on Windows systems).
                      openssl-p7         Old OpenSSL implementation.

   encryption options
                --des            DES.
                --des3           Triple DES.
                --aes128         AES 128.
                --aes192         AES 192.
                --aes256         AES 256.

   dumb mode options
                --empty   %d,%d           DICOM tag(s) to empty
                --remove  %d,%d           DICOM tag(s) to remove
                --replace %d,%d,%s        DICOM tag(s) to replace

   general options
             -h   --help
                    print this help text and exit

             -v   --version
                    print version information and exit

             -V   --verbose
                    verbose mode (warning+error).

             -W   --warning
                    warning mode, print warning information

             -E   --error
                    error mode, print error information

             -D   --debug
                    debug mode, print debug information

   environment variable
             GDCM_ROOT_UID Root UID
             GDCM_RESOURCES_PATH path pointing to resources files (Part3.xml, ...)

TYPICAL USAGE
   De-identification (anonymization, encrypt)
       The only thing required for this operation is a certificate file (in
       PEM format).

           $ gdcmanon --certificate certificate.pem -e original.dcm original_anonymized.dcm

       You can use –asn1 option from gdcmdump to dump the generated DataSet as
       ASN1 structure (see gdcmdump(1) for example).

   Re-identification (de-anonymization,decrypt)
       The only thing required for this operation is a private key (in PEM
       format). It is required that the private key used for the
       re-identification process, was the actual private key used to generate
       the certificate file (certificate.pem) used during the
       de-identification step.

           $ gdcmanon --key privatekey.pem -d original_anonymized.dcm original_copy.dcm

       You can then check that original.dcm and original_copy.dcm are
       identical.

   Multiple files caveat
       It is very important to understand the following refsection, when
       anonymizing more than one single file. When anonymizing multiple DICOM
       files, you are required to use the directory input. You cannot call
       multiple time the gdcmanon command line tool. Indeed the tool stores in
       memory during the process only a hash table of conversion so that each
       time a particular value is found it get always replaced by the same
       de-identified value (think: consistent Series Instance UID).

   Dumb mode
       This functionality is not described in the DICOM standard. Users are
       advised that improper use of that mode is not recommended, meaning that
       important tag can be emptied/removed/replaced resulting in
       illegal/invalid DICOM file. Only use when you know what you are doing.
       If you delete a Type 1 attribute, chance is that your DICOM file will
       be not accepted in most DICOM third party viewer. Unfortunately this is
       often this mode that is implemented in popular DICOM Viewer, always
       prefer what the DICOM standard describes, and avoid the dumb mode.

       The following example shows how to use dumb mode and achieve 5
       operations at the same time:

       •   Empty the tag (0010,0010) Patient's Name,

       •   Empty the tag (0010,0020) Patient ID,

       •   Remove the tag (0010,0040) Patient's Sex

       •   Remove the tag (0010,1010) Patient's Age

       •   Replace the tag (0010,1030) Patient's Weight with the value '10'

       You are required to check which DICOM attribute is Type 1 and Type 1C,
       before trying to 'Empty' or 'Remove' a particular DICOM attribute. For
       the same reason, you are required to check what are valid value in a
       replace operation.

           $ gdcmanon --dumb --empty 10,10 --empty 10,20 --remove 10,40 --remove 10,1010 --replace 10,1030,10 012345.002.050.dcm out.dcm

       Multiple operation of –dumb mode can take place, just reuse the output
       of the previous operation. Always use gdcmdump on the input and output
       file to check what was actually achieved. You can use a diff program to
       check only what changed (see gdcmdiff(1) for example).

       Irreversible Anonymization
           In some very rare cases, one would want to anonymize using the PS
           3.15 mode so as to take benefit of the automatic conversion of all
           content that could contain Patient related information.

           In the end all Patient related information has been removed and has
           been secretly stored in the 0400,0500 DICOM attribute. However to
           make sure that no-one ever try to break that security using
           brute-force algorithm, one want want to remove completely this
           DICOM attribute. This will make the DICOM:

           •   Completely free of any Patient related information (as per PS
               3.15 specification)

           •   Remove any mean of people to brute force attack the file to
               find out the identity of the Patient

           In this case one could simply do, as a first step execute the
           reversible anonymizer:

               $ gdcmanon -c certificate.pem input.dcm anonymized_reversible.dcm

           and now completely remove the DICOM attribute containing the
           secretly encrypted Patient related information:

               $ gdcmanon --dumb --remove 400,500 --remove 12,62 --remove 12,63 anonymized_reversible.dcm anonymized_irreversible.dcm

OPENSSL
       On most system you can have access to OpenSSL to generate the Private
       Key/Certificate pair.

   Generating a Private Key
       Command line to generate a rsa key (512bit)

           $ openssl genrsa -out CA_key.pem

       Command line to generate a rsa key (2048bit)

           $ openssl genrsa -out CA_key.pem 2048

       Command line to generate a rsa key (2048bit) + passphrase

           $ openssl genrsa -des3 -out CA_key.pem 2048

   Generating a Certificate
       From your previously generated Private Key, you can now generate a
       certificate in PEM (DER format is currently not supported).

           $ openssl req -new -key CA_key.pem -x509 -days 365 -out CA_cert.cer

DICOM STANDARD:
       Page to the DICOM Standard:

       http://dicom.nema.org/

       The DICOM Standard at the time of releasing gdcmanon is:

       ftp://medical.nema.org/medical/dicom/2008/

       Direct link to PS 3.15-2008:

       ftp://medical.nema.org/medical/dicom/2008/08_15pu.pdf

WARNINGS
       Certain attributes may still contains Protected Health Information
       (PHI) after an anonymization step. This is typically the case for
       Patient's Address (0010,1040). The reason is that this particular
       attribute is not supposed to be in the composite IODs in the first
       place. DICOM Supp 142 includes it (however gdcmanon does not implement
       it).

SEE ALSO
       gdcmconv(1), gdcmdump(1), gdcmdiff(1), openssl(1), dumpasn1(1)

AUTHOR
       Mathieu Malaterre
           Main developer

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2006, 2011 Mathieu Malaterre

GDCM 3.0.9                        08/14/2021                       GDCMANON(1)
