GEARMAND-PERL(1p)                                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                   GEARMAND-PERL(1p)

NAME
       gearmand-perl - Gearman client/worker connector.

SYNOPSIS
        gearmand-perl --daemon

DESCRIPTION
       This is the main executable for Gearman::Server.  It provides command-line configuration of port numbers, pidfiles, and daemonization.

OPTIONS
       --daemonize / -d
           Make the daemon run in the background (good for init.d scripts, bad for running under daemontools/supervise).

       --port=4730 / -p 4730
           Set the port number, defaults to 4730.

       --listen hostname / -L hostname
           Address the server should listen on.

           Default is

       --pidfile=/some/dir/gearmand-perl.pid
           Write a pidfile when starting up

       --debug=1
           Enable debugging (currently the only debug output is when a client or worker connects).

       --accept=10
           Number of new connections to accept each time we see a listening socket ready. This doesn't usually need to be tuned by anyone, however in dire circumstances you may need to do it quickly.

       --wakeup=3
           Number of workers to wake up per job inserted into the queue.

           Zero (0) is a perfectly acceptable answer, and can be used if you don't care much about job latency.  This would bank on the base idea of a worker checking in with the server every so often.

           Negative One (-1) indicates that all sleeping workers should be woken up.

           All other negative numbers will cause the server to throw exception and not start.

       --wakeup-delay=
           Time interval before waking up more workers (the value specified by --wakeup) when jobs are still in the queue.

           Zero (0) means go as fast as possible, but not all at the same time. Similar to -1 on --wakeup, but is more cooperative in gearmand's multitasking model.

           Negative One (-1) means that this event won't happen, so only the initial workers will be woken up to handle jobs in the queue.

       --version
           Display the version and exit.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2005-2007, Danga Interactive

       You are granted a license to use it under the same terms as Perl itself.

WARRANTY
       This is free software. IT COMES WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.

AUTHORS
       Brad Fitzpatrick <brad@danga.com>

       Brad Whitaker <whitaker@danga.com>

SEE ALSO
       Gearman::Server

       Gearman::Client

       Gearman::Worker

       Gearman::Client::Async

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-09-28                                                                               GEARMAND-PERL(1p)
