CONVERT(1L)                                                        CONVERT(1L)

NAME
       convert - convert GENESIS 1.x scripts to GENESIS 2.x syntax and command
       names

SYNOPSIS
       convert [ oldscriptfile [ newscriptfile ] ] [  -noX1compat  ]  [  -con‐
       stants scriptfile ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       Convert  converts  a  GENESIS 1.x script file to GENESIS 2.x syntax re‐
       placing old command names and arguments with their GENESIS 2.x counter‐
       parts.  Without arguments convert will read standard input and write to
       standard output.  With arguments convert reads from and writes  to  the
       given  file names.  If the newscriptfile argument is not given, convert
       will output to a file with the same name as the input file less any di‐
       rectory path.  If a directory path is not given for the input file out‐
       put is written to standard output.

       To convert entire script sets UNIX command shell  loops  may  be  used.
       Assuming  that  an  old  set  of scripts lives in the directory ../old‐
       scripts, then the following will convert the entire script set.

       For csh:

       foreach file (../oldscripts/*.g)
           convert $file
       end

       For sh:

       for file in ../oldscripts/*.g
       do
           convert $file
       done

OPTIONS
       -constants

       To correctly translate a script Convert needs  to  know  the  names  of
       globally  defined  variables in a script set.  The -constants option is
       used to identify the scripts in which these global script variables are
       defined.  More than one script may be specified.

       -noX1compat

       The  automatic  translation of create commands for Xodus objects to ob‐
       jects in the X1compat library may be suppressed using  the  -noX1compat
       option.   In  this case, converted scripts will use the Xodus 2 objects
       directly.  This will work most of the time for the standard Xodus 1 in‐
       terface  objects,  but will likely fail for the draw widgets and pixes.
       xgraph widgets may also fail when not using X1compat but have a  better
       chance of working than xdraw et al.

SEE ALSO
       The GENESIS 1.x to GENESIS 2.x conversion section of the GENESIS Refer‐
       ence Manual.

BUGS
       Convert is not a complete conversion solution.  See the Doc/convert.doc
       help  file  for  a complete discussion of conversion issues including a
       list of problem areas.

       Convert will delete the contents of the input file if the output  file‐
       name  is  the same as the input file name.  This can be done implicitly
       if the input filename path refers to a file in  the  current  directory
       using a relative path (e.g. convert ./file.g).

       Convert  makes  use  of  the X1compat script set for compatibility with
       GENESIS 1.x graphical interface elements.  The X1compat  script  direc‐
       tory should be added to the SIMPATH and the X1compat script called from
       the .simrc or the main simulation script.

       Convert translates network models using GENESIS 1.x connections to com‐
       mands in the connection compatibility library.  This library is not in‐
       cluded by default in the GENESIS 2.x executable.  See the GENESIS  Ref‐
       erence  Manual for details on compiling GENESIS 2.x with the connection
       compatibility library and for tips on rewriting network simulations us‐
       ing the new network modeling objects and commands.

                                3 October 1994                     CONVERT(1L)
