GENISOIMAGERC(5)                                                                            File Formats Manual                                                                            GENISOIMAGERC(5)

NAME
       genisoimagerc - startup configuration file for genisoimage

DESCRIPTION
       genisoimage(1)  searches  for  a  configuration file in several places; it uses the first one it is able to open.  First, if the GENISOIMAGERC environment variable is set, its value is used as the
       filename; likewise for the MKISOFSRC environment variable.  Next, genisoimage looks for files named .genisoimagerc or .mkisofsrc, first in the current working directory, then in  the  user's  home
       directory.  Next, it looks for /etc/genisoimagerc.  Finally, it looks for a .genisoimagerc in the same directory as genisoimage itself is stored.

       The .genisoimagerc file contains lines of the form

              TAG=value

       where  TAG is one of the settings defined below.  The case of the tag is not significant.  All settings have command-line equivalents; if the command-line parameter is specified, it takes priority
       over the configuration file.

       Blank lines and lines beginning with `#' are ignored.

CONFIGURATION SETTINGS
       ABST   The abstract information, typically the name of a file on the disc containing an abstract.  There is space for 37 characters.  Equivalent to the -abstract command-line option.

       APPI   The application identifier should describe the application that will be on the disc.  There is space for 128 characters.  Equivalent to the -A command-line option.

       BIBL   The bibliographic information, often the name of a file on the disc containing a bibliography.  There is space for 37 characters.  Equivalent to the -biblio command-line option.

       COPY   The copyright information, typically the name of a file on the disc containing the copyright notice.  There is space for 37 characters.  Equivalent to the -copyright command-line option.

       HFS_TYPE
              The default TYPE for Macintosh files. Must be exactly 4 characters.  Equivalent to the -hfs-type command-line option.  The default value is TEXT.

       HFS_CREATOR
              The default CREATOR for Macintosh files. Must be exactly 4 characters.  Equivalent to the -hfs-creator command-line option.  The default value is Unix.

       PREP   This should describe the preparer of the CD-ROM, usually with a mailing address and phone number.  There is space for 128 characters.  Equivalent to the -p command-line option.

       PUBL   This should describe the publisher of the CD-ROM, usually with a mailing address and phone number.  There is space for 128 characters.  Equivalent to the -publisher command-line option.

       SYSI   The System Identifier.  There is space for 32 characters.  Equivalent to the -sysid command-line option.

       VOLI   The Volume Identifier.  There is space for 32 characters.  Equivalent to the -V command-line option.

       VOLS   The Volume Set Name.  There is space for 128 characters.  Equivalent to the -volset command-line option.

       genisoimage can also be configured at compile time with defaults for many of these fields.  See the file defaults.h.

EXAMPLES
       The following file

              COPY=src/COPYING
              SYSI=Multics 75

       is equivalent to the genisoimage command-line parameters

              -copyright src/COPYING -sysid "Multics 75"

SEE ALSO
       genisoimage(1).

AUTHORS
       See the genisoimage(1) manual page for credits for the genisoimage program and documentation.

                                                                                                13 Dec 2006                                                                                GENISOIMAGERC(5)
