GENKRF(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            GENKRF(1)

NAME
       genkrf - Generate a keyrec file from Key Signing Key (KSK) and/or Zone
       Signing Key (ZSK) files

SYNOPSIS
         genkrf [options] <zone-file> [<signed-zone-file>]

DESCRIPTION
       genkrf generates a keyrec file from KSK and/or ZSK files.  It generates
       new KSK and ZSK keys if needed.

       The name of the keyrec file to be generated is given by the -krfile
       option.  If this option is not specified, zone-name.krf is used as the
       name of the keyrec file.  If the keyrec file already exists, it will be
       overwritten with new keyrec definitions.

       The zone-file argument is required.  It specifies the name of the zone
       file from which the signed zone file was created.  The optional signed-
       zone-file argument specifies the name of the signed zone file.  If it
       is not given, then it defaults to zone-file.signed.  The signed zone
       file field is, in effect, a dummy field as the zone file is not
       actually signed.

OPTIONS
       genkrf has a number of options that assist in creation of the keyrec
       file.  These options will be set to the first value found from this
       search path:

           command line options
           DNSSEC-Tools configuration file
           DNSSEC-Tools defaults

       See tooloptions.pm(3) for more details.  Exceptions to this are given
       in the option descriptions.

       The genkrf options are described below.

   General genkrf Options
       -zone zone-name
           This option specifies the name of the zone.  If it is not given
           then zone-file will be used as the name of the zone.

       -krfile keyrec-file
           This option specifies the name of the keyrec file to be generated.
           If it is not given, then zone-name.krf will be used.

       -algorithm algorithm
           This option specifies the algorithm used to generate encryption
           keys.

       -endtime endtime
           This option specifies the time that the signature on the zone
           expires, measured in seconds.

       -random random-device
           Source of randomness used to generate the zone's keys. See the man
           page for dnssec-signzone for the valid format of this field.

       -verbose
           Display additional messages during processing.  If this option is
           given at least once, then a message will be displayed indicating
           the successful generation of the keyrec file.  If it is given
           twice, then the values of all options will also be displayed.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for genkrf and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

   KSK-related Options
       -kskcur KSK-name
           This option specifies the Current KSK's key file being used to sign
           the zone.  If this option is not given, a new KSK will be created.

       -kskcount KSK-count
           This option specifies the number of KSK keys that will be
           generated.  If this option is not given, the default given in the
           DNSSEC-Tools configuration file will be used.

       -kskdir KSK-directory
           This option specifies the absolute or relative path of the
           directory where the KSK resides.  If this option is not given, it
           defaults to the current directory ".".

       -ksklength KSK-length
           This option specifies the length of the KSK encryption key.

       -ksklife KSK-lifespan
           This option specifies the lifespan of the KSK encryption key.  This
           lifespan is not inherent to the key itself.  It is only used to
           determine when the KSK must be rolled over.

   ZSK-related Options
       -zskcur ZSK-name
           This option specifies the current ZSK being used to sign the zone.
           If this option is not given, a new ZSK will be created.

       -zskpub ZSK-name
           This option specifies the published ZSK for the zone.  If this
           option is not given, a new ZSK will be created.

       -zskcount ZSK-count
           This option specifies the number of current and published ZSK keys
           that will be generated.  If this option is not given, the default
           given in the DNSSEC-Tools configuration file will be used.

       -zskdir ZSK-directory
           This option specifies the absolute or relative path of the
           directory where the ZSKs reside.  If this option is not given, it
           defaults to the current directory ".".

       -zsklength ZSK-length
           This option specifies the length of the ZSK encryption key.

       -zsklife ZSK-lifespan
           This option specifies the lifespan of the ZSK encryption key.  This
           lifespan is not inherent to the key itself.  It is only used to
           determine when the ZSK must be rolled over.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2005-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       dnssec-keygen(8), dnssec-signzone(8), zonesigner(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::conf.pm(3), Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::defaults.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::keyrec.pm(3)

       conf(5), keyrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                         GENKRF(1)
