GFAN(1)                                                                                         Mathematics                                                                                         GFAN(1)

NAME
       gfan - tool to compute Gröbner fans and tropical varieties

SYNOPSIS
       gfan_tool [options]

       gfan _tool [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Gfan  is  a software package for computing Gröbner fans and tropical varieties.  These are polyhedral fans associated to polynomial ideals. The maximal cones of a Gröbner fan are in bijection with
       the marked reduced Gröbner bases of its defining ideal. The software computes all marked reduced Gröbner bases of an ideal. Their union is a universal Gröbner basis.  The  tropical  variety  of  a
       polynomial  ideal is a certain subcomplex of the Gröbner fan. Gfan contains algorithms for computing this complex for general ideals and specialized algorithms for tropical curves, tropical hyper‐
       surfaces and tropical varieties of prime ideals. In addition to the above core functions the package contains many tools which are useful in the study of Gröbner bases, initial ideals and tropical
       geometry.

       The complete list of tools is:

       bases, buchberger, combinerays, doesidealcontain, fancommonrefinement, fanhomology, fanlink, fanproduct, fansubfan, genericlinearchange, groebnercone,  groebnerfan,  homogeneityspace,  homogenize,
       initialforms,  interactive,  ismarkedgroebnerbasis, krulldimension, latticeideal, leadingterms, list, markpolynomialset, minkowskisum, minors, mixedvolume, overintegers, padic, polynomialsetunion,
       render, renderstaircase, saturation, secondaryfan, stats, substitute, symmetries, tolatex, topolyhedralfan, tropicalbasis, tropicalbruteforce, tropicalevaluation, tropicalfunction,  tropicalhyper‐
       surface, tropicalintersection, tropicallifting, tropicallinearspace, tropicalmultiplicity, tropicalrank, tropicalstartingcone, tropicaltraverse, tropicalweildivisor, version.

       Below are presented the generic options available with all tools. For specific options of a given tool, we refer to the help message of that tool.

OPTIONS
       --help Display a help message describing the functionality of gfan_tool and the available specific options.

       --log1, --log2...
              Tell  Gfan how much information to write to standard error while a computation is running. These options are very useful when you wish to know if Gfan is making any progress in its computa‐
              tion.

       --stdin value
              Specify a file to use as input instead of reading from the standard input.

       --stdout value
              Specify a file to write output to instead of writing to the standard output.

       --xml  Let polyhedral fans be output in an XML format instead of in the text format. (The XML files are not readable by Gfan.)

SEE ALSO
       The complete manual of Gfan is available from the website of the project: http://home.imf.au.dk/jensen/software/gfan/gfan.html

gfan 0.7                                                                                          May 2025                                                                                          GFAN(1)
