
GFDF(1)                                                                                              Gfarm                                                                                              GFDF(1)

NAME
       gfdf - display disk free space of Gfarm file system

SYNOPSIS
       gfdf [options]

DESCRIPTION
       gfdf displays disk usage and free space of Gfarm file system.

OPTIONS
       -a
           Displays only summary information of the Gfarm file system.

       -h
           Displays numbers in human readable format by adding a prefix multiplier symbol like "M" (mega). Since this option uses powers of 1024, "M" means 1,048,576.

       -H
           Displays numbers in human readable format by adding a prefix multiplier symbol like "M" (mega). Since this option uses powers of 1000, "M" means 1,000,000.

       -n
           Displays hostnames of available Gfarm file system nodes.

       -r
           Sort output in the reverse order.

       -S
           Sort output in the increasing order of the available disk capacity.

       -P path
           Specifies a path name to specify a metadata server instead of the root metadata server. Note that this option is not effective with the -a option.

       -D domainname
           Specifies a domain name of filesystem nodes to list the status of disk free space.

       -R
           Displays real disk spaces even if some Gfarm file system nodes are readonly. Please see also the following NOTES.

       -?
           Displays a list of command options.

NOTES
       Filesystem nodes may be changed to a read-only mode by the gfhost command. The read-only filesystem nodes are internally treated as disk full not to create a new file. That is why gfdf shows these
       read-only filesystem nodes have no available capacity. With the -R option, gfdf shows the real disk usage. The -a option is not affected by this behavior, which shows the real disk usage always.

SEE ALSO
       gfhost(1), gfarm2.conf(5)

Gfarm                                                                                             14 Mar 2019                                                                                           GFDF(1)
