gfs2_convert(8)             System Manager's Manual            gfs2_convert(8)

NAME
       gfs2_convert - Convert a GFS1 filesystem to GFS2

SYNOPSIS
       gfs2_convert [OPTION]... DEVICE

DESCRIPTION
       gfs2_convert  is  used to convert a filesystem from GFS1 to GFS2. It is
       required that the GFS1 filesystem be checked and fixed for errors using
       fsck.gfs2  and  that  the  filesystem be backed up before attempting to
       convert it. The convert process is irreversible and any  error  encoun‐
       tered during the conversion can result in the abrupt termination of the
       program and consequently an unusable  filesystem.   See  NOTES  section
       below for more information.

OPTIONS
       -h     Help.

              This prints out the proper command line usage syntax.

       -q     Quiet.  Print less information while running.

       -n     No to all questions.

       -V     Print program Version information only.

              Print out the current version name.

       -v     Verbose operation.

              Print more information while running.

       -y     Yes to all questions.

              By  specifying  this option, gfs2_convert will not prompt before
              making changes.

EXAMPLE
       gfs2_convert /dev/vg0/lvol0
              This will convert the Global File System  on  the  block  device
              "/dev/vg0/lvol0" to gfs2 format.

NOTES
       If  gfs2_convert is interrupted for some reason other than a conversion
       failure, DO NOT run fsck.gfs2 on this partially  converted  filesystem.
       When  this  occurs,  reissue  the gfs2_convert command on the partially
       converted filesystem to complete the conversion process.

       The GFS2 filesystem  does  not  support  Context-Dependent  Path  Names
       (CDPNs).   gfs2_convert  identifies  such  CDPNs and replaces them with
       empty directories with the same name. The administrator  can  use  bind
       mounts on these directories to get the same effect as CDPNs.

       When  converting  full  or nearly full filesystems, it is possible that
       there won't be enough space available to fit all  the  GFS2  filesystem
       data structures. In such cases, the size of all the journals is reduced
       uniformly such that everything fits in the available space.

                                                               gfs2_convert(8)
