gfs2_jadd(8)                System Manager's Manual               gfs2_jadd(8)

NAME
       gfs2_jadd - Add journals to a GFS2 filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       gfs2_jadd [OPTION]... <DEVICE|MOINTPOINT>...

DESCRIPTION
       gfs2_jadd is used to add journals (and a few other per-node files) to a
       GFS2 filesystem.  When this operation is complete, the journal index is
       updated  so  that machines mounting the filesystem at a later date will
       see the newly created journals in  addition  to  the  journals  already
       there.  Machines  which  are  already  running in the cluster are unaf‐
       fected.

       You may only run gfs2_jadd on a mounted filesystem, addition  of  jour‐
       nals  to  unmounted filesystems is not supported.  You only need to run
       gfs2_jadd on one node in the cluster. All the other nodes will see  the
       expansion has occurred when required.

       You must be superuser to execute gfs2_jadd. The gfs2_jadd tool tries to
       prevent you from corrupting your filesystem by checking as many of  the
       likely  problems  as  it  can. When growing a filesystem, only the last
       step of updating  the  journal  index  affects  the  currently  mounted
       filesystem and so failure part way through the expansion process should
       leave your filesystem in its original state.

OPTIONS
       -c MegaBytes
              Initial size of each journal's quota change file

       -D     Print out debugging information about the filesystem layout.

       -h     Prints out a short usage message and exits.

       -J size
              The size of the new journals in megabytes. The defaults to  32MB
              (the  minimum  size allowed is 8MB). If you want to add journals
              of different  sizes  to  the  filesystem,  you'll  need  to  run
              gfs2_jadd once for each different size of journal.

       -j num The number of new journals to add.

       -q     Be quiet.  Don't print anything.

       -V     Version. Print version information, then exit.

SEE ALSO
       mkfs.gfs2(8) gfs2_grow(8)

                                                                  gfs2_jadd(8)
