
GFWHERE(1)                                                                                           Gfarm                                                                                           GFWHERE(1)

NAME
       gfwhere - print replica locations

SYNOPSIS
       gfwhere [options] path...

DESCRIPTION
       The gfwhere command prints hostnames of filesystem nodes which hold replicas of the specified files.

OPTIONS
       -a
           Displays information of all replicas. This is similar to specifying the -dio options.

       -d
           Displays replicas on filesystem nodes which are currently down as well.

       -F
           Displays the following indicators just after each hostname. If the replica has been logically removed, but may still remain phisically, ";" and the replica's generation number are displayed. If
           the replica is incomplete because it's in the midst of replication, "?" is displayed. If the host is currently down, "-" is displayed.

       -h host
           Only displays files stored on the specified host. When the -h option is specified multiple times, it displays files stored on all specified hosts. When the host A and host B are specified, it
           displays files stored on both host A and host B. The -h option can be specified up to three times.

       -i
           Displays incomplete replicas which are in the midst of replication.

       -l
           Displays in long format as follows.

           This displays one hostname in each line.

           If -o option or -a option is specified, this displays the generation number of the replica after the hostname.

           If -d option or -a option is specified, this displays an indicator which shows whether this host is down (d) or up (-) at next column.

           If -i option or -a option is specified, this displays an indicator which shows whether this replica is incomplete (i) or not (-) at next column. In the former case, this replica is in the midst of
           replication.

           If -o option or -a option is specified, this displays an indicator which shows whether this replica is obsolete (o) or not (-) at next column. In the former case, this replica has been logicall
           removed.

       -m N
           Only displays files having less than or equal to N replicas and having greater than 0 bytes.

       -o
           Displays obsolete replicas which has been logically removed, but may still remain phisically.

       -r, -R
           Displays subdirectories recursively.

       -?
           Displays a list of command options.

Gfarm                                                                                             12 Mar 2016                                                                                        GFWHERE(1)
