GIT-HISTORY-COVERAGE(1)                                                      Greg Banks                                                      GIT-HISTORY-COVERAGE(1)

NAME
       git-history-coverage - summarise test coverage for recent git commits

SYNOPSIS
       git-history-coverage [options] rev-list

DESCRIPTION
       Git-history-coverage  extracts  test  coverage data produced by C and C++ programs compiled with gcc --coverage, and correlates it to git commits, printing a
       coverage summary which shows how well tested recent code changes have been.  This is useful for nightly builds and Continuous  Integration  systems  such  as
       Jenkins.

       For  the  output  of  git-history-coverage to make any sense, the coverage data must be generated by running code which corresponds to the last commit in the
       range specified by rev-list.

       When used without any options, git-history-coverage prints three summaries.

       overall
              A summary of all the commits specified by rev-list.

       by author
              A summary split up by each author represented in the set of commits specified by rev-list.

       by commit
              A summary for each individual commit in the set of commits specified by rev-list.

       For each of these summaries, git-history-coverage prints statistics showing how many lines of code were in the commits, how many lines  represent  executable
       code (as opposed to comments, test code, or infrastructure like Makefiles), and how many lines were actually executed in tests.

OPTIONS
       --summary-overall
              Print the overall summary (with no options, all three summaries are printed).

       --summary-by-author
              Print the by author summary (with no options, all three summaries are printed).

       --summary-by-commit
              Print the by commit summary (with no options, all three summaries are printed).

       --gcda-prefix=dir
              Look  for .gcda files underneath the directory dir.  This option is used to read runtime coverage information written when a test program is run using
              the same --gcda-prefix option to ggcov-run.

AUTHOR
       Written by Greg Banks <gnb@fastmail.fm>.

COPYRIGHT
       ggcov is Copyright © 2001-2020 Greg Banks <gnb@fastmail.fm>.
       This is free software; see the COPYING file for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       ggcov-run(1).

GGCOV                                                                         Feb 2011                                                       GIT-HISTORY-COVERAGE(1)
