GIF2PNG(1)                         Graphics                         GIF2PNG(1)

NAME
       gif2png - convert GIFs to PNGs

SYNOPSIS
       gif2png [-bdfghimnprsvwO] [file.[gif]...]

DESCRIPTION
       The gif2png program converts files in the obsolescent Graphic
       Interchange Format (GIF) to Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format, an
       open W3C standard.

       Normally gif2png converts each file named on the command line, leaving
       the original in place. If a name does not have a .gif extension, the
       unmodified name will be tried first, followed by the name with .gif
       appended. For each file named foo.gif, a foo.png will be created.

       When a multi-image GIF file named foo.gif is converted, gif2png creates
       multiple PNG files, each containing one frame; their names will be
       foo.png, foo.p01, foo.p02 etc.

       If no source files are specified and stdin is a terminal, gif2png lists
       a usage summary and version information, then exits.

       If no source files are specified, and stdin is a device or pipe, stdin
       is converted to noname.png. (The program can't be a normal
       stdin-to-stdout filter because of the possibility that the input GIF
       might have multiple images).

       However, if filter mode is forced (with -f) stdin will be converted to
       stdout, with gif2png returning an error code if the GIF is multi-image.

       The program will preserve the information contained in a GIF file as
       closely as possible, including GIF comment and application-data
       extension blocks. All graphics data (pixels, RGB color tables) will be
       converted without loss of information. Transparency is also preserved.
       There is one exception; GIF plain-text extensions are skipped.

       The program automatically converts interlaced GIFs to interlaced PNGs.
       It detects images in which all colors are gray (equal R, G, and B
       values) and converts such images to PNG grayscale. Other images are
       converted to use the PNG palette type. Duplicate color entries are
       silently preserved. Unused color-table entries cause an error message.

       The action of the program can be modified with the following
       command-line switches:

       -b {#}RRGGBB
           Background. Replace transparent pixels with given RGB value, six
           hexadecimal digits interpreted as two hexits each of red, green,
           and blue value. The value may optionally be led with a #,
           HTML-style.

       -d
           Delete source GIF files after successful conversion.

       -f
           Filter mode. Convert GIF on stdin to PNG on stdout, return error if
           the GIF is multi-image.

       -m
           Preserve file modification time. The PNG output gets the mod time
           of the input file, not the time it was converted.

       -g
           Write gamma=1/2.2 and sRGB chunks in the PNG.

       -h
           Generate PNG color-frequency histogram chunks into converted color
           files.

       -i
           Force conversion to interlaced PNG files.

       -n
           Force conversion to non-interlaced PNG files.

       -p
           Display progress of PNG writing.

       -r
           Try to recover data from corrupted GIF files.

           The recovery algorithm enabled by -r is as follows: Unused color
           table entries will not trigger an error message as they normally
           do, but will still be preserved unless -O is also on, in which case
           they will be discarded. Missing color tables will be patched with a
           default that puts black at index 0, white at index 1, and supplies
           red, green, blue, yellow, purple and cyan as the remaining color
           values. Missing image pixels will be set to 0. Unrecognized or
           corrupted extensions will be discarded.

       -s
           Do not translate the GIF Software chunk to a PNG annotation.

       -v
           Verbose mode; show summary line, -vv enables conversion-statistics
           and debugging messages.

       -w
           Web-probe switch; list GIFs that do not have multiple images to
           stdout. GIFs that fail this filter cause error messages to stderr.

        -O
           Optimize; remove unused color-table entries. Normally these trigger
           an error message and disable -d (but conversion is completed
           anyway). Also, use zlib compression level 9 (best compression)
           instead of the default level.

LIMITATIONS
       A sufficiently malformed GIF can confuse this program seriously enough
       to segfault it. If this happens while processing multiple GIFs,
       conversion of the batch will be interrupted.

       Naively converting all your GIFs at one go with gif2png is not likely
       to give you the results you want. Animated GIFs cannot be translated to
       PNG, which is a single-image format.

       The web-probe switch is intended to be used with scripts for converting
       web sites. In versions of this tool up to 2.5.2 it filtered out GIFs
       with transparency as well as GIFs with animations, but support for PNG
       transparency has been universal in browsers since about 2006.

RETURN VALUES
       Normally returns 0 for successful comp[letion. A return of 1 is a
       recoverable error (batch processing continues), A return of 2 is an
       unrecoverable error.

STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
       Copies of the GIF89 specification are widely available on the Web;
       search for "GRAPHICS INTERCHANGE FORMAT". The Graphics Interchange
       Format(c) is the Copyright property of CompuServe Incorporated. GIF(sm)
       is a Service Mark property of CompuServe Incorporated. The GIF format
       was formerly covered by a blocking patent on LZW compression, but it
       expired in June 2003.

       The PNG home site at <http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/> has very complete
       information on the PNG standard, PNG libraries, and PNG tools.

SEE ALSO
       web2png(1)

AUTHORS
       Code by Alexander Lehmann <alex@hal.rhein-main.de>, 1995.
       Auto-interlace conversion and tRNS optimization by Greg Roelofs
       <newt@pobox.com>, 1999. Man page, -O, -w, and production packaging by
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>, 1999. -m option by Steve Ward, 2012.

gif2png                           06/20/2019                        GIF2PNG(1)
