GIFVIEW(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                GIFVIEW(1)

NAME
       gifview - displays GIF images and animations on the X window system

SYNOPSIS
       gifview [--display display] [options] [filenames and frames]...

DESCRIPTION
       gifview displays GIF image files on workstations and terminals running the X Window System.  gifview understands multi-image GIFs, which can be displayed either as slideshows or as animations.

INTERACTION
       gifview windows recognize several keystrokes and button commands. Many of them are only useful for multi-image GIFs.

       Space or n  Go to the next frame.

       b or p      Go to the previous frame.

       r or <      Go to the first frame.

       >           Go to the last frame.

       ESC         Stop the animation.

       s or a      Toggle between animation and slideshow mode.

       u           Toggle between normal and unoptimized mode.

       Backspace   Delete this window.

       q           Quit gifview.

       Left-clicking on a window goes to the next frame; right-clicking on a window deletes that window.

COMMAND LINE
       gifview's  command line consists of GIF input files and options.  Most options start with a dash (-) or plus (+); frame selections, a kind of option, start with a number sign (#). Anything else is
       a GIF input file.

       gifview displays one window for each GIF input file you specify. If no GIF input file is given, or you give the special filename `-', it reads from the standard input.

OPTIONS
       --animate, -a
            Animate multi-image GIFs by default. Normally, multi-image GIFs first appear in slideshow mode. You can always use the `a' keystroke to toggle between  modes.  This  option  has  a  converse,
            `--no-animate' or `+a'.

       --unoptimize, -U
            Display  multi-image  GIFs  as ``unoptimized'', which shows a faithful representation of what a user will see at each frame of an animation. See gifsicle(1) for a more detailed description of
            unoptimization. This option has a converse, `--no-unoptimize' or `+U'.  GIFs are always displayed unoptimized in animation mode.

       -d display
       --display display
            Sets the X display to display.  This option must come before any GIF files.

       --name name
            Sets the application name under which resources are found, rather than the default of "gifview". Since gifview itself does not use the resource database, this is mostly useful for  communica‐
            tion with your window manager.

       --geometry geometry
            Set the size and position of gifview's windows. This is a standard X option. At most one --geometry option can be given per window (that is, per input GIF file).

       --title title
            Sets the gifview window's title. The default is "gifview", followed by information about the currently displayed file and frame.

       -w window
       --window window
            Display  the next GIF input in an existing X window, instead of making a new top-level window. This way, you can use gifview to display animated GIFs in a window you created with another pro‐
            gram. The window argument should be an integer (gifview will use that window ID) or `root' (gifview will use the root window).

       --new-window window
            Display the next GIF input in a new child of an existing X window. This child window will disappear when gifview exits. The window argument should be an integer (gifview will use that  window
            ID) or `root' (gifview will use the root window).

       --install-colormap, -i
            Use  a  private  colormap  for  each window (if you are using a PseudoColor display). This avoids polluting the existing colormap, and may produce better results if your colormap is full, but
            causes annoying colormap flashing.

       --background color
       --bg color
            Set the background color, which is used for transparent pixels.

       --min-delay delay
            Set the minimum delay between frames to delay, which is measured in hundredths of a second. Default is 0.

       --fallback-delay delay
            Set the frame delay of GIFs that do not specify a delay value or have a delay of 0.  The final value is still subject to the value of --min-delay.  Like --min-delay, delay is measured in hun‐
            dredths of a second. Default is 0.

       --no-interactive, +e
            Don't pay attention to mouse buttons or keystrokes.

       --memory-limitlim
            Cache at most lim megabytes of images in memory when animating. Default is 40.

       --help
            Print usage information and exit.

       --version
            Print the version number and some quickie warranty information and exit.

   Frame Selections
       A frame selection tells gifview which frame to initially display from the current input file. They are useful only for animations, as non-animated GIFs only have one frame.  Frame  selections  can
       only be displayed in slideshow mode.

       #num         Select frame num. (The first frame is `#0'.  Negative numbers count backwards from the last frame, which is `#-1'.)
       #name        Select the frame named name.

       If you give two or more frame selections, you will get one window per frame selection.

SEE ALSO
       gifsicle(1)

BUGS
       Please email suggestions, additions, patches and bugs to ekohler@gmail.com.

AUTHORS
       Eddie Kohler, ekohler@gmail.com
       http://www.read.seas.harvard.edu/~kohler/

       http://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle/
       The gifsicle home page.

Version 1.96                                                                                    11 July 2017                                                                                     GIFVIEW(1)
