GIMPSVG(1)                       User commands                      GIMPSVG(1)

NAME
       gimpsvg - convert a GIMP gradient (ggr) to the SVG format.

SYNOPSIS
       gimpsvg [-g geometry] [-h] [-o file] [-p] [-s samples] [-v] [-V] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The gimpsvg utility converts gradient files from the GIMP(1), the GNU
       Image Manipulation Program, to the SVG (scalar vector graphics) format.

       The program will read from stdin if a file is not specified as the
       final argument, and write to stdout if the -o option is not specified.

       The output is formatted for machines to read, rather than humans. A
       post-processor such as tidy(1) could be used in the latter case.

OPTIONS
       --backtrace-file path
           Specify a file to which to write a formatted backtrace. The file
           will only be created if there is a backtrace created, typically
           when an error occurs.

       --backtrace-format format
           Specify the format of the backtrace written to the files specified
           by --backtrace-file, one of plain, xml or json.

       -g, --geometry widthxheight
           Specify the size of the SVG preview in pixels.

       -h, --help
           Brief help.

       -o, --output file
           Write the output to file, rather than stdout.

       -p, --preview
           Include a preview in the SVG output. See also the --geometry
           option.

       -s, --samples number
           Specify the maximum number of samples.  GIMP gradients allow for
           complex curves in a number of colour-space co-ordinate systems. In
           order that these can be converted into SVG's simple RGB linear
           splines we must sample these complex curves quite densely. The -s
           option specifies (roughly) the maximum number of samples. In the
           case that the GIMP gradient is an RGB linear spline gradient the
           option has no effect, since we can then convert the segments
           without loss.

       -v, --verbose
           Verbose operation.

       -V, --version
           Version information.

AUTHOR
       J. J. Green

SEE ALSO
       GIMP(1), tidy(1), svggimp(1).

CPTUTILS                          8 July 2020                       GIMPSVG(1)
