GINKGO(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 GINKGO(1)

NAME
       ginkgo - The ginkgo CLI compiler

SYNOPSIS
       ginkgo flags packages -- pass-throughs

       ginkgo COMMAND options

DESCRIPTION
       Ginkgo is a BDD-style Golang testing framework built to help you efficiently write expressive and comprehensive tests.

       This page documents the ginkgo CLI, which offers a number of conveniences beyond what go test provides out of the box and its usage is recommended, but not necessary.

OPTIONS
       ginkgo or ginkgo run flags packages -- pass-throughs
           Run the tests in packages (or the package in the current directory).

           Any arguments after -- will be passed to the test.  Run ginkgo help run for a description of all valid flags.

       ginkgo watch flags packages -- pass-throughs
           Watches the files in  packages and re-runs tests when changes occur.

       ginkgo bootstrap flags
           Bootstrap a test suite for the current package

       ginkgo generate filenames
           Generate a test file named filename_test.go

           If the optional filenames argument is omitted, a file named after the package in the current directory will be created.

       ginkgo labels flags packages
           List labels detected in the passed-in packages (or the package in the current directory).

       ginkgo outline filename
           Create an outline of Ginkgo symbols for a file.

       ginkgo unfocus
           Recursively unfocuses any focused tests under the current directory

AUTHOR
       ginkgo was written by Onsi Fakhouri.

       This man page was written by Martín Ferrari for the Debian project.

ginkgo                                                                                            Aug 2023                                                                                        GINKGO(1)
