GIT-XCLEANER(1)             General Commands Manual            GIT-XCLEANER(1)

NAME
       git-xcleaner - interactive git branch removal

SYNOPSIS
       git xcleaner

DESCRIPTION
       This  tool  helps  with  deleting unused topic branches using TUI (text
       user interface). It also offers mechanisms for  pre-selecting  branches
       that can be safely removed.

       It  is  NOT  recommended running garbage collection after cleanup, this
       can wipe mis-deleted branches. If you want to do this, do it prior run‐
       ning cleaning, so you are still able to recover after few weeks.

WARNING
       This tool deletes git branches after confirmation. There is no way back
       when git garbage is collected. Double check what you are about  to  re‐
       move!

ACTIONS
       Merged

       Command git branch --merged is used to find a list of branches that are
       marked for deletion.

       Messages

       For each branch, tip commit message is compared  against  base  history
       and  if  found, the branch is marked for deletion. Whole commit message
       is compared and it must fully match.

       User enters base branch name (defaults to "master").

       Remote

       Delete all remote branches in remote repo which  are  not  present  lo‐
       cally.

       User enters remote name (defaults to current username).

       Upstream

       All branches which no longer exist in origin or specific remote reposi‐
       tory are marked for deletion.

       User enters specific remote name (defaults to current username).

       Manual

       User manually marks branches for deletion.

ACTIVE BRANCH
       Active branch is never marked for deletion.

UNDELETING
       If you mis-deleted a branch and ignored all the warnings in  documenta‐
       tion  and on the screen, check out the homepage for instructions how to
       checkout your branch back.

RETURN VALUES
       Zero on success, one on errors when manipulating with git.

BUGS
       File bugs at https://github.com/lzap/git-xcleaner/issues

AUTHOR
       Lukas Zapletal and contributors (see README.md).

COPYRIGHT
       (c) 2014 Lukas Zapletal

SEE ALSO
       git-branch(1)

                                  March 2016                   GIT-XCLEANER(1)
