GIT-DEBCHERRY(1)                                                                          General Commands Manual                                                                          GIT-DEBCHERRY(1)

NAME
       git-debcherry - export commits touching upstream source as patches

SYNOPSIS
       git-debcherry [options] upstream [integration]

DESCRIPTION
       This program will analyze git history and try to create a set of patches meeting the following conditions:

           1. Is guaranteed to apply to upstream

           2. Produces the same work tree as integration, outside ./debian

           3. Does not touch ./debian

           4. As much as possible, matches the git history from upstream to integration

BRANCH PARAMETERS
       upstream

              This  ref should be suitable for export as a .orig.tar.gz.  In particular note that quilt has no way of deleting files that does not include the material to be deleted in the patch, so your
              upstream branch should include any necessary file deletions.

       integration

              This branch contains all debian packaging, plus any changes introduced to upstream source by the debian packager.  This argument is optional.  If integration  is  not  passed  git-debcherry
              will use HEAD.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -o, --output-directory directory

              Place output (patches and series file) in directory.  If unspecified, output patches (in mbox format) to stdout.

       -s, --stat

              Only output diffstat of patches

       -d, --debug
              Output some debugging information. Probably only useful to developers or those reporting bugs.

EXAMPLE
       To export the patches between tag v3.0+dfsg1 and the current branch into ./debian/patches:

        $ git-debcherry -o debian/patches v3.0+dfsg1

NOTES
   PERFORMANCE
       git-debcherry currently uses git-filter-branch(1) to rewrite all commits on the integration branch not present upstream. Depending on the number of such commits, this can be noticeably slow.

   DELETED FILES
       git-debcherry  currently  follows  dpkg-source(1)  in ignoring file deletions. This has the positive side effect of not bloating the patches, but if you really need the files deleted for the build
       and/or licensing reasons, you should delete them in upstream.

SEE ALSO
       gitpkg(1)

AUTHOR
       git-debcherry was written by David Bremner <bremner@debian.org>.

                                                                                               April 27, 2014                                                                              GIT-DEBCHERRY(1)
