GLAM2FORMAT(1)                                                                                  glam2 Manual                                                                                 GLAM2FORMAT(1)

NAME
       glam2format - converts GLAM2 motifs to FASTA or MSF format

SYNOPSIS

       glam2format [options] my_format my_motif.glam2

       Formats: fasta, msf.

DESCRIPTION
       glam2format reads in a motif found by glam2, and writes it in a standard alignment format (FASTA-with-gaps or MSF). This enables the alignment to be passed to third-party software, including
       graphical visualization tools such as Kalignvu, Boxshade, and WebLogo. On the other hand, not all the motif information is preserved: in particular, the key positions are lost. Only the top motif
       in glam2 output is converted.

OPTIONS (DEFAULT SETTINGS)
       -o
           Output file (stdout).

       -c
           Make a compact alignment. By default, residues that are inserted between key positions are written as unaligned with each other. This best reflects glam2´s intention, but it can make the
           alignment large and full of gaps. With -c, inserted residues are written as arbitrarily aligned with each other, just as they appear in the glam2 output.

       -f
           Sequence file to make a “global” alignment by adding flanking sequences from the original FASTA-format sequence file. The flanking sequences will be written as either unaligned with each other
           or arbitrarily aligned, depending on the -c option. The sequences should have unique names and their order should be unchanged.

SEE ALSO
       boxshade(1), glam2(1), glam2mask(1), glam2-purge(1), glam2scan(1)

       The full Hypertext documentation of GLAM2 is available online at http://bioinformatics.org.au/glam2/ or on this computer in /usr/share/doc/glam2/.

REFERENCE
       If you use GLAM2, please cite: MC Frith, NFW Saunders, B Kobe, TL Bailey (2008) Discovering sequence motifs with arbitrary insertions and deletions, PLoS Computational Biology (in press).

AUTHORS
       Martin Frith
           Author of GLAM2.

       Timothy Bailey
           Author of GLAM2.

       Charles Plessy <plessy@debian.org>
           Formatted this manpage in DocBook XML for the Debian distribution.

COPYRIGHT
       The source code and the documentation of GLAM2 are released in the public domain.

GLAM2 1056                                                                                       05/19/2008                                                                                  GLAM2FORMAT(1)
