GLANCE-CACHE-CLEANER(1)                                                                            glance                                                                           GLANCE-CACHE-CLEANER(1)

NAME
       glance-cache-cleaner - Glance Cache Cleaner

GLANCE IMAGE CACHE INVALID CACHE ENTRY AND STALLED IMAGE CLEANER
       Author OpenStack Glance Project Team

       Contact
              glance@lists.launchpad.net

       Date   2025-04-02

       Copyright
              OpenStack Foundation

       Version
              30.0.0

       Manual section
              1

       Manual group
              cloud computing

   SYNOPSIS
          glance-cache-cleaner [options]

   DESCRIPTION
       This is meant to be run as a periodic task from cron.

       If  something  goes  wrong while we're caching an image (for example the fetch times out, or an exception is raised), we create an 'invalid' entry. These entries are left around for debugging pur‐
       poses. However, after some period of time, we want to clean these up.

       Also, if an incomplete image hangs around past the image_cache_stall_time period, we automatically sweep it up.

   OPTIONS
       General options

       -h, --help
              Show the help message and exit

       --version
              Print the version number and exit

       -v, --verbose
              Print more verbose output

       --noverbose
              Disable verbose output

       -d, --debug
              Print debugging output (set logging level to DEBUG instead of default WARNING level)

       --nodebug
              Disable debugging output

       --use-syslog
              Use syslog for logging

       --nouse-syslog
              Disable the use of syslog for logging

       --syslog-log-facility SYSLOG_LOG_FACILITY
              syslog facility to receive log lines

       --config-dir DIR
              Path to a config directory to pull *.conf files from. This file set is sorted, to provide a predictable parse order if individual options are  over-ridden.  The  set  is  parsed  after  the
              file(s)  specified  via previous --config-file, arguments hence over-ridden options in the directory take precedence. This means that configuration from files in a specified config-dir will
              always take precedence over configuration from files specified by --config-file, regardless to argument order.

       --config-file PATH
              Path to a config file to use. Multiple config files can be specified by using this flag multiple times, for example, --config-file <file1> --config-file <file2>. Values in latter files take
              precedence.

       --log-config-append PATH --log-config PATH
              The name of logging configuration file. It does not disable existing loggers, but just appends specified logging configuration to any other existing logging options. Please see  the  Python
              logging module documentation for details on logging configuration files. The log-config name for this option is deprecated.

       --log-format FORMAT
              A logging.Formatter log message format string which may use any of the available logging.LogRecord attributes. Default: None

       --log-date-format DATE_FORMAT
              Format string for %(asctime)s in log records. Default: None

       --log-file PATH, --logfile PATH
              (Optional) Name of log file to output to. If not set, logging will go to stdout.

       --log-dir LOG_DIR, --logdir LOG_DIR
              (Optional) The directory to keep log files in (will be prepended to --log-file)

   FILES
       /etc/glance/glance-cache.conf
              Default configuration file for the Glance Cache

   SEE ALSO
       • OpenStack Glance

   BUGS
       • Glance bugs are tracked in Launchpad so you can view current bugs at OpenStack Glance

AUTHOR
       OpenStack

COPYRIGHT
       2010-present, OpenStack Foundation.

31.0.0                                                                                        October 01, 2025                                                                      GLANCE-CACHE-CLEANER(1)
