GLMARK2-DRM(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            GLMARK2-DRM(1)

NAME
       glmark2-drm - OpenGL (ES) 2.0 benchmark suite

SYNOPSIS
       glmark2-drm [options]

DESCRIPTION
       glmark2-drm is a benchmark for OpenGL (ES) 2.0. It only uses the subset of the OpenGL 2.0 API that is compatible with OpenGL ES 2.0.

OPTIONS
       -b, --benchmark BENCH
              A benchmark to run: 'scene(:opt1=val1)*' (the option can be used multiple times)

       -f, --benchmark-file FILE
              Load benchmarks to run from a file containing a list of benchmark descriptions (one per line) (the option can be used multiple times)

       --validate
              Run a quick output validation test instead of running the benchmarks

       --data-path PATH
              Path to glmark2 models, shaders and textures

       --frame-end METHOD
              How to end a frame [default,none,swap,finish,readpixels]

       --swap-mode MODE
              How to swap a frame, all modes supported only in the DRM flavor, 'fifo' available in all flavors to force vsync [default,immediate,mailbox,fifo]

       --off-screen
              Render to an off-screen surface

       --visual-config
              The  visual  configuration to use for the rendering target: ´id=ID:red=R:green=G:blue=B:alpha=A:buffer=BUF:stencil=STENCIL:samples=SAMPLES'.  The parameters may be defined in any order, and
              any omitted parameters assume a default value of '0' (id, stencil, samples) or '1' (red, green, blue, alpha, buffer).  If 'id' is set to a non-zero value, all other parameters are ignored

       --reuse-context
              Use a single context for all scenes (by default, each scene gets its own context)

       -s, --size WxH
              Size of the output window (default: 800x600)

       --fullscreen
              Run in fullscreen mode (equivalent to --size -1x-1)

       --results RESULTS
              The types of results to report for each benchmark, as a ':' separated list [fps,cpu,shader]

       --results-file RESULTS-FILE
              The file to save the results to, in the format determined by the file extension [csv,xml]

       --winsys-options OPTS
              A list of 'opt=value' pairs for window system specific options, separated by ':'

       -l, --list-scenes
              Display information about the available scenes and their options

       --show-all-options
              Show all scene option values used for benchmarks (only explicitly set options are shown by default)

       --run-forever
              Run indefinitely, looping from the last benchmark back to the first

       --annotate
              Annotate the benchmarks with on-screen information (same as -b :show-fps=true:title=#info#)

       -d, --debug
              Display debug messages

       --version
              Display program version

       -h, --help
              Display help

BENCHMARKS
       glmark2-drm offers a suite of scenes that can be used to measure many aspects of OpenGL (ES) 2.0 performance. The way in which each scene is rendered is configurable through a set of  options.  To
       get the available scenes and their acceptable options you can use the -l, --list-scenes command line option.

       In glmark2-drm, a benchmark is defined as a scene plus a set of option values.  You can specify the list and order of the benchmarks to run by using the -b, --benchmark command line option (possi‐
       bly multiple times).  If no benchmarks are specified, a default set of benchmarks is used. If a benchmark option is not specified it assumes its default value (listed with -l, --list-scenes).

       As  a  special  case,  a  benchmark description string is allowed to not contain a scene name (i.e. to start with ':'). In this case, any specified option values are used as the default values for
       benchmarks following this description string.

EXAMPLES
       To run the default benchmarks:

              glmark2-drm

       To run a benchmark using scene 'shading' with a 'duration' of '5.0' seconds and
        'shading' of type 'phong':

              glmark2-drm -b shading:duration=5.0:shading=phong

       To run a series of benchmarks use the -b, --benchmark command line option multiple times:

              glmark2-drm -b shading:duration=5.0 -b build:use-vbo=false -b texture

       To set default option values for benchmarks:

              glmark2-drm -b :duration=2.0 -b shading -b build -b :duration=5.0 -b texture

AUTHOR
       glmark2-drm was written by Alexandros Frantzis and Jesse Barker based on the original glmark by Ben Smith.

glmark2-drm 2023.01                                                                             January 2023                                                                                 GLMARK2-DRM(1)
