GLMARK2(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  GLMARK2(1)

NAME
       glmark2 - OpenGL (ES) 2.0 benchmark suite

SYNOPSIS
       glmark2 [options]

DESCRIPTION
       glmark2 is a benchmark for OpenGL (ES) 2.0. It only uses the subset of the OpenGL 2.0 API that is compatible with OpenGL ES 2.0.

OPTIONS
       -b, --benchmark BENCH
              A benchmark to run: 'scene(:opt1=val1)*' (the option can be used multiple times)

       -f, --benchmark-file FILE
              Load benchmarks to run from a file containing a list of benchmark descriptions (one per line) (the option can be used multiple times)

       --validate
              Run a quick output validation test instead of running the benchmarks

       --data-path PATH
              Path to glmark2 models, shaders and textures

       --frame-end METHOD
              How to end a frame [default,none,swap,finish,readpixels]

       --off-screen
              Render to an off-screen surface

       --visual-config
              The  visual  configuration  to  use  for the rendering target: ´red=R:green=G:blue=B:alpha=A:buffer=BUF'. The parameters may be defined in any order, and any omitted parameters assume a default
              value of '1'

       --reuse-context
              Use a single context for all scenes (by default, each scene gets its own context)

       -s, --size WxH
              Size of the output window (default: 800x600)

       --fullscreen
              Run in fullscreen mode (equivalent to --size -1x-1)

       -l, --list-scenes
              Display information about the available scenes and their options

       --show-all-options
              Show all scene option values used for benchmarks (only explicitly set options are shown by default)

       --run-forever
              Run indefinitely, looping from the last benchmark back to the first

       --annotate
              Annotate the benchmarks with on-screen information (same as -b :show-fps=true:title=#info#)

       -d, --debug
              Display debug messages

       -h, --help
              Display help

BENCHMARKS
       glmark2 offers a suite of scenes that can be used to measure many aspects of OpenGL (ES) 2.0 performance. The way in which each scene is rendered is configurable through a set of options. To  get  the
       available scenes and their acceptable options you can use the -l, --list-scenes command line option.

       In  glmark2, a benchmark is defined as a scene plus a set of option values.  You can specify the list and order of the benchmarks to run by using the -b, --benchmark command line option (possibly mul‐
       tiple times).  If no benchmarks are specified, a default set of benchmarks is used. If a benchmark option is not specified it assumes its default value (listed with -l, --list-scenes).

       As a special case, a benchmark description string is allowed to not contain a scene name (i.e. to start with ':'). In this case, any specified option values are used as the default values  for  bench‐
       marks following this description string.

EXAMPLES
       To run the default benchmarks:

              glmark2

       To run a benchmark using scene 'shading' with a 'duration' of '5.0' seconds and
        'shading' of type 'phong':

              glmark2 -b shading:duration=5.0:shading=phong

       To run a series of benchmarks use the -b, --benchmark command line option multiple times:

              glmark2 -b shading:duration=5.0 -b build:use-vbo=false -b texture

       To set default option values for benchmarks:

              glmark2 -b :duration=2.0 -b shading -b build -b :duration=5.0 -b texture

AUTHOR
       glmark2 was written by Alexandros Frantzis and Jesse Barker based on the original glmark by Ben Smith.

glmark2 2021.02                                                                                  February 2021                                                                                       GLMARK2(1)
