GMASTERMIND(6)                                                                                  Games Manual                                                                                 GMASTERMIND(6)

NAME
       GMastermind - GNUstep clone of Mastermind

SYNOPSIS
       GMastermind

DESCRIPTION
       GMastermind is a game based upon the well-known board game 'Mastermind' (TM). Instructions on how to play are contained in the USAGE section.

USAGE
       When the command GMastermind is run, the game 'GMastermind.app' begins.  The objective of the game is to guess the correct combination of colored pegs randomly selected by the program.
       To make a guess, drag the pegs from the palette to the holes at the top of the board.  Once all four of the pegs have been placed, on the menu, press "Game", and then "Commit".
       After  this, you will see a grouping of black and white dots next to your guess. Black dots indicate that one of the pegs is the correct color in the correct position. White dots indicate that one
       of the pegs is the correct color, but in an incorrect position.
       You can make up to eight guesses. If you do not guess the correct combination by this stage, you lose.

OPTIONS
       GMastermind takes no options at the command line.
       However, the game can be customised by using the in-game menu.
       Info -> Info Panel...
        Displays copyright, author, etc.
       Game -> New game -> With replacement
        Starts a new game, where pegs of the same color can be used twice in
        the same sequence
       Game -> New game -> Without replacement
        Starts a new game, where pegs of the same color cannot be used twice
        in the same sequence
       Game -> Commit
        Commit a guess
       Game -> Move
        Let the computer make a move for you
       Hide
        Hide the program
       Quit
        Close the program

BUGS
       None known.

AUTHOR
       The original author this program was Marko Riedel.
       It is now hosted on GAP (the GNUstep Application Project):
       https://gap.nongnu.org/gmastermind/

                                                                                              October 2, 2024                                                                                GMASTERMIND(6)
