gmemusage(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              gmemusage(1)

NAME
       gmemusage - graphically display memory used by running processes.

SYNOPSIS
       gmemusage [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       Gmemusage  is  modelled  after  the  program of the same name on Silicon Graphics' workstations.  Gmemusage graphically displays the contents of memory on a running system, broken up by individual
       processes. The display is a stacked bar graph with the height of an area representing the RSS size of the corresponding process. In addition, the process name, number of processes with  that  name
       and the size (in kilobytes) are shown.

       Processes which take up less memory than a (user-specifiable) threshhold are merged into a single area on the graph. Multiple processes with the same name are merged into a single area.

       While running, gmemusage accepts the following keys:

       Q or q
            Exit the program.

       Up Arrow
            Increase the minimum threshhold by 10 kb.

       Down Arrow
            Decrease the minimum threshhold by 10 kb.

       Other keys are (not-so-silently!) ignored.

OPTIONS
       Gmemusage accepts the following command-line options (defaults in brackets):

       -name resourcename
            Class name to use for resources (Gmemusage)

       -display display
            X server to contact ($DISPLAY environment variable)

       -geometry geometry
            Initial window geometry (320x400)

       -font font
            Use font font for drawing text (fixed)

       -background color
            Color to use for window background (grey4)

       -update seconds
            Update interval (5 seconds)

       -threshhold kb
            Threshhold below which small processes are merged (400 kb)

       -ncolors #colors
            How many different colors to use (3)

       -color1 color
            Name of first color (red/maroon)

       -color2 color
            Name of second color (green/OliveDrab)

       -color3 color
            Name of third color (blue/SlateBlue)

       -color[4-9] color
            Names of remaining colors (undefined)

       -help
            Print a short help message.

RESOURCES
       Gmemusage understands the following X resources. See the OPTIONS section for details of what they do.

              name (class Name)
              display (class Display)
              geometry (class Geometry)
              font (class Font)
              background (class Background)
              update (class Interval)
              threshhold (class Threshhold)
              ncolors (class NColors)
              color1 (class Color)
              color2 (class Color)
              color3 (class Color)
              color[4-9] (class Color)

BUGS
       See the TODO file which comes with the distribution.

SEE ALSO
       top(1), ps(1), xosview(1).

VERSION
       Gmemusage version 0.2, 1998/01/14

AUTHOR
       Raju Mathur (raju@sgi.com) aka OldMonk.

SITE
       The canonical site for gmemusage is:

              http://reality.sgi.com/raju/software

COPYRIGHT
       Gmemusage is copyright (C) 1997, 1998 by Raju Mathur. See the file COPYING in the source directory for copyright information.

Silicon Graphics                                                                              14 January 1998                                                                                  gmemusage(1)
