GMQCC(1)                      Programmer's Manual                     GMQCC(1)

NAME
     gmqcc — A Quake C compiler built from the NIH realm of sarcastic wit

SYNOPSIS
     gmqcc [options] [files...]

DESCRIPTION
     Traditionally, a QC compiler reads the file progs.src which in its first
     line contains the output filename, and the rest is a list of QC source
     files that are to be compiled in order.  gmqcc optionally takes options
     to specify the output and input files on the commandline, and also ac‐
     cepts assembly files.

OPTIONS
     gmqcc mostly tries to mimic gcc's commandline handling, though there are
     also traditional long-options available.

     -h, --help
             Show a usage message and exit.

     -o, --output=filename
             Specify the output filename. Defaults to progs.dat. This will
             overwrite the output file listed in a progs.src file in case such
             a file is used.

             -Onumber
                     Specify the optimization level

             3       Highest optimization level

             2       Default optimization level

             1       Minimal optimization level

             0       Disable optimization entirely

     -Oname, -Ono-name
             Enable or disable a specific optimization. Note that these op‐
             tions must be used after setting the optimization level, other‐
             wise they'll be overwritten.

     -Ohelp  List all possible optimizations and the optimization level
             they're activated at.

     -q, --quiet
             Be less verbose. In particular removes the messages about which
             files are being processed, and which compilation mode is being
             used, and some others. Warnings and errors will of course still
             be displayed.

     -Dmacroname, -Dmacroname=value
             Predefine a macro, optionally with a optional value.

     -E      Run only the preprocessor as if -fftepp was used and print the
             preprocessed code to stdout.

     -Wwarning, -Wno-warning
             Enable or disable a warning.

     -Wall   Enable almost all warnings. Overrides preceding -W parameters.

             The following warnings will not be enabled:

                   -Wuninitialized-global

     -Werror, -Wno-error
             Controls whether or not all warnings should be treated as errors.

     -Werror-warning, -Wno-error-warning
             Controls whether a specific warning should be an error.

     -Whelp  List all possible warn flags.

     -fflag, -fno-flag
             Enable or disable a specific compile flag. See the list of flags
             below.

     -fhelp  List all possible compile flags.

     -nocolor
             Disables colored output

     -config=file
             Use an ini file to read all the -O, -W and -f flag from. See the

     -debug  Turn on some compiler debugging mechanisms.

     -memchk
             Turn on compiler mem-check. (Shows allocations and checks for
             leaks.)

     --memdumpcolscolumns
             Changes the number of columns to use for the debug memory dump,
             defaults to 16.  CONFIG section about the file format.

     -redirout=file
             Redirects standard output to a file

     -redirerr=file
             Redirects standard error to a file

     -std=standard
             Use the specified standard for parsing QC code. The following
             standards are available: gmqcc, qcc, fteqcc Selecting a standard
             also implies some -f options and behaves as if those options have
             been written right after the -std option, meaning if you changed
             them before the --std option, you're now overwriting them.

             -std=gmqcc includes:
                   -fadjust-vector-fields
                   -fcorrect-logic
                   -ftrue-empty-strings
                   -floop-labels
                   -finitialized-nonconstants
                   -ftranslatable-strings
                   -fno-false-empty-strings
                   -Winvalid-parameter-count
                   -Wmissing-returnvalues
                   -fcorrect-ternary (cannot be turned off)

             -std=qcc includes:
                   -fassign-function-types
                   -fIno-adjust-vector-fields

             -std=fteqcc includes:
                   -fftepp
                   -ftranslatable-strings
                   -fassign-function-types
                   -Wternary-precedence
                   -fno-adjust-vector-fields
                   -fno-correct-ternary

     --add-info
             Adds compiler information to the generated binary file. Currently
             this includes the following globals:
             reserved:version
                     String containing the compiler version as printed by the
                     --version parameter.

     --correct, --no-correct
             When enabled, errors about undefined values try to suggest an ex‐
             isting value via spell checking.

     -dump   DEBUG OPTION. Print the code's intermediate representation before
             the optimization and finalization passes to stdout before gener‐
             ating the binary.

     -dumpfin
             DEBUG OPTION. Print the code's intermediate representation after
             the optimization and finalization passes to stdout before gener‐
             ating the binary. The instructions will be enumerated, and values
             will contain a list of liferanges.

COMPILE WARNINGS
     -Wunused-variable
             Generate a warning about variables which are declared but never
             used.  This can be avoided by adding the ‘noref’ keyword in front
             of the variable declaration. Additionally a complete section of
             unreferenced variables can be opened using ‘#pragma noref 1’ and
             closed via ‘#pragma noref 0’.

     -Wused-uninitialized
             Generate a warning if it is possible that a variable can be used
             without prior initialization. Note that this warning is not nec‐
             essarily reliable if the initialization happens only under cer‐
             tain conditions. The other way is not possible: that the warning
             is not generated when uninitialized use is possible.

     -Wunknown-control-sequence
             Generate an error when an unrecognized control sequence in a
             string is used. Meaning: when there's a character after a back‐
             slash in a string which has no known meaning.

     -Wextensions
             Warn when using special extensions which are not part of the se‐
             lected standard.

     -Wfield-redeclared
             Generally QC compilers ignore redeclaration of fields. Here you
             can optionally enable a warning.

     -Wmissing-return-values
             Functions which aren't of type void will warn if it possible to
             reach the end without returning an actual value.

     -Winvalid-parameter-count
             Warn about a function call with an invalid number of parameters.

     -Wlocal-shadows
             Warn when a locally declared variable shadows variable.

     -Wlocal-constants
             Warn when the initialization of a local variable turns the vari‐
             able into a constant. This is default behaviour unless
             -finitialized-nonconstants is used.

     -Wvoid-variables
             There are only 2 known global variables of type void:
             ‘end_sys_globals’ and ‘end_sys_fields’.  Any other void-variable
             will warn.

     -Wimplicit-function-pointer
             A global function which is not declared with the ‘var’ keyword is
             expected to have an implementing body, or be a builtin. If nei‐
             ther is the case, it implicitly becomes a function pointer, and a
             warning is generated.

     -Wvariadic-function
             Currently there's no way for an in QC implemented function to ac‐
             cess variadic parameters. If a function with variadic parameters
             has an implementing body, a warning will be generated.

     -Wframe-macros
             Generate warnings about ‘$frame’ commands, for instance about du‐
             plicate frame definitions.

     -Weffectless-statement
             Warn about statements which have no effect. Any expression which
             does not call a function or assigns a variable.

     -Wend-sys-fields
             The ‘end_sys_fields’ variable is supposed to be a global variable
             of type void.  It is also recognized as a field but this will
             generate a warning.

     -Wassign-function-types
             Warn when assigning to a function pointer with an unmatching sig‐
             nature. This usually happens in cases like assigning the null
             function to an entity's .think function pointer.

     -Wcpp   Show warnings created using the preprocessor's '#warning' direc‐
             tive.

     -Wmultifile-if
             Warn if there's a preprocessor #if spanning across several files.

     -Wdouble-declaration
             Warn about multiple declarations of globals. This seems pretty
             common in QC code so you probably do not want this unless you
             want to clean up your code.

     -Wconst-var
             The combination of const and var is not illegal, however differ‐
             ent compilers may handle them differently. We were told, the in‐
             tention is to create a function-pointer which is not assignable.
             This is exactly how we interpret it. However for this interpreta‐
             tion the ‘var’ keyword is considered superfluous (and philosophi‐
             cally wrong), so it is possible to generate a warning about this.

     -Wmultibyte-character
             Warn about multibyte character constants, they do not work right
             now.

     -Wternary-precedence
             Warn if a ternary expression which contains a comma operator is
             used without enclosing parenthesis, since this is most likely not
             what you actually want. We recommend the -fcorrect-ternary op‐
             tion.

     -Wunknown-pragmas
             Warn when encountering an unrecognized ‘#pragma’ line.

     -Wunreachable-code
             Warn about unreachable code. That is: code after a return state‐
             ment, or code after a call to a function marked as 'noreturn'.

     -Wdebug
             Enable some warnings added in order to help debugging in the com‐
             piler.  You won't need this.

     -Wunknown-attribute
             Warn on an unknown attribute. The warning will inlclude only the
             first token inside the enclosing attribute-brackets. This may
             change when the actual attribute syntax is better defined.

     -Wreserved-names
             Warn when using reserved names such as ‘nil’.

     -Wuninitialized-constant
             Warn about global constants (using the ‘const’ keyword) with no
             assigned value.

     -Wuninitialized-global
             Warn about global variables with no initializing value. This is
             off by default, and is added mostly to help find null-values
             which are supposed to be replaced by the untyped 'nil' constant.

     -Wdifferent-qualifiers
             Warn when a variables is redeclared with a different qualifier.
             For example when redeclaring a variable as ´var´ which was previ‐
             ously marked ´const´.

     -Wdifferent-attributes
             Similar to the above but for attributes like ‘[[noreturn]]’.

     -Wdeprecated
             Warn when a function is marked with the attribute "[[depre‐
             cated]]". This flag enables a warning on calls to functions
             marked as such.

     -Wparenthesis
             Warn about possible mistakes caused by missing or wrong parenthe‐
             sis, like an assignment in an 'if' condition when there's no ad‐
             ditional set of parens around the assignment.

     -Wunsafe-types
             When passing variadic parameters via ...(N) it can happen that
             incompatible types are passed to functions. This enables several
             warnings when static typechecking cannot guarantee consistent be‐
             havior.

     -Wbreakdef
             When compiling original id1 QC there is a definition for `break`
             which conflicts with the 'break' keyword in GMQCC. Enabling this
             will print a warning when the definition occurs. The definition
             is ignored for both cases.

     -Wconst-overwrite
             When compiling original QuakeWorld QC there are instances where
             code overwrites constants. This is considered an error, however
             for QuakeWorld to compile it needs to be treated as a warning in‐
             stead, as such this warning only works when -std=qcc.

     -Wdirective-inmacro
             Warn about the use of preprocessor directives inside macros.

COMPILE FLAGS
     -fdarkplaces-string-table-bug
             Add some additional characters to the string table in order to
             compensate for a wrong boundcheck in some specific version of the
             darkplaces engine.

     -fadjust-vector-fields
             When assigning to field pointers of type .vector the common be‐
             haviour in compilers like fteqcc is to only assign the x-compo‐
             nent of the pointer. This means that you can use the vector as
             such, but you cannot use its y and z components directly. This
             flag fixes this behaviour. Before using it make sure your code
             does not depend on the buggy behaviour.

     -fftepp
             Enable a partially fteqcc-compatible preprocessor. It supports
             all the features used in the Xonotic codebase. If you need more,
             write a ticket.

     -fftepp-predefs
             Enable some predefined macros. This only works in combination
             with ´-fftepp' and is currently not included by '-std=fteqcc'.
             The following macros will be added:

                   __LINE__
                   __FILE__
                   __COUNTER__
                   __COUNTER_LAST__
                   __RANDOM__
                   __RANDOM_LAST__
                   __DATE__
                   __TIME__
                   __FUNC__

             Note that __FUNC__ is not actually a preprocessor macro, but is
             recognized by the parser even with the preprocessor disabled.

             Note that fteqcc also defines __NULL__ which becomes the first
             global. Assigning it to a vector does not yield the same result
             as in gmqcc where __NULL__ is defined to nil (See -funtyped-nil
             ), which will cause the vector to be zero in all components. With
             fteqcc only the first component will be 0, while the other two
             will become the first to of the global return value. This behav‐
             ior is odd and relying on it should be discouraged, and thus is
             not supported by gmqcc.

     -frelaxed-switch
             Allow switch cases to use non constant variables.

     -fshort-logic
             Perform early out in logical AND and OR expressions. The final
             result will be either a 0 or a 1, see the next flag for more pos‐
             sibilities.

     -fperl-logic
             In many languages, logical expressions perform early out in a
             special way: If the left operand of an AND yeilds true, or the
             one of an OR yields false, the complete expression evaluates to
             the right side.  Thus ‘true && 5’ evaluates to 5 rather than 1.

     -ftranslatable-strings
             Enable the underscore intrinsic: Using ‘_("A string constant")’
             will cause the string immediate to get a name with a "dotrans‐
             late_" prefix. The darkplaces engine recognizes these and trans‐
             lates them in a way similar to how gettext works.

     -finitialized-nonconstants
             Don't implicitly convert initialized variables to constants. With
             this flag, the const keyword is required to make a constant.

     -fassign-function-types
             If this flag is not set, (and it is set by default in the qcc and
             fteqcc standards), assigning function pointers of mismatching
             signatures will result in an error rather than a warning.

     -flno   Produce a linenumber file along with the output .dat file.

     -fcorrect-ternary
             Use C's operator precedence for ternary expressions. Unless your
             code depends on fteqcc-compatible behaviour, you'll want to use
             thi soption.

     -fsingle-vector-defs
             Normally vectors generate 4 defs, once for the vector, and once
             for its components with _x, _y, _z suffixes. This option prevents
             components from being listed.

     -fcorrect-logic
             Most QC compilers translate ‘if(a_vector)’ directly as an IF on
             the vector, which means only the x-component is checked. This op‐
             tion causes vectors to be cast to actual booleans via a NOT_V
             and, if necessary, a NOT_F chained to it.

                   if (a_vector) // becomes
                   if not(!a_vector)
                   // likewise
                   a = a_vector && a_float // becomes
                   a = !!a_vector && a_float

     -ftrue-empty-strings
             An empty string is considered to be true everywhere. The NOT_S
             instruction usually considers an empty string to be false, this
             option effectively causes the unary not in strings to use NOT_F
             instead.

     -ffalse-empty-strings
             An empty string is considered to be false everywhere. This means
             loops and if statements which depend on a string will perform a
             NOT_S instruction on the string before using it.

     -futf8  Enable utf8 characters. This allows utf-8 encoded character con‐
             stants, and escape sequence codepoints in the valid utf-8 range.
             Effectively enabling escape sequences like '\{x2211}'.

     -fbail-on-werror
             When a warning is treated as an error, and this option is set
             (which it is by default), it is like any other error and will
             cause compilation to stop. When disabling this flag by using
             -fno-bail-on-werror, compilation will continue until the end, but
             no output is generated. Instead the first such error message's
             context is shown.

     -floop-labels
             Allow loops to be labeled, and allow 'break' and 'continue' to
             take an optional label to decide which loop to actually jump out
             of or continue.

                   for :outer (i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
                       while (inner) {
                           ...;
                           if (something)
                               continue outer;
                       }
                   }

     -funtyped-nil
             Adds a global named 'nil' which is of no type and can be assigned
             to anything. No typechecking will be performed on assignments.
             Assigning to it is forbidden, using it in any other kind of ex‐
             pression is also not allowed.

             Note that this is different from fteqcc's __NULL__: In fteqcc,
             __NULL__ maps to the integer written as '0i'. It's can be as‐
             signed to function pointers and integers, but it'll error about
             invalid instructions when assigning it to floats without enabling
             the FTE instruction set. There's also a bug which allows it to be
             assigned to vectors, for which the source will be the global at
             offset 0, meaning the vector's y and z components will contain
             the OFS_RETURN x and y components.

             In that gmqcc the nil global is an actual global filled with ze‐
             roes, and can be assigned to anything including fields, vectors
             or function pointers, and they end up becoming zeroed.

     -fpermissive
             Various effects, usually to weaken some conditions.

                   with -funtyped-nil
                           Allow local variables named ‘nil’.  (This will not
                           allow declaring a global of that name.)

     -fvariadic-args
             Allow variadic parameters to be accessed by QC code. This can be
             achieved via the '...' function, which takes a parameter index
             and a typename.

             Example:

                   void vafunc(string...count) {
                       float i;
                       for (i = 0; i < count; ++i)
                           print(...(i, string), "\n");
                   }

     -flegacy-vector-maths
             Most Quake VMs, including the one from FTEQW or up till recently
             Darkplaces, do not cope well with vector instructions with over‐
             lapping input and output. This option will avoid producing such
             code.

     -fexpressions-for-builtins
             Usually builtin-numbers are just immediate constants. With this
             flag expressions can be used, as long as they are compile-time
             constant.

             Example:

                   void printA() = #1; // the usual way
                   void printB() = #2-1; // with a constant expression

     -freturn-assignments
             Enabiling this option will allow assigning values or expressions
             to the return keyword as if it were a local variable of the same
             type as the function's signature's return type.

             Example:

                   float bar() { return 1024; }
                   float fun() {
                       return = bar();
                       return; // returns value of bar
                   }

     -funsafe-varargs
             When passing on varargs to a different functions, this turns some
             static error cases into warnings. Like when the caller's varargs
             are restricted to a different type than the callee's parameter.
             Or a list of unrestricted varargs is passed into restricted
             varargs.

     -ftypeless-stores
             Always use STORE_F, LOAD_F, STOREP_F when accessing scalar vari‐
             ables.  This is somewhat incorrect assembly instruction use, but
             in all engines they do exactly the same. This makes disassembly
             output harder to read, breaks decompilers, but causes the output
             file to be better compressible.

     -fsort-operands
             In commutative instructions, always put the lower-numbered oper‐
             and first.  This shaves off 1 byte of entropy from all these in‐
             structions, reducing compressed size of the output file.

OPTIMIZATIONS
     -Opeephole
             Some general peephole optimizations. For instance the code `a = b
             + c` typically generates 2 instructions, an ADD and a STORE. This
             optimization removes the STORE and lets the ADD write directly
             into A.

     -Otail-recursion
             Tail recursive function calls will be turned into loops to avoid
             the overhead of the CALL and RETURN instructions.

     -Ooverlap-locals
             Make all functions which use neither local arrays nor have locals
             which are seen as possibly uninitialized use the same local sec‐
             tion.  This should be pretty safe compared to other compilers
             which do not check for uninitialized values properly. The problem
             is that there's QC code out there which really doesn't initialize
             some values. This is fine as long as this kind of optimization
             isn't used, but also, only as long as the functions cannot be
             called in a recursive manner. Since it's hard to know whether or
             not an array is actually fully initialized, especially when ini‐
             tializing it via a loop, we assume functions with arrays to be
             too dangerous for this optimization.

     -Olocal-temps
             This promotes locally declared variables to "temps". Meaning when
             a temporary result of an operation has to be stored somewhere, a
             local variable which is not 'alive' at that point can be used to
             keep the result. This can reduce the size of the global section.
             This will not have declared variables overlap, even if it was
             possible.

     -Oglobal-temps
             Causes temporary values which do not need to be backed up on a
             CALL to not be stored in the function's locals-area. With this, a
             CALL to a function may need to back up fewer values and thus exe‐
             cute faster.

     -Ostrip-constant-names
             Don't generate defs for immediate values or even declared con‐
             stants.  Meaning variables which are implicitly constant or qual‐
             ified as such using the 'const' keyword.

     -Ooverlap-strings
             Aggressively reuse strings in the string section. When a string
             should be added which is the trailing substring of an already ex‐
             isting string, the existing string's tail will be returned in‐
             stead of the new string being added.

             For example the following code will only generate 1 string:

                   print("Hello you!\n");
                   print("you!\n"); // trailing substring of "Hello you!\n"

             There's however one limitation. Strings are still processed in
             order, so if the above print statements were reversed, this opti‐
             mization would not happen.

     -Ocall-stores
             By default, all parameters of a CALL are copied into the parame‐
             ter-globals right before the CALL instructions. This is the easi‐
             est and safest way to translate calls, but also adds a lot of un‐
             necessary copying and unnecessary temporary values. This opti‐
             mization makes operations which are used as a parameter evaluate
             directly into the parameter-global if that is possible, which is
             when there's no other CALL instruction in between.

     -Ovoid-return
             Usually an empty RETURN instruction is added to the end of a void
             typed function. However, additionally after every function a DONE
             instruction is added for several reasons. (For example the qcvm's
             disassemble switch uses it to know when the function ends.). This
             optimization replaces that last RETURN with DONE rather than
             adding the DONE additionally.

     -Ovector-components
             Because traditional QC code doesn't allow you to access individ‐
             ual vector components of a computed vector without storing it in
             a local first, sometimes people multiply it by a constant like
             ‘'0 1 0'’ to get, in this case, the y component of a vector. This
             optimization will turn such a multiplication into a direct compo‐
             nent access. If the factor is anything other than 1, a float-mul‐
             tiplication will be added, which is still faster than a vector
             multiplication.

     -Oconst-fold-dce
             For constant expressions that result in dead code (such as a
             branch whos condition can be evaluated at compile-time), this
             will eliminate the branch and else body (if present) to produce
             more optimal code.

CONFIG
     The configuration file is similar to regular .ini files. Comments start
     with hashtags or semicolons, sections are written in square brackets and
     in each section there can be arbitrary many key-value pairs.

     There are 3 sections currently: ‘flags’, ‘warnings’, ‘optimizations’.
     They contain a list of boolean values of the form ‘VARNAME = true’ or
     ‘VARNAME = false’.  The variable names are the same as for the corre‐
     sponding -W, -f or -O flag written with only capital letters and dashes
     replaced by underscores.

     Here's an example:

           # a GMQCC configuration file
           [flags]
               FTEPP = true
               ADJUST_VECTOR_FIELDS = false
               LNO = true

           [warnings]
               UNUSED_VARIABLE = false
               USED_UNINITIALIZED = true

           [optimizations]
               PEEPHOLE = true
               TAIL_RECURSION = true

FILES
     gmqcc.ini.example
             A documented example for a gmqcc.ini file.

SEE ALSO
     qcvm(1)

AUTHOR
     See <http://graphitemaster.github.com/gmqcc>.

BUGS
     Currently the '-fftepp-predefs' flag is not included by '-std=fteqcc',
     partially because it is not entirely conformant to fteqcc.

     Please report bugs on <http://github.com/graphitemaster/gmqcc/issues>, or
     see <http://graphitemaster.github.com/gmqcc> on how to contact us.

BSD                            January 24, 2013                            BSD
