
gnokiid(8)                                                                                           gnokii                                                                                          gnokiid(8)

NAME
       gnokiid - create a virtual modem for old Nokia mobile phones

SYNOPSIS
       gnokiid

       gnokiid [--help|--version|--debug]

DESCRIPTION
       gnokiid

       is  a  tool from the gnokii tool suite used to create a virtual modem device with a Nokia portable telephone.  The virtual modem device is usually accessed via a symbolic link called /dev/gnokii (cre‐
       ated automatically by mgnokiidev(8)). Please note that you don't need a virtual modem when you have real modem accepting AT Hayes commands (most of the modern phones).  gnokiid  was  written  for  the
       phones that supported data transfer but didn't expose AT layer (namely Nokia 6110, 6130, 6150, 5110, 5130).

       After  gnokiid  has  created  the virtual modem, it can be accessed like any other Hayes-compatible modem by such programs as the terminal program minicom(1) or the PPP daemon pppd(8) to make standard
       data connections to remote computers.

       The full range of portable telephone functions (SMS messaging, phone book, operator logos, etc.) are accessed using the command-line program gnokii(1) or the graphical interface program xgnokii(1x).

       gnokii is a Linux/Unix tool suite and (eventually) modem/fax driver for Nokia mobile phones, released under the GPL.

       gnokii supports most phones from the 3810/8110 and 5110/6110 series, details including bugs specific to each series appear in the files Docs/README-3810 and Docs/README-6110 respectively.

OPTIONS
       If called without any options, gnokiid will set up a virtual modem device using the settings in gnokii(1) config file (if it exists).  Otherwise,

       --help print out a short usage message

       --version
              print out version, copyright, phone, and serial device info

       --debug
              uses STDIN/STDOUT for a virtual modem

DIAGNOSTICS
       Various error messages are printed to STDERR.

BUGS
       Hmmm...

AUTHOR
       Hugh Blemings <hugh at blemings dot org> and Pavel Janik ml. <Pavel.Janik at suse dot cz> are the authors of the gnokii tool suite.

       This manual page was written by Erik Rossen <rossen at freesurf dot ch>.

       See also Docs/CREDITS from the gnokii sources.

COPYING
       This program is distributed under the GNU Public License Version 2, or (at your option) any later version..

SEE ALSO
       gnokii, xgnokii, mgnokiidev

Erik Rossen                                                                                       May 27, 2001                                                                                       gnokiid(8)
