gnss-share(1)                                                      General Commands Manual                                                      gnss-share(1)

NAME
       gnss-share

DESCRIPTION
       gnss-share is an app that facilitates sharing GNSS location data with multiple clients, while providing a way to perform device-specific setup before‐
       hand. For some devices, it can also manage loading and storing A-GPS data.

CONCEPTS
       gnss-share  was  originally  created to allow multiplexing GNSS data from a single device to multiple clients, and to facilitate loading/storing A-GPS
       data to and from the device. gnss-share effectively acts as a proxy between the GNSS device and the clients, which allows controlling  when  and  what
       location  data  clients  receive, as well as giving an opportunity to set time, rough location, etc on the device to improve lock speed. Some external
       signals can be used to control gnss-share, see SIGNALS for more information.

COMMANDS
       [none]
           The default behavior if no command is specified is to run in server mode.

       store
           Store almanac and ephemerides data and quit.

       load
           Load almanac and ephemerides data and quit.

OPTIONS
       -c <path>
           Path to the configuration file to use. Default: /etc/gnss-share.conf

       -d
           Enable printing debug output.

       -h
           Print help and exit.

SIGNALS
       In addition to the command line options, this application will respond to the following signals when in "server" mode:

       SIGUSR1
           The application will load AGPS data from the directory agps_directory specified in the configuration file, and continue running afterward.

       SIGUSR2
           The application will store AGPS data to the directory agps_directory specified in the configuration file, and continue running afterward.

SEE ALSO
           gnss-share.conf(5)

AUTHORS
       Clayton Craft <clayton@craftyguy.net>

gnss-share                                                                2026-01-20                                                            gnss-share(1)
