gnubiff(1)                                                                                  gnubiff Manual Pages                                                                                 gnubiff(1)

NAME
       gnubiff - a mail notification program supporting GTK+ and GNOME

SYNOPSIS
       gnubiff [options]

DESCRIPTION
       gnubiff  is a mail notification program that checks for mail, displays headers when new mail has arrived and allow to read first lines of new messages. It relies on the GNOME and GTK libraries but
       can be compiled and used with or without GNOME support. Supported protocols are pop3, apop, imap4, mh, qmail and mailfile.  Furthermore, gnubiff is fully configurable with a lot  of  options  like
       polltime,  poptime,  sounds,  mail reader, mailbox names, etc. and can also filter spam. Note that gnubiff is not a mail reader even if it offers the possibility of reading very first lines of new
       messages. If you send some requests for specific features to be implemented, keep that in mind!

OPTIONS
       gnubiff accepts the following command line options:

       -c filename, --config filename
              Use the specified file as configuration file (default is ~/.gnubiffrc)

       -n, --noconfigure
              Skip the configure process

       --nogui
              Start gnubiff without GUI

       --systemtray
              Start gnubiff in the system tray

       -?, --help
              Show summary of options

       -v, --version
              Print version information

FILES
       ~/.gnubiffrc
              user specific options file

SEE ALSO
       More documentation about gnubiff can be found in the info pages with the command info gnubiff

BUGS
       None known.

AUTHORS
       gnubiff was developed by Nicolas Rougier <Nicolas.Rougier@loria.fr> and is currently maintained by Robert Sowada <sowadart@gmx.de>. This manpage was written by Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de> for
       Debian. It can be used elsewhere, of course.

Version 2.2.14                                                                                7 February 2010                                                                                    gnubiff(1)
