CHESS(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                       CHESS(1)

NAME
       Chess - GNU Chess

SYNOPSIS
       gnuchess [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       GNU Chess 6.2.9 Copyright © 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html> This is free software: you are free to change and re‐
       distribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

       Play the game of chess.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

       -v, --version
              display version information and exit

       -q, --quiet
              make the program silent on startup

       --silent
              same as -q

       -x, --xboard
              start in engine mode

       -p, --post
              start up showing thinking

       -e, --easy
              disable thinking in opponents time

       -m, --manual
              enable manual mode

       -u, --uci
              enable UCI protocol (externally behave as UCI engine)

       -M size, --memory=size
              specify memory usage in MB for hashtable

       -a filename, --addbook=filename
              compile book.bin from pgn book 'filename'

       -g, --graphic
              enable graphic mode

              Options xboard and post are accepted without leading dashes for backward compatibility.

              Moves are accepted either in standard algebraic notation (SAN) or in coordinate algebraic notation.

              The  file 'gnuchess.ini' allows setting config options if --uci is not used. See 'info gnuchess' for details. The file is looked for in three locations according to this precedence: current
              directory, the directory pointed to by environment variable GNUCHESS_PKGDATADIR, or the package data directory stated at configure time.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-gnu-chess@gnu.org>.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for Chess is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and Chess programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info gnuchess

       should give you access to the complete manual.

GNU Chess 6.2.9                                                                                December 2024                                                                                       CHESS(1)
