gitfm(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  gitfm(1)

NAME
       gitfm - GNU Interactive Tools File Manager

SYNTAX
       gitfm [options] [path1] [path2]

DESCRIPTION
       gitfm is a file system browser with some shell facilities which was designed to make your work easier and more efficient.

       The GNUIT package also contains gitps, an interactive process viewer/killer and gitview, a hex/ascii file viewer.

       More extensive documentation on gitfm and the other gnuit tools is available in info format, try 'info gnuit'.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.  For a complete description, see the Info files.

       -h     Show summary of options.

       -v     Show version of program.

       -c     Use ANSI colours.

       -b     Don't use ANSI colours.

       -l     Don't use last screen character.

       -p     Output the final path on exit

NOTE
       The  main  configuration  file  of  the  GNUIT  package  is  gnuitrc.TERM  where TERM is the value of the environment variable 'TERM' e.g for Linux console your environment contains something like
       'TERM=linux' so the configuration file name is gnuitrc.linux.  You can (and should) have a configuration file for each terminal type you use.  If you customise git, the version of the config  file
       in your home directory should have a leading ".", eg .gnuitrc.linux.

FILE-SYSTEM BROWSER
       gitfm  is  made  of  two panels. The left one and the right one. Each one contains a file system directory. You can browse the directory tree with the usual cursor keys and pressing ENTER when you
       want to enter or leave a directory.  You may change the panels by pressing TAB.  See also BUILT-IN COMMANDS.

INPUT LINE
       Under the two panels there is a shell like input line which you can use to type normal shell commands. The input line supports unlimited characters and keeps a history of the typed commands. gitfm
       uses the GNU history library for that.  See also BUILT-IN COMMANDS.

WARNINGS AND ERRORS REPORTING
       Under the input line there is a status bar. You can see there the status of the currently executed command, the warnings and errors and you will be prompted if a decision has to be taken.

BUGS
       Please send bug reports to:
       gnuit-dev@gnu.org

SEE ALSO
       termcap(5) terminfo(5) sh(1) ps(1) mount(8) umount(8) gitps(1) gitview(1) gitaction(1) gitmount(1) gitkeys(1) gitrgrep(1) gitunpack(1)

AUTHORS
       Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
       Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
       Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (Current maintainer)

                                                                                                                                                                                                   gitfm(1)
