GNULIB-TOOL(1)              GNU Portability Library             GNULIB-TOOL(1)

NAME
       gnulib-tool  -  program for authors or maintainers which want to import
       modules from gnulib into their packages.

SYNOPSIS
       gnulib-tool --list

       gnulib-tool --import [module1 ... moduleN]

       gnulib-tool --update

       gnulib-tool --create-testdir --dir=directory module1 ... moduleN

       gnulib-tool --create-megatestdir --dir=directory [module1 ... moduleN]

       gnulib-tool --test --dir=directory module1 ... moduleN

       gnulib-tool --megatest --dir=directory [module1 ... moduleN]

       gnulib-tool --extract-description module

       gnulib-tool --extract-filelist module

       gnulib-tool --extract-dependencies module

       gnulib-tool --extract-autoconf-snippet module

       gnulib-tool --extract-automake-snippet module

       gnulib-tool --extract-include-directive module

       gnulib-tool --extract-license module

       gnulib-tool --extract-maintainer module

       gnulib-tool --extract-tests-module module

DESCRIPTION
       The GNU portability library is a macro system and  C  declarations  and
       definitions for commonly-used API elements and abstracted system behav‐
       iors. It can be used to improve portability and other functionality  in
       your programs.

OPTIONS
       Operation modes:

       --list print the available module names.

       --import
              import the given modules into the current package; if no modules
              are specified, update  the  current  package  from  the  current
              gnulib.

       --update
              update the current package, restore files omitted from CVS.

       --create-testdir
              create a scratch package with the given modules.

       --create-megatestdir
              create  a mega scratch package with the given modules one by one
              and all together.

       --test test the combination of the given modules  (recommended  to  use
              CC="gcc -Wall" here).

       --megatest
              test  the given modules one by one and all together (recommended
              to use CC="gcc -Wall" here).

       --extract-description
              extract the description.

       --extract-filelist
              extract the list of files.

       --extract-dependencies
              extract the dependencies.

       --extract-autoconf-snippet
              extract the snippet for configure.ac.

       --extract-automake-snippet
              extract the snippet for lib/Makefile.am.

       --extract-include-directive
              extract the #include directive.

       --extract-license
              report the license terms of the source files under lib/.

       --extract-maintainer
              report the maintainer(s) inside gnulib.

       --extract-tests-module
              report the unit test module, if it exists.

       Options:

       --dir=DIRECTORY
              specify the target directory. For --import, this specifies where
              your configure.ac can be found. Defaults to current directory.

       --lib=LIBRARY
              Specify the library name. Defaults to 'libgnu'.

       --source-base=DIRECTORY
              Directory  relative  --dir  where source code is placed (default
              "lib"), for --import.

       --m4-base=DIRECTORY
              Directory relative --dir where *.m4 macros are  placed  (default
              "m4"), for --import.

       --tests-base=DIRECTORY
              Directory  relative  --dir  where unit tests are placed (default
              "tests"), for --import.

       --aux-dir=DIRECTORY
              Directory relative --dir where auxiliary build tools are  placed
              (default "build-aux").

       --with-tests
              Include unit tests for the included modules.

       --avoid=MODULE
              Avoid  including  the given MODULE. Useful if you have code that
              provides equivalent functionality. This option can be repeated.

       --lgpl Abort if modules aren't available under the  LGPL.  Also  modify
              license template from GPL to LGPL.

       --libtool
              Use libtool rules, for --import.

       --macro-prefix=PREFIX
              Specify  the  prefix of the macros 'gl_EARLY' and 'gl_INIT'. De‐
              fault is 'gl'.

       --no-changelog
              don't update or create ChangeLog files.

       --dry-run
              For --import, only print what would have been done.

       -s, --symbolic, --symlink
              Make symbolic links instead of copying files.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-gnulib@gnu.org>.

SEE ALSO
       check-module(1).

AUTHOR
       gnulib was written by the Free Software Foundation and others  (sources
       of various origins).

       This manual page was written by Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org>, for
       the Debian project (but may be used by others).

0.0.20060601                      2006-06-01                    GNULIB-TOOL(1)
