GO-JUNIT-REPORT(1)                                                                                                                                                                       GO-JUNIT-REPORT(1)

NAME
       go-junit-report - convert Go test output to JUnit XML

SYNOPSIS
       go-junit-report [-in file] [-out file] [options...]

       go-junit-report -version

       go-junit-report -help

DESCRIPTION
       go-junit-report is a tool that converts go test output to a JUnit compatible XML report, suitable for use with applications such as Jenkins or GitLab CI.

       By default, go-junit-report reads go test -v output generated by the standard library testing package from stdin and writes a JUnit XML report to stdout.

       Go build and runtime errors are also supported, but this requires that stderr is redirected to go-junit-report as well.

       Typical use looks like this:

           go test -v 2E<gt>&1 ./... | go-junit-report -set-exit-code E<gt> report.xml

       Alternatively, go-junit-report can consume JSON output of go test. In this case, stderr still needs to be redirected for build errors to be detected.

           go test -json 2E<gt>&1 | go-junit-report -parser gojson E<gt> report.xml

       The -iocopy flag copies stdin directly to stdout, which is useful to still be able to see the go test output.

           go test -v 2E<gt>&1 ./... | go-junit-report -set-exit-code -iocopy -out report.xml

OPTIONS
       -in file
           Read the log from file. If not specified, stdin is used.

       -out file
           Write XML report to file. If not specified, stdout is used.

       -iocopy
           Copy input to stdout. Can only be used in conjunction with -out.  This is useful if you want to see what was sent to go-junit-report.

       -no-xml-header
           Do not print the XML header.

       -p key=value
           Add a key=value property to generated report. Repeat this flag to add multiple properties.

       -package-name name
           Specify a default package name to use if test log does not contain a package name.

       -parser string
           Set input parser type: gotest or gojson (default: gotest).

       -set-exit-code
           Set exit code to 1 if tests failed.

       -subtest-mode mode
           Set subtest mode: ignore-parent-results (subtest parents always pass), exclude-parents (subtest parents are excluded from the report).

       -help
           Print a summary of command-line options.

       -version
           Print the go-junit-report version.

       -debug.print-events
           print events generated by the go test parser

       -go-version string
           (deprecated, use -prop) the value to use for the go.version property in the generated XML

EXIT STATUS
       If go-junit-report encounters an error during its operation, or doesn’t understand its command-line options, 2 is returned.

       If the input logs indicate the tests failed, and -set-exit-code is specified, 1 is returned.

       Otherwise, 0 is returned.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2025 Andrej Shadura.

                                                                                                 2025-06-22                                                                              GO-JUNIT-REPORT(1)
