GO-MTPFS(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               GO-MTPFS(1)

NAME
       go-mtpfs - FUSE filesystem for mounting Android device as MTP device

SYNOPSIS
       go-mtpfs [options] directory

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the go-mtpfs command.

       go-mtpfs is a program that mounts an Android device as an MTP device.  The only argument the program takes is the directory name.

       Example usage:

       mkdir xoom
       go-mtpfs xoom &
       cp -a ~/Music/Some-Album xoom/Music/
       fusermount -u xoom

       After  a file is closed (e.g., if cp completes in the above example), it is safe to unplug the device; the filesystem then will continue to function, but generates I/O errors when it reads from or
       writes to the device.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.  -h, --help Show summary of options.

       -allow-other
              Allow other users to access mounted fuse. Default: false.

       -android
              Use Android extensions if available. Default: true.

       -debug string
              Comma-separated list of debugging options: usb, data, mtp, fuse

       -dev string
              Regular expression to filter device IDs, which are composed of manufacturer/product/serial.

       -storage string
              Regular expression to filter storage areas.

       -usb-timeout int
              Timeout in milliseconds. Default: 5000

       -vfat  Assume removable RAM media uses VFAT, and rewrite names. Default: true.

NOTES
       This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution (but may be used by others), because the original program does not have a manual page.

                                                                                                  Jan 2021                                                                                      GO-MTPFS(1)
