bloom(1)                                                                                                                                                                                           bloom(1)

NAME
       bloom - utility to work with Bloom filters

SYNOPSIS
       bloom [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

DESCRIPTION
       This is the main tool to interact with Bloom filters, e.g. to create, fill and query them.

BASIC USAGE
       To create a new Bloom filter with a desired capacity and false positive probability, you can use `create`:

           #will create a gzipped Bloom filter with 100.000 capacity and a 0.1 % false positive probability
           bloom --gzip create -p 0.001 -n 100000 test.bloom.gz

       To insert values, you can use the insert command and pipe some input to it (each line will be treated as one value):

           cat values | bloom --gzip insert test.bloom.gz

       You can also interactively add values to the filter by specifying the --interactive option:

           bloom --gzip --interactive insert test.bloom.gz

       To check if a given value or a list of values is in the filter, you can use `check`:

           cat values | bloom --gzip check test.bloom.gz

       This will return a list of all values in the filter.

ADVANCED USAGE
       Sometimes it is useful to attach additional information to a string that we want to check against the Bloom filter, such as a timestamp or the original line content. To make passing along this ad‐
       ditional  information  easier within a shell context, the Bloom tool provides an option for splitting the input string by a given delimiter and checking the filter against the resulting field val‐
       ues.

           # will check the Bloom filter for the values foo, bar and baz
           cat "foo,bar,baz" | bloom -s filter.bloom

           # uses a different delimiter (--magic-delimiter--)
           cat "foo--ac5ba--bar--ac5ba--baz" | bloom  -d "--ac5ba--" -s filter.bloom

           # will check the Bloom filter against the second field value only
           cat "foo,bar,baz" | bloom -f 1 -s filter.bloom

           # will check the Bloom filter against the second and third field values only
           cat "foo,bar,baz" | bloom -f 1,2 -s filter.bloom

           # will print one line for each field value that matched against the filter
           cat "foo,bar,baz" | bloom -e -s filter.bloom

           # will print the last field value for each line whose fields matched against the filter
           cat "foo,bar,baz" | bloom -e -s --pf -1 filter.bloom

       This functionality is especially handy when using CSV data, as it allows you to filter CSV rows by checking individual columns against the filter without having to use external tools to split  and
       reassemble the lines.

COMMANDS
       * create
              Create a new Bloom filter and store it in the given file.

       * insert
              Inserts new values into an existing Bloom filter.

       * join, merge
              Joins two Bloom filters into one.

       * check
              Checks values against an existing Bloom filter.

       * set-data
              Sets the data associated with the Bloom filter.

       * get-data
              Prints the data associated with the Bloom filter.

       * show Shows various details about a given Bloom filter.

       * help Shows a list of commands or help for one command

OPTIONS
       --gzip, --gz
              compress bloom file with gzip

       --interactive, -i
              interactively add values to the filter

       --split, -s
              split the input string

       --each, -e
              print each match of a split string individually

       --delimiter value, -d value
              delimiter to use for splitting (default: ",")

       --fields value, -f value
              fields of split output to use in filter (a single number or a comma-separated list of numbers, zero-indexed)

       --print-fields value, --pf value
              fields of split output to print for a successful match (a single number or a comma-separated list of numbers, zero-indexed).

       --help, -h
              show help

       --version, -v
              print the version

bloom 0.2.4                                                                                     22 June 2025                                                                                       bloom(1)
