GOMOKU(6)                      BSD Games Manual                      GOMOKU(6)

NAME
     gomoku — game of 5 in a row

SYNOPSIS
     gomoku [-bcdu] [-D debugfile] [inputfile]

DESCRIPTION
     gomoku is a two player game where the object is to get 5 in a row hori‐
     zontally, vertically or diagonally on a 19 by 19 grid.  By convention,
     black always moves first.  With no arguments, gomoku will display a play‐
     ing board and prompt for moves from the user.  Valid moves are a letter
     for the column and a number for the row of an empty board location.  En‐
     tering ``quit" or ``resign" will end the game.  You can save the current
     state of the game by entering ``save" and supplying a file name when
     prompted.  The optional file inputfile can be used to restore a saved
     game.

     The options are:

     -b      This option sets background mode.  Input moves are read from
             standard input, the computer picks a move, and prints it to stan‐
             dard output.  The first input line should be either ``black" or
             ``white" to specify whether gomoku has the first move or not re‐
             spectively.  This option was intended for game tournaments where
             a referee program handles the board display and pits one program
             against another.

     -c      Computer versus computer.  gomoku will play a game against it‐
             self.  This is mostly used for testing.

     -d      Print debugging information.  Repeating this option more than
             once yields more detailed information.

     -D debugfile
             Print the debug information to debugfile instead of to the stan‐
             dard output.

     -u      User versus user.  This is mostly used for testing.

AUTHOR
     Ralph Campbell

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
     The board display routines were based on the goref program written by Pe‐
     ter Langston.

BSD                             August 4, 1994                             BSD
