GOPASS(1)                                                                                   Password Store                                                                                   GOPASS(1)

NAME
       gopass - stores, retrieves, generates, and synchronizes passwords securely

SYNOPSIS
       gopass [ COMMAND ] [ OPTIONS ]... [ ARGS ]...

DESCRIPTION
       gopass  is a very simple password store that keeps passwords inside gpg2(1) encrypted files inside a simple directory tree residing at ~/.password-store.  The gopass utility provides a series
       of commands for manipulating the password store, allowing the user to add, remove, edit, synchronize, generate, and manipulate passwords.

       If no COMMAND is specified, COMMAND defaults to either show or ls, depending on the type of specifier in ARGS. Otherwise COMMAND must be one of the valid commands listed below.

       Several of the commands below rely on or provide additional functionality if the password store directory is also a git repository. If the password store directory is a  git  repository,  all
       password store modification commands will cause a corresponding git commit.  git(1).

       The init command must be run before other commands in order to initialize the password store with the correct gpg key id. Passwords are encrypting using the gpg key set with init.

       There is a corresponding bash completion script for use with tab completing password names in bash(1).

COMMANDS
       init [ --path=path, -p path ] gpg-id...
              Initialize  new password storage and use gpg-id for encryption.  Multiple gpg-ids may be specified, in order to encrypt each password with multiple ids.  This command must be run first
              before a password store can be used.  If the specified gpg-id is different from the key used in any existing files, these files will be reencrypted to use the new id.  Note that use of
              gpg-agent(1) is recommended so that the batch decryption does not require as much user intervention.

       ls subfolder
              List names of passwords inside the tree at subfolder by using the tree(1) program. This command is alternatively named list.

       grep search-string
              Searches inside each decrypted password file for search-string, and displays line containing matched string along with filename.

       find pass-names...
              List names of passwords inside the tree that match pass-names by using the tree(1) program. This command is alternatively named search.

       show [ --clip, -c ] [ --two-factor, -2fa ] [ --username, -u ] pass-name
              Decrypt and print a password named pass-name.  If --username or -u is specified, do not print the password but instead attempt to find the username.  If --clip or -c is  specified,  do
              not  print  the password but instead copy the first line to the clipboard using xclip(1).  If --two-factor or -2fa is specified, attempt to generate a TOTP code for the given password.
              This requires that the password contain either a full otpauth:// URI or a TOTP secret prefixed by '2fa:'.

       insert [ --multiline, -m ] [ --force, -f ] pass-name
              Insert a new password into the password store called pass-name. This will read the new password from standard in. If --multiline or -m is specified, an editor will be opened for you to
              type the password. Otherwise, only a single line from standard in is read. Prompt before overwriting an existing password, unless --force or -f is specified. This command  is  alterna‐
              tively named add.

       edit pass-name
              Insert a new password or edit an existing password using the default text editor specified by the environment variable EDITOR or using editor as a fallback. This mode makes use of tem‐
              porary files for editing.

       generate [ --no-symbols, -n ] [ --force, -f ] pass-name pass-length
              Generate  a  new  password  of  length pass-length and insert into pass-name.  If --no-symbols or -n is specified, do not use any non-alphanumeric characters in the generated password.
              Prompt before overwriting an existing password, unless --force or -f is specified.

       rm [ --recursive, -r ] [ --force, -f ] pass-name
              Remove the password named pass-name from the password store. This command is alternatively named remove or delete. If --recursive or -r is specified, delete pass-name recursively if it
              is a directory. If --force or -f is specified, do not interactively prompt before removal.

       mv [ --force, -f ] old-path new-path
              Renames the password or directory named old-path to new-path. This command is alternatively named rename. If --force is specified, silently overwrite new-path if it exists. If new-path
              ends in a trailing /, it is always treated as a directory.

       cp [ --force, -f ] old-path new-path
              Copies the password or directory named old-path to new-path. This command is alternatively named copy. If --force is specified, silently overwrite new-path if it  exists.  If  new-path
              ends in a trailing /, it is always treated as a directory.

       git git-command-args...
              If the password store is a git repository, pass git-command-args as arguments to git(1) using the password store as the git repository. If git-command-args is init, in addition to ini‐
              tializing the git repository, add the current contents of the password store to the repository in an initial commit.

       help   Show usage message.

       version
              Show version information.

FILES
       ~/.password-store
              The default password storage directory.

       ~/.password-store/.gpg-id
              Contains the default gpg key identification used for encryption and decryption.  Multiple gpg keys may be specified in this file, one per line.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       PASSWORD_STORE_DIR
              Overrides the default password storage directory.

       EDITOR Text editor to use.

SEE ALSO
       gpg2(1), git(1),

AUTHOR
       gopass was written by Alexandre Viau.  For updates and more information, a project page is available on the World Wide Web.

       pass was written by Jason A. Donenfeld.  For updates and more information, a project page is available on the World Wide Web.

COPYING
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the
       License, or (at your option) any later version.

       This  program  is  distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
       GNU General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street,  Fifth  Floor,  Boston,  MA
       02110-1301, USA.

Alexandre Viau                                                                               2015 March 29                                                                                   GOPASS(1)
