GORMTOOL(1)                                                                                 GNUstep Manual Pages                                                                                GORMTOOL(1)

NAME
       gormtool - access certain Gorm features from the command line

SYNOPSIS
       gormtool [options] [input_file]

DESCRIPTION
       gormtool allows the user to access certain Gorm features from the command line.  It is a "hybrid" GNUstep tool/headless GNUstep application and does not require a X server to run.

OPTIONS
       --import-strings-file
              Imports a file in the .strings format and replaces the text in the model file with the mappings.  It takes a parameter which is the strings file to be imported.

       --export-strings-file
              Exports a .strings file from the model file to the file specified by the parameter.

       --import-xliff
              Imports an XLIFF1.2 file into the model file to the file specified by the parameter.

       --export-xliff
              Exports an XLIFF1.2 file from the model file to the file specified by the parameter.

       --import-class
              Parses the header given by the parameter passed in, it will break any existing connections if the class is instantiated.

       --export-class
              Exports the named class (passed in as a parameter) to a file by the same name in the current directory.

       --read Specifies this file is to be the one read... optional.  If not used the last parameter is considered the input file.

       --write
              Specifies the output file the model is to be written to.

BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       This tool is currently experimental and bugs are expected.  Please report them; thanks.

SEE ALSO
       GNUstep(7), Gorm(1)

AUTHORS
       gormtool was written by Gregory John Casamento.

       This manual page was written by Yavor Doganov <yavor@gnu.org> for the Debian project but it may be used by others.

COPYING
       © 2024 Debian GNUstep maintainers

       This manual page is distributed under the same license as the gormtool program.

GNUstep                                                                                          June 2024                                                                                      GORMTOOL(1)
