GOTSH(1)                                                            General Commands Manual                                                          GOTSH(1)

NAME
       gotsh — Game of Trees Shell

SYNOPSIS
       gotsh -c ‘git-receive-pack repository-path’ gotsh -c ‘git-upload-pack repository-path’ gotsh -c ‘weblogin [hostname]’

DESCRIPTION
       gotsh is the network-facing interface to gotd(8).  It implements the server-side part of the Git network protocol used by git(1) and got(1).

       gotsh  is not an interactive shell.  gotsh is intended to be configured as the login shell of Git repository user accounts on servers running gotd(8).
       If users require a different login shell, gotsh can be installed in the command search path under the names git-receive-pack and  git-upload-pack,  or
       gitwrapper(1) can be used to select the appropriate command to run automatically.

       The  users can then interact with gotd(8) over the network.  When users invoke commands such as got send and got fetch on client machines, got(1) will
       connect to the server with ssh(1).  gotsh will facilitate communication between gotd(8) running on the server machine and the got(1) or git(1) program
       running on the client machine.

       Users running gotsh should not have access to Git repositories by means other than accessing the unix socket of gotd(8) via gotsh.

       The weblogin command provides user authentication for gotwebd(8).  gotsh will connect to gotwebd(8) and obtain a login URL which allows browsing  pri‐
       vate repositories the user has been granted read access to in gotwebd.conf(5).  If multiple servers are declared in gotwebd.conf(5) the hostname para‐
       meter  is  required  and  indicates  the  desired  virtual  host  to  use  in the URL.  If no hostname is specified and only one server is declared in
       gotwebd.conf(5) then the name of this server will be used in the URL.

       It is recommended to restrict ssh(1) features available to users of gotsh.  See the “EXAMPLES” section for details.

ENVIRONMENT
       GOTD_UNIX_SOCKET  Set the path to the unix socket which gotd(8) is listening on.  If not specified, the default path /var/run/gotd.sock will be used.

EXAMPLES
       sshd_config(5) directives such as the following are recommended to protect the server machine and any systems reachable from it, especially if  anony‐
       mous users are allowed to connect:

             Match User developer
                 DisableForwarding yes
                 PermitTTY no

       It can be convenient to add all relevant users to a common group, such as “developers”, and then use this group as the Match criteria:

             Match Group developers
                 DisableForwarding yes
                 PermitTTY no

       Anonymous users can be given public read-only access by using a gotd.conf(5) access rule such as the following:

             repository "public" {
                     path "/var/git/public.git"
                     permit ro anonymous
             }

       The anonymous user account should have a publicly known password, or can be set up with an empty password in which case the user's vipw(8) entry would
       look similar to this example:

       anonymous::1002:1002::0:0:Anonymous:/home/anonymous:/usr/local/bin/gotsh

       Use of an empty password must be explicitly allowed in sshd_config(5):

             Match User anonymous
                 PasswordAuthentication yes
                 PermitEmptyPasswords yes
                 DisableForwarding yes
                 PermitTTY no

       Obtain a gotwebd(8) login URL for got.example.com:

             $ ssh got.example.com weblogin

       If  the web server at got.example.com serves virtual hosts then two hostnames must be provided.  One for ssh(1) to connect to, and another to identify
       the virtual host served by gotwebd(8):

             $ ssh got.example.com weblogin got.example.com

       In practice both hostnames will often be the same, but this is not guaranteed.  There is no reliable way determine the desired virtual host  automati‐
       cally.  An ssh_config(5) entry like the following can save some typing:

             Host weblogin
                     Hostname got.example.com
                     RemoteCommand weblogin %h

       The following command is now equivalent to the above:

             $ ssh weblogin

SEE ALSO
       gitwrapper(1), got(1), ssh(1), gotd.conf(5), gotwebd.conf(5), sshd_config(5), gotd(8), gotwebd(8)

AUTHORS
       Stefan Sperling <stsp@openbsd.org>

Debian                                                                    $Mdocdate$                                                                 GOTSH(1)
