GP-ARCHIVE(1)                                                               User Commands                                                              GP-ARCHIVE(1)

NAME
       gp-archive - archive gprofng experiment data

SYNOPSIS
       gprofng archive [OPTION(S)] EXPERIMENT

DESCRIPTION
       Archive the associated application binaries and source files in a gprofng experiment to make it self contained and portable.

OPTIONS
       --version
              print the version number and exit.

       --help print usage information and exit.

       --verbose {on|off}
              enable (on) or disable (off) verbose mode; the default is "off".

       -a {off|on|ldobjects|src|usedldobjects|usedsrc}
              specify  archiving  of  binaries and other files; in addition to disable this feature (off), or enable archiving off all loadobjects and sources (on),
              the other options support a more refined selection. All of these options enable archiving, but the keyword controls what exactly is selected: all load
              objects  (ldobjects), all source files (src), the loadobjects asscoiated with a program counter (usedldobjects), or the source files associated with a
              program counter (usedsrc); the default is "-a ldobjects".

       -n     archive the named experiment only, not any of its descendants.

       -q     do not write any warnings to stderr; messages are archived and can be retrieved later.

       -F     force writing or rewriting of the archive; ignored with the -n or -m options, or if this is a subexperiment.

       -d <path>
              specifies the location of a common archive; this is a directory that contains archived files.

       -m <regex>
              archive only those source, object, and debug info files whose full path name matches the given POSIX compliant regular expression.

LIMITATIONS
       Default archiving does not occur in case the application profiled terminates prematurely, or if archiving is disabled when collecting the  performance  data.
       In such cases, this tool can be used to afterwards archive the information, but it has to run on the same system where the profiling data was recorded.

DOCUMENTATION
       A  getting  started  guide  for  gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the info and gprofng programs are properly installed at your site, the command
       "info gprofng" should give you access to this document.

SEE ALSO
       gprofng(1), gp-collect-app(1), gp-display-html(1), gp-display-src(1), gp-display-text(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

GNU gp-archive binutils version 2.39                                        October 2022                                                               GP-ARCHIVE(1)
