GPM-TYPES(7)                                                                          Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                         GPM-TYPES(7)

NAME
       gpm-types - pointer types (mice, tablets, etc.) managed by gpm.
       The information below is extracted from the texinfo file, which is the preferred source of information.

DESCRIPTION
       This  manpage  describes the various pointer types currently available in gpm. If you look at the source code, you'll find that pointer-specific code is confined to `mice.c' (while it used to only
       include mouse decoders, gpm now supports tablets and touchscreens as well).

       The mouse type is specified on command line with the `-t' option. The option takes an argument, which represents the name of a mouse type. Each type can be associated to different names.  For  old
       mouse  types, one name is the old selection-compatible name, and another is the XFree name. After version 1.18.1 of gpm, the number of synonyms was made arbitrary and the actual name being used is
       made available to the function responsible for mouse initialization. Therefore it is possible for a mouse decoder to behave slightly differently according to the name being used for the device (if
       this feature was already present, we wouldn't have for example ms+ and ms+lr as different mouse types).

       The initialization procedure of each mouse type can also receive extra option, by means of the -o command line option. Since interpretation of the option string is  decoder-specific,  the  allowed
       options  are described in association to each mouse type. When no description of option strings is provided, that means the option string is unused for that mouse type and specifying one generates
       an error. When the document refer to ``standard serial options'' it means that one of -o dtr, -o rts, -o both can be specified to toggle the control lines of the serial port.

       The following mouse type are corrently recognized:

       bare Microsoft
              The Microsoft protocol, without any extension. It only reports two buttons. If your device has three, you should either try running the mman decoder or msc. In the latter case, you need  to
              tell  the  mouse to talk msc protocol by toggling the DTR and RTS lines (with one of -o drt, -o rts or -o both) or invoking `gpm -t msc' while keeping the middle button pressed. Very annoy‐
              ing, indeed.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       ms     This is the original Microsoft protocol, with a middle-button extension.  Some old two-button devices send some spurious packets which can be misunderstood as middle-button events. If  this
              is your case, use the `bare' mouse type.  Some new two-button devices are ``plug and play'', and they don't play fair at all; in this case try -t pnp.  Many (most) three-button devices that
              use  the  microsoft  protocol fail to report some middle-button events during mouse motion.  Since the protocol does not distinguish between the middle button going up and the middle button
              going down it would be liable to get out of step, so this decoder declares the middle button to be up whenever the mouse moves. This prevents dragging with the middle button, so you  should
              probably use `-t ms+lr' instead of this decoder, especially if you want to use X.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       ms+    This is the same as `-t ms' except that the middle button is not reset during mouse motion. So you can drag with the middle button. However, if your mouse exhibits the usual buggy behaviour
              the  decoder  is  likely  to get out of step with reality, thinking the middle button is up when it's down and vice versa.  You should probably use `-t ms+lr' instead of this decoder.  This
              mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       ms+lr  This is the same as `-t ms+' except that there is an additional facility to reset the state of the middle button by pressing the other two buttons together. Do this when  the  decoder  gets
              into a confused state where it thinks the middle button is up when it's down and vice versa. (If you get sick of having to do this, please don't blame gpm; blame your buggy mouse! Note that
              most  three-button mice that do the microsoft protocol can be made to do the MouseSystems protocol instead. The ``3 Button Serial Mouse mini-HOWTO'' has information about this.)  This mouse
              decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       msc MouseSystems
              This is the standard protocol for three-button serial devices.  Some of such devices only enter MouseSystem mode if the RTS, DTR or both lines are pushed low. Thus, you may try -t msc asso‐
              ciated with -o rts, -o dtr or -o both.

       mman Mouseman
              The protocol used by the new Logitech devices with three buttons.  It is backward compatible with the Microsoft protocol, so if your mouse has three buttons and works with -t ms or  similar
              decoders you may try -t mman instead to use the middle button.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       sun    The protocol used on Sparc computers and a few others.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       mm MMSeries
              Title says it all.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       logi Logitech
              This is the protocol used by old serial Logitech mice.

       bm BusMouse
              Some bus devices use this protocol, including those produced by Logitech.

       ps2 PS/2
              The protocol used by most busmice.

       ncr    This `type' is able to decode the pointing pen found on some laptops (the NCR 3125 pen)

       wacom  The  protocol used by the Wacom tablet. Since version 1.18.1 we have a new Wacom decoder, as the old one was not working with new tablets. This decoder was tested with Ultrapad, PenPartner,
              and Graphire tablets.  Options: -o relative (default) for relative mode, -o absolute for absolute mode.

       genitizer
              The This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       logim  Used to turn Logitech mice into Mouse-Systems-Compatible.  Obviously, it only works with some of the Logitech mice.

       pnp    This decoder works with the new mice produces by our friend Bill, and maybe with the old ones as well. The Pnp protocol is hardwired at 1200 baud and is upset by normal  initialization,  so
              this is a -t bare decoder with no initialization at all.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       ms3    A decoder for the new serial IntelliMouse devices, the ones with three buttons and a protocol incompatible with older ones. The wheel is currently unused.

       imps2  ``IntelliMouse'' on the ps/2 port. This type can also be used for a generic 2-button ps/2 mouse too, since it will auto-detect the type.

       netmouse
              Decodes the ``Genius NetMouse'' type of devices on the ps/2 port.  For serial ``Netmouse'' devices, use the ``ms3'' decoder.

       cal    A decoder of the ``Calcomp UltraSlate device.

       calr   Same as above, but in relative mode.

       twid   Support  for  the twiddler keyboard. As of gpm-1.14 this decoder includes a char generator for the text console, but doesn't yet support X keycodes. If used with `-R', `gpm' will anyway re‐
              peat mouse events to the X server. More information about twiddler support can be found in `README.twiddler', in the gpm distribution.

       syn synaptics
              A decoder for the Synaptics TouchPad connected to the serial port.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       synps2 synaptics_ps2
              Same as above, but for the devices attached to the ps2 port.

       brw    A decoder for the Fellowes Browser, a device with 4 buttons and a wheel.  This mouse decoder accepts standard serial options, although they should not be needed.

       js Joystick
              This mouse type uses the joystick device to generate mouse events. It is only available if the header `linux/joystick.h' is found at compile time. The header (and the device  as  well)  has
              been introduced only during 2.1 development, and is not present in version 2.0 of the kernel.

       summa  This  is  a decode for the Symmagraphics of Genius tablet, run in absolute mode. A repeater is associated to this decoder, so it can -R summa can be used to generate X events even for other
              absolute-pointing devices, like touchscreens. To use the repeated data from X, you need a modified xf86Summa.o module.

       mtouch A decoder for the MicroTouch touch screen. Please refer to the file `README.microtouch' in the source tree of gpm for further information. In the near future, anyways, I plan to  fold  back
              to this documentation the content of that file.

       gunze  A  decoder  for  the  gunze touch screen. Please refer to the file `README.gunze' in the source tree of gpm for further information. In the near future, anyways, I plan to fold back to this
              documentation the content of that file. The decoder accepts the following options: smooth=, debounce=. An higher smoothness results in slower motion as  well;  a  smaller  smoothness  gives
              faster  motion  but, obviously, less smooth.  The default smoothness is 9. The debounce time is express in milliseconds and is the minimum duration of an up-down event to be taken as a tap.
              Smaller bounces are ignored.

       acecad The Acecad tablet in absolute mode.

       wp wizardpad
              Genius WizardPad tablet

FILES
       src/mice.c           The source file for pointer decoders

SEE ALSO
        gpm(8)      The General Purpose Mouse server

       The info file about `gpm', which gives more complete information and explains how to write a gpm client.

4th Berkeley Distribution                                                                        July 2000                                                                                     GPM-TYPES(7)
