GPSFAKE(1)                    GPSD Documentation                    GPSFAKE(1)

NAME
       gpsfake - test harness for gpsd, simulating a GPS

SYNOPSIS
       gpsfake [-1] [-h] [-b] [-c interval] [-i] [-D debuglevel] [-l]
               [-m monitor] [-g] [-G] [-n] [-o options] [-p] [-P port] [-q]
               [-r initcmd] [-s speed] [-S] [-u] [-t] [-T] [-v] [-W timeout]
               [logfile...]

DESCRIPTION
       gpsfake is a test harness for gpsd and its clients. It opens a pty
       (pseudo-TTY), launches a gpsd instance that thinks the slave side of
       the pty is its GPS device, and repeatedly feeds the contents of one or
       more test logfiles through the master side to the GPS. If there are
       multiple logfiles, sentences from them are interleaved in the order the
       files are specified.

       gpsfake does not require root privileges, and can be run concurrently
       with a production gpsd instance without causing problems.

       The logfiles may contain packets in any supported format, including in
       particular NMEA, SiRF, TSIP, or Zodiac. Leading lines beginning with #
       will be treated as comments and ignored, except in the following
       special cases:

       ·   a comment of the form #Date: yyyy-mm-dd (ISO8601 date format) may
           be used to set the initial date for the log.

       ·   a comment of the form #Serial: [0-9]* [78][NOE][12] may be used to
           set serial parameters for the log - baud rate, word length, stop
           bits.

       ·   a comment of the form #Transport: UDP may be used to fake a UDP
           source rather than the normal pty.

       The gpsd instance is run in foreground. The thread sending fake GPS
       data to the daemon is run in background.

OPTIONS
       With the -1 option, the logfile is interpreted once only rather than
       repeatedly. This option is intended to facilitate regression testing.

       The -b enables a twirling-baton progress indicator on standard error.
       At termination, it reports elapsed time.

       The -c sets the delay between sentences in seconds. Fractional values
       of seconds are legal. The default is zero (no delay).

       The -l makes the program dump a line or packet number just before each
       sentence is fed to the daemon. If the sentence is textual (e.g. NMEA),
       the text is dumped as well. If not, the packet will be dumped in
       hexadecimal (except for RTCM packets, which aren't dumped at all). This
       option is useful for checking that gpsfake is getting packet boundaries
       right.

       The -i is for single-stepping through logfiles. It dumps the line or
       packet number (and the sentence if the protocol is textual) followed by
       "? ". Only when the user keys Enter is the line actually fed to gpsd.

       The -m specifies a monitor program inside which the daemon should be
       run. This option is intended to be used with valgrind(1), gdb(1) and
       similar programs.

       The -g and -G options use the monitor facility to run the gpsd instance
       within gpsfake under control of gdb or lldb, respectively. They also
       disable the timeout on daemon inactivity, to allow for breakpointing.
       If necessary, the timeout can be reenabled by a subsequent -W.

       The -o specifies options to pass to the daemon. The -n option passes -n
       to start the daemon reading the GPS without waiting for a client
       (equivalent to -o "-n"). The -D passes a -D option to the daemon: thus
       -D 4 is shorthand for -o "-D 4".

       The -p ("pipe") option sets watcher mode and dumps the NMEA and GPSD
       notifications generated by the log to standard output. This is useful
       for regression-testing.

       The -P ("port") option sets the daemon's listening port.

       The -q tells gpsfake to suppress normal progress output and thus act in
       a quiet manner.

       The -r specifies an initialization command to use in pipe mode. The
       default is ?WATCH={"enable":true,"json":true}.

       The -s sets the baud rate for the slave tty. The default is 4800.

       The option -S tells gpsfake to insert realistic delays in the test
       input rather than trying to stuff it through the daemon as fast as
       possible. This will make the test(s) run much slower, but avoids flaky
       failures due to machine lode and possible race conditions in the pty
       layer.

       The -t forces the test framework to use TCP rather than pty devices.
       Besides being a test of TCP source handling, this may be useful for
       testing from within chroot jails where access to pty devices is locked
       out.

       The -T makes gpsfake print some system information and then exits.

       The -u forces the test framework to use UDP rather than pty devices.
       Besides being a test of UDP source handling, this may be useful for
       testing from within chroot jails where access to pty devices is locked
       out.

       The -v enables verbose progress reports to stderr. It is mainly useful
       for debugging gpsfake itself.

       The -W ("wait") option sets the timeout on daemon inactivity, in
       seconds. The default timeout is 60 seconds, and a value of 0 suppresses
       the timeout altogether. Note that the actual timeout is longer due to
       internal delays, typically by about 20 seconds.

       The -x dumps packets as gpsfake gathers them. It is mainly useful for
       debugging gpsfake itself.

       The -h makes gpsfake print a usage message and exit.

       The argument must be the name of a file containing the data to be
       cycled at the device.  gpsfake will print a notification each time it
       cycles.

       Normally, gpsfake creates a pty for each logfile and passes the slave
       side of the device to the daemon. If the header comment in the logfile
       contains the string "UDP", packets are instead shipped via UDP port
       5000 to the address 192.168.0.1.255. You can monitor them with this:
       tcpdump -s0 -n -A -i lo udp and port 5000.

MAGIC COMMENTS
       Certain magic comments in test load headers can change the conditions
       of the test. These are:

       Serial:
           May contain a serial-port setting such as 4800 7N2 - baud rate
           followed by 7 or 8 for byte length, N or O or E for parity and 1 or
           2 for stop bits. The test is run with those settings on the slave
           port that the daemon sees.

       Transport:
           Values 'TCP' and 'UDP' force the use of TCP and UDP feeds
           respectively (the default is a pty).

       Delay-Cookie:
           Must be followed by two whitespace-separated fields, a delimiter
           character and a numeric delay in seconds. Instead of being broken
           up by packet boundaries, the test load is split on the delimiters.
           The delay is performed after each feed. Can be useful for imposing
           write boundaries in the middle of packets.

CUSTOM TESTS
       gpsfake is a trivial wrapper around a Python module, also named
       gpsfake, that can be used to fully script sessions involving a gpsd
       instance, any number of client sessions, and any number of fake GPSes
       feeding the daemon instance with data from specified sentence logs.

       Source and embedded documentation for this module is shipped with the
       gpsd development tools. You can use it to torture-test either gpsd
       itself or any gpsd-aware client application.

       Logfiles for the use with gpsfake can be retrieved using gpspipe,
       gpscat, or gpsmon from the gpsd distribution, or any other application
       which is able to create a compatible output.

       If gpsfake exits with "Cannot execute gpsd: executable not found." the
       environment variable GPSD_HOME can be set to the path where gpsd can be
       found. (instead of adding that folder to the PATH environment variable

SEE ALSO
       gpsd(8), gps(1), libgps(3), libgpsmm(3), gpsctl(1), gpspipe(1),
       gpsprof(1) gpsmon(1).

AUTHOR
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>.

The GPSD Project                  12 Feb 2005                       GPSFAKE(1)
