GPSPROF(1)                    GPSD Documentation                    GPSPROF(1)

NAME
       gpsprof - profile a GPS and gpsd, plotting latency information

SYNOPSIS
       gpsprof [-D debuglevel] [-d dumpfile] [-f plot_type] [-h] [-l logfile]
               [-m threshold] [-n samplecount] [-r] [-S subtitle]
               [-T terminal] [-t title] [[server[:port[:device]]]]

DESCRIPTION
       gpsprof performs accuracy, latency, skyview, and time drift profiling
       on a GPS. It emits to standard output a GNUPLOT program that draws one
       of several illustrative graphs. It can also be told to emit the raw
       profile data.

       Information from the default spatial plot it provides can be useful for
       characterizing position accuracy of a GPS.

       gpsprof uses instrumentation built into gpsd. It can read data from a
       local or remote running gpsd. Or it can read data from a saved logfile.

       gpsprof is designed to be lightweight and use minimal host resources.
       No graphics subsystem needs to be installed on the host running
       gpsprof. Simply copy the resultant plot file to another host to be
       rendered with gnuplot.

OPTIONS
       The -f option sets the plot type. Currently the following plot types
       are defined:

       space
           Generate a scatterplot of fixes and plot probable error circles.
           This data is only meaningful if the GPS is held stationary while
           gpsprof is running. Various statistics about the fixes are listed
           at the bottom. This is the default plot type.

       polar
           Generate a heat map of reported satellite Signal to Noise Ratio
           (SNR) using polar coordinates. A colored dot is plotted for each
           satellite seen by the GPS. The color of dot corresponds to the SNR
           of the satellite. The dots are plotted by azimuth and elevation.
           North, azimuth 0 degrees, is at the top of the plot. Directly
           overhead, elevation of 90 degrees, is plotted at the center. Useful
           for analyzing the quality of the skyview as seen by the GPS.

       polarunused
           Similar to the polar plot, but only unused satellites are plotted.
           Useful for seeing which parts of the antenna skyview are
           obstructed, degraded, below the GPS elevation mask, or otherwise
           rejected.

       polarused
           Similar to the polar plot, but only satellites used to compute fixs
           are plotted. Useful for seeing which parts of the antenna skyview
           are being used in fixes.

       time
           Plot delta of system clock (NTP corrected time) against GPS time as
           reported in PPS messages. The X axis is sample time in seconds from
           the start of the plot. The Y axis is the system clock delta from
           GPS time. This plot only works if gpsd was built with the timing
           (latency timing support) configure option enabled.

       instrumented
           Plot instrumented profile. Plots various components of the total
           latency between the GPS's fix time and when the client receives the
           fix. This plot only works if gpsd was built with the timing
           (latency timing support) configuration option enabled.

           For purposes of the description, below, start-of-reporting-cycle
           (SORC) is when a device's reporting cycle begins. This time is
           detected by watching to see when data availability follows a long
           enough amount of quiet time that we can be sure we've seen the gap
           at the end of the sensor's previous report-transmission cycle.
           Detecting this gap requires a device running at 9600bps or faster.

           Similarly, EORC is end-of-reporting-cycle; when the daemon has seen
           the last sentence it needs in the reporting cycle and ready to ship
           a fix to the client.

           The components of the instrumented plot are as follows:

           Fix latency
               Delta between GPS time and SORC.

           RS232 time
               RS232 transmission time for data shipped during the cycle
               (computed from character volume and baud rate).

           Analysis time
               EORC, minus SORC, minus RS232 time. The amount of real time the
               daemon spent on computation rather than I/O.

           Reception time
               Shipping time from the daemon to when it was received by
               gpsprof.

           Because of RS232 buffering effects, the profiler sometimes
           generates reports of ridiculously high latencies right at the
           beginning of a session. The -m option lets you set a latency
           threshold, in multiples of the cycle time, above which reports are
           discarded.

       uninstrumented
           Plot total latency without instrumentation. Useful mainly as a
           check that the instrumentation is not producing significant
           distortion. The X axis is sample time in seconds from the start of
           the plot. The Y axs is latency in seconds.It only plots times for
           reports that contain fixes; staircase-like artifacts in the plot
           are created when elapsed time from reports without fixes is lumped
           in.

       The -d option dumps the plot data, without attached gnuplot code, to a
       specified file for post-analysis.

       The -D sets debug level.

       The -h option makes gpsprof print a usage message and exit.

       The -l option dumps the raw JSON reports collected from the device to a
       specified file.

       The -n option sets the number of packets to sample. The default is 100.
       Most GPS are configured to emit one fix per second, so 100 samples
       would then span 100 seconds.

       The -r option replots from a JSON logfile (such as -l produces) on
       standard input. Both -n and -l options are ignored when this one is
       selected.

       The -S option sets a text string to be included in the plot as a
       subtitle. This will be below the title.

       The -t option sets a text string to be the plot title. This will
       replace the default title.

       The -T option generates a terminal type setting into the gnuplot code.
       Typical usage is "-T png", or "-T pngcairo" telling gnuplot to write a
       PNG file. Without this option gnuplot will call its X11 display code.

       Different installations of gnuplot will support different terminal
       types. Different terminal types may work better for you than other
       ones. "-T png" will generate PNG images. Use "-T jpeg" to generate JPEG
       images. "-T pngcairo" often works best, but is not supported by some
       distributions.

SIGNALS
       Sending SIGUSR1 to a running instance causes it to write a completion
       message to standard error and resume processing. The first number in
       the startup message is the process ID to signal.

EXAMPLES
       To display the graph, use gnuplot(1). Thus, for example, to display the
       default spatial scatter plot, do this:

           gpsprof | gnuplot -persist

       To generate an image file:

           gpsprof -T png | gnuplot > image.png

       To generate a polar plot, and save the GPS data for further plots:

           gpsprof -f polar -T jpeg -l polar.json | gnuplot > polar.png

       Then to make the matching polarused and polarunused plots and pngs from
       the just saved the GPS data:

           gpsprof -f polarused -T jpeg -r < polar.json > polarused.plot
           gnuplot < polarused.plot > polarused.png
           gpsprof -f polarunused -T jpeg -r < polar.json > polarunused.plot
           gnuplot < polarunused.plot  > polarunused.png

SEE ALSO
       gpsd(8), gps(1), libgps(3), libgpsmm(3), gpsfake(1), gpsctl(1),
       gpscat(1), gnuplot(1).

AUTHOR
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>.

The GPSD Project                  30 May 2018                       GPSPROF(1)
