GRANDVIZIER(1)        User Contributed Perl Documentation       GRANDVIZIER(1)

NAME
       grandvizier - DNSSEC-Tools dtrealms GUI

SYNOPSIS
         grandvizier <realms-file>

DESCRIPTION
       THIS NEEDS MAJOR EDITTING!!!

       Warning:  This is an early prototype.  Consider it to be beta quality,
       if not alpha.

       grandvizier is a GUI tool for use with monitoring and controlling the
       DNSSEC-Tools dtrealms program.  It displays information on the current
       state of the realms dtrealms is managing.  The user may control some
       aspects of dtrealms's execution using grandvizier menu commands.

       grandvizier creates a window in which to display information about each
       realms.  (These realms are those in dtrealms's current realms file.)
       For each realm, it displays the realm name and the count of zones in
       each of these four states:  normal, ZSK rollover, KSK rollover, and KSK
       phase 6 wait state.  As the rollover status of the zones in each realm
       changes, grandvizier will update its display for that realm.  Inactive
       realms, realms listed in the realms file but which are not in currently
       being run, are displayed but have no useful information to display.

       The user may also hide realms from the display.  These realms, if in
       the active state, will continue to execute; however, their information
       will not be displayed.  Display state for each realm will persist
       across grandvizier executions.

       Menu commands are available for some control over dtrealms.  Display
       and execution options for grandvizier are also available through menu
       commands.  More information about the menu commands is available in the
       MENU COMMANDS section.

       grandvizier is only intended to be started by dtrealms, not directly by
       a user.  There are two ways to have dtrealms start grandvizier.  First,
       realmctl may be given the -display option.  Second, the -display option
       may be given on dtrealms' command line.

OPTIONS
       grandvizier takes the following options:

       -display
           Tells dtrealms to execute grandvizier as a child process.

       -maxrealms
           Tells grandvizier how many realms to display.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for grandvizier and the DNSSEC-
           Tools package.

       -help
           Displays a usage message and exits.

SCREEN LAYOUT
       The grandvizier window is laid out as a series of "stripes".  The top
       stripe contains status information about dtrealms, the second stripe
       contains column headers, and the bulk of the window consists of realm
       stripes.  The list below provides more detail on the contents of each
       stripe.

       See the ROW COLORS section for a discussion of the colors used for the
       zone stripes.

       •   dtrealms information stripe

           The information stripe contains five pieces of information:
           dtrealms's current realms file, the count of rolling zones, the
           count of stopped zones, the count of zones to be displayed, and the
           amount of time dtrealms waits between processing its queue.
           Coincidentally, that last datum is also the amount of time between
           grandvizier screen updates.

       •   column headers stripe

           This stripe contains the column headers for the columns of each
           realm stripe.

       •   realm stripes

           Each realm managed by dtrealms (i.e., every realm in the current
           realms file) will have a realm stripe which describes that realm's
           current state.  The stripe is divided into two sections:  realm
           identification and the realm's zone counts.

           The realm identification section contains the name of the realm and
           the realm's rollrec file.

           The realm's zone counts section contains the number of zones in
           normal state, ZSK rollover, KSK rollover, and KSK phase 6 wait
           state.

           See the ROW COLORS section for a discussion of the colors used for
           the realm stripes.

ROW COLORS
       The default grandvizier configuration displays each realm in its own
       row with a rotating set of colors.  The rows alternate with blue, red,
       and green, as defined in the X11 rgb.txt file.  Row coloring can be
       turned off (and on) with configuration options and menu commands.

MENU COMMANDS
       A number of menu commands are available to control the behavior of
       grandvizier and to send commands to dtrealms.  These commands are
       discusses in this section.

   File Menu
       The commands in this menu are basic GUI commands.

       •   Halt Dtrealms

           dtrealms's execution is halted immediately.  As a result,
           grandvizier's execution will also be halted.

       •   Quit

           grandvizier will stop execution.

   Options Menu
       The commands in this menu control the appearance and behavior of
       grandvizier.

       •   Row Colors (toggle)

           This menu item is a toggle to turn on or off the coloring of realm
           stripes.  If row coloring is turned off, realm stripes will all be
           the same color.  If row coloring is turned on, realm stripes will
           be displayed in varying colors.  See the ROW COLORS section for a
           discussion of row coloring.

       •   Inactive Realms Display (toggle)

           This menu item is a toggle to turn on or off the display of
           inactive realms.  If display is turned off, realm stripes for
           inactive realms will not be displayed.  If display is turned on,
           realm stripes for all realms will be displayed.

       •   Modification Commands (toggle)

           In some situations, it may be desirable to turn off grandvizier'
           ability to send commands to dtrealms.  This menu item is a toggle
           to turn on or off this ability.

       •   Font Size

           This menu item allows selection of font size of text displayed in
           the main window.

           Normally, changing the font size causes the window to grow and
           shrink as required.  However, on Mac OS X there seems to be a
           problem when the size selected increases the window size to be
           greater than will fit on the screen.  If the font size is
           subsequently reduced, the window size does not shrink in response.

       •   Realms to Display

           This menu item allows selection of the number of realms to be
           displayed in the main window.

   General Control Menu
       The commands in this menu are GUI interfaces for the realmctl commands
       related to general realm management.

       •   Stop Selected Realm

           The selected realm will be moved to the inactive state.  This only
           has an effect on active realms.

           A realm may be selected by clicking on its realm stripe.  If this
           command is selected without a realm having been selected, a dialog
           box is displayed from which a currently active realm may be chosen.

       •   Stop All Realms

           All realms will be moved to the inactive state.  This has no effect
           on currently inactive realms.

       •   Restart Selected Inactive Realm

           The selected realm will be moved from the inactive state to the
           active state.  The realm will enter the active state at the same
           point from which it entered the inactive state.  This only has an
           effect on inactive realms.

           A realm may be selected by clicking on its realm stripe.  If this
           command is selected without a realm having been selected, a dialog
           box is displayed from which a currently inactive realm may be
           chosen.

       •   Restart All Stopped Realms

           All realms will be moved from the inactive state to the roll state.
           The realms will enter the roll state at the same point from which
           they entered the inactive state.  This has no effect on currently
           active realms.

       •   DS Published for All Zones in Selected Realm

           This command is used to indicate that all the zones in KSK rollover
           phase 6 in the selected realm have new DS records published by
           their parents.  It moves all these realms from KSK phase 6 to KSK
           phase 7.  There is no effect on realms not in KSK rollover phase 6.

   Display Menu
       The commands in this menu provide control over what is being displayed.

       The realmstripe commands allow all, some, or none of the realm stripes
       to be displayed.  Undisplayed active realms will continue to be active,
       but they will do so without the grandvizier window indicating this.

       •   Realm Selection

           A dialog box is displayed that holds a list of the realms currently
           managed by dtrealms.  The user may select which realms should be
           displayed by clicking on the realm's checkbox.  Realms with a
           selected checkbox will be displayed; realms without a selected
           checkbox will not be displayed.

       •   Refresh Display

           Refresh the grandvizier display.  The display will automatically
           refresh after a certain number of updates; this command forces it
           to happen immediately upon invocation.

   Help Menu
       The commands in this menu provide assistance to the user.

       •   Help

           Display a window containing help information.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       Several aspects of grandvizier' behavior may be controlled from
       configuration files.  Configuration value may be specified in the
       DNSSEC Tools configuration file or in a more specific rc.grandvizier.
       The system-wide grandvizier configuration file is in the DNSSEC-Tools
       configuration directory and is named grandvizier.conf.  Multiple
       rc.grandvizier files may exist on a system, but only the one in the
       directory in which grandvizier is executed is used.

       The following are the available configuration values:

           colors              Turn on/off use of colors on realm stripes.
           fontsize            The size of the font in the output window.
           inactivecolor       The background color used for inactive zones.
           maxrealms           The number of realms to display.
           modify              Turn on/off execution of dtrealms modification commands.
           showinactive        Turn on/off display of inactive zones.

       The rc.grandvizier file is only searched for in the directory in which
       grandvizier is executed.  The potential problems inherent in this may
       cause these grandvizier-specific configuration files to be removed in
       the future.

       This file is in the "field value" format, where field specifies the
       output aspect and value defines the value for that field.  The
       following are the recognized fields:

       Empty lines and comments are ignored.  Comment lines are lines that
       start with an octothorpe ('#').

       Spaces are not allowed in the configuration values.

       Choose your inactivecolors carefully.  The only foreground color used
       is black, so your background colors must work well with black.

REQUIREMENTS
       grandvizier is implemented in Perl/Tk, so both Perl and Perl/Tk must be
       installed on your system.

WARNINGS
       grandvizier has several potential problems that must be taken into
       account.

       development environment
           grandvizier was developed and tested on a single-user system
           running X11 using a relatively small number of zones.  While it
           works fine in this environment, it has not been run on a system
           with many users or in a situation where the system console hasn't
           been in use by the grandvizier user.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2012-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       dtrealms(8), realmctl(8), rollerd(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::realm(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                    GRANDVIZIER(1)
