GRAP2GRAPH(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               GRAP2GRAPH(1)

NAME
       grap2graph - convert a GRAP diagram into a cropped image

SYNOPSIS
       grap2graph [-unsafe] [-format output-format] [convert-arguments]

       grap2graph --help

       grap2graph -v
       grap2graph --version

DESCRIPTION
       grap2graph reads a grap(1) program from the standard input and writes an image file, by default in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format, to the standard output.

       The input GRAP code should not be wrapped with the .G1 and .G2 macros that normally guard it within groff(1) documents.

       Arguments  not  recognized  by  grap2graph are passed to the ImageMagick or GraphicsMagick program convert(1).  By specifying these, you can give your image a border, set the image's pixel density, or
       perform other useful transformations.

       The output image is clipped using convert's -trim option to the smallest possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.

OPTIONS
       -format output-format
              Write the image in output-format, which must be understood by convert; the default is PNG.

       --help Display a usage message and exit.

       -unsafe
              Run groff in unsafe mode, enabling the PIC command sh to execute arbitrary Unix shell commands.  The groff default is to forbid this.

       -v
       --version
              Display version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_TMPDIR
       TMPDIR
       TMP
       TEMP   These environment variables are searched in the given order to determine the directory where temporary files will be created.  If none are set, /tmp is used.

AUTHORS
       grap2graph was written by Eric S. Raymond ⟨esr@thyrsus.com⟩, based on a recipe for pic2graph(1), by W. Richard Stevens.

SEE ALSO
       pic2graph(1), eqn2graph(1), grap(1), pic(1), groff(1), convert(1)

groff 1.22.4                                                                                     21 March 2020                                                                                    GRAP2GRAPH(1)
