gretl(1)                                                                                        econometrics                                                                                       gretl(1)

NAME
       gretl - GNU Regression, Econometrics and Time-series Library

SYNOPSIS
       gretl [ options ] [ datafile | scriptfile | sessionfile ]

DESCRIPTION
       gretl  is  an econometrics package, built around a shared library which may be accessed using a command-line client program (gretlcli) or a graphical user interface (gretl_x11).  The program gretl
       is a wrapper script that calls the GUI if the DISPLAY environment variable is set, otherwise the command-line client.

       For details, please start up either the GUI or the command-line client and consult the online help, or read  the  printed  manual,  which  is  available  in  PDF  format  via  the  gretl  website,
       http://gretl.sourceforge.net.

OPTIONS
       These are the options supported by the gretl_x11 program; gretlcli is a little different.

       -r script, --run script

              Open a script.

       -c, --dump

              Dump the configuration file.

       -d database, --db database

              Open a local database.

       -e, --english

              Force use of English.

       -r script, --run script

              Open a script.

       -w database, --webdb database

              Open a remote database.

       -h, --help

              Give help information and exit.

       -v, --version

              Give version information and exit.

FILES
       ~/.gretl2rc per-user configuration file

       ~/.gretl directory for user runtime files

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       HOME   Specifies the user's home directory

       DISPLAY
              Specifies the X window display to use

SEE ALSO
       gretlcli(1)

AUTHOR
       The gretl team

The gretl team                                                                                     1.9.5                                                                                           gretl(1)
