GRIDLOCK(6)                                                                 Games Manual                                                                 GRIDLOCK(6)

NAME
       Gridlock - collection of grid-based board games

SYNOPSIS
       Gridlock

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the Gridlock command.

       Gridlock  is  a  collection of several grid-based strategy games. The games include Ataxx, Reversi, Gomoku, Connect Four, Breakthrough, Glass Bead, Hexapawn,
       Quad Wrangle, Cats and Dogs and Moray Eels.

       After launching the application, the game window will appear. Select the game you want to play from the "Game" popup menu in the upper right. Some games have
       different  starting  configurations (board size, grid layout, etc); when one of those games are selected a "Configurations" popup menu will appear from which
       you can select a configuration.

       The bottom right displays the color and status of the two players.  Each player's color is shown by a circle; the player whose turn it is has a  filled  cir‐
       cle.  For  games  in  which players have a score (Ataxx, Eeversi, Glass Bead), the scores are shown next to the player labels.  Popup windows underneath each
       player's label allow you to specify whether each player is human or computer-controlled, and the difficulty of computer players. (Note that  "Hard"  computer
       opponents may take a long time to make their moves).

       The  rest  of  the window contains the game board. To make a move, click on the cell where you wish to place a piece. Ataxx and Breakthrough require that you
       move from one cell to another; to do this first click on the cell you wish to move from, then click on the cell you wish to move to.  For  all  games,  cells
       that  are legal moves will become highlighted when you move the mouse over them. If you are unable to make a move, you can pass by clicking the "Pass" button
       on the right.  The "Restart" button will restart the game, requiring confirmation if a game is in progress.

       You can play these games over the network. It is possible to save and load games.

SEE ALSO
       GNUstep(7).

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written and updated by Gürkan Sengün <gurkan@linuks.mine.nu>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

                                                                          October 17, 2003                                                               GRIDLOCK(6)
