QMON(1)                                                                                  Grid Engine User Commands                                                                                  QMON(1)

NAME
       qmon - X-Windows OSF/Motif graphical user interface for Grid Engine

SYNTAX
       qmon [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Qmon  allows  administrators and users to manipulate the Grid Engine system from an X-Window environment.  Qmon provides various dialogues linked together in multiple ways.  For each task the user
       wishes to accomplish via qmon a corresponding dialogue is provided. There are multiple ways to address the proper dialogue for a certain task:

       •  The qmon main window that comes up first on start-up contains icon buttons for all major administrative and user tasks. A functionality tooltip is  displayed  when  pointing  at  the  different
          icons.

       •  A Task pulldown menu button appears in the qmon main window menu bar. Clicking on it opens a list of available tasks. Selecting one of them opens the corresponding dialogue.

       •  The Task pulldown menu also contains the key accelerators which can be used to invoke the task dialogues directly from the main window by pressing a certain sequence on the keyboard.

       •  While  navigating  through  a  certain  dialogue and its dialogue sub-hierarchy, links to other dialogues occur whenever a connection between both dialogues is obvious. Pushing the buttons that
          identify the links opens up the other dialogues.

OPTIONS
       The supported options are the standard X Toolkit options as described in X(1) section Options. Furthermore, qmon supports:

       -cmap  Installs a private color map for qmon.  This is sometimes useful if other applications have already allocated lots of colors and if qmon,  therefore  prints  corresponding  error  messages.
              Note, however, that using a private color map will result in color map switches whenever you enter or leave qmon windows.

       -fontFamily {big|medium|small}
              Notifies qmon to use different size font families for different resolution sizes.

       -help  Displays usage information.

       -nologo
              Startup without logo.

DIALOGUES
   Job Control
       The  Job Control dialogue provides a folder of tabulated lists of the still pending jobs, already running jobs and recently finished jobs.  The dialogue allows for detailed information on the jobs
       as well as for the deletion and suspension of jobs being selected.  In addition the job control dialogue offers links to the Submit dialogue in order to submit new jobs or to change attributes  of
       pending  jobs  (Qalter  button).  The  fields  displayed  in  the  tabular display and the jobs displayed can be customized by pressing the Customize button. This customization can be saved to the
       ~/.qmon_preferences file and is used on following startup for the initial configuration of the Job Control dialogue.

   Queue Control
       The Queue Control dialogue with its sub-dialogue hierarchy enables the user to control the status of the Grid Engine queues actually configured in the system and allows the  administrator  to  add
       new queues or to modify or delete existing ones. The Queue Control dialogue shows a tabbed view of Cluster Queues or their corresponding Queue Instances in a tabular way.

       By pushing the Add, Clone or Modify button, a sub-dialogue for configuring Grid Engine queues is opened.  A queue needs to be selected to use the clone and modify operation. The configuration sub-
       dialogue  allows for definition of the queue and its attributes.  The configuration sub-dialogue contains in the upper section the queue name and a list of hosts or hostgroups for which this queue
       contains the configuration.  The lower section contains a list of hosts or hostgroups at the left, where the default attributes are shown when the "@/" entry is highlighted.  These default attrib‐
       utes can be overruled on a hostgroup or host basis by enabling attributes and changing their values after this hostgroup or host entry has been added in the "Attributes for  Host/Hostgroup"  list‐
       box.   The  queue  configuration  parameters (see queue_conf(5)) are subdivided into different categories (General Configuration, Execution Methods, Checkpointing, Load/Suspend Thresholds, Limits,
       Complexes, User Access, Project Access, Subordinate Queues, Owners) which are selectable by the tab widget area presented in the lower region of the queue configuration sub-dialogue.  The adminis‐
       trator may select previously-configured settings from already existing queues (Clone button). By pushing the Ok button, the definitions are registered with sge_qmaster(8).  The Queue Control  dia‐
       logue can be customized in a similar way as the Job Control dialogue. The settings applied here are also saved in ~/.qmon_preferences.

   Submit
       The Job Submission dialogue serves for submitting batch and interactive jobs and is also invoked when changing attributes of pending jobs from the Job Control dialogue explained above (Qalter but‐
       ton). To toggle between batch and interactive jobs please use the Batch/Interactive button at the top of the button column on the right side of the Job Submission screen.

       The dialogue consists of a folder containing two job preparation dialogue pages. The most frequently used parameters in the course of a job submission are offered on the General page. A job script
       has to be defined; all other fields are optional. If the job demands specification of advanced requirements, the Advanced tab can be used to switch to an enhanced parameter display.

       If  resource requirements are mandatory for the job, the Request Resources icon button has to be used to pop up the Requested Resources sub-dialogue.  This sub-dialogue allows for selection of the
       required resources of the job and for definition of the quantities in which this resources are to be provided. The Available Resources are constituted from those complex  attributes  declared  re‐
       questable  (see complex(5) for details). Resource requirements can be made Hard, i.e. they must be met before a job can be started in a queue, or Soft, i.e. they are granted on an as-available ba‐
       sis.

       Closing the Requested Resources sub-dialogue with the done button books the specified requirement for the job. Pushing the Submit button on the top level Submit dialogue submits the job.

   Complex Config
       The Complex Config allows the administrator to add new complex attributes or to modify or delete existing ones (see complex(5)).  The complex configuration dialogue provides a  tabulated  list  of
       the complex attribute entries and an input region for the declaration of new or modified entries. The Add button updates the tabulated list with a new attribute.  The Modify button changes a high‐
       lighted  existing entry.  The Delete button removes the highlighted attributes.  The Load and Save buttons allow saving or reloading the whole attribute list to or from file.  The Ok button regis‐
       ters the additional or modified complex attributes with sge_qmaster(8).

   Host Config
       Four types of host related lists can be maintained via the Host Config dialogue:

              Administration Hosts
              Submit Hosts
              Host Groups
              Execution Hosts

       The host list to be manipulated is selected via clicking at one of the tabs named correspondingly. The first two host lists only provide for adding or deleting entries, thereby  allowing  adminis‐
       trative  or  submit permission for the hosts on the lists, or denying it otherwise respectively.  The host group list allows the manipulation of host groups. Host groups can reference either other
       host groups or hosts.  The execution host list entries in addition provide the ability to define scaling factors for the load sensors, consumable complex attributes and access attributes  (access,
       xaccess  and  projects,  xprojects) as described in complex(5).  CPU, memory and I/O usage reported for running jobs can be scaled in addition and the relative performance of a host can be defined
       with the Resource Capability Factor (see host_conf(5)).

   Cluster Config
       This dialogue maintains the cluster global configuration as well as host specific derivatives (see sge_conf(5)).  When opened, the dialogue displays a selection list for all  hosts  which  have  a
       configuration  assigned. The special name "global" refers to the cluster global configuration. By pushing the Add/Modify button a sub-dialogue is opened, which allows for modification of the clus‐
       ter configuration. For host specific configurations the 'global' host specific configuration fields are set insensitive and only the allowed parameters can be manipulated.

   Scheduler Config
       The Scheduler Configuration dialogue provides the means to change the behavior of the Grid Engine scheduler thread part of sge_qmaster(8) process.  The dialogue contains a representation  for  all
       scheduler  configuration  parameters as described in sched_conf(5).  It is subdivided in the two sections General Parameters and Load Adjustments, which can be selected via the corresponding tabs.
       The Ok button registers any changes with sge_qmaster(8).

   Calendar Config
       The Calendar Config allows the administrator to add new calendars or to modify or delete existing ones (see calendar_conf(5)).  The dialogue offers a selection list for the existing calendars  and
       displays the configuration of the one being selected. By pushing the Delete button, the selected calendar is deleted from the configuration. Pushing the Add/Modify button will open a calendar con‐
       figuration dialogue, which allows to create new calendars or which provides the means to change the existing ones. The Ok button registers the additional or modified calendar with sge_qmaster(8).

   User Config
       User permissions are controlled via the User Config dialogue.  The tab widget in the left section of the dialogue allows for selecting between

              Configuration of Manager accounts.
              Configuration of Operator accounts.
              Definition of Usersets.
              Definition of User accounts.

       Those user accounts added to the list of manager or operator accounts are given permission to act as managers or operators respectively when accessing Grid Engine under their own account.

       The  userset lists are used together with the user_lists and xuser_lists host, queue, project and cluster configuration parameters (see queue_conf(5), project(5) and sge_conf(5)) to control access
       of users to hosts, queues, projects and the entire cluster.  A userset is just a collection of user names and UNIX group names. Group names are identified by prefixing them with a  "@"  sign.  The
       already-defined usersets are displayed in a selection list. These lists can be modified, and new lists can be created, using the Userset definition dialogue.

       Usersets can be used as Access List and/or as Department required for the so called Functional Policy and Override Policy (see Ticket Config below).

       User  names  can  be added to the system as entries to the Grid Engine user database (see user(5)); here a default project can be attached to the user too.  This can be done with the User sub-dia‐
       logue.

       The Tickets button in the button list on the right side of the dialogue opens the Ticket Config dialogue (see below).

   PE Config
       Parallel environment (PE) interfaces can be configured with this dialogue.  PE interfaces are necessary to describe how parallel programming environments like PVM (Parallel Virtual  Machine),  MPI
       (Message  Passing  Interface), or shared memory parallel systems, are to be instantiated and to impose access restrictions onto the PEs. When the dialogue is opened a list of the configured PEs is
       displayed, together with the current configuration (see sge_pe(5)) of the selected PE interface.  To add new PE interfaces, or to modify existing ones, an Add and a  Modify  button  are  available
       which  open  a  PE interface configuration sub-dialogue. After applying the changes and quitting this sub-dialogue with the OK button, the new or modified PE interface is registered with sge_qmas‐
       ter(8).

   Checkpoint Config
       Checkpointing environment interfaces can be configured with this dialogue.  Checkpointing environments are necessary to describe the attributes which the different checkpointing methods and  their
       derivatives  on various operating system platforms supported by Grid Engine have. When the dialogue is opened a list of the already configured checkpointing environments is displayed together with
       the current configuration (see checkpoint(5)) of the selected checkpointing environment. To add new checkpointing environments, or to modify existing ones, an Add and a Modify button is  available
       which  opens  a checkpointing environment configuration sub-dialogue. After applying the changes and quitting this sub-dialogue with the OK button, the new or modified checkpointing environment is
       registered with sge_qmaster(8).

   Ticket Conf
       This dialogue offers an overview and editing screen for allocating tickets to the share-based, functional and override scheduling policies.

       The Deadline Job button opens the User Conf dialogue box.  Please change to the Userset sub-dialogue and select the userset named "deadlineusers".  Only users of this userset may  submit  deadline
       jobs.

       The Share Tree Policy button opens the dialogue for creating and editing the Grid Engine share tree (see share_tree(5) and sched_conf(5) for a description of the configuration parameters).

       The Functional Policy button opens the dialogue for creating and editing the allocation of the functional shares (see sched_conf(5), access_list(5), project(5), queue_conf(5) and user(5) for a de‐
       scription of the different types of functional shares and the configurable weighting parameters).

       The  Override  Policy button opens the dialogue for creating and editing the allocation of override tickets (see access_list(5), project(5), queue_conf(5) and user(5) for a description of the dif‐
       ferent types of override tickets).

   Project Conf
       This button opens a dialog for creating projects.
       The dialogue offers a selection list for the existing projects and displays the configuration of the one being selected. By pushing the Delete button, the selected project is deleted from the con‐
       figuration. Pushing the Add/Modify button will open a project configuration dialogue, which allows creating new projects changing existing ones. Project configuration in essence  means  giving  or
       denying access to a project for usersets (see User Conf above as well as project(5)).  The Ok button registers the additional or modified project with sge_qmaster(8).

   Browser
       The  Object  Browser dialogue's purpose is manifold: First of all, Grid Engine and qmon Messages, such as notification of error or success concerning a previously taken action, can be displayed in
       the dialogue's output window.  Also the standard output and the standard error output of qmon can be diverted to the Object Browser output window.

       Additionally the Object Browser can be used to display continuous information about Grid Engine objects as the mouse pointer moves over their representation as icons or table entries in other qmon
       dialogues. Currently, only the display of the configuration of two Grid Engine objects in two separate dialogues is supported:

       •  Queue configurations are displayed as soon as the mouse pointer enters a queue icon in the top level Queue Control dialogue (see above). This facility is activated by pushing the  Queue  button
          in the Object Browser dialogue.

       •  Detailed job information is printed as soon as the user moves the mouse pointer over a line in the Job Control dialogue (see above) assigned to a running or pending job.

       •  Additionally  job  scheduling  information  is displayed in the browser if the Why? button in the Job Control dialogue is pressed. In this case the Browser dialogue is opened implicitly and any
          scheduling related information is displayed.

   Exit
       The Exit icon button is not linked with a dialogue. Its sole purpose is to close all active qmon dialogues and to exit the application.

RESOURCES
       The available resources, their meaning and the syntax to be followed in order to modify them are described in the default qmon resource file (see the section Files below for the  location  of  the
       resource file).

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       SGE_ROOT       Specifies the location of the Grid Engine standard configuration files.

       SGE_CELL       If set, specifies the default Grid Engine cell. To address a Grid Engine cell qmon uses (in the order of precedence):

                      The name of the cell specified in the environment variable SGE_CELL, if it is set.

                      The name of the default cell, i.e. default.

       SGE_DEBUG_LEVEL
                      If set, specifies that debug information should be written to stderr. In addition the level of detail in which debug information is generated is defined.

       SGE_QMASTER_PORT
                      If  set,  specifies  the  tcp port on which sge_qmaster(8) is expected to listen for communication requests.  Most installations will use a services map entry instead to define that
                      port.

       SGE_LOAD_AVG   Specify a load parameter (see load_parameters(5)) to use instead of load_avg when displaying/selecting load values.

RESTRICTIONS
       If the line to be entered in an editing window is longer than the width of the window, then the text just runs off the end of the window.

FILES
       <sge_root>/qmon/Qmon           Qmon sample resources file
       /usr/lib/X11/defaults/Qmon     Qmon system resources file
       $HOME/Qmon                     Qmon user resources file
       $HOME/.qmon_preferences        Qmon job/queue customization file

SEE ALSO
       sge_intro(1), sge_conf(5), access_list(5), sge_pe(5), calendar_conf(5), complex(5), project(5), queue_conf(5), sched_conf(5), user(5), sge_qmaster(8).

COPYRIGHT
       See sge_intro(1) and the information provided in <sge_root>/3rd_party/qmon for a statement of further rights and permissions and for credits to be given to public domain and freeware widget devel‐
       opers.

SGE 8.1.3pre                                                                                     2011-05-18                                                                                         QMON(1)
