GROPDF(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   GROPDF(1)

NAME
       gropdf - PDF driver for groff

SYNOPSIS
       gropdf [-dels] [-F dir] [-I dir] [-p paper-size] [-u [cmapfile]] [-y foundry] [file ...]

       gropdf -v
       gropdf --version

DESCRIPTION
       gropdf  translates  the output of GNU troff to PDF.  Normally gropdf should be invoked by using the groff command with a -Tpdf option.  If no files are given, gropdf reads the standard input.  A file‐
       name of - also causes gropdf to read the standard input.  PDF output is written to the standard output.  When gropdf is run by groff options can be passed to gropdf using groff's -P option.

       See section “Font Installation” below for a guide how to install fonts for gropdf.

OPTIONS
       Whitespace is permitted between a command-line option and its argument.

       -d     Include debug information as comments within the PDF.  Also produces an uncompressed PDF.

       -e     Forces gropdf to embed all fonts (even the 14 base PDF fonts).

       -F dir Prepend directory dir/devname to the search path for font, and device description files; name is the name of the device, usually pdf.

       -I dir This option may be used to add a directory to the search path for files named in \X'pdf: pdfpic' escape.  The current directory is always searched first.  This option may be specified more than
              once; the directories are then searched in the order specified.

              No directory search is performed for files with an absolute file name.

       -l     Orient the document in landscape format.

       -p paper-size
              Set  physical  dimension  of  output  medium.   This overrides the papersize, paperlength, and paperwidth commands in the DESC file; it accepts the same arguments as the papersize command.  See
              groff_font(5) for details.

       -s     Append a comment line to end of PDF showing statistics, i.e. number of pages in document.  Ghostscript's ps2pdf complains about this line if it is included, but works anyway.

       -u [cmapfile]
              Gropdf normally includes a ToUnicode CMap with any font created using text.enc as the encoding file, this makes it easier to search for words which contain ligatures.  You can include your  own
              CMap by specifying a cmapfile or have no CMap at all by omitting the argument.

       -v
       --version
              Print the version number and exit.

       -y foundry
              Set the foundry to use for selecting fonts of the same name.

USAGE
       The input to gropdf must be in the format output by troff(1).  This is described in groff_out(5).

       In addition, the device and font description files for the device used must meet certain requirements: The resolution must be an integer multiple of 72 times the sizescale.  The pdf device uses a res‐
       olution of 72000 and a sizescale of 1000.

       The device description file must contain a valid paper size; see groff_font(5) for more information.  gropdf uses the same Type 1 Adobe PostScript fonts as the grops device driver.  Although  the  PDF
       Standard  allows  the use of other font types (like TrueType) this implementation only accepts the Type 1 PostScript font.  Fewer Type 1 fonts are supported natively in PDF documents than the standard
       35 fonts supported by grops and all PostScript printers, but all the fonts are available since any which aren't supported natively are automatically embedded in the PDF.

       gropdf supports the concept of foundries, that is different versions of basically the same font.  During install a Foundry file controls where fonts are found and builds groff fonts from the files  it
       discovers on your system.

       Each font description file must contain a command

              internalname psname

       which  says  that  the PostScript name of the font is psname.  Lines starting with # and blank lines are ignored.  The code for each character given in the font file must correspond to the code in the
       default encoding for the font.  This code can be used with the \N escape sequence in troff to select the character, even if the character does not have a groff name.  Every character in the font  file
       must exist in the PostScript font, and the widths given in the font file must match the widths used in the PostScript font.

       Note that gropdf is currently only able to display the first 256 glyphs in any font.  This restriction will be lifted in a later version.

       gropdf can automatically include the downloadable fonts necessary to print the document.  Fonts may be in PFA or PFB format.

       Any downloadable fonts which should, when required, be included by gropdf must be listed in the file /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/download; this should consist of lines of the form

              foundry font filename

       where foundry is the foundry name or blank for the default foundry.  font is the PostScript name of the font, and filename is the name of the file containing the font; lines beginning with # and blank
       lines are ignored; fields must be separated by tabs (spaces are not allowed); filename is searched for using the same mechanism that is used for groff font metric files.  The download file  itself  is
       also  searched for using this mechanism; currently, only the first found file in the font path is used.  Foundry names are usually a single character (such as ‘U’ for the URW Foundry) or blank for the
       default foundry.  This default uses the same fonts as ghostscript uses when it embeds fonts in a PDF file.

       In the default setup there are styles called R, I, B, and BI mounted at font positions 1 to 4.  The fonts are grouped into families A, BM, C, H, HN, N, P, and T having members in each of these styles:

              AR     AvantGarde-Book
              AI     AvantGarde-BookOblique
              AB     AvantGarde-Demi
              ABI    AvantGarde-DemiOblique
              BMR    Bookman-Light
              BMI    Bookman-LightItalic
              BMB    Bookman-Demi
              BMBI   Bookman-DemiItalic
              CR     Courier
              CI     Courier-Oblique
              CB     Courier-Bold
              CBI    Courier-BoldOblique
              HR     Helvetica
              HI     Helvetica-Oblique
              HB     Helvetica-Bold
              HBI    Helvetica-BoldOblique
              HNR    Helvetica-Narrow
              HNI    Helvetica-Narrow-Oblique
              HNB    Helvetica-Narrow-Bold
              HNBI   Helvetica-Narrow-BoldOblique
              NR     NewCenturySchlbk-Roman
              NI     NewCenturySchlbk-Italic
              NB     NewCenturySchlbk-Bold
              NBI    NewCenturySchlbk-BoldItalic
              PR     Palatino-Roman
              PI     Palatino-Italic
              PB     Palatino-Bold
              PBI    Palatino-BoldItalic
              TR     Times-Roman
              TI     Times-Italic
              TB     Times-Bold
              TBI    Times-BoldItalic

       There is also the following font which is not a member of a family:

              ZCMI   ZapfChancery-MediumItalic

       There are also some special fonts called S for the PS Symbol font.  The lower case greek characters are automatically slanted (to match the SymbolSlanted font  (SS)  available  to  PostScript).   Zapf
       Dingbats is available as ZD, the "hand pointing left" glyph (\[lh]) is available since it has been defined using the \X'pdf: xrev' extension which reverses the direction of letters within words.

       The default color for \m and \M is black.

       gropdf understands some of the X commands produced using the \X escape sequences supported by grops.  Specifically, the following is supported.

       \X'ps: invis'
              Suppress output.

       \X'ps: endinvis'
              Stop suppressing output.

       \X'ps: exec gsave currentpoint 2 copy translate n rotate neg exch neg exch translate'
              where n is the angle of rotation.  This is to support the align command in gpic.

       \X'ps: exec grestore'
              Again used by gpic to restore after rotation.

       \X'ps: exec n setlinejoin'
              where n can be one of the following values.

              0 = Miter join
              1 = Round join
              2 = Bevel join

       \X'ps: exec n setlinecap'
              where n can be one of the following values.

              0 = Butt cap
              1 = Round cap, and
              2 = Projecting square cap

       \X'ps: ... pdfmark'
              All  the  pdfmark macros installed by using -m pdfmark or -m mspdf (see documentation in pdfmark.pdf).  A subset of these macros are installed automatically when you use -Tpdf so you should not
              need to use ‘-m pdfmark’ for using most of the PDF functionality.

       gropdf also supports a subset of the commands introduced in present.tmac.  Specifically it supports:-

              PAUSE
              BLOCKS
              BLOCKE

       Which allows you to create presentation type PDFs.  Many of the other commands are already available in other macro packages.

       These commands are implemented with groff X commands:-

       \X'ps: exec %%%%PAUSE
              The section before this is treated as a block and is introduced using the current BLOCK transition setting (see ‘pdf: transition’ below).  This command can be introduced using the  macro  .pdf‐
              pause.

       \X'ps: exec %%%%BEGINONCE
              Any text following this command (up to %%%%ENDONCE) is shown only once, the next %%%%PAUSE will remove it.  If producing a non presentation pdf, i.e. ignoring the pauses, see GROPDF_NOSLIDE be‐
              low, this text is ignored.

       \X'ps: exec %%%%ENDONCE
              This terminates the block defined by %%%%BEGINONCE.  This pair of commands is what implements the .BLOCKS Once/.BLOCKE commands in present.tmac.

       The mom macro set already has integration with these extensions so you can build slides with mom.

       If you use present.tmac with gropdf there is no need to run the program presentps(1) since the output will already be a presentation pdf.

       All other ps: tags are silently ignored.

       One \X special used by the DVI driver is also recognised:

       \X'papersize=paper-size'
              where the paper-size parameter is the same as the papersize command.  See groff_font(5) for details.  This means that you can alter the page size at will within the PDF file  being  created  by
              gropdf.  If you do want to change the paper size, it must be done before you start creating the page.

       In addition, gropdf supports its own suite of pdf: tags.  The following tags are supported:

       \X'pdf: pdfpic file alignment width height line-length'
              Place  an image of the specified width containing the PDF drawing from file file of desired width and height (if height is missing or zero then it is scaled proportionally).  If alignment is -L
              the drawing is left aligned.  If it is -C or -R a linelength greater than the width of the drawing is required as well.  If width is specified as zero then the width is scaled in proportion  to
              the height.

       \X'pdf: xrev'
              This toggles a flag which reverses the direction of printing letter by letter, i.e., each separate letter is reversed, not the entire word.  This is useful for reversing the direction of glyphs
              in the Dingbats font.  To return to normal printing repeat the command again.

       \X'pdf: markstart /ANN definition'
              The macros which support PDF Bookmarks use this call internally to start the definition of bookmark hotspot (user will have called ‘.pdfhref L’ with the text which will become  the  ‘hot  spot’
              region).  Normally this is never used except from within the pdfmark macros.

       \X'pdf: markend'
              The macros which support PDF Bookmarks use this call internally to stop the definition of bookmark hotspot (user will have called ‘.pdfhref L’ with the text which will become the ‘hot spot’ re‐
              gion).  Normally this is never used except from within the pdfmark macros.

       \X'pdf: marksuspend'
       \X'pdf: markrestart'
              If you are using page traps to produce headings, footings, etc., you need to use these in case a ‘hot spot’ crosses a page boundary, otherwise any text output by the heading  or  footing  macro
              will  be marked as part of the ‘hot spot’.  To stop this happening just place ‘.pdfmarksuspend’ and ‘.pdfmarkrestart’ at the start and end of the page trap macro, respectively.  (These are just
              convenience macros which emit the \X code.  These macros must only be used within page traps.)

       \X'pdf: transition'feature mode duration dimension motion direction scale bool
              where

              feature can be either SLIDE or BLOCK.  When it is SLIDE the transition is used when a new slide is introduced to the screen, if BLOCK then this transition is  used  for  the  individual  blocks
              which make up the slide.
              mode is the transition type between slides:-

                     Split - Two lines sweep across the screen, revealing the new page.  The lines may be either horizontal or vertical and may move inward from the edges of the page or outward from the cen‐
                     ter, as specified by the dimension and motion entries, respectively.
                     Blinds - Multiple lines, evenly spaced across the screen, synchronously sweep in the same direction to reveal the new page.  The lines may be either horizontal or vertical, as  specified
                     by the dimension
                      entry.  Horizontal lines move downward; vertical lines move to the right.
                     Box - A rectangular box sweeps inward from the edges of the page or outward from the center, as specified by the motion entry, revealing the new page.
                     Wipe - A single line sweeps across the screen from one edge to the other in the direction specified by the direction entry, revealing the new page.
                     Dissolve - The old page dissolves gradually to reveal the new one.
                     Glitter  -  Similar  to Dissolve, except that the effect sweeps across the page in a wide band moving from one side of the screen to the other in the direction specified by the direction
                     entry.
                     R - The new page simply replaces the old one with no special transition effect; the direction entry shall be ignored.
                     Fly - (PDF 1.5) Changes are flown out or in (as specified by motion), in the direction specified by direction, to or from a location that is offscreen except when direction is None.
                     Push - (PDF 1.5) The old page slides off the screen while the new page slides in, pushing the old page out in the direction specified by direction.
                     Cover - (PDF 1.5) The new page slides on to the screen in the direction specified by direction, covering the old page.
                     Uncover - (PDF 1.5) The old page slides off the screen in the direction specified by direction, uncovering the new page in the direction specified by direction.
                     Fade - (PDF 1.5) The new page gradually becomes visible through the old one.

              duration is the length of the transition in seconds (default 1).

              dimension (Optional; Split and Blinds transition styles only) The dimension in which the specified transition effect shall occur: H Horizontal, or V Vertical.

              motion (Optional; Split, Box and Fly transition styles only) The direction of motion for the specified transition effect: I Inward from the edges of the page, or O Outward from  the  center  of
              the page.

              direction  (Optional;  Wipe, Glitter, Fly, Cover, Uncover and Push transition styles only) The direction in which the specified transition effect shall moves, expressed in degrees counterclock‐
              wise starting from a left-to-right direction.  If the value is a number, it shall be one of: 0 = Left to right, 90 = Bottom to top (Wipe only), 180 = Right to left (Wipe only),  270  =  Top  to
              bottom, 315 = Top-left to bottom-right (Glitter only) The value can be None, which is relevant only for the Fly transition when the value of scale is not 1.0.

              scale  (Optional; PDF 1.5; Fly transition style only) The starting or ending scale at which the changes shall be drawn.  If motion specifies an inward transition, the scale of the changes drawn
              shall progress from scale to 1.0 over the course of the transition.  If motion specifies an outward transition, the scale of the changes drawn shall progress from 1.0 to scale over  the  course
              of the transition

              bool (Optional; PDF 1.5; Fly transition style only) If true, the area that shall be flown in is rectangular and opaque.

              This  command  can  be used by calling the macro .pdftransition using the parameters described above.  Any of the parameters may be replaced with a "." which signifies the parameter retains its
              previous value, also any trailing missing parameters are ignored.

              Note: not all PDF Readers support any or all these transitions.

   Importing graphics
       gropdf only supports importing other PDF files as graphics.  But that PDF file may contain any of the graphic formats supported by the PDF standard (such as JPEG, PNG, GIF, etc.).  So any  application
       which  outputs  PDF  can  be  used  as  an  embedded file in gropdf.  The PDF file you wish to insert must be a single page and the drawing must just fit inside the media size of the PDF file.  So, in
       inkscape(1) or gimp(1) (for example) make sure the canvas size just fits the image.

       The PDF parser used in gropdf has not been rigorously tested with all possible applications which produce PDFs.  If you find a single page PDF which fails to import properly, it is  worth  running  it
       through the pdftk(1) program by issuing the command:

              pdftk oldfile.pdf output newfile.pdf

       You may find that newfile.pdf will now load successfully.

   TrueType and other font formats
       gropdf does not support any other fonts except Adobe Type 1 (PFA or PFB).

FONT INSTALLATION
       This section gives a summary of the above explanations; it can serve as a step-by-step font installation guide for gropdf.

        •  Convert your font to something groff understands.  This is either a PostScript Type 1 font in either PFA or PFB, together with an AFM file.

           The very first line in a PFA/PFB file contains this:

                  %!PS-AdobeFont-1.0:

           A PFB file has this also in the first line, but the string is preceded with some binary bytes.

        •  Convert the AFM file to a groff font description file with the afmtodit(1) program.  An example call is

                  afmtodit Foo-Bar-Bold.afm map/textmap FBB

           which  converts  the  metric  file ‘Foo-Bar-Bold.afm’ to the groff font ‘FBB’.  If you have a font family which comes with normal, bold, italic, and bold italic faces, it is recommended to use the
           letters R, B, I, and BI, respectively, as postfixes in the groff font names to make groff's ‘.fam’ request work.  An example is groff's built-in Times-Roman font: The font family name  is  T,  and
           the groff font names are TR, TB, TI, and TBI.

        •  Install  both  the groff font description files and the fonts in a ‘devpdf’ subdirectory of the font path which groff finds.  See section “Environment” in troff(1) for the actual value of the font
           path.  Note that groff doesn't use the AFM files (but it is a good idea to store them anyway).

        •  Register all fonts which must be downloaded to the printer in the devpdf/download file.  Only the first occurrence of this file in the font path is read.  This means that you should copy  the  de‐
           fault download file to the first directory in your font path and add your fonts there.  To continue the above example we assume that the PS font name for Foo-Bar-Bold.pfa is ‘XY-Foo-Bar-Bold’ (the
           PS font name is stored in the internalname field in the FBB file) and belongs to foundry ‘F’ thus the following line should be added to download:

                  F XY-Foo-Bar-Bold Foo-Bar-Bold.pfa

           Use a tab character to separate the fields, and the ‘foundry’ field should be null for the default foundry.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_FONT_PATH
              A list of directories in which to search for the devname directory in addition to the default ones.  If, in the download file, the font file has been specified with a full path, no  directories
              are searched.  See troff(1) and groff_font(5) for more details.

       GROPDF_NOSLIDE
              If this is set true, gropdf will ignore all commands which produce a presentation pdf, and produce a normal pdf instead.

       SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH
              A timestamp (expressed as seconds since the Unix epoch) to use as the creation timestamp in place of the current time.

FILES
       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/DESC
              Device description file.

       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/F
              Font description file for font F.

       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/U-F
              Font description file for font F (using foundry U rather than the default foundry).

       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/download
              List of downloadable fonts.

       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/Foundry
              A Perl script used during install to locate suitable fonts.

       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/font/devpdf/enc/text.enc
              Encoding used for text fonts.

       /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/tmac/pdf.tmac
              Macros for use with gropdf; automatically loaded by troffrc.

SEE ALSO
       afmtodit(1), groff(1), troff(1), groff_font(5), groff_out(5)

groff 1.22.4                                                                                     21 March 2020                                                                                        GROPDF(1)
