GTAGS(1)                    General Commands Manual                   GTAGS(1)

NAME
       gtags - create tag files for global

SYNOPSIS
       gtags [-ciIOqvw][-C dir][-d tag-file][-f file][dbpath]

DESCRIPTION
       Gtags is used to create tag files for global(1).

       Gtags  recursively  collects  source files under the current directory,
       picks up symbols and writes the cross-reference data into the tag files
       (´GTAGS´, ´GRTAGS´ and ´GPATH´).

       By  default,  gtags  picks up C, Yacc, assembly language, Java, C++ and
       PHP source files.  Files whose names end in ´.c´, ´.h´ are  assumed  to
       be  C  source  files.   Files whose names end in ´.y´ are assumed to be
       Yacc source files.  Files whose names end in ´.s´, ´.S´ are assumed  to
       be  assembly  language  source files.  Files whose names end in ´.java´
       are assumed to be Java source files.  Files whose names end in  ´.c++´,
       ´.cc´, ´.hh´, ´.cpp´, ´.cxx´, ´.hxx´, ´.hpp´, ´.C´, ´.H´ are assumed to
       be C++ source  files.   Files  whose  names  end  in  ´.php´,  ´.php3´,
       ´.phtml´  are  assumed to be PHP source files.  Other files are assumed
       to be text files. Gtags does not treat binary files.

       If ´gtags.files´ exists in the current directory or a file is specified
       by  the  -f option, target files are limited by it. Lines starting with
       ´. ´ are comments.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       --accept-dotfiles
              Accept files and directories whose names begin with a  dot.   By
              default, gtags ignores them.

       -c, --compact
              Make  ´GTAGS´ in compact format.  This option does not influence
              ´GRTAGS´, because that is always made in compact format.

       -C, --directory dir
              Change the directory before doing all the work including parame‐
              ter  analysis.  This option is ignored in GTAGS_OPTIONS.  Please
              specify it on the command line directly.

       --config[=name]
              Print the value of config variable name.  If name is not  speci‐
              fied  then print all names and values.  In addition to the vari‐
              ables listed in the ENVIRONMENT section, you can  refer  to  in‐
              stall  directories  by  read  only  variables:  bindir,  libdir,
              datadir, localstatedir and sysconfdir.

       -d, --dump tag-file
              Dump a tag file as text to the standard output.   Output  format
              is 'key<tab>data'. This is for debugging.

       --explain
              Explain handling files.

       -f, --file file
              Give  a list of candidates of target files.  Files which are not
              on the list are ignored.  The argument file can be set to ´-´ to
              accept a list of files from the standard input.  File names must
              be separated by newline.  To make the list you may use  find(1),
              which has rich options for selecting files.

       --gtagsconf file
              Set environment variable GTAGSCONF to file.

       --gtagslabel label
              Set environment variable GTAGSLABEL to label.

       --help Print a usage message.

       -I, --idutils
              In addition to tag files, make ID database for idutils(1).

       -i, --incremental
              Update  tag  files  incrementally.  It's better to use global(1)
              with the -u command.

       -O, --objdir
              Use BSD-style obj directory as the location of  tag  files.   If
              GTAGSOBJDIRPREFIX  is set and ´$GTAGSOBJDIRPREFIX´ directory ex‐
              ists, gtags creates ´$GTAGSOBJDIRPREFIX/<current directory>´ di‐
              rectory  and  makes tag files in it.  Though you can use MAKEOB‐
              JDIRPREFIX instead of GTAGSOBJDIRPREFIX, it is  deprecated.   If
              dbpath is specified, this option is ignored.

       --single-update file
              Update  tag files for a single file.  It is considered that file
              was added, updated or deleted, and there is no change  in  other
              files.  This option implies the -i option.

       --skip-unreadable
              Skip unreadable files.

       --skip-symlink [=type]
              Skip  symbolic  links.  If  type  is 'f' then skip only symbolic
              links for file, else if 'd' then skip only  symbolic  links  for
              directory.   The  default  value  of  type  is 'a' (all symbolic
              links).

       --sqlite3
              Use Sqlite 3 API to make tag files. By default, BSD/DB 1.85  API
              is  used.   To  use  this  option,  you need to invoke configure
              script with --with-sqlite3 in the build phase.

       --statistics
              Print statistics information.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet mode.

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose mode.

       --version
              Show version number.

       -w, --warning
              Print warning messages.

       dbpath The directory in which tag files are generated.  The default  is
              the current directory.

EXAMPLES
       $ ls -F
       Makefile      src/    lib/
       $ gtags -v
       $ global -x main
       main              10 src/main.c  main (argc, argv) {

FILES
       ´GTAGS´
              Tag file for definitions.

       ´GRTAGS´
              Tag file for references.

       ´GPATH´
              Tag file for source files.

       ´gtags.conf´, ´$HOME/.globalrc´
              Configuration data for GNU GLOBAL.  See gtags.conf(5).

       ´gtags.files´
              The list of candidates of target files.

       ´.notfunction´
              The list of symbols which is not a definition.  If this file ex‐
              ists in the project root directory, gtags does  not  regard  the
              symbols listed in this file as definitions.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables affect the execution of gtags:

       GTAGSCACHE
              The size of the B-tree cache. The default is 50000000 (bytes).

       GTAGSCONF
              Configuration file.

       GTAGSFORCECPP
              If  this  variable  is  set,  each  file whose suffix is ´.h´ is
              treated as a C++ source file.

       GTAGSFORCEENDBLOCK
              If this variable is set, each } at the first column  brings  end
              of block of 0 level.

       GTAGSLABEL
              Configuration label. The default is ´default´.

       GTAGSLOGGING
              If  this  variable  is  set, ´$GTAGSLOGGING´ is used as the path
              name of a log file. There is no default value.

       GTAGS_COMMANDLINE
              This  variable  can  only  be  referenced  from  the  hook  (see
              gtags_hook).   Gtags sets its own effective command line to this
              variable before calling the hook. Each argument is separated  by
              whitespace, and real whitespace is represented as '%20'. This is
              read only.

       GTAGS_OPTIONS
              The value of this variable is inserted in the head of arguments.

       GTAGSOBJDIR
              If this variable is set, it is used as the name of BSD-style ob‐
              jdir.   The default is ´obj´.  Though you can use MAKEOBJDIR in‐
              stead of GTAGSOBJDIR, it is deprecated.

       GTAGSOBJDIRPREFIX
              If this variable is set, it is used as the prefix  of  BSD-style
              objdir.   The default is ´/usr/obj´.  Though you can use MAKEOB‐
              JDIRPREFIX instead of GTAGSOBJDIRPREFIX, it is deprecated.

       TMPDIR The location used to stored  temporary  files.  The  default  is
              ´/tmp´.

CONFIGURATION
       The  following  configuration  variables affect the execution of gtags.
       You can see the default value for each variable with the  --config  op‐
       tion.

       gtags_parser (comma separated list)
              Specify the mapping of language names and plug-in parsers.  Each
              part delimited by the comma  consists  of  a  language  name,  a
              colon,  the  shared object path, an optional colon followed by a
              function name.  If the function name is not specified,  'parser'
              is  assumed.  As a special exception, gtags collects values from
              multiple gtags_parser variables.  For these mappings, the  first
              match is adopted.

       gtags_hook (command line)
              Specify a command line which should be executed at the beginning
              of gtags after loading configuration file. You can use this hook
              to  update  ´gtags.files´  dynamically.  "./" in it always means
              the project root directory, since gtags is always invoked there.

              This hook is ignored when the following options  are  specified:
              --version, --help, --config, --dump.

       icase_path (boolean)
              Ignore  case  distinctions  in  the path.  Suffixes check is af‐
              fected by this capability.

       langmap (comma separated list)
              Language mapping. Each comma-separated map consists  of  a  lan‐
              guage  name,  a  colon,  and a list of file extensions.  You can
              specify a glob pattern surrounded by parentheses instead  of  an
              extension  for the files without extensions (e.g. Make:([Mm]ake‐
              file).mak.mk).  As a special exception,  gtags  collects  values
              from  multiple langmap variables.  For these mappings, the first
              match is adopted.  Default mapping is:
              ´c:.c.h,yacc:.y,asm:.s.S,java:.java,cpp:.c++.cc.hh.cpp.cxx.hxx.hpp.C.H,php:.php.php3.phtml´.

       skip (comma separated list)
              Gtags  skips files and directories which are given in this list.
              As a special exception, gtags collects values from multiple skip
              variables.   If  the value ends with ´/´, it is assumed as a di‐
              rectory and gtags skips all files under it.  The value  may  in‐
              clude glob patterns (*, ?, [...], [!...], [^...]).

              If the value starts with ´/´, it is assumed a relative path name
              from the root directory of the project. You cannot use glob pat‐
              terns  for  a path name. However, this direction is out-of-date,
              and is not recommended. Instead, you can use -f option which can
              be  combined with find(1). Since find(1) has rich options to se‐
              lect files, you can do everything. Additionally, this  technique
              can  also be applied to any other tagging systems like ctags(1),
              cscope(1), etc.

              Skip  list  is  also  effective  when  you   use   the   -f   or
              ´gtags.files´.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Gtags exits with a non-0 value if an error occurred, 0 otherwise.

       Note  that  files  created by gtags with a non-zero exit code should be
       considered corrupted.

SEE ALSO
       global(1), htags(1), gtags.conf(5).

       GNU GLOBAL source code tag system
       (http://www.gnu.org/software/global/).

BUG
       ´GTAGS´ and ´GRTAGS´ are very large.  In advance of using this command,
       check the space of your disk.

       Assembly  language  support is far from complete.  It extracts only EN‐
       TRY() and ALTENTRY() from source file.  Probably valid only for FreeBSD
       and Linux kernel source.

       C++ support is deprecated.

       There is no concurrency control about tag files.

AUTHOR
       Shigio YAMAGUCHI, Hideki IWAMOTO and others.

HISTORY
       The gtags command appeared in FreeBSD 2.2.2.

GNU Project                        June 2018                          GTAGS(1)
