gtranslator(1)                                                                                 GNOME programs                                                                                gtranslator(1)

NAME
       gtranslator -- a comfortable gettext po file editor with many bells and whistles.

SYNOPSIS
       gtranslator [ PO-FILE ]

DESCRIPTION
       gtranslator  is a comfortable gettext po file editor with many features like special char featured editing, plural forms view, div. charset support, comfortable prefs, list view of messages, regu‐
       lar expression based search function, compile/update possibilities and much much more.

       Of course all standard features of a good application like DnD, session support, supplement files for mime types and menu items are present.

       Instant comment view, a comfortable quick navigation messages table with customizable colors, colorschemes, UTF-8 support, a high level of preferizabilation and a personal learn buffer/translation
       memory with autotranslation capabilities are the main features of gtranslator besides the comfortable editing of the translation entries.

OPTIONS
       --help Shows you a little help autogenerated by GNOME.

LEARN BUFFER
       The learn buffer is the implementation of a personal translation memory (TM) in gtranslator. gtranslator uses the UMTF (a compressed XML file which is normally quite good human readable if  uncom‐
       pressed) format for storing its learned strings.
       Your  learned  strings  are then available for the autotranslation feature of gtranslator where gtranslator automatically fills in the corresponding and valuable translations for any message which
       has already been learned previously. This results in a fairly high percentage of prefilled/pretranslated messages.
       The common and good style of working with the learn buffer and with the autotranslation should be to learn the main po/translation files for your language.
       You should learn the main po files (for GNOME for example gnumeric, nautilus, evolution or any other bigger, already translated package's po file) for your language); you can use a new script from
       the gtranslator package to automatise this task a little bit: it's “build-gtranslator-learn-buffer.sh” which is installed into gtranslator's scripts directory which you can see by calling  gtrans‐
       lator -b and you simply execute the script with its full path and simply follow the information on the command line for it.
       Afterwards  you can simply use the "Autotranslation" menu entry from the GUI or use the "F10" hotkey to let gtranslator autotranslate all missing translations from your personal learn buffer. This
       will ease your translation work and make a big portion of the po files be pre-translated.
       With a fairly big personal learn buffer of about 2 MB you can achieve many pre-translated messages for a new project/translation.
       If you want to use the stored learn buffer contents to produce a po file with all the “learned” translations, you can also use the “export learn buffer” capability of gtranslator to get a plain po
       file version of the learn buffer.

LICENSE
       gtranslator is distributed under the GNU GPL V 3.0 or greater.

AUTHORS
       Ross Golder  <ross@kabalak.net>,  Fatih  Demir  <kabalak@kabalak.net>  (previously  also:  Gediminas  Paulauskas  <menesis@kabalak.net>,  Thomas  Ziehmer  <thomas@kabalak.net>,  Kevin  Vandersloot
       <kfv101@psu.edu> and Peeter Vois <peeter@kabalak.net>).

WEBSITE
       https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtranslator/

BUGREPORTS
       You can deliver bug reports to the gtranslator development team to our bug base via https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtranslator/issues

gtranslator                                                                                     gtranslator                                                                                  gtranslator(1)
