guaclog(1)                     Apache Guacamole                     guaclog(1)

NAME
       guaclog - Guacamole input log interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       guaclog [-f] [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       guaclog  is an interpreter which accepts Guacamole protocol dumps, such
       as those saved when input logging is enabled for  a  Guacamole  session
       recording,  writing  human-readable  text  logs  as output.  guaclog is
       essentially an implementation of a Guacamole client which  accepts  its
       input  from  files instead of a network connection, however unlike gua‐
       cenc it only handles instructions related to user input.

       Each FILE specified will be translated into a new  human-readable  text
       file named FILE.txt. Existing files will not be overwritten; the inter‐
       preting process for any input file will be aborted if it  would  result
       in overwriting an existing file.

       Guacamole  acquires  a write lock on recordings as they are being writ‐
       ten. By default, guaclog will check whether  the  each  input  file  is
       locked  and  will  refuse  to  read  and  interpret an input file if it
       appears to be an in-progress recording. This behavior can be overridden
       by specifying the -f option. Interpreting an in-progress recording will
       still work; the resulting human-readable text file  will  simply  cover
       the user's session only up to the current point in time.

OPTIONS
       -f     Overrides  the default behavior of guaclog such that input files
              will be interpreted even if they appear to be recordings of  in-
              progress Guacamole sessions.

OUTPUT FORMAT
       The output format of guaclog is meant to match what the user would have
       typed within a typical text editor as closely as possible,  while  also
       representing  non-printable  characters  and  keyboard  shortcuts  in a
       human-readable way.

       All output is on one line, with new lines started only as a  result  of
       the user pressing enter/return. Keys which produce printable characters
       are translated into their corresponding Unicode codepoints and  encoded
       as  UTF-8,  while  non-printable  characters  are enclosed within angle
       brackets and represented  with  their  human-readable  names.  Keyboard
       shortcuts  which  are  made up of more than one key are enclosed within
       angle brackets, with each key within the  shortcut  separated  by  plus
       signs.

       Spaces  and  newlines  are  included as their Unicode character, except
       when represented within a keyboard shortcut, in which case their human-
       readable  names  are used instead. As the output of pressing tab can be
       easily mistaken for spaces, and as pressing tab frequently has  special
       meaning  within  applications,  tab is always represented by its human-
       readable name.

       Modifiers are output as part of keyboard shortcuts only. Simple  press‐
       ing  and  releasing  of  a  modifier will be ignored, as are presses of
       shift or AltGr while typing.

       For example, if the user typed "Hello WORLD!", selected  everything  by
       pressing  Ctrl+a, copied the selected text by pressing Ctrl+c, switched
       to another application by pressing Alt+Shift+Tab, and then  pasted  the
       previously-copied  text by pressing Ctrl+v, the resulting log from gua‐
       clog would look like:

       Hello WORLD!<Ctrl+a><Ctrl+c><Alt+Shift+Tab><Ctrl+v>

SEE ALSO
       guacenc(1)

version 1.3.0                     26 Jan 2018                       guaclog(1)
