GWORKSPACE(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                             GWORKSPACE(1)

NAME
       GWorkspace - GNUstep Workspace Manager

SYNOPSIS
       GWorkspace

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the GWorkspace GNUstep application.  This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       GWorkspace is the official GNUstep workspace manager. It is a clone of NeXT's workspace manager.

       The first time you run GWorkspace you must set some preferences:
       GWorkspace  needs  a default editor to work. It can also be an app-wrapper.  To set your editor, open the preferences window and choose “Default Editor” from the pop-up, then click on the “choose”
       button: from an open-panel you will be able to browse your directories and choose the editor.
       GWorkspace lets you open a terminal on the current directory (alt-t).  To set your preferred terminal (the default is “xterm”), choose “XTerminal” from the pop-up.

       There are several accompanying programs which normally are not intended to be invoked directly by the user.  Some of them run as daemons and are launched by GWorkspace itself.  Here is a short de‐
       scription:

   Recycler
       Acts as a “trashcan”; files deleted from the GWorkspace menu “Move to Recycler” can be restored.  Can be docked.

   ddbd
       This daemon is responsible for maintaining the GWorkspace database, located at $HOME/GNUstep/Library/ddbd.

   fswatcher
       Filesystem watcher daemon.

   lsfupdater
       A tool that updates the “Live Folders”.

   searchtool
       A helper tool for GWorkspace's Finder module.

   wopen
       A tool to open files via GWorkspace.  This program is specifically designed to be invoked by the user.  It accepts one argument, the filename to be opened,  which  can  be  relative  or  absolute.
       GWorkspace must be running.

MODULES
       Besides  its  standard Contents Inspectors, that is, App, Folder, Image, Sound, Pdf-Ps, Rtf, text, Plist, Strings and Inspector viewers, GWorkspace can dynamically load other modules which you can
       build separately. It is sufficient to put them in a place where GWorkspace looks for them, for example: ~/GNUstep/Library/GWorkspace.
       In the same way you can add other viewers besides the standard Browser, Icon and Small Icons viewers.  If you want to write a new inspector or a new viewer, take a look in the Template directory.

LANGUAGES
       GWorkspace speaks English, French, German, Italian and Romanian.

OPTIONS
       Like most GNUstep applications, GWorkspace does not support any command-line options (except the standard GNUstep ones).

SEE ALSO
       http://www.gnustep.it/enrico/gworkspace/
       http://www.gnustep.org/
       GNUstep(7)
       openapp(1)
       defaults(1)

                                                                                               June 19, 2014                                                                                  GWORKSPACE(1)
