GZBD-VIEWER(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              GZBD-VIEWER(8)

NAME
       gzbd-viewer - zoned block devices zone state graphical interface

SYNOPSIS
       gzbd-viewer [options] device

DESCRIPTION
       gzbd-viewer  is used to dynamically display the state of zones of a zoned block device.  Each zone is displayed as a box representing the sector range of the zone.  A zone box is filled with different
       colors based on the zone type and on the use of sectors within the zone. The condition of zones is indicated by highlighting a zone box border with different colors.

       Zone type and usage color codes

       Magenta      Conventional zones
       Red          Written sectors of a sequential zone
       Green        Unwritten and usable sectors of a sequential zone
       Rosy brown   Unusable sectors of a sequential zone

       Zone condition color codes

       Light blue    Explicitly opened zones
       Dark blue     Implicitly opened zones
       Dark orange   Closed zones
       Grey          Offline zones

       The device argument must be the pathname of the target zoned block device.

       By default, gzbd-viewer will display at most 100 zones using a 10 x 10 grid. This default display size can be changed using options as explained below.

OPTIONS
       -?, --help
              Show help options and exit.

       --help-all
              Show all help options and exit.

       --help-gtk
              Show GTK+ options and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Use libzbd verbose mode (for debug).

       -i, --interval msec
              Set refresh interval to msec milliseconds (default: 500).

       -w, --width columns
              Display zones in a matrix of columns columns.

       -h, --height rows
              Display zones in a matrix of rows rows.

       -b, --block size
              Use size as the unit for displaying a zone position, length and write pointer position instead of the default byte value.

       --display=DISPLAY
              Specify the X display to use.

AUTHOR
       Damien Le Moal <damien.lemoal@wdc.com>

SEE ALSO
       zbd(8), gzbd(8)

AVAILABILITY
       The gzbd-viewer utility is part of the libzbd library available from ⟨https://github.com/westerndigitalcorporation/libzbd⟩.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 GZBD-VIEWER(8)
