h2paspp(1)                                                                                     h2pas preprocessor                                                                                    h2paspp(1)

NAME
       h2paspp - Free Pascal h2pas preprocessor program.

SYNOPSIS
       h2paspp [-doih] file1 ... filen

DESCRIPTION
       h2paspp  reads one or more C header files and preprocesses them, writing the result to files with the same name as the originals as it goes along.  It does not accept all preprocesser tokens of C, but
       takes care of the following preprocessor directives:

       #define symbol
              Defines the new symbol symbol. Note that macros are not supported.

       #if symbol
              The text following this directive is included if symbol is defined.

       #ifdef symbol
              The text following this directive is included if symbol is defined.

       #ifndef symbol
              The text following this directive is included if symbol is not defined.

       #include filename
              Include directives are removed, unless the -I option was given, in which case the include file is included and written to the output file.

       #undef symbol
              The symbol symbol is undefined.

USAGE
       h2paspp accepts one or more filenames and preprocesses them. It will read the input, and write output to a file with the same name unless the -o option is given, in which case the file is  written  to
       the specified file.  Note that only one output filename can be given.

OPTIONS
       h2paspp has a small number of options to control its behaviour:

       -dsymbol
              Define the symbol symbol before processing is started.

       -h     emit a small helptext.

       -ooutfile
              If this option is given, the output will be written to a file named outfile. Note that only one output file can be given.

SEE ALSO
              ppc386(1) h2pas(1) cpp(1)

Free Pascal                                                                                     12 November 2004                                                                                     h2paspp(1)
