h2pas(1)                                                                            Free Pascal C header conversion utility                                                                            h2pas(1)

NAME
       h2pas - The C header to pascal unit conversion program.

SYNOPSIS
       h2pas [options] filename

DESCRIPTION
       h2pas  attempts  to  convert  a C header file to a pascal unit.  it can handle most C constructs that one finds in a C header file, and attempts to translate them to their pascal counterparts. see the
       CONSTRUCTS section for a full description of what the translator can handle.

USAGE
       H2pas is a command-line tool that translates a C header file to a spascal unit. It reads the C header file and translates the C declarations to equivalent pascal  declarations  that  can  be  used  to
       access code written in C.

       The  output  of the h2pas program is written to a file with the same name as the C header file that was used as input, but with the extension .pp.  The output file that h2pas creates can be customized
       in a number of ways by means of many options.

OPTIONS
       The output of h2pas can be controlled with the following options:

       -d     use external; for all procedure and function declarations.

       -D     use external libname name 'func_name' for function and procedure declarations.

       -e     Emit a series of constants instead of an enumeration type for the C enum construct.

       -i     create an include file instead of a unit (omits the unit header).

       -l libname
              specify the library name for external function declarations.

       -o outfile
              Specify the output file name. Default is the input file name with the extension replaced by .pp "."

       -p     use the letter P in front of pointer type parameters instead of "^".

       -s     Strip comments from the input file. By default comments are converted to comments, but they may be displaced, since a comment is handled by the scanner.

       -t     prepend typedef type names with the letter T (used to follow Borland's convention that all types should be defined with T).

       -v     replace pointer parameters by call by reference parameters.  Use with care because some calls can expect a NIL pointer.

       -w     Header file is a win32 header file (adds support for some special macros).

       -x     handle SYS_TRAP of the PalmOS header files.

CONSTRUCTS
       The following C declarations and statements are recognized:

       defines
              defines are changed into pascal constants if they are simple defines.  macros are changed - wherever possible to functions; however the arguments are all integers, so these must be changed man‐
              ually.  Simple  expressions  in define staments are recognized, as are most arithmetic operators: addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, logical operators, comparison operators, shift
              operators. The C construct ( A ? B : C) is also recognized and translated to a pascal construct with an IF statement (this is buggy, however).

       preprocessor statements
              the conditional preprocessing commands are recognized and translated into equivalent pascal compiler directives. The special #ifdef __cplusplus is also recognized and removed.

       typedef
              A typedef statement is changed into a pascal type statement. The following basic types are recognized:

              char   changed to char.

              float  changed to real (=double in free pascal).

              int    changed to longint.

              long   changed to longint.

              long int
                     changed to longint.

              short  changed to integer.

              unsigned
                     changed to cardinal.

              unsigned char
                     changed to byte.

              unsigned int
                     changed to cardinal.

              unsigned long int
                     changed to cardinal.

              unsigned short
                     changed to word.

              void   ignored.
       These types are also changed if they appear in the arguments of a function or procedure.

       functions and procedures
              functions and procedures are translated as well; pointer types may be changed to call by reference arguments (using the var argument) by using the -p command line argument. functions that  have
              a variable number of arguments are changed to a function with an array of const argument.

       specifiers
              the  extern  specifier  is  recognized; however it is ignored. the packed specifier is also recognised and changed with the PACKRECORDS directive. The const specifier is also recognized, but is
              ignored.

       modifiers
              If the -w option is specified, then the following modifiers are recognized: STDCALL , CDECL , CALLBACK , PASCAL , WINAPI , APIENTRY , WINGDIAPI as defined in the win32 headers.  If additionally
              the -x option is specified then the SYS_TRAP specifier is also recognized.

       enums  enum constructs are changed into enumeration types; bear in mind that in C enumeration types can have values assigned to them; Free Pascal also allows this to a certain degree. If you know that
              values are assigned to enums, it is best to use the -e option to change the enus to a series of integer constants.

       unions unions are changed to variant records.

       structs
              are changed to pascal records, with C packing.

SEE ALSO
              ppc386(1) ppumove(1)

Free Pascal                                                                                       12 Dec 1999                                                                                          h2pas(1)
