h4fromh5(1)                                                                                                                                       h4fromh5(1)

NAME
       h4fromh5 - convert HDF5 scientific dataset to an HDF4 file

SYNOPSIS
       h4fromh5 [OPTIONS] [HDF5-FILES]

DESCRIPTION
       h4fromh5 takes one or more files in HDF5 format and outputs files in HDF4 format containing the datasets from the HDF5 files.  (Currently, only a sin‐
       gle dataset per HDF5 file is converted.)

       HDF4  and HDF5 are free, portable binary formats and supporting libraries developed by the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the Uni‐
       versity of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign.

       A single h5 file can contain multiple data sets; by default, h4fromh5 converts the first dataset, but this can be changed via the -d option, or by us‐
       ing the syntax HDF5FILE:DATASET.

       The most basic usage is something like ’h4fromh5 foo.h5’, which will output a file foo.hdf containing the scientific dataset from foo.h5.

OPTIONS
       -h     Display help on the command-line options and usage.

       -V     Print the version number and copyright info for h4fromh5.

       -v     Verbose output.

       -T     Transpose the output dataset (e.g. LxMxN becomes NxMxL).  This is often useful because HDF5 programs typically follow C (row-major) conventions
              while HDF4 programs often follow Fortran (column-major, transposed) conventions for array ordering.

       -o file
              Send HDF output to file rather than to the input filename with .h5 replaced with .hdf (the default).

       -d name
              Read from dataset name in the input; otherwise, the first dataset in the input file is used.  Alternatively, use  the  syntax  HDF5FILE:DATASET
              when the input file names are specified.

BUGS
       Send bug reports to S. G. Johnson, stevenj@alum.mit.edu.

AUTHORS
       Written by Steven G. Johnson.  Copyright (c) 2005 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

                                                                         22 May 2016                                                              h4fromh5(1)
