HAMLIB(7)                                                                                  Hamlib Information Manual                                                                                  HAMLIB(7)

NAME
       hamlib - radio and rotator control library

DESCRIPTION
       The Ham Radio Control Libraries, Hamlib for short, is a development effort to provide a consistent interface for programmers wanting to incorporate radio and rotator control in their programs.

       Hamlib  is  not a complete user application, rather, it is a software layer intended to make controlling various radios and other amateur radio station (shack) hardware much easier.  Hamlib will allow
       authors of software such as logging programs, digital communications programs, or those wanting to develop the ultimate radio control software to concentrate on the user interface and the basic  func‐
       tion of the program rather than radio control.  Hamlib consists of several parts, the programming library, utility programs, and library interfaces to other programming languages.

       Most  recent amateur radio transceivers allow external control of their functions through a serial interface.  Unfortunately, control commands are not always consistent across a manufacturer's product
       line and each manufacturer's product line differs greatly from its competitors.

       Hamlib attempts to solve this problem by presenting a virtual radio to the programmer by providing an interface to actions such as setting a given Variable Frequency Oscillator's (VFO) frequency, set‐
       ting the operating mode, querying the radio of its current status and settings, and giving the application a list of a given radio's capabilities.  Unfortunately, what can be accomplished by Hamlib is
       limited by the radios themselves and some offer very limited capability.

       Other devices, such as antenna rotators, can be placed into the Hamlib control scheme.  Other recent developments include network interface servers and a USB interface capability.   Language  bindings
       are provided for C, C++, Perl, Python, Lua and TCL (more to come).

   Overview
       Hamlib is a front end library providing a C language Application Programming Interface (API) to programmers wishing to integrate radio or rotator control in their applications.  Hamlib presents a vir‐
       tual radio or virtual rotator that is a consistent interface to an application despite wide differences in radio and rotator interfaces and capabilities.

       The front end library uses a number of back end libraries to translate from the front end to the various individual radio and rotator models.  A back end library handles conversion of  the  front  end
       variables to the format needed by the radio or rotator device it controls.  The back end libraries are generally grouped by manufacturer and in some cases by a common control protocol.

       Hamlib  also  provides  an  interface  library  for  each  of  several common scripting languages such as Perl ⟨http://www.perl.org⟩, Python ⟨http://www.python.org⟩, Lua ⟨https://www.lua.org⟩, and TCL
       ⟨http://www.tcl.tk⟩.  These language bindings are generated through the use of SWIG ⟨http://www.swig.org⟩, a parser/generator for multiple language interfaces to a C library.  A natively generated C++
       language interface is also provided.

       Besides  the C and supplemental APIs, Hamlib also provides a pair of network daemons that provide a text command based API for controlling an attached radio or rotator through a TCP/IP network connec‐
       tion.  The daemons then handle the interface to the Hamlib C API.

       More than one type of device, radio or rotator, may be controlled at a time, however, there is generally a limit of one device per serial port or other port.

   Hamlib project information
       The Hamlib Project was founded by Frank Singleton, VK3FCS/KM5WS in July 2000.  Shortly after Stephane Fillod, F8CFE, joined Frank on the Hamlib project and the API and implementation  development  led
       to  a reasonable level of maturity in a few years.  A major milestone was reached when Hamlib 1.2.0 was released in March 2004.  The API and Application Binary Interface (ABI) interfaces have remained
       stable since that time up to the release of 3.3 in mid 2018.  Version 4.0 marks a major change to the ABI and certain changes to the API.

       Development continues through the major version number 4.x series and beyond.  The 4.0 release marks a major change in the ABI with several changes for additional modes  and  such  that  will  require
       client programs that use the C ABI to be recompiled/relinked, etc.  Other goals include improving the overall documentation (this man page with more in progress), and other updates as warranted.

       The  Project  is  hosted  by  SourceForge.net ⟨https://sourceforge.net⟩ at the Hamlib project page ⟨https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib/⟩.  As GitHub ⟨https://github.com⟩ has become a very popular
       project hosting site, Hamlib also has a dedicated GitHub project page ⟨https://github.com/Hamlib/Hamlib⟩.  GitHub also hosts the  hamlib.org  ⟨http://www.hamlib.org⟩  Web  site  and  the  Hamlib  Wiki
       ⟨https://github.com/Hamlib/Hamlib/wiki⟩.

       Development  discussion  and  most  user  support  take  place  on  the  hamlib-developer  mailing  list ⟨https://sourceforge.net/p/hamlib/mailman/⟩.  While there are SourceForge.net discussion forums
       ⟨https://sourceforge.net/p/hamlib/discussion/⟩, they are rarely used and not as closely read by the developers as the mailing list.

       For source code management, the project uses Git ⟨http://git-scm.com/⟩, a fast, distributed content tracker.  Among its features is that every developer has the  complete  Hamlib  development  history
       available locally.  For more information on using Git, see hamlib-git(7).

              Note:  while  a  canonical Git repository is hosted at SourceForge, its availability is not essential to continued development although development work flows would change temporarily.  Several
              developers find the GitHub Web interface easier to use and lately development has centered around GitHub rather than SourceForge.

   Applications using Hamlib
       A number of application developers have taken advantage of Hamlib's capabilities to implement radio and/or  rotator  control.   While  not  exhaustive,  a  list  is  maintained  at  the  Hamlib  Wiki,
       Applications/Screenshots  ⟨https://github.com/Hamlib/Hamlib/wiki/Applications-and-Screen-Shots⟩.   Developers are encouraged to request their applications be added to the gallery by way of the hamlib-
       developer mailing list.

   Using Hamlib with your program
       As with other Free Software projects, Hamlib relies heavily on copyleft licensing to encourage development contributions and provide an open  atmosphere  for  development.   Hamlib's  source  code  is
       released under two licenses, the Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1 for the library portion, and the General Public License (GPL) version 2 for the utility programs.

       The  LGPL  allows the library to be used (linked) by programs regardless of their individual license.  However, any contributions to the library source remain under a copyleft license which means that
       the library source code may not be used in violation of the terms of the LGPL (see the file COPYING.LIB in the main source directory).  Concepts learned by studying these sources for  the  purpose  of
       understanding the Hamlib API is not covered nor prohibited by the LGPL, however, directly copying LGPL sources into any work that is incompatible with the terms of the LGPL is a violation of the terms
       of the license.

       The utility program source files are released under the GPL.  Any direct use of these sources must be in a form that complies with the terms of the GPL (see the file COPYING in the main source  direc‐
       tory).  Concepts learned by studying these sources for the purpose of understanding the Hamlib API is not covered nor prohibited by the GPL, however, directly copying GPL sources into any work that is
       incompatible with the terms of the GPL is a violation of the terms of the license.

   Radios with a clone capability
       Hamlib's focus is on controlling radios that employ a port and command protocol for setting frequency, mode, VFO, PTT, etc.  Most VHF/UHF transceivers do not employ such control capability but do pro‐
       vide  for cloning the memory contents from radio to another of the same model.  A related project, Chirp ⟨http://chirp.danplanet.com⟩, aims to support radios with such a clone capability.  Please con‐
       tact the Chirp project for support of such radios.

   Pronouncing Hamlib
       English speakers seem to have two alternate pronunciations for our project:

       ·   Hamlib (Ham - lib, long ‘i’, as in library.)  IPA style: /'ham læb/

       ·   Hamlib (Ham - lib, short ‘i’, as in liberty.)  IPA style: /'ham lɪb/

       Then again, we have people who say Linux “L-eye-nux” and those who say “L-in-nux”...

       If you're French, the above does not apply! :-)

COPYING
       This file is part of Hamlib, a project to develop a library that simplifies radio, rotator, and amplifier control functions for developers of software primarily of interest to radio amateurs and those
       interested in radio communications.

       Copyright © 2001-2020 Hamlib Group (various contributors)

       This is free software; see the file COPYING for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       hamlib-primer(7)

COLOPHON
       Links to the Hamlib Wiki, Git repository, release archives, and daily snapshot archives are available via hamlib.org ⟨http://www.hamlib.org⟩.

Hamlib                                                                                             2020-09-08                                                                                         HAMLIB(7)
