HARDINFO(1)                                                                                    User Commands                                                                                    HARDINFO(1)

NAME
       Hardinfo2 - System Information and Benchmark for Linux Systems.

USAGE
       hardinfo2 [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       Is  a system information and benchmark for Linux systems, that gathers information about the hardware and operating system, performs benchmarks with online compare against other machines, and gen‐
       erates reports.

       Online Userguide with more info: https://hardinfo2.org/userguide

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Show help options

       -q, --quiet
              do not print status messages to standard output

       -r, --generate-report
              creates a report and prints to standard output

       -f, --report-format
              chooses a report format (text, html)

       -t, --topic
              search for a topic in CLI report (-t getlist shows available)

       -c, --topic-cache
              search for a topic in Cached CLI report (-t getlist shows available)

       -b, --run-benchmark
              run a specific benchmark eg. -b 'FPU FFT'  (Default all benchmarks runs when generate report)

       -u, --user-note Group-MachineName[-ServerReq]
              adds a user note to data send to server. When added eg. -u 1 synchronization is activated.  Letters (small+caps) and numbers and dashes are accepted. Length  max  50.  0-2  dashes  used  as
              seperator.   Format  Group-MachineName-ServerReq Group and MachineName are for anonymous identification and can put benchmarks into a group and you can sort of identify each machine by your
              chosen string.  ServerReq is to tell the server which records you want to get. See https://hardinfo2.org/userguide#usernote for more details about the Server Request strings available.

       -g, --result-format
              chooses a result format (short, conf, shell)

       -n, --max-results
              maximum number of benchmark results to include (-1 for no limit, default is 50)

       -v, --version
              shows program version and quit

       -s, --skip-benchmark
              Disables all benchmark runs.

       -w, --very-verbose
              show all details

EXAMPLES
       examples of CLI command usage:

       hardinfo2 -b 'FPU FFT'
              runs only FPU FFT benchmark

       hardinfo2 -u 1
              enable updates at startup and starts gui (can also be set in gui)

       hardinfo2 -u choosengroup-choosenid -r
              Updates data from server, generate CLI report and sends benchmark with user-note. See more at https://hardinfo2.org/userguide#usernote

       hardinfo2 -r
              generates CLI report

COPYRIGHT
       Hardinfo2 is Copyright © 2003-2023 L. A. F. Pereira, 2024- Hardinfo2 Project.  This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY  or
       FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

2.2                                                                                               May 2025                                                                                      HARDINFO(1)
