hasciicam(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              hasciicam(1)

NAME
       hasciicam - (h)ascii for the masses!

SYNOPSIS
       hasciicam [ -hvq ] [ -m mode ] [ -d device ] [ -i input ] [ -o output ] [ -f :user%pass@host:/dir ] [ rendering-options ]

DESCRIPTION
       hasciicam makes it possible to have live asciivideo on the web. It takes video from a capture device (like tv cards or quickcams) and renders it into ascii, formatting the output into an html page
       with a refresh tag or in a live ascii window or in a simple text file as well, giving the possiblity to publish on the web a live asciivideo feed browsable without any need for browser's plugins.

       hasciicam  grabs  frames using Video4Linux api, renders them into ascii using AA-lib engine and is capable of armoring them with auto-refreshing HTML code. It's being used also jpeglib for option‐
       ally refresh a small jpeg image, so that it can work also as a simple webcam (or showing both, jpeg and asciivideo).

OPTIONS
       -h --help
              Display a help text and quit.

       -v --version
              Display version and quit.

       -q --quiet
              Be quiet and don't show hardware detection.

       -m --mode
              Selects the mode in wich hasciicam will run:
              live will use the console (or eventually open one under X display) to show full speed ascii video.
              html will write html formatted ascii video every refresh seconds into file aafile.
              text will write plain text ascii video every refresh seconds into file aafile.
              Default mode is live. Mode selection is XOR'ed.

       -d --device
              Use specified capture device. Default is /dev/video.

       -i --input
              Selects the device's input channel to be used for grabbing frames. Default is 1.

       -o --aafile
              Defines the file where to save rendered ascii, overwrited every refresh seconds. Default is hasciicam.html when in html mode, hasciicam.txt when in text mode (useless when in live mode).

       -f --ftp
              Ftp pushes the selected output file to an ftp account specified within an expression like :user%pass@dyne.org:/home/user/www. If the password is not specified (omit  %pass)  hasciicam  asks
              for  it  on stdin (hidden while typing). If the directory is not specified it is assumed to be the first ftp directory where user logs in. Remote file is refreshed depending on refresh rate
              and connection bandwidth, a scolopendro temporary file is created to keep clients on the other side refreshing smooth.

       -D --daemon
              Forks to background and runs in daemon mode.

RENDERING-OPTIONS
       -S --font-size
              Selects a font size from 1 to 4 used in html rendering. default is 1 (only useful when in html mode).

       -a --font-face
              Selects a font face to be used in html rendering, it should be fixed size for better results. default is courier (only useful when in html mode).

       -r --refresh
              Specifies the refresh interval in seconds between each grabbed frame. Default is 2 (useless when in live mode).

       -b --aabright
              Specifies brightness level for the aa_render, from 0 to 100. Default is 60.

       -c --aacontrast
              Specifies contrast level for the aa_render, from 0 to 100. Default is 4.

       -g --aagamma
              Specifies gamma correction level for the aa_render, from 0 to 100. Default is 3.

       -I --invert
              Invert and render the resulting negative ascii.

       -B --background
              Specifies the background color to be used in the form of a hex RGB triplet (without the leading #). Default is 000000 for black (only useful when in html mode).

       -F --foreground
              Specifies the foreground color to be used in the form of a hex RGB triplet (without the leading #). Default is 00FF00 for green (only useful when in html mode).

EXAMPLES
       hasciicam -m html -o watchme.html
       puts your html formatted ascii into watchme.html - then just open it with your favourite browser.
       hasciicam -m text -o ~/.plan
       puts your ascii into your local .plan (fingercam) hasciicam -m html -S 2 -o index.html -f :jaromil%sasuchen@dyne.org:korova
       generates an hascii video with font size +1 and uploads the frames in ftp passive mode on the dyne.org server, with user jaromil password sasuchen, inside the korova directory

NOTES
       When using a usb webcam, a supported size needs to be specified. The minimum or maximum detected size should work, also a size of 160x120 mostly gives good results, with unsupported sizes you will
       get unexpected results.

BUGS
       Report bugs to hasciicam@dyne.org. Please include a complete, self-contained example that will allow the bug to be reproduced, information about which version of hasciicam you are using, which op‐
       erative system and the complete device detection output.

AUTHOR
       jaromil [aka Denis Roio] <jaromil@dyne.org>

COPYING
       Copyright (c) 2001-2006 Denis Roio <jaromil@dyne.org>
       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free  Software  Founda‐
       tion. Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual page provided the above copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

AVAILABILITY
       The most recent version of hasciicam sourcecode and up to date documentation is always available for download from http://ascii.dyne.org.

SEE ALSO
       info aalib

hasciicam                                                                                      July 16, 2001                                                                                   hasciicam(1)
