HAXELIB(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         HAXELIB(1)

NAME
       haxelib - Haxe Library Manager

SYNOPSIS
       haxelib [command] [options...]

DESCRIPTION
       haxelib is a command-line tool to manage both the global repository and your local repository of Haxe libraries and projects.

COMMANDS
       install library [version]
              Install a given library from the global repository.  Once a project is installed, you can simply use haxe -lib library ... to be able to use it
              from  your  application.   By  default,  this is the current version of the project that is used.  If you want to use a specific version of the
              project, use haxe -lib library:version ...

       list   List all installed libraries and their versions.

       upgrade
              Upgrade all installed libraries to their latest version.

       remove library [version]
              Remove a given library.

       set library [version]
              Set the current version for a library. The version must be already installed.

       search word
              List global libraries matching a word.

       info library
              List information on a given library.

       user library
              List information on a given user on the global repository.

       register name
              Register a new user in the global repository.

       submit library
              Submit or update a library to the global repository.

       setup  Set the haxelib repository path.

       config library
              Print the local repository path.

       path libraries...
              List the path to the given libraries.

       run library [arguments...]
              Run the specified library with arguments if it provides a run script. Be careful about trusting libraries this way since the script can  damage
              your system.

       test library
              install the specified library locally.

       dev    Set the development directory for a given project.

AUTHOR
       Haxe is currently maintained by the Haxe Foundation.  It was originally written by Nicolas Cannasse for Motion-Twin.

SEE ALSO
       haxe(1).

WEB
       https://haxe.org/.

                                                                         May 12, 2017                                                              HAXELIB(1)
