HEAPTRACK(1)                                                            User Commands                                                            HEAPTRACK(1)

NAME
       heaptrack - heap memory profiler for linux, command line utility

SYNOPSIS
       heaptrack [--debug|-d] DEBUGGEE [ARGUMENT]...
       heaptrack [--debug|-d] -p PID

DESCRIPTION
       A  heap memory usage profiler. It uses LD_PRELOAD to track all calls to the core memory allocation functions and logs these occurrances. Additionally,
       backtraces are obtained and logged.  Combined this can give interesting answers to questions such as:

              * How much heap memory is my application using?  * Where is heap memory being allocated, and how often?  * How much space are  heap  individual
              allocations requesting?

       To evaluate the generated heaptrack data, use heaptrack_print or heaptrack_gui.

   Mandatory arguments to heaptrack:
       DEBUGGEE
              The name or path to the application that should be run with heaptrack analyzation enabled.

   Alternatively, to attach to a running process:
       -p, --pid PID
              The process ID of a running process into which heaptrack will be injected. This only works with applications that already link against libdl.

   Optional arguments to heaptrack:
       -d, --debug
              Run the debuggee in GDB and heaptrack.

       ARGUMENT
              Any number of arguments that will be passed verbatim to the debuggee.

       -h, --help
              Show this help message and exit.

       -v, --version
              Displays version information.

SEE ALSO
       The  full  documentation for heaptrack is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and heaptrack programs are properly installed at your site, the
       command

              info heaptrack

       should give you access to the complete manual.

heaptrack 1.0.0                                                           March 2017                                                             HEAPTRACK(1)
