XHFS(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                XHFS(1)

NAME
       xhfs - graphical interface for manipulating HFS volumes

SYNOPSIS
       xhfs [left-path [right-path]]

DESCRIPTION
       xhfs presents a graphical front-end for browsing and copying files on HFS-formatted volumes.

       The  display  is divided into two parts, left and right, which can each independently view a directory on either an HFS volume or the host (UNIX) filesystem. Double-clicking the name of a di‐
       rectory in either view will open that directory. A pop-up menu at the top of each directory view can be used to navigate to any directory between the current and the beginning of the  hierar‐
       chy.

       Text  files can be viewed by double-clicking them. Any file or set of files can be copied to the directory shown in the other view by selecting them and clicking the "Copy" button. Copying is
       performed according to the selected copy mode:

       MacBinary II
              The file(s) will be copied using the MacBinary II format. This is the recommended mode for transferring arbitrary Macintosh files.

       BinHex The file(s) will be copied using the BinHex format. This mode should be used to encode Macintosh files into strict ASCII format.

       Text   In this mode, only the data fork(s) of the selected file(s) are copied.  Furthermore, translation is performed on the data's end-of-line characters to conform to the standard for  text
              files on the destination.

       Raw Data
              In this mode, only the data fork(s) of the selected file(s) are copied.  However, no translation is performed whatsoever on the data.

       Automatic
              A copy mode will be selected automatically according to a set of heuristics.

SEE ALSO
       hfsutils(1), hfs(1)

AUTHOR
       Robert Leslie <rob@mars.org>

HFSUTILS                                                                                      02-Apr-1996                                                                                      XHFS(1)
