HINTVIEW(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               HINTVIEW(1)

NAME
       hintview- displaying HINT files

SYNOPSIS
       hintview [options] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       Hintview displays a binary HINT file, usually with the .hnt extension.

       The  binary  HINT file format is designed for on-screen reading of documents.  Using hintview to display a HINT file, its content will dynamically adapt to the available display area. For complete
       information on the HINT file format and programs to view HINT files, see https://hint.userweb.mwn.de.

OPTIONS
       This version of hintview understands the following command line options:

       -a     Start in autoreload mode. If in autoreload mode, the viewer will check the modification time of the displayed HINT file each time the cursor enters the window.  If the modification time has
              changed, the file is reloaded.  The viewer attempts to position the new file at about the same position as the old file. This attempt might fail if large scale changes have been made to the
              file.

              See also the Ctrl-A and the Ctrl-R key.

       -h     Open the document on the "home" page. The home page is a location specified by the document author as a good starting point for reading the document.

              See also the Ctrl-H key.

       --help Print help message and exit.

       -n     Start the viewer in "night" mode. In this mode the viewer will display the document using a dark background and light foreground color to reduce eye strain in a surrounding with dim  light‐
              ing.

              See also the Ctrl-N key.

       -o     Show a clickable outline of the content. NOT YET IMPLEMENTED.

              See also the Ctrl-O key.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

       -z     Zoom  to 100%. The HINT viewer can display a document using a given zoom factor to make characters appear larger or smaller to either improve readability or increase the amount of text that
              can be displayed in a given window. This option resets the zoom factor so that a 10pt font will appear on screen at the same size as it would appear in a printed book.

              See also the Ctrl-Z key.

KEYSTROKES
       Hintview recognizes the following keystrokes when typed in its window.

       Ctrl-A Toggle autoreload mode. See also the -a option and the Ctrl-R key.

       Ctrl-S Open the Search dialog. NOT YET IMPLEMENTED.

       Ctrl-F Open the File dialog. Requires GTK+ 2.0 or GTK+ 3.0.

       Home, Ctrl-H
              Move to the "home" page. The home page is a location specified by the document author as a good starting point for reading the document.

       Ctrl-N Toggle between night and day mode. See also the -n option.

       Ctrl-O Show a clickable outline of the content. NOT YET IMPLEMENTED.

       Page-Down
              Move to the next page.

       Page-Up
              Move to the previous page.

       Ctrl-R Reload the content. The file is reloaded and the viewer attempts to position the new file at about the same position as the old file. This attempt might fail if  large  scale  changes  have
              been made to the file. See also the Ctrl-A key and the -a option.

       Ctrl-Z Zoom to 100%. See also the -z option.

MOUSE ACTIONS
       The following actions are executed using the left mouse button.

       Click  If the mouse is positioned on a link, move to the link target. Links are displayed in blue color.

       Drag   Dragging from the top-left to the bottom-right increases the zoom factor.  Dragging in the opposite direction decreases the zoom factor. See also the Ctrl-Z key and the -z option.

NOTES
       This is a simple, bare-bone implementation of a program to render HINT files. Other programs to display HINT files are available on the HINT project home page at https://hint.userweb.mwn.de/ where
       you find viewers for the Windows and Android operating systems.

       Currently  the  best  way  to  produce  HINT files is the use of hitex, a version of TeX that produces HINT files as its output. The HINT file format is described in HINT: The file format which is
       available as a book or in electronic form from the HINT project home page. The HINT file format is independent of TeX and allows the implementation of generators for all kind  of  word-processors.
       The hintview program however uses parts of Donald E. Knuth's implementation of TeX, notably its line breaking routine, to produce good quality rendering of documents.

AVAILABILITY
       hintview is tested on the Linux platform but should compile on a large variety of machine architectures and operating systems.  It is part of the TeX Live distribution.

SEE ALSO
       hitex(1), histretch(1), hishrink(1).

AUTHORS
       Martin Ruckert

Version 2.1                                                                                   4 December 2024                                                                                   HINTVIEW(1)
