hmmfetch(1)                                                              HMMER Manual                                                             hmmfetch(1)

NAME
       hmmfetch - retrieve profiles from a file

SYNOPSIS
       hmmfetch [options] hmmfile key
        (retrieve HMM named key)

       hmmfetch -f [options] hmmfile keyfile
        (retrieve all HMMs listed in keyfile)

       hmmfetch --index [options] hmmfile
        (index hmmfile for fetching)

DESCRIPTION
       Quickly retrieves one or more profile HMMs from an hmmfile (a large Pfam database, for example).

       For  maximum  speed, the hmmfile should be indexed first, using hmmfetch --index.  The index is a binary file named hmmfile.ssi.  However, this is op‐
       tional, and retrieval will still work from unindexed files, albeit much more slowly.

       The default mode is to retrieve a single profile by name or accession, called the key.  For example:

           % hmmfetch Pfam-A.hmm Caudal_act
           % hmmfetch Pfam-A.hmm PF00045

       With the -f option, a keyfile containing a list of one or more keys is read instead.  The first whitespace-delimited field on each non-blank  non-com‐
       ment  line  of the keyfile is used as a key, and any remaining data on the line is ignored. This allows a variety of whitespace delimited datafiles to
       be used as a keyfile.

       When using -f and a keyfile, if hmmfile has been indexed, the keys are retrieved in the order they occur in the keyfile, but if hmmfile isn't indexed,
       keys are retrieved in the order they occur in the hmmfile.  This is a side effect of an implementation that allows multiple keys to be retrieved  even
       if the hmmfile is a nonrewindable stream, like a standard input pipe.

       In  normal  use (without --index or -f options), hmmfile may be '-' (dash), which means reading input from stdin rather than a file.  With the --index
       option, hmmfile may not be '-'; it does not make sense to index a standard input stream.  With the -f option, either hmmfile or keyfile (but not both)
       may be '-'.  It is often particularly useful to read keyfile from standard input, because this allows use to use arbitrary command line invocations to
       create a list of HMM names or accessions, then fetch them all to a new file, just with one command.

       By default, fetched HMMs are printed to standard output in HMMER3 format.

OPTIONS
       -h     Help; print a brief reminder of command line usage and all available options.

       -f     The second commandline argument is a keyfile instead of a single key.  The first field on each line of the keyfile is used as a  retrieval  key
              (an HMM name or accession).  Blank lines and comment lines (that start with a # character) are ignored.

       -o <f> Output HMM(s) to file <f> instead of to standard output.

       -O     Output one retrieved HMM (by key) to a file named key.  This is a convenience for saving some typing: instead of
               % hmmfetch -o RRM_1 hmmfile RRM_1
              you can just type
               % hmmfetch -O hmmfile RRM_1
              The -O option only works if you're retrieving a single profile; it is incompatible with -f.

       --index
              Instead  of  retrieving  one  or  more profiles from hmmfile, index the hmmfile for future retrievals.  This creates a hmmfile.ssi binary index
              file.

SEE ALSO
       See hmmer(1) for a master man page with a list of all the individual man pages for programs in the HMMER package.

       For complete documentation, see the user guide that came with your HMMER distribution (Userguide.pdf); or see the HMMER web page (http://hmmer.org/).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2023 Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
       Freely distributed under the BSD open source license.

       For additional information on copyright and licensing, see the file called COPYRIGHT in your HMMER source distribution, or  see  the  HMMER  web  page
       (http://hmmer.org/).

AUTHOR
       http://eddylab.org

HMMER 3.4                                                                  Aug 2023                                                               hmmfetch(1)
