HTAGS(1)                    General Commands Manual                   HTAGS(1)

NAME
       htags - generate a hypertext from a set of source files

SYNOPSIS
       htags [-aDfFghInosTvw][-d dbpath][-m name][-t title][dir]

DESCRIPTION
       Htags  generates  a  hypertext  from  a set of source files of C, Yacc,
       Java, PHP and assembly.

       In advance of using this command, you should execute  gtags(1)  in  the
       root  directory of a source project.  Then you can execute htags in the
       same place.  Htags makes a directory named ´HTML´, and puts a hypertext
       in it.  You can start browsing at ´HTML/index.html´.

       Since  htags  generates a static hypertext as long as neither -D nor -f
       option is not specified, you can move it anywhere and browse it by  any
       browser  without  any HTTP server. If you use -D or -f option, you need
       to use HTTP  server.  Though  any  HTTP  server  is  available,  htags-
       server(1) is recommended.

       This  command has so many options.  If you are new to htags, it is rec‐
       ommended to use --suggest option.  With that option, htags chooses pop‐
       ular options on your behalf.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -a, --alphabet
              Make an alphabetical index suitable for a large project.

       --auto-completion[=limit]
              Enable auto-completion facility for the input form.  If limit is
              specified, number of candidates is limited to the value.  Please
              note this function requires javascript language in your browser.

       -C, --directory dir
              Change the directory before doing all the work including parame‐
              ter analysis.

       --caution
              Display a caution message on the top page.

       --cflow cflowfile
              Add a call tree by cflow(1). cflowfile must be posix format.  If
              you use GNU cflow, invoke the command at the project root direc‐
              tory with the --format=posix option.  This option is deprecated;
              please use --call-tree or --callee-tree instead.

       --call-tree callfile
              Add  a call tree by cflow(1); callfile must be posix format.  If
              you use GNU cflow, invoke the command at the project root direc‐
              tory with the --format=posix option.

       --callee-tree calleefile
              Add  a callee tree by cflow(1); calleefile must be posix format.
              If you use GNU cflow, invoke the command at the project root di‐
              rectory with the --format=posix and --reverse options.

       --colorize-warned-line
              Use color to highlight warned lines.

       --cvsweb url
              Add  a link to cvsweb; url is used as the base of URL.  When di‐
              rectory ´CVS´ exists in the root directory of the  project,  the
              content  of  ´CVS/Repository´  is used as the relative path from
              the base.

       --cvsweb-cvsroot cvsroot
              Specify cvsroot in cvsweb URL.

       -D, --dynamic
              Generate a tag list dynamically using CGI program.  Though  this
              option decreases both the size and generation time of hypertext,
              you need to start up HTTP server.

       -d, --dbpath dbpath
              Specify the directory in which ´GTAGS´ exists.  The  default  is
              the current directory.

       --disable-grep
              Disable grep in the search form (-f, --form).

       --disable-idutils
              Disable idutils in the search form (-f, --form).

       -F, --frame
              Use frames for the top page.

       -f, --form
              Add  a  search form using CGI program.  You need to start a HTTP
              server for it.

       --fixed-guide
              Put a fixed guide at the bottom of the screen of the browser.

       --full-path
              Use full path name in the file index.  By default, use just  the
              last component of a path.

       -g, --gtags
              Execute gtags(1) before starting job.  The -v, -w and dbpath op‐
              tions are passed to gtags.

       --gtagsconf file
              Set environment variable GTAGSCONF to file.

       --gtagslabel label
              Set environment variable GTAGSLABEL to label.

       -h, --func-header[=position]
              Insert a function header for each function.  By  default,  htags
              doesn't  generate them.  You can choose the position using posi‐
              tion, which allows one of  ´before´,  ´right´  or  ´after´  (de‐
              fault).

       --help Print a usage message.

       --html-header file
              Insert a header record derived from file into the HTML header of
              each file.

       -I, --icon
              Use icons instead of text for some links.

       --insert-footer file
              Insert custom footer derived from file before </body> tag.

       --insert-header file
              Insert custom header derived from file after <body> tag.

       --item-order spec
              Specify the order of the items in the top page.  The spec  is  a
              string  consisting  of  item signs in order.  Each sign means as
              follows: ´c´: caution; ´s´: search form; ´m´: mains; ´d´:  defi‐
              nitions; ´f´: files; ´t´: call tree.  The default is ´csmdf´.

       -m, --main-func name
              Specify startup function name; the default is ´main´.

       --map-file
              Generate file ´MAP´.

       -n, --line-number[=columns]
              Print  line  numbers. By default, don't print line numbers.  The
              default value of columns is 4.

       --no-order-list
              Numbers are not given in list form.

       -o, --other
              Pick up not only source files but also other files for the  file
              index.

       -s, --symbol
              Make  anchors  not  only for definitions and references but also
              other symbols.

       --show-position
              Print the position string per function  definition.  The  string
              can  be  interpreted  by general editors in UNIX. The default is
              false.

       --statistics
              Print statistics information.

       --suggest
              Htags chooses popular options on behalf  of  beginners.   It  is
              equivalent to -aghInosTxv --show-position --fixed-guide now.

       --suggest2
              Htags  chooses popular options on behalf of beginners.  This op‐
              tion enables frame, AJAX and CGI facility in addition to the fa‐
              cilities by the --suggest option.  It is equivalent to --suggest
              -DfF --auto-completion --tree-view=filetree now.

       -T, --table-flist[=rows]
              Use <table> tag to display the file index.  You  can  optionally
              specify the number of rows; the default is 5.

       -t, --title title
              Title  of  the  hypertext.  The default is the last component of
              the path of the current directory.

       --tabs cols
              Tab stops. The default is 8.

       --table-list
              Use <table> tag to display the tag list.

       --tree-view[=type]
              Use treeview for the file index.  Please note this function  re‐
              quires  javascript language in your browser.  Possible values of
              type are as follows: treeview, filetree, treeview-red, treeview-
              black,  treeview-gray,  treeview-famfamfam. The default is tree‐
              view.

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose mode.

       --version
              Show version number.

       -w, --warning
              Print warning messages.

       dir    The directory in which the result of  this  command  is  stored.
              The default is the current directory.

EXAMPLES
       $ gtags -v
       $ htags -sanohITvt 'Welcome to XXX source tour!'
       $ firefox HTML/index.html

       $ htags --suggest2
       $ htags-server >& log &
       $ firefox http://127.0.0.1:8000

FILES
       ´GTAGS´
              Tag file for definitions.

       ´GRTAGS´
              Tag file for references.

       ´GPATH´
              Tag file for source files.

       ´gtags.conf´, ´$HOME/.globalrc´
              Configuration data for GNU GLOBAL.  See gtags.conf(5).

       ´HTML/FILEMAP´
              Mapping file for converting file name into the path of the file.

       ´HTML/GTAGSROOT´
              If  this  file exists, CGI program ´global.cgi´ sets environment
              variable GTAGSROOT to the contents of it.  If you move directory
              ´HTML´ from the original place, please make this file.

       ´HTML/.htaccess´
              Local configuration file for Apache. This file is generated when
              the -f or -D options are specified.

       ´HTML/index.html´
              Start-up file.

       ´HTML/MAP´
              Mapping file for converting tag name into the path of tag list.

       ´HTML/style.css´
              Style sheet file.

       ´/usr/local/share/gtags/style.css.tmpl´
              The template of the style sheet file (´HTML/style.css´).

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables affect the execution of htags:

       GTAGSCACHE
              The size of the B-tree cache. The default is 50000000 (bytes).

       GTAGSCONF
              Configuration file.

       GTAGSLABEL
              Configuration label. The default is ´default´.

       HTAGS_OPTIONS
              The value of this variable is inserted in the head of arguments.

       TMPDIR The location used to stored  temporary  files.  The  default  is
              ´/tmp´.

       GTAGSFORCECPP
              If  this  variable  is  set,  each  file whose suffix is ´.h´ is
              treated as a C++ source file.

CONFIGURATION
       The following configuration variables affect the execution of htags:

       datadir(string)
              Shared data directory. The default is ´/usr/local/share´ but you
              can  change  the  value  using configure script.  Htags looks up
              template files in the ´gtags´ directory in this data directory.

       include_file_suffixes(comma separated list)
              Suffixes of include files. The default is:
              ´h,hh,hxx,hpp,H,inc.php´.

       langmap(comma separated list)
              Language mapping. Each comma-separated map consists of the  lan‐
              guage  name,  a  colon,  and a list of file extensions.  Default
              mapping is:
              ´c:.c.h,yacc:.y,asm:.s.S,java:.java,cpp:.c++.cc.hh.cpp.cxx.hxx.hpp.C.H,php:.php.php3.phtml´.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Htags exits with a non-0 value if an error occurred, 0 otherwise.

SEE ALSO
       htags-server(1), global(1), gtags(1), gtags.conf(5).

       GNU GLOBAL source code tag system
       (http://www.gnu.org/software/global/).

BUG
       Generated hypertext is VERY LARGE.  In advance, check the space of your
       disk.

       PHP support is far from complete.

       The -f and -D options generate CGI programs.  If you open the hypertext
       to the public, please recognize security dangers.

       Htags does not support plug-in parser.

AUTHOR
       Shigio YAMAGUCHI, Hideki IWAMOTO and others.

HISTORY
       The htags command appeared in FreeBSD 2.2.2.

GNU Project                        June 2013                          HTAGS(1)
