
htsfile(1)                                                                                    Bioinformatics tools                                                                                   htsfile(1)

NAME
       htsfile - identify high-throughput sequencing data files

SYNOPSIS
       htsfile [-chHv] FILE...
       htsfile --copy [-v] FILE DESTFILE

DESCRIPTION
       The htsfile utility attempts to identify what kind of high-throughput sequencing data files the specified files are, and provides minimal viewing capabilities for some kinds of data file.

       It can identify sequencing data files such as SAM, BAM, and CRAM; variant calling data files such as VCF and BCF; index files used to index these data files; and compressed versions of many of them.

       For  each  FILE given, htsfile prints a description of the file format determined, using similar keyword conventions to file(1): "text" indicates a textual file that can probably be viewed on a termi‐
       nal; "data" indicates binary data; "sequence", "variant calling", and "index" indicate different categories of data file.  When it can be identified, the name of the particular file  format  (such  as
       "BAM" or "VCF") is printed at the start of the description.

       When  used  to  view file contents as text, htsfile can optionally show only headers or only data records, but has no other filtering capabilities.  Use samtools or bcftools if you need more extensive
       viewing or filtering capabilities.

       Alternatively, when --copy is used, htsfile takes exactly two arguments and performs a byte-for-byte copy from FILE to DESTFILE.  This is similar to cp(1), but HTSlib's remote file  access  facilities
       are available for both source and destination.

       The following options are accepted:

       -c, --view
           Instead of identifying the specified files, display a textual representation of their contents on standard output.

           By  default,  --view  refuses to display files in unknown formats.  When --verbose is also given, the raw contents of such files are displayed, with non-printable characters shown via C-style "\x"
           hexadecimal escape sequences.

       -C, --copy
           Instead of identifying or displaying the specified files, copy the source FILE to the destination DESTFILE.  Only --verbose may be used in conjunction with --copy.

       -h, --header-only
           Display data file headers only.  Implies --view.

       -H, --no-header
           When viewing files, display data records only.

       -v, --verbose
           Display additional warnings and diagnostic messages.  Using --verbose repeatedly further raises the verbosity.

SEE ALSO
       bcftools(1), file(1), samtools(1)

htslib-1.11                                                                                    22 September 2020                                                                                     htsfile(1)
