HUNTD(6)                                                                                        BSD Games Manual                                                                                       HUNTD(6)

NAME
     huntd — hunt daemon, back-end for hunt game

SYNOPSIS
     huntd [-s] [-p port]

DESCRIPTION
     huntd controls the multi-player hunt(6) game.  When it starts up, it tries to notify all members of the hunt-players mailing list (see sendmail(8)) by faking a talk(1) request from user “Hunt Game”.

     The -s option is for running huntd forever (server mode).  This is similar to running it under the control of inetd(8) (see below), but it consumes a process table entry when no one is playing.

     The -p option changes the UDP port number used to rendezvous with the player process and thus allows for private games of hunt.  This option turns off the notification of players on the hunt-players
     mailing list.

   INETD
     To run huntd from inetd(8), you'll need to put the hunt service in /etc/services:

     hunt 26740/udp          # multi-player/multi-host mazewars
     and add the following line to /etc/inetd.conf:
           hunt dgram udp wait nobody /usr/sbin/huntd huntd
     Do not use any of the command line options; if you want inetd(8) to start up huntd on a private port, change the port listed for hunt in /etc/services.

NETWORK RENDEZVOUS
     When hunt(6) starts up, it broadcasts on the local area net (using the broadcast address for each interface) to find a hunt game in progress.  If a huntd hears the request, it sends back the port number
     for the hunt process to connect to.  Otherwise, the hunt process starts up a huntd on the local machine and tries to rendezvous with it.

SEE ALSO
     talk(1), hunt(6), sendmail(8)

AUTHORS
     Conrad Huang, Ken Arnold, and Greg Couch;
     University of California, San Francisco, Computer Graphics Lab

                                                                                                 April 4, 2001
