H2PLAYER(1)                                                             User Commands                                                             H2PLAYER(1)

NAME
       h2player - a CLI player for Hydrogen songs.

SYNOPSIS
       h2player *.h2song

DESCRIPTION
       h2player  can  play  a  song created with Hydrogen without starting its GUI. It does not support any options but can be controlled via keyboard inputs
       while running.

       You start h2player using a particular song file. It will use all its solo/mute settings as well as audio driver and transport settings from your  last
       Hydrogen session. If you do not hear any sounds, make sure you get some when opening the song in plain Hydrogen and hitting play right away.

       While running, the application can be controlled using your keyboard. Typing one of the characters below will result in the following actions:

              b - Rewind to the beginning of the song.

              p - Start playback.

              s - Stop playback.

              q - Quit h2player.

              f - Show the current transport position in frames.

FILES
       For a comprehensive list of files, configuration, and environmental variables, please see the man page of hydrogen itself.

BUGS & FEATURES REQUEST
       If you find any bug or if you would like to propose a new feature, please report it to https://github.com/hydrogen-music/hydrogen/issues

AUTHORS
       The hydrogen development team. See complete list at Hydrogen's "About" Dialog. You can contact them at <hydrogen-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>.

       Subscription to the mailing list can be done here :
              http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/hydrogen-devel .

SEE ALSO
       The main graphical application
              hydrogen(1)

       A CLI tool for exporting songs and batch processing drumkits
              h2cli(1)

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2002-2008 Alessandro Cominu
       Copyright (C) 2008-2025 The hydrogen development team

       Hydrogen is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL version 2 or later.

Hydrogen 1.2.6                                                          July 29, 2025                                                             H2PLAYER(1)
