PAGESIZES(5)                                                                                File Formats Manual                                                                                PAGESIZES(5)

NAME
       pagesizes - HylaFAX page size definitions

DESCRIPTION
       The  pagesizes  database  defines  the page dimensions and guaranteed reproducible areas (GRA) for well-known page sizes.  The GRA is the portion of the page that is guaranteed to be imaged during
       facsimile transmission.  This region is typically less than the full page dimensions because of paper roller contacts and other mechanical aspects of the printing process in a facsimile machine.

       All HylaFAX programs that require page size information read the information from this database using a page size name.  Documents should be prepared such that the full  page  dimensions  are  em‐
       ployed with the imaged area contained within the GRA.

       The  system-wide  default  page size to use in preparing documents for transmission is given by the ``default'' entry in the database.  (NB: the default entry should be placed last so that inverse
       matches find the real page size name and not the default entry.)

       The page size database is an ASCII file with the following format.  Each entry consists of whitespace-separated fields:
       name  abbrev  width  height  gra-width  gra-height  top-margin  left-margin
       Fields have the following interpretation:

       name        the full name for the page size; e.g. ISO A4;

       abbrev      an abbreviated version of the full name for use in compact listings such as the receive queue listing printed by faxstat(1);

       width       the full width of the page;

       height      the full height of the page;

       gra-width   the width of the GRA;

       gra-height  the height of the GRA;

       top-margin  the margin between the top of the full page and the top of the GRA;

       left-margin the margin between the left side of the full page the left side of the GRA.

       The first two fields must be separated from the subsequent fields by a tab character (possibly followed by more whitespace); this is done to easily permit blank characters to be included in names.
       Otherwise fields can be separated by any amount of any kind of whitespace.  Numbers are all base 10 and in basic measurement units (BMU); defined as 1/1200 x 25.4 millimeters for paper output with
       a scale factor of one.  All fields must be present on a single line; otherwise the entry is ignored.  Comments are introduced by the ``#'' character and continue to the end the line.

       Page size database lookups are either by name or by page dimensions.  Lookups by name are done by sequentially scanning the entries in the database for the first entry that has a matching abbrevi‐
       ation or substring of the page size name field.  The string comparisons ignore case so, for example, ``a4'' would match a full name of ``ISO A4''.  Lookups by dimension scan  the  entire  database
       and  return  the page with the closest dimensions using a straightforward distance metric.  If the difference in dimensions of the closest match is greater than 1/2 inch on each side, then no page
       entry is returned for a lookup by dimension.

SEE ALSO
       hylafax-client(1), faxmail(1), faxstat(1), sendfax(1), sgi2fax(1), textfmt(1).

                                                                                              December 5, 1994                                                                                 PAGESIZES(5)
