HYPERROGUE(6)                                                                                   Games Manual                                                                                  HYPERROGUE(6)

NAME
       hyperrogue - non-euclidean graphical rogue-like game

SYNOPSIS
       hyperrogue

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the hyperrogue game.

       HyperRogue is a game in which the player collects treasures and fights monsters -- rogue-like but for the fact that it is played on the hyperbolic plane and not in euclidean space.

OPTIONS
       Most configuration can be accessed inside the game after pressing the v key.

       Some configured options can be overridden from the command line:

       -c configfile
              Instead of the default ~/.hyperrogue.ini, read and write the configuration from the specified configfile.

       -s highscorefile
              Instead of the default ~/.hyperrogue.log, read and write high scores from the specified highscorefile.

       -f     Start in fulls screen mode.

       -w     Start in windowed mode.

       -e     Use Escher stype graphics.

       -a     Use ASCII stype graphics.

       -p     Use plain graphics.

       -r WxHxF
              Set the resolution to W times H, and font size to F.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -v, --version
              Show version of program.

SEE ALSO
       In-game help is available after pressing F1. It is context sensitive; put the cursor away from user interface elements and press F1 then for general help.

HIDDEN FEATURES
       By  pressing F6, the builtin polygon editor is invoked. It is not a fully featured hyperbolic geometry program, but is useful for designing individual player characters (using which requires modi‐
       fications to the game's source code). Again, F1 displays a help screen.

       Some advanced options are available by pressing Fn keys inside the v configuration menu:

       F4     Cheat (gives one of each item, 50 killed monsters, golems or mirages, and an orb).

       F7     Save a screenshot in BMP format in the current directory.

       F8     Save a high resolution screenshot with different backgrounds.

       F9     Enter demo mode (give many items, and denser worlds).

AUTHOR
       HyperRogue was written by Zeno Rogue.

       This manual page was written by chrysn <chrysn@fsfe.org>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                                 2013-08-02                                                                                   HYPERROGUE(6)
