HYPRSHUTDOWN(1)                                                                           General Commands Manual                                                                           HYPRSHUTDOWN(1)

NAME
     hyprshutdown - graceful shutdown utility for Hyprland

SYNOPSIS
     hyprshutdown [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
     hyprshutdown is a graceful shutdown utility for the Hyprland Wayland compositor.  It opens a GUI dialog and gracefully asks running applications to exit, then quits Hyprland.

     This is the recommended way to exit Hyprland. Using other methods (such as dispatch exit ) will cause applications to be forcefully killed rather than given the opportunity to exit cleanly.

OPTIONS
     --vt N
            Switch to virtual terminal N after Hyprland exits. Useful on NVIDIA + SDDM systems to prevent a black screen or hang on logout.

     --dry-run
            Show the shutdown UI without actually closing any applications or exiting Hyprland.

     --no-exit
            Close applications gracefully but do not exit Hyprland afterwards.

     --top-label, -t TEXT
            Set custom text to display at the top of the shutdown dialog.

     --post-cmd, -p COMMAND
            Run COMMAND after Hyprland has exited. Can be used to power off or reboot the system.

     --no-fork
            Run in the foreground instead of daemonizing.

     --verbose
            Enable debug logging.

     --help, -h
            Show a help message and exit.

EXAMPLES
     Log out of Hyprland:

            hyprshutdown

     Shut the system down after closing apps:

            hyprshutdown -t 'Shutting down...' --post-cmd 'shutdown -P 0'

     Reboot the system after closing apps:

            hyprshutdown -t 'Restarting...' --post-cmd 'reboot'

     Preview the dialog without doing anything:

            hyprshutdown --dry-run

NVIDIA + SDDM USERS
     If you experience a black screen or hang when logging out with an NVIDIA GPU and SDDM display manager, use the --vt flag to force a virtual terminal switch after exit:

            hyprshutdown --vt 2

     SDDM typically runs on VT2; check your system configuration if a different terminal is needed.

     The VT switch is performed via chvt(1) and requires passwordless sudo access for that command. To configure this, run:

            echo "$USER ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/chvt" | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/chvt
            sudo chmod 440 /etc/sudoers.d/chvt

     This is considered safe because chvt only switches virtual terminals and cannot be exploited for privilege escalation.

SEE ALSO
     hyprland(1), chvt(1), shutdown(8), reboot(8)

AUTHORS
     This manual page was written for the Debian project based on the Hyprland wiki at https://wiki.hyprland.org.

                                                                                               User Commands                                                                                HYPRSHUTDOWN(1)
