I2CDETECT(8)                System Manager's Manual               I2CDETECT(8)

NAME
       i2cdetect - detect I2C chips

SYNOPSIS
       i2cdetect [-y] [-a] [-q|-r] i2cbus [first last]
       i2cdetect -F i2cbus
       i2cdetect -V
       i2cdetect -l

DESCRIPTION
       i2cdetect  is  a  userspace  program to scan an I2C bus for devices. It
       outputs a table with the list of detected devices on the specified bus.
       i2cbus  indicates  the number or name of the I2C bus to be scanned, and
       should correspond to one of the busses listed  by  i2cdetect  -l.   The
       optional   parameters  first  and  last  restrict  the  scanning  range
       (default: from 0x03 to 0x77).

       As there is no standard I2C detection command, i2cdetect uses arbitrary
       SMBus  commands  (namely  SMBus  quick write and SMBus receive byte) to
       probe for devices. By default, the command used is the one believed  to
       be  the  safest  for each address. See options -q and -r to change this
       behavior.

       i2cdetect can also be used to query the functionalities of an  I2C  bus
       (see option -F.)

WARNING
       This program can confuse your I2C bus, cause data loss and worse!

INTERPRETING THE OUTPUT
       Each  cell  in  the output table will contain one of the following sym‐
       bols:

       · "--". The address was probed but no chip answered.

       · "UU". Probing was skipped, because this address is currently  in  use
         by  a  driver.  This  strongly  suggests that there is a chip at this
         address.

       · An address number in hexadecimal, e.g. "2d" or "4e". A chip was found
         at this address.

OPTIONS
       -y     Disable  interactive mode. By default, i2cdetect will wait for a
              confirmation from the user before messing with the I2C bus. When
              this  flag is used, it will perform the operation directly. This
              is mainly meant to be used in scripts.

       -a     Force scanning of non-regular addresses. Not recommended.

       -q     Use SMBus "quick write" command for probing.   Not  recommended.
              This is known to corrupt the Atmel AT24RF08 EEPROM found on many
              IBM Thinkpad laptops.

       -r     Use SMBus "receive byte" command for probing.  Not  recommended.
              This  is  known  to lock SMBus on various write-only chips (most
              notably clock chips at address 0x69).

       -F     Display the list of functionalities implemented by  the  adapter
              and exit.

       -V     Display the version and exit.

       -l     Output a list of installed busses.

EXAMPLES
       List all available I2C busses:
              # i2cdetect -l

       Immediately scan the standard addresses on I2C bus 9 (i2c-9), using the
       default method for each address (no user confirmation):
              # i2cdetect -y 9

       Query the functionalities of I2C bus 1 (i2c-1):
              # i2cdetect -F 1

       Scan addresses 0x10 to 0x17 on the I2C bus named "SMBus I801 adapter at
       efa0", using the "receive byte" method, after user confirmation:
              # i2cdetect -r "SMBus I801 adapter at efa0" 0x10 0x17

SEE ALSO
       i2cdump(8), i2cget(8), i2cset(8), i2ctransfer(8), sensors-detect(8)

AUTHOR
       Frodo Looijaard, Mark D. Studebaker and Jean Delvare

       This   manual   page   was   originally   written   by  Aurelien  Jarno
       <aurel32@debian.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system.

                                 October 2017                     I2CDETECT(8)
