aespasswd(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                           aespasswd(1)

NAME
       aespasswd - Used to create and manage an AES keyfile.

SYNOPSIS
       aespasswd [-n] [-d] -f keyfile identity

OPTIONS
       -n     Create the keyfile

       -d     Delete given identity from keyfile

       -f keyfile
              Specifies file that holds identity/key pairs

DESCRIPTION
       aespasswd is used to create and manage files that hold identity/key pairs. It is primarily used to manage the bwctld.keys file for bwctld and the owampd.keys file for owampd.

       If  the  -d  option  is not specified, then aespasswd prompts the caller for a passphrase. The passphrase is hashed using an internal MD5 algorithm to generate a key that is then saved in the
       keyfile associated with the given identity. If the given identity already exists in the keyfile, the previous key is overwritten with the new one.

       keyfiles generated by aespasswd are formatted for use with BWCTL and OWAMP.

KEYFILE FORMAT
       aespasswd generates lines of the format:

       test 54b0c58c7ce9f2a8b551351102ee0938

       An identity, followed by whitespace, followed by a hex encoded 128-bit number, that is suitable to be used as a symmetric AES key.

       No other text is allowed on these lines; however, comment lines may be added. Comment lines are any line where the first non-white space character is '#'.

EXAMPLES
       aespasswd -f /etc/bwctl/bwctld.keys testuser

              Adds a key for the identity testuser. The user is prompted for a passphrase. If the file does not exist, an error message will be printed and no action will be taken.

       aespasswd -f /etc/bwctl/bwctld.keys -n testuser

              Creates the file before doing the same as above. If the file already exists, an error message will be printed and no action will be taken.

       aespasswd -f /etc/bwctl/bwctld.keys -d testuser

              Deletes the identity testuser from the keyfile.  If the file does not exist, an error message will be printed and no action will be taken.

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
       The keys in the keyfile are not encrypted in any way. The security of these keys is completely dependent upon the security of the system and the discretion of the system administrator.

RESTRICTIONS
       identity names are restricted to 16 characters, and passphrases are limited to 1024 characters.

SEE ALSO
       owping(1), owampd(1), bwctl(1), bwctld(1) and the http://e2epi.internet2.edu/owamp and http://e2epi.internet2.edu/bwctl web sites.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
       This material is based in part on work supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) under Grant No. ANI-0314723. Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations  expressed  in
       this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF.

                                                                                              2004 Feb 8                                                                                  aespasswd(1)
