IBUS-FBTERM(1)                                                                                   User Commands                                                                                   IBUS-FBTERM(1)

NAME
       ibus-fbterm - IBus front-end for FbTerm

DESCRIPTION
       ibus-fbterm is an input method for FbTerm based on IBus.

       This is a wrapper to run dbus-daemon, ibus-daemon, fbterm and ibus-fbterm-backend.

       Homepage: https://github.com/ibus/ibus/wiki

KEY BINDING
       The  recent  ibus-fbterm  no  longer  uses  the  protocol  of  fbterm  because  fbterm  would bind Control-space focibly and now the private header files are not used to communicate between fbterm and
       ibus-fbterm-backend.

       The default keybinding is Super-space to switch ibus engines.  Most keybdings would not work due to VT100 keybindings.  Super-space and Control-space are tested to work fine.

       Super-space switches the first two IMEs only.  To show IBus IME switcher panel can be launched by double Super-space keys instead of Super-space-space because VT100 does not handle key release events.
       Enter key can select an input method engine on the switcher and Escape key cancels the switcher.

       Shift  modifier  can  be generated by Escape key in ibus-fbterm because VT100 does not handle Shift modifier.  E.g. The reverse switching keybinding is Escape and Super-space keys instead of Shift-Su‐
       per-space.  E.g. Escape and space keys can generate Shift-space key and it might be used in ibus-hangul.  Notice: Escape and space keys enable Hangul and only Escape key disables Hangul in ibus-hangul
       by default.  But I'd recommned to use Control-space rather than Escape and space with ibus-setup-hangul because Escape key disables vi mode.

XKB
       ibus-fbterm runs loadkeys(1) command to set XKB keymaps internally.

SETTINGS
       Show keybindings

       gsettings get org.freedesktop.ibus.general.hotkey triggers

       Show selectable IMEs

       gsettings get org.freedesktop.ibus.general preload-engines

BUGS
       If you find a bug, please report it at https://github.com/fujiwarat/ibus-fbterm/issues

1.0.1                                                                                               Jan 2016                                                                                     IBUS-FBTERM(1)
