ICEWM-MENU-FDO(1)                                                       User Commands                                                       ICEWM-MENU-FDO(1)

   NAME
        icewm-menu-fdo - menu generator for .desktop files

   SYNOPSIS
       icewm-menu-fdo [OPTIONS] [FILENAME]

   DESCRIPTION
       icewm-menu-fdo generates a menu for the IceWM window manager from XDG menu descriptors (aka FreeDesktop.Org .desktop files).  By including this in the
       icewm-menu(1), the system applications become available in the icewm start menu.

   ARGUMENTS
       [FILENAME]
           The optional FILENAME argument is the location of a .desktop file.  When given, icewm-menu-fdo launches the application using the "Exec" line from
           the desktop file.

   OPTIONS
       -g, --generic
           Include the generic name in parentheses in the title of prog entries.

       --seps
           Print a leading and a trailing separator.

       --sep-before
           Print a leading separator.

       --sep-after
           Print a trailing separator.

       --no-sub-cats
           Don't  nest subcategories in submenus. The correctness of the pigeonholing depends on correct application description which shall always specify a
           main category. Incorrectly tagged descriptions will be sorted into the "Other" menu.

       -o, --output=FILE
           Write the output to FILE.

       -t, --terminal=NAME
           Use NAME to start a terminal emulator that supports the '-e' option.

       -s, --no-lone-app
           Attempt to detect a single application with no other content in lower submenus and move this one to the parent submenu. This  also  detects  menus
           with just one submenu inside, attempting to move it's application items to the parent menu where possible.

       -S, --no-lone-hint
           Decorate app entries moved by the -s option with a hint about the original menu where it would be displayed otherwise. Implies -s.

       -d TIMEOUT, --deadline-apps=TIMEOUT
           Specifies  a  certain  timeout  value  in milliseconds, so that the reading of *.desktop files (for applications) is aborted by that time (or soon
           after). This can help to avoid extended blocking of the caller.  Also see -D for the subsequent operation.

       -D TIMEOUT, --deadline-all=TIMEOUT
           Specifies a total timeout in milliseconds after which the application has to terminate, regardless of the final menu construction  and  decoration
           reading  (applied  after  *.desktop  file reading) was finished or not. This would cause a printing of menu contents which were calculated so far,
           therefore the timeout should be set a certain time before the actual hard deadline by which the program should be terminated. The output may  lack
           translations and icons.

       -l LANGUAGE, --lang=LANGUAGE
           Instead of the environment variable "LANG" use LANGUAGE for the locale.

       -L MAX, --limit-max-len=MAX
           Cut  the  calculated program titles (after translation and adding hints, see "-C" and "-g") at "MAX" characters, followed by an ellipsis. This can
           help to restrict the width of the menus in cases where some entry length might get out of hand.

       --flat
           Display apps from all categories in one level with the title containing the category information as prefix.

       -F sep, --flat-sep=sep
           When used with "--flat", the specified character sequence is used as separator between the section titles.

       -m filter, --match=filter
           Specifies a filter to show only apps that contain this as substring within their title.

       -M filter, --imatch=filter
           Like "--match" but applied with any letter case. Might deliver incorrect results with some locale settings.

       --match-sec
           Apply the filter from "--match" or "--imatch" to both, apps and section titles.

       --match-osec
           Apply the filter from "--match" or "--imatch" to only to section titles.

       -h, --help
           Print a brief usage statement to stdout and exit.

       -V, --version
           Print the program version to stdout and exit.

       -C, --copying
           Print copying permissions to stdout for the program and exit.

   USAGE
       This utility is not normally used directly. It is used as the executable in a menuprog entry in a icewm-menu(5).

   EXAMPLES
       The following line in a icewm-menu(5) file will dynamically generate a comprehensive set of menus for easy  access  to  .desktop  files,  added  in  a
       submenu called "Desktop Apps".

           menuprog "Desktop Apps" folder icewm-menu-fdo

       It  can also be embedded directly into the loading menu like in the following example. There could be a separator line added before or after (or both)
       in case where the program could generate useful content.

           includeprog icewm-menu-fdo --seps

   ENVIRONMENT
       XDG_DATA_HOME or XDG_DATA_DIRS are considered as suggested by XDG Base Directory Specification.

       TERMINAL may define a terminal emulator that supports the '-e' option. The option is ignored if the specified command could not be found and a default
       is used instead.

   CONFORMING TO
       icewm-menu-fdo complies roughly to the XDG .desktop file and menu specification, see "Desktop Entry Specification" (Date: 2020-04-27, Version: Version
       1.5) and "Desktop Menu Specification" (Date: 20 August 2016, Version: Version 1.1).

   CAVEATS
       The icewm-menu-fdo program is only built when the icewm(1) package is configured with the --enable-menus-fdo option and only works with  --enable-i18n
       option.

       Integration  of  XDG  menu files is somewhat of varying quality, heavily depending on the correctness of metadata like translations and sections (menu
       category) hints.

   SEE ALSO
       Base  Directory  Specification,  Desktop  Entry  Specification,   Desktop   Menu   Specification,   icewm(1),   icewm-menu(5),   icewm-preferences(5),
       icewm-programs(5).

   BUGS
       Please report bugs at <https://github.com/ice-wm/icewm/issues>.

   AUTHOR
       Eduard Bloch <mailto:edi@gmx.de>.

       See --copying for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

   LICENSE
       IceWM is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.  See the COPYING file in the distribution or use the --copying flag to display copying
       permissions.

icewm 4.0.0                                                               2026-01-18                                                        ICEWM-MENU-FDO(1)
