idevicesyslog(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            idevicesyslog(1)

NAME
       idevicesyslog - Relay syslog of a connected device.

SYNOPSIS
       idevicesyslog [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Relay syslog of a connected device.

OPTIONS
       -u, --udid UDID
              target specific device by UDID

       -n, --network
              connect to network device

       -x, --exit
              exit when device disconnects

       -d, --debug
              enable communication debugging

       -h, --help
              prints usage information

       -v, --version
              prints version information.

       --no-colors
              disable colored output

FILTER OPTIONS
       -m, --match STRING
              only print messages that contain STRING

              This option will set a filter to only printed log messages that contain the given string.

       -t, --trigger STRING
              start logging when matching STRING

              When specified, logging will start as soon as a log messages is encountered that contains the given string. See also -T, --untrigger. Other filters are still applied but obviously filtered mes‐
              sages are only printed after logging has started.

       -T, --untrigger STRING
              stop logging when matching STRING

              When specified logging will halt as soon as a log message is encountered that contains the given string. See also -t, --trigger. Other filters are still applied but obviously filtered  messages
              are only printed before logging stops.

              NOTE: If no --trigger is given, idevicesyslog will exit after a matching log message was encountered.

       -p, --process PROCESS
              only print messages from matching process(es)

              PROCESS is a string that can either be a numeric pid or a process name. It also supports multiple process names or pids in one string, separated by | (make sure to use quotes!).

       -e, --exclude PROCESS
              print all messages except matching process(es)

              PROCESS is a string that can either be a numeric pid or a process name. It also supports multiple process names or pids in one string, separated by | (make sure to use quotes!).

       -q, --quiet
              set a filter to exclude common noisy processes

              Since  the syslog can be quite noisy, this quick command line switch allows to silence out a predefined set of commonly known processes. The list of processes that are silenced can be retrieved
              with --quiet-list.

       --quiet-list
              prints the list of processes for --quiet and exits

       -k, --kernel
              only print kernel messages

              This is actually equivalent to passing --process kernel with the exception that it can be used with --quiet to silence out the noisy process but still get all the kernel log messages.

       -K, --no-kernel
              suppress kernel messages

              This is equivalent to passing --exclude kernel.

EXAMPLES
       idevicesyslog -u 00008030-0000111ABC000DEF
              Relay syslog of device with UDID 00008030-0000111ABC000DEF.

       idevicesyslog -x
              Relay syslog of device and exit when the device is unplugged.

       idevicesyslog -m '####' -e 'identityservicesd' -K
              Only print log messages that contain the string #### and do NOT originate from identityservicesd or the kernel.

       idevicesyslog -p MyApp -p ReportCrash
              Only print log messages from the process named 'MyApp' and 'ReportCrash'.

       idevicesyslog -p 'MyApp|ReportCrash'
              Same as previous example with different syntax.

       idevicesyslog -e 'backboardd|CommCenter|mDNSResponder'
              Suppress log messages from backboardd, CommCenter, and mDNSResponder.

       idevicesyslog -q -k
              Suppress log messages from common noisy processes, but DO print kernel log messages.

       idevicesyslog -K
              Suppress log messages from kernel, but print everything else

       idevicesyslog -t 'backlight on' -T 'backlight off' -q
              Start logging when the device turns on backlight and stop logging when it turns backlight off, and suppress noisy processes

AUTHORS
       Nikias Bassen, Martin Szulecki

       Man page written to conform with Debian by Julien Lavergne.

ON THE WEB
       https://libimobiledevice.org

       https://github.com/libimobiledevice/libimobiledevice

                                                                                                                                                                                               idevicesyslog(1)
