
IDT(1NCARG)                                                                                      NCAR GRAPHICS                                                                                      IDT(1NCARG)

NAME
       idt - X window interactive image display tool

SYNOPSIS
       idt  [  -toolkitoption ...  ] [ -background color ] [ -f font ] [ -foreground color ] [ -history ] [ -lmin min ] [ -lmax max ] [ -lscale scale ] [ -oldidt ] [ -pal pal_fname ] [ -reverse ] [ -soft ] [
       -Version ] [ metafile ]

DESCRIPTION
       idt provides a graphical user interface to the NCAR View interactive metafile translator ictrans.  idt supports a subset of the ictrans command interface.

       idt provides two types of command panels for interacting with imagery. The first type is the control panel, which you see when you initially invoke idt.  The control panel displays messages  from  the
       translators,  provides  a  metafile  selection  utility  and is responsible for instantiating the second type of command panel, the display panel. The display panel provides mechanisms for controlling
       translators. Each display panel manages a single metafile translator. There can be multiple display panels in existence at the same time but only one control panel.

OPTIONS
       idt accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options (see X(1)).  idt also accepts the following options:

       -f fontcap
              Fontcap file to be used for stroking text.  When interpreting CGM TEXT command elements use fontcap as the default font for textual translation. Note:  CGMs  may  contain  textual  descriptions
              which  are  not  embedded in CGM TEXT elements. Hence they are not influenced by fontcap specifications.  Note also that a CGM may explicitly specify a named font which may override a font pro‐
              vided on the command line. The environment variable FONTCAP may also be used to specify a default fontcap.

              If fontcap is preceded by a UNIX directory path then ctrans will look in that directory for the specified fontcap. Otherwise idt searches the directory  $NCARG_ROOT/lib/ncarg/fontcaps  for  the
              fontcap.

              See fontcap(5NCARG) for a description of the available fontcaps. See fcap(1NCARG) for a list of the fontcaps installed on your system.

              This option overrides the FONTCAP environment variable.

       -history
              Write a record of all commands sent to the translator to the file ./.idthist.

       -Version
              Print the version number and then exit.

       The following options are ignored by idt and are passed on to the metafile translator ictrans. See ictrans(1NCARG) for a description of their use.

       -soft

       -lmin linewidth

       -lmax linewidth

       -lscale linewidth

       -pal pal_fname

       -foreground color

       -background color

       -reverse

CONTROL PANEL COMMANDS
       The control panel provides a text widget for displaying messages from the translators and a row of command buttons. Messages are preceded with the string "Display[X]", where "X" is an integer id asso‐
       ciated with the translator sending the message. The first translator spawned is "Display[0]", the second is "Display[1]", etc.

       select file
              Selects a file for translation. This button brings up a popup menu containing a file selection box. The uppermost dialog box of the file selection box  is  used  for  specifying  a  filter  for
              searching  for files. For example, the filter "/usr/local/lib/*.cgm" finds all files in the directory /usr/local/lib whose names end with ".cgm". The finder understands standard shell metachar‐
              acters.

              The bottom dialog box displays the currently selected file. The user may enter a file name here or select one with the mouse from the list of files displayed in the middle text widget.

       display
              Popup a display panel. A display panel is popped up ready for translation of the file most recently selected with the file selector. This command will fail if a file has not been selected.

       quit   Quits the application and terminates all translators.

DISPLAY PANEL COMMANDS
       The display panel provides a mechanism for manipulating the translator associated with a particular metafile. On most systems the name of the metafile appears in the title bar at the top of the panel.
       The  first row in the panel contains a scroll bar for randomly selecting a frame to be translated. The label bar to the right displays the number of the frame scrolled to. The panel is intended to re‐
       semble a video tape editor. Thus, the second row contains play back, jog back, stop, jog and play buttons, respectively.  The third and forth rows contain more complex display commands.

       loop   Toggle the looping mode on or off. When loop is on pressing the play (playback) button causes the translator to process all the frames in the segment  sequentially  (reverse  sequentially)  and
              then start over from the beginning (end). The process continues until the "stop" button is selected. By default loop mode is off.

       dup    Sets duplication variable. If dup is set to 1 each frame is displayed once, if dup is set to 2 each frame is displayed twice, etc. The default value of dup is 1.

       goto   Go to the specified frame and translate it.  goto provides random access to the frames contained in the metafile.

       skip   Set the skip variable. If skip is set to 1 every other frame is displayed during subsequent plays, if skip is set to 2 every third frame is displayed, etc. The default value for skip is 0.

       delay  Set  the  between-frame animation delay-time. When idt is in animation mode you may request that idt pause for a period of time between the display of each image.  The effect of setting a delay
              time is to govern the speed at which idt "plays" imagery.

       start segment
              Define the first frame in the segment. This button and the stop segment button define a segment which is a subset of the frames contained in the metafile. When in play (playback) mode only  the
              frames contained within the defined segment are translated. The default value for start segment is 1, the first frame in the file.

       stop segment
              Define the last frame in the segment. The default frame is the last frame in the file. Hence, by default the segment is the entire metafile.

       set window
              Specify  the  workstation  window (in the GKS sense). Four coordinates are specified which define a rectangular window which is a subset of normalized VDC rectangle with corner points (0,0) and
              (1.0,1.0). The specified window is then mapped onto the entire viewport. For example, if the workstation window is defined by the corner points (0,0) and (0.5 0.5) then the lower  left  quarter
              of  a  plot  would  be blown up to fill the largest rectangle which fits in the drawing window while retaining the aspect ratio described by the normalized coordinates.  Specification of such a
              window can be used for zooming and panning.

       done   Terminate processing of current metafile.

       current frame
              Update the "Scrolled to Frame ->" label box with the number of the current frame.

       print  Send the current frame to the printer. The print command brings up a menu of all devices configured for accepting translator output. This list is created dynamically in response to  changes  in
              the spooler configuration file (see ncarv_spool(5NCARG)).  Selecting an item from the menu causes the current frame to be sent to that device.

       save   Save a frame to a file. This command allows you to write the metacode for the current frame to a file. The result is a complete NCAR Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) containing a single frame.

       unzoom Reset windowing transformations previously set by the zoom command back to their default.

       zoom   Zoom  in  on  an area of a plot. The function of this command is identical to that of the window command. The zoom command, however, allows you to select the area of interest interactively with
              the mouse.

       animate
              Toggle animation mode on or off. When idt is put into animation mode the currently defined segment is rasterized with the translator and loaded into the X server memory. Subsequent idt commands
              operate on the memory-resident images. Not all idt commands are available in animation mode. By default animation is off.

RESOURCES
       As  with all standard X applications, idt may be customized through entries in the resource manager.  In the following list of application resources provided by idt the resource name is given followed
       by its class in parentheses.  These resources supplement the resources provided by the widgets themselves.

       history (Class History)
              Specify whether a history of commands sent to the metafile translators is recorded to the file "./.idthist" or not. The default for this resource is "False".

       fileSelectAction (Class FileSelectAction)
              Set the default action to be executed after a file has been selected with the file selection box. Currently the only value this resource understands is "display".

       messageHeight (Class MessageHeight)
              Set the height in lines of text of the message display panel.

       oldIdt (Class OldIdt)
              Specifies the "-oldidt" option.

       translatorDevice (Class TranslatorDevice)
              Specify the output device for metafile translation. The default for this resource is "X11".

       translatorFont (Class TranslatorFont)
              Specify the name of the fontcap to use for stroking text during metafile translation. The default value for this resource is "font1".

       translatorSoft (Class TranslatorSoft)
              Specifies the ictrans "-soft" option.

       translatorLmin (Class TranslatorLmin)
              Specifies the ictrans "-lmin" option.

       translatorLmax (Class TranslatorLmax)
              Specifies the ictrans "-lmax" option.

       translatorLscale (Class TranslatorLscale)
              Specifies the ictrans "-lscale" option.

       translatorForeground (Class TranslatorForeground)
              Specifies the ictrans "-foreground" option.

       translatorBackground (Class TranslatorBackground)
              Specifies the ictrans "-background" option.

       translatorReverse (Class TranslatorReverse)
              Specifies the ictrans "-reverse" option.

ACTIONS
       idt provides the following actions for use in event translation:

       FinderTranslation()
              This action causes the file selector popup to search for files using the key supplied in the file finder text box.

       OkFinderTranslation()
              This action notifies the file selector that a selection has been made.

       SelectFileTranslation()
              This action updates the text box in the file selector which displays the currently selected file.

       OkSDTranslation()
              This action confirms a selection made in one of the display panel popup dialog boxes.

WIDGETS
       In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the widgets which make up idt.  In the notation below, indentation indicates hierarchal structure. The widget class name  is  given
       first, followed by the widget instance name.

       Idt  idt
           Paned  paned
               Text  text
               Form  form
                   Command  select file
                   Command  display
                       TopLevelShell  <???>
                           Paned  paned
                               Core  canvas    /* This is the drawing canvas
                               Form  form
                                   Scrollbar  scrollbar
                                   Label  Scrolled to Frame ->
                               Form  form
                                   Command  playback
                                   Command  jogback
                                   Command  stop
                                   Command  jog
                                   Command  play
                               Form  form
                                   Toggle  loop
                                   Command  dup
                                   Command  goto
                                   Command  skip
                                   Command  delay
                                   Command  start segment
                                   Command  stop segment
                                   Command  set window
                               Form  form
                                   Command  done
                                   Command  current frame
                                   MenuButton  print
                                       SimpleMenu  menu
                                           SmeBSB  <???>
                                           SmeBSB  <???>
                                           SmeBSB  <???>
                                                     |
                                                     |
                                           dynamically configured
                                                     |
                                                     |
                                           SmeBSB  <???>
                                           SmeBSB  <???>
                                   Command  save
                                   Command  zoom
                                   Command  unzoom
                                   Toggle  animate
                               Grip  grip
                               Grip  grip
                               Grip  grip
                               Grip  grip
                               Grip  grip
                   Command  quit
               Grip  grip
               Grip  grip

       Paned

EXAMPLES
       The following resource specification can be used to set the default size of the graphics display window to 200 by 200 pixels:

                 Idt*canvas.width:   200
            Idt*canvas.height:  200

       If you want to place the control panel in the top right corner insert the following into your .Xdefaults file:

                 idt.geometry:        -0+0

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY
              This is the standard X environment variable for specifying display name. If the translation output device is X11 this variable MUST be set.

       FONTCAP
              Default fontcap specifier.

       NCARG_ROOT
              Path to root of NCAR Graphics installation.

       NCARG_LIB
              If set this variable contains the path to the installed NCAR Graphics libraries.  NCARG_LIB overrides NCARG_ROOT.

       NCARG_TMP
              If set, this environment variable contains a directory path to be used for temporary files. On most systems the default is /tmp.  On some systems the default is /usr/tmp.

       SHELL  Specifies the UNIX shell that the file selector is to use for expanding metacharacters. /bin/sh is used by default.

       XENVIRONMENT
              Specifies the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.

FILES
       \.idthist                               - Translator command history file

       $NCARG_ROOT/lib/ncarg/xapp/Idt          - Default resource file for idt

       $HOME/.ncarv_spool                      - User spooler configuration file

       $NCARG_ROOT/lib/ncarg/ncarv_spool       - System spooler configuration file

SEE ALSO
       ctrans(1NCARG), fcaps(1NCARG), gcaps(1NCARG), ictrans(1NCARG), ncarv_spool(5NCARG), X(1), xrdb(1)

       Hardcopy: NCAR Graphics Fundamentals, UNIX Version

BUGS
       Zooming in on large cell arrays causes the translator to crash.

CAVEATS
       The metafile file translation process is performed by spawning the ictrans translator.  ictrans does not understand standard X Toolkit options. Hence, the DISPLAY environment variable must be set when
       translating a metafile to be displayed in a window.

       You can not save "zoomed" plots to a file. More precisely, you may save a "zoomed" plot, however, the resultant plot will not be "zoomed".

       The "Scrolled to Frame" label is not continuously updated.

       The range with which one may zoom in on a plot with either the zoom or window command is severely limited by Xlibs use of 'short' integers for containing screen coordinate data.

       IRIX 4.x users should not set use the shared memory connection to their X server. i.e don't use the display shm:0.

       Background color changes don't work when idt is in animate mode.  idt will use whatever color was most recently set in the animation segment for the entire segment.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1987-2009
       University Corporation for Atmospheric Research

       The use of this Software is governed by a License Agreement.

NCARG                                                                                             January 1993                                                                                      IDT(1NCARG)
