
ifplugstatus(8)                                                                             System Manager's Manual                                                                             ifplugstatus(8)

NAME
       ifplugstatus - A link beat detection tool

SYNOPSIS
       ifplugstatus [options] [INTERFACE]

DESCRIPTION
       ifplugstatus is an utility which may be used to detect the link status of a local Linux ethernet device, much in the same way mii-diag, mii-tool and ethtool work. In fact it supports all three differ‐
       ent APIs these three tools use. In addition it supports link checking with the IFF_RUNNING interface flag, which most modern drivers (not only ethernet) support, and association status  checking  with
       the wireless extension API for WLAN devices.

       The APIs are tried in the following order:

       First the newest API: SIOCETHTOOL (aka ethtool API)

       Second the next older API: SIOCGMIIREG (aka mii-diag API)

       Than the WLAN API: wireless extension (aka iwconfig API)

       Followed by the cleanest API: IFF_RUNNING (aka ifconfig API)

       The oldest API (SIOCPRIV aka mii-tool API) is not tested since it is obsolete.

       ifplugstatus may be used in shell script since it returns the current status as return value. It is especially useful to detect the available APIs on the used network driver. (Option -v)

OPTIONS
       You may specify an ethernet device on the command line. Otherwise ifplugstatus will check all available network interfaces.

       -a | --auto
              Enable interface automatically before querying (default: off)

       -h | --help
              Show help

       -q | --quiet
              Decrease verbosity by one. If the verbosity is < 0, no text will be shown, only the return value is relevant; if the verbosity is = 0, a terse status will be shown; If the verbosity is > 0, de‐
              tailed information about the used API is returned. (By default the verbosity is 0)

       -v | --verbose
              Increase verbosity by one. See option -q.

       -V | --version
              Show version

RETURN VALUES
       0 Success

       1 Failure

       2 Link beat detected (only available when an interface is specified)

       3 Unplugged (same here)

AUTHOR
       ifplugd was written by Lennart Poettering <mzvscyhtq (at) 0pointer (dot) de>. ifplugd is available at http://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/ifplugd/

SEE ALSO
       mii-diag(8), mii-tool(8), ethtool(8), ifplugd(8)

COMMENTS
       This man page was written using xml2man(1) by Oliver Kurth.

Manuals                                                                                               User                                                                                      ifplugstatus(8)
