interfaces-bond(5)                                                   File Formats Manual                                                   interfaces-bond(5)

NAME
       interfaces-bond - Bonding/LAG extensions for the interfaces(5) file format

DESCRIPTION
       The  Linux  implementation for Ling Aggregation Groups (LAGs) is called bonding, whereas a LAG interface is called bond. The Linux bonding implementa‐
       tion supports active/passive setups, classical EtherChannels as well as LACP (802.3ad).

       The following options set up bonding/LAG interfaces with ifupdown-ng.

       See https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/networking/bonding.rst and for more information.

BOND-RELATED OPTIONS
       A bond interface must have at least one member port set. All other options are optional.

       bond-members list of interfaces
           Denotes the physical member interfaces to form this LAG. For compatiblity to ifupdown1 and ifupdown2 slaves as well as bond-slaves  are  an  alias
           for this option. This option is required.

       bond-mode mode
           Denotes the mode for this LAG. The mode can be given as string or as numerical value. Valid values are balance-rr (0), active-backup (1), balance-
           xor (2), broadcast (3), 802.3ad (4), balance-tlb (5), balance-alb (6). The default is balance-rr.

       bond-xmit-hash-policy policy
           Denotes the hash policy/algorithm used to distribute packets across the physical links. This only applies for modes balance-alb, balance-tlb, bal‐
           ance-xor,  and 802.3ad. The policy can be given as string or as numerical value. Valid values are layer2 (0), layer3+4 (1), layer2+3 (2), encap2+3
           (3), and encap3+4 (4). The default is layer2.

       bond-min-links number
           Denotes the minimum number of available links before turning on carrier.

       bond-miimon interval
           Denotes the MII link monitoring frequency in milliseconds. This determines how often the link state of each slave is inspected for link  failures.
           A value of zero disables MII link monitoring. The default is 0.

       bond-use-carrier bool
           Denotes  wether miimon uses MII or ethtool ioctls vs. the netif_carrier_ok() call to determine member link status. A value of 1 enables the use of
           netif_carrier_ok(), a value of 0 will use the deprecated MII / ETHTOOL ioctls. The default is 1.

       bond-updelay delay
           Denotes the delay in milliseconds before considering link up, in milliseconds. The default is 0.

       bond-downdelay delay
           Denotes the delay in milliseconds before considering link down, in milliseconds. The default is 0.

       bond-all-slaves-active bool
           Denotes wether duplicate frames (received on inactive ports) should be dropped (0) or delivered (1). The default is 0.

       bond-packets-per-slave num_packets
           Denotes the number of packets to transmit through a member before moving to the next one. When set to 0 then a slave  is  chosen  at  random.  The
           valid range is 0 - 65535; the default value is 1. This option has effect only in balance-rr mode.

       bond-lp-interval interval
           Denotes the interval in seconds between sending learning packets to each members peer switch. The valid range is 1 - 0x7fffffff; the default value
           is 1. This option has effect only in modes balance-tlb and balance-alb.

       bond-resend-igmp number
           Denotes  the  number  of IGMP membership reports to send after a link failover happend. The valid range is 0 - 255; a value of 0 prevents the IGMP
           membership report from being issued in response to the failover event. The default is 1. This option is useful for bonding modes  balance-rr,  ac‐
           tive-backup balance-tlb and balance-alb, in which a failover can switch the IGMP traffic from one slave to another.

LACP-RELATED OPTIONS
       The following options are only valid in LACP (802.3ad) mode.

       bond-lacp-rate rate
           Denotes the rate of LACPDU requested from the peer. The rate can be given as string or as numerical value. Valid values are slow (0) and fast (1).
           The default is slow.

       bond-ad-select mode
           Denotes the 802.3ad aggregation selection logic. The mode can be given as string or as numerical value. Valid values are stable (0), bandwidth (1)
           and cound (2). The default is stable.

       bond-ad-actor-sys-prio priority
           Denotes the LACP system priority. The allowed range is 1 - 65535. The default value is 65535.

       bond-ad-user-port-key key
           Denotes the upper 10 bits of the port-key. he values can be from 0 - 1023. The default is 0.

ACTIVE/BACKUP-RELATED OPTIONS
       The following options are only valid in active/passive setups.

       bond-primary interface
           Denotes  the primary member interface The specified device will always be the active slave while it is available. The primary option is only valid
           for active-backup, balance-tlb and balance-alb mode.

       bond-primary-reselect policy
           Denotes the reselection policy for the primary member interface. Valid values are always (0), better (1), and failure (2). The default is always.

       bond-fail-over-mac mode
           Denotes whether active-backup mode should set all member interfaces to the same MAC address at enslavement (the traditional  behavior),  or,  when
           enabled,  perform special handling of the bond's MAC address in accordance with the selected policy. Valid values are none (0), active (1), follow
           (2). The default is none.

       bond-num-grat-arp count
           Denotes the number of peer notifications (gratuitous ARPs and unsolicited IPv6 Neighbor Advertisements) to be issued after a failover  event.  The
           valid range is 0 - 255; the default is 1.

       bond-num-unsol-na count
           This is an alias for bond-num-grat-arp

       bond-peer-notif-delay interval
           Denotes  the  interval in milliseconds, between each peer notification (gratuitous ARP and unsolicited IPv6 Neighbor Advertisement) issued after a
           failover event. The default is 0 which means to match the value of the link monitor interval.

ARP-RELATED OPTIONS
       The following options configure ARP link monitoring. The ARP monitor works by periodically checking the slave devices to determine whether  they  have
       sent or received traffic recently. Regular traffic is generated via ARP probes issued for the addresses specified by the bond-arp-ip-target option.

       bond-arp-interval interval
           Denotes the frequency in milliseconds to send ARP probes.

       bond-arp-ip-target IPv4 address
           Denotes the IP addresses to use as ARP monitoring peers when bond-arp-interval is > 0.

       bond-arp-validate mode
           Specifies whether or not ARP probes and replies should be validated in any mode that supports arp monitoring, or whether non-ARP traffic should be
           filtered  (disregarded)  for  link monitoring purposes. Valid values are none (0), active (1), backup (2), all (3), filter (4), filter_active (5),
           and filter_backup (6). The default is none.

       bond-arp-all-targets mode
           Denotes the number of bond-arp-ip-targets that have to be reachable to consider the member interface to be up. Valid options are any (0)  and  all
           (1). The default is any.

EXAMPLES
       A bond using two links and LACP (802.3ad):

           auto bond0
           iface bond0
                bond-members eth0 eth1
                bond-mode 802.3ad
                bond-xmit-hash-policy layer3+4
                bond-min-links 1
                #
                address 192.0.2.42/24
                address 2001:db8::42/64

AUTHORS
       Maximilian Wilhelm <max@sdn.clinic>

                                                                          2025-10-13                                                       interfaces-bond(5)
