IRISH(5)                                                                                    File Formats Manual                                                                                    IRISH(5)

NAME
       irish - flag format for Irish Ispell dictionaries

DESCRIPTION
       Irish  dictionaries for Ispell(1) supports 3 prefix and 14 suffix flags.  For a detailed description of how Ispell handles flags and capitalization, see Ispell(4).  This manual page only describes
       flags usable in dictionaries built using the gaeilge.aff affix file.

       The definitive meanings of the affixes is given in the file /usr/lib/ispell/gaeilge.aff but some of the reasoning and notes are given here.

       Irish has an unusual (unique?) capitalization rule, which needs special handling.  Prefixes for eclipsis are not capitalized., e.g.  an tEarrach.  Ispell(5) assumes that in an uncapitalized  word,
       the first letter may be capitalized, so Earrach would be incorrectly prefixed and capitalized as Tearrach.

       The file irish-prefixes.pl is a perl(1) script to preprocess the wordlist, and add 'by hand' the correct capitalization.  It will turn
            Earrach/P
       into
            Earrach
            tEarrach
       etc. It strips off the E and P flags used for eclipsis and leaves any other flags intact. The word should be Capitalized in the the word list; if the uncapitalized version is left in the word list
       with the flag, it will generate incorrect words, so enter the uncapitalized and capitalized versions seperately.

       One 'ordinary' prefix is handled by Ispell, H is used for aspiration of nouns, etc. (Verbs are handled separately).

       Twelve  suffixes  are  used for handling regular verbs. We use three suffixes each per conguation: one listing all suffixes available to both aspirated and unaspirated forms, one listing aspirated
       forms only, and one for unaspirated forms. So, for the verb mol for example, we have in the words list
            mol/BC
            mhol/BD
       so the 'B' set of endings apply to both forms, the 'C' set to unaspirated only, and 'D' to aspirated only. This pattern is repeated for all four conjugations.

       Irregular verbs just appear in the list in toto.

       Two other suffixes are currently defined, , 'O'  for Caolú (attenuation), and 'Q'for Leathnú (broadening).

BUGS
       The dictionary is very small, and pretty incomplete. Any help would be appreciated.  Please mail additions and corrections to mckinstry@computer.org

SEE ALSO
       Ispell(1), Ispell(5), english(5)

                                                                                                 2002-04-11                                                                                        IRISH(5)
