CST(1)                                                                                     i.MX CST Documentation                                                                                    CST(1)

NAME
       cst - Code Signing Tool for generating binary CSF files for NXP secure boot

SYNOPSIS
       cst --output file --input file [--cert cert.pem] [--backend ssl|pkcs11] [--verbose]

       cst --license|--version|--help

DESCRIPTION
       cst (Code Signing Tool) is used to generate a binary Command Sequence File (CSF) required by the HAB or AHAB secure boot mechanisms on NXP i.MX processors. The CSF contains the authentication
       commands and signature data used to verify signed boot images during the secure boot process.

       The tool processes a plain-text CSF description file and produces a binary CSF that can be appended to or embedded in a boot image. Optionally, a certificate can be provided to encrypt the Data
       Encryption Key (DEK).

OPTIONS
       -o, --output file
           The output binary CSF file to generate.

       -i, --input file
           The input CSF description text file.

       -c, --cert cert.pem
           Public key certificate to encrypt the DEK (optional).

       -b, --backend ssl|pkcs11
           Optional. Backend for key handling. Default is 'ssl' (local filesystem).  'pkcs11' uses a PKCS#11-compatible keystore.

       -g, --verbose
           Enable verbose output.

       -l, --license
           Print license information and exit.

       -v, --version
           Print the tool version and exit.

       -h, --help
           Display a brief help message.

EXAMPLES
       Generate binary CSF from a text CSF file:
             cst -o out_csf.bin -i hab4.csf

       Encrypt DEK with a certificate:
             cst -o out_csf.bin -c cert.pem -i hab4.csf

SEE ALSO
       srktool(1), csf_parser(1)

                                                                                                 2025-06-04                                                                                          CST(1)
