ASPD(8)                                                                                           User Manual                                                                                           ASPD(8)

NAME
       aspd - Address Search Protocol Daemon

SYNOPSIS
       aspd    [-r repetitions] [-i interface] [hostname]
       aspd    -V

       in.aspd [-r repetitions] [hostname]
       in.aspd -V

DESCRIPTION
       Aspd is a daemon that waits for incoming address requests on asp's port. If aspd detects itself as being the searched host, it sends a reply to the client, allowing the retrieval of its IP address. It
       is possible to specify an alternate hostname on command line, instead of using the value returned from the gethostname(3) function. This is useful if your hostname is dynamically changed when the link
       goes up.

       If aspd is invoked as in.aspd it will work as a server: it makes its work and exit, instead of wait for new requests; this is useful if you want inetd(8) to automatically run the server when a request
       arrives.

OPTIONS
       -r repetitions
              Set the number of times to re-send the reply. Default is 5 times.

       -i interface
              Set the interface used to get the address to send to the client, for example ppp0.  Note that this option can't be used if aspd is invoked by inetd. Note also that you have to kill aspd if  the
              interface address changes.

       -V     Show version information

LOGGING
       The  peer IP address and the searched hostname are logged through the syslogd(8) system logger daemon, using the daemon facility and the notice level. Transmission errors use the warning level and are
       logged only if aspd was compiled with the debug support.

FILES
       /etc/services
              Used by aspd to find the asp protocol port number.

BUGS
       Maybe.

AUTHOR
       Stenio Brunetta <stenio@brunettaeperin.it>

       Comments and suggestions are welcome.

SEE ALSO
       asp(1), inetd(8), syslog(3), syslogd(8).

Linux                                                                                            February 1997                                                                                          ASPD(8)
