inetd(8)                                                                                  System Manager's Manual                                                                                  inetd(8)

NAME
       inetd — internet “super-server”

SYNOPSIS
       inetd [option ...] [conf-file [conf-dir]] ...

DESCRIPTION
       The  inetd  program  should  be run at boot time by /etc/rc (see rc(8)).  It then listens for connections on certain internet sockets.  When a connection is found on one of its sockets, it decides
       what service the socket corresponds to, and invokes a program to service the request.  The server program is invoked with the service socket as its standard input, output  and  error  descriptors.
       After the program is finished, inetd continues to listen on the socket (except in some cases which will be described below).  Essentially, inetd allows running one daemon to invoke several others,
       reducing load on the system.

OPTIONS
       The options available for inetd:

       --foreground
               Runs in foreground mode.

       -d, --debug
               Turns on debugging, and runs in foreground mode.

       --environment
               Pass local and remote address data via environment variables. See ENVIRONMENT below.

       -p, --pidfile [filename]
               Specifies the pidfile to use instead of the default.  When a filename is not specified, that disables writing a pidfile.

       -R, --rate rate
               Specifies the maximum number of times a service can be invoked in one minute; the default is 40.

       --resolve
               Resolve  local  and  remote IP addresses and pass them to the server program via TCPLOCALHOST and TCPREMOTEHOST environment variables. See ENVIRONMENT below. This option implies --environ‐
               ment.

       -V, --version
               Shows the version.

       -?, --help
               Shows the help.

       --usage
               Shows the usage message.

OPERATION
       Upon execution, inetd reads its configuration information from a configuration file on the command line, by default, /etc/inetd.conf and /etc/inetd.d.  If the configuration pathname  is  a  direc‐
       tory,  all the files in the directory are read like a configuration file. All of the configuration files are read and merged.  There must be an entry for each field in the configuration file, with
       entries for each field separated by a tab or a space.  Comments are denoted by a "#" at the beginning of a line.  The fields of the configuration file are as follows:

             service name
             socket type
             protocol
             wait/nowait[.max]
             user[:group]
             server program
             server program arguments

       There are two types of services that inetd can start: standard and TCPMUX.  A standard service has a well-known port assigned to it; it may be a service that implements an official Internet  stan‐
       dard or is a BSD-specific service.  As described in RFC 1078, TCPMUX services are nonstandard services that do not have a well-known port assigned to them.  They are invoked from inetd when a pro‐
       gram connects to the “tcpmux” well-known port and specifies the service name.  This feature is useful for adding locally-developed servers.

       The service-name entry is the name of a valid service in the file /etc/services.  For “internal” services (discussed below), the service name must be the official name of the service (that is, the
       first entry in /etc/services).  For TCPMUX services, the value of the service-name field consists of the string “tcpmux” followed by a slash and the locally-chosen service name.  The service names
       listed  in  /etc/services  and  the name “help” are reserved.  Try to choose unique names for your TCPMUX services by prefixing them with your organization's name and suffixing them with a version
       number.

       The socket-type should be one of “stream”, “dgram”, “raw”, “rdm”, or “seqpacket”, depending on whether the socket is a stream, datagram,  raw,  reliably  delivered  message,  or  sequenced  packet
       socket.  TCPMUX services must use “stream”.

       The  protocol  must  be  a valid protocol as given in /etc/protocols.  Examples might be “tcp” or “udp”.  TCPMUX services must use “tcp”.  By default the protocols will only listen on IPv4 connec‐
       tions.  To modify this behavior per service, either “4” or “6” can be appended to the protocol name, such as “udp4” or “tcp6” to accept only IPv4 UDP connections or both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP  connec‐
       tions respectively.  To restrict to IPv6-only connections, “6only” can be appended to the protocol name, such as “tcp6only”.

       The  wait/nowait[.max]  entry  specifies  whether the server that is invoked by inetd will take over the socket associated with the service access point, and thus whether inetd should wait for the
       server to exit before listening for new service requests.  Datagram servers must use “wait”, as they are always invoked with the original datagram socket bound to the  specified  service  address.
       These  servers  must read at least one datagram from the socket before exiting.  If a datagram server connects to its peer, freeing the socket so inetd can received further messages on the socket,
       it is said to be a “multi-threaded” server; it should read one datagram from the socket and create a new socket connected to the peer.  It should fork, and the parent should  then  exit  to  allow
       inetd  to  check  for  new  service  requests  to  spawn  new  servers.  Datagram servers which process all incoming datagrams on a socket and eventually time out are said to be “single-threaded”.
       Comsat(8), (biff(1)) and talkd(8) are both examples of the latter type of datagram server.  Tftpd(8) is an example of a multi-threaded datagram server.  The optional “max” suffix  (separated  from
       “wait”  or “nowait” by a dot) specifies the maximum number of times a service can be invoked in one minute; the default is 40.  If a service exceeds this limit, inetd will log the problem and stop
       servicing requests for the specific service for ten minutes.  See also the -R option above.

       Servers using stream sockets generally are multi-threaded and use the “nowait” entry.  Connection requests for these services are accepted by inetd, and the server is given only the newly-accepted
       socket connected to a client of the service.  Most stream-based services operate in this manner.  Stream-based servers that use “wait” are started with the listening service socket, and  must  ac‐
       cept at least one connection request before exiting.  Such a server would normally accept and process incoming connection requests until a timeout.  TCPMUX services must use “nowait”.

       The  optional  “max” suffix (separated from “wait” or “nowait” by a dot) is a decimal number that specifies the maximum number of server instances that may be spawned from inetd within an interval
       of 60 seconds.  It overrides the settings of the -R command line option.

       The user entry should contain the user name, and the optional group name (separated from “user” by a semicolon or a dot) of the user (and group) as whom the server should  run.   This  allows  for
       servers to be given less permission than root.

       The  server-program  entry should contain the pathname of the program which is to be executed by inetd when a request is found on its socket.  If inetd provides this service internally, this entry
       should be “internal”.

       The server program arguments should be just as arguments normally are, starting with argv[0], which is the name of the program.  If the service is provided internally, the word  “internal”  should
       take the place of this entry.

       The inetd program provides several “trivial” services internally by use of routines within itself.  These services are “echo”, “discard”, “chargen” (character generator), “daytime” (human readable
       time),  and  “time” (machine readable time, in the form of the number of seconds since midnight, January 1, 1900).  All of these services are tcp based.  For details of these services, consult the
       appropriate RFC from the Network Information Center.

       The inetd program rereads its configuration file when it receives a hangup signal, SIGHUP.  Services may be added, deleted or modified when the configuration file is reread.

TCPMUX
       RFC 1078 describes the TCPMUX protocol: "A TCP client connects to a foreign host on TCP port 1.  It sends the service name followed by a carriage-return line-feed  <CRLF>.   The  service  name  is
       never  case  sensitive.   The  server replies with a single character indicating positive (+) or negative (-) acknowledgment, immediately followed by an optional message of explanation, terminated
       with a <CRLF>.  If the reply was positive, the selected protocol begins; otherwise the connection is closed."  The program is passed the TCP connection as file descriptors 0 and 1.

       If the TCPMUX service name begins with a "+", inetd returns the positive reply for the program.  This allows you to invoke programs that use stdin/stdout without putting any special server code in
       them.

       The special service name “help” causes inetd to list TCPMUX services in inetd.conf.

ENVIRONMENT
       If a connection is made with a streaming protocol (TCP) and if --environment option has been given, inetd will set the following environment variables before starting the program:

       PROTO: always "TCP".

       TCPLOCALIP: the local IP address of the interface which accepted the connection.

       TCPLOCALPORT: the port number on which the TCP connection was established.

       TCPREMOTEIP: the IP address of the remote client.

       TCPREMOTEPORT: the port number on the client side of the TCP connection.

       In addition, if given the --environment or --resolve options, inetd will set the following environment variables:

       TCPLOCALHOST: the DNS name of TCPLOCALIP.

       TCPREMOTEHOST: the DNS name of TCPREMOTEIP.

EXAMPLES
       Here are several example service entries for the various types of services:

       ftp           stream  tcp   nowait root  /usr/libexec/ftpd       ftpd -l
       ntalk         dgram   udp   wait   root  /usr/libexec/ntalkd     ntalkd
       tcpmux/+date  stream  tcp   nowait guest /bin/date               date
       tcpmux/phonebook stream tcp nowait guest /usr/local/bin/phonebook phonebook

ERROR MESSAGES
       The inetd server logs error messages using syslog(3).  Important error messages and their explanations are:

       service/protocol server failing (looping), service terminated.
       The number of requests for the specified service in the past minute exceeded the limit. The limit exists to prevent a broken program or a malicious user from swamping the system.  This message may
       occur for several reasons: 1) there are lots of hosts requesting the service within a short time period, 2) a 'broken' client program is requesting the service too frequently, 3) a malicious  user
       is  running a program to invoke the service in a 'denial of service' attack, or 4) the invoked service program has an error that causes clients to retry quickly.  Use the [-R] option, as described
       above, to change the rate limit.  Once the limit is reached, the service will be re-enabled automatically in 10 minutes.

       service/protocol: No such user 'user', service ignored
       service/protocol: getpwnam: user: No such user
       No entry for user exists in the passwd file. The first message occurs when inetd (re)reads the configuration file. The second message occurs when the service is invoked.

       service: can't set uid number
       service: can't set gid number
       The user or group ID for the entry's user is invalid.

SEE ALSO
       comsat(8), fingerd(8), ftpd(8), rexecd(8), rlogind(8), rshd(8), telnetd(8), tftpd(8)

BUGS
       The environment variables (see ENVIRONMENT) are set only for TCP IPv4 nowait connections.

HISTORY
       The inetd command appeared in 4.3BSD.  TCPMUX is based on code and documentation by Mark Lottor.

GNU Network Utilities                                                                          August 7, 2023                                                                                      inetd(8)
