ftpd(8)                                                                                   System Manager's Manual                                                                                   ftpd(8)

NAME
       ftpd — Internet File Transfer Protocol server

SYNOPSIS
       ftpd [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       ftpd is the Internet File Transfer Protocol server process.  The server uses the TCP protocol and listens at the port specified in the “ftp” service specification; see services(5).

OPTIONS
       -4, --ipv4
               Restrict daemon to listen to IPv4 addresses only.

       -6, --ipv6
               Restrict daemon to listen to IPv6 addresses only.

       -d, --debug
               Debugging information is written to the syslog using LOG_FTP.

       -l, --logging
               Each  successful  and failed ftp(1) session is logged using syslog with a facility of LOG_FTP.  If this option is specified twice, the retrieve (get), store (put), append, delete, make di‐
               rectory, remove directory and rename operations and their filename arguments are also logged.

       -A, --anonymous-only
               Only anonymous login is allowed.

       -D, --daemon
               ftpd enters daemon-mode. That allows ftpd to be run without inetd.

       -q, --no-version
               Quiet mode. No information about the version of the ftpd is given to the client.

       -T, --max-timeout timeout
               A client may also request a different timeout period; the maximum period allowed may be set to timeout seconds with the -T option.  The default limit is 2 hours.

       -t, --timeout timeout
               The inactivity timeout period is set to timeout seconds (the default is 15 minutes).

       -p, --pidfile pidfile
               Change default location of pidfile.

       -a, --auth auth
               Give anonymous another login-name (anonymous and ftpd will still work).  It can be one of

               default
                       Use passwd authentication.

               pam     Use PAM service 'ftp'.

       --non-rfc2577
               Neglect RFC 2577 by giving information on missing users.

       -u, --umask value
               Set default umask to value.

       -?, --help
               Display a help list.

       --usage
               Display a short usage message.

       -V, --version
               Display program version.

OPERATION
       The file /etc/nologin can be used to disable ftp access.  If the file exists, ftpd displays it and exits.  If the file /etc/ftpwelcome exists, ftpd prints it before issuing  the  “ready”  message.
       If the file /etc/motd exists, ftpd prints it after a successful login.

       The ftp server currently supports the following ftp requests.  The case of the requests is ignored.

             Request    Description
             ABOR       abort previous command
             ACCT       specify account (ignored)
             ALLO       allocate storage (vacuously)
             APPE       append to a file
             CDUP       change to parent of current working directory
             CWD        change working directory
             DELE       delete a file
             EPRT       extended data connection port, RFC 2428
             EPSV       extended passive transfer request, RFC 2428
             FEAT       display command extensions
             HELP       give help information
             LIST       give list files in a directory (“ls -lgA”)
             LPRT       long data connection port, RFC 1639
             LPSV       long passive transfer request, RFC 1639
             MKD        make a directory
             MDTM       show last modification time of file
             MODE       specify data transfer mode
             NLST       give name list of files in directory
             NOOP       do nothing
             OPTS       option settings
             PASS       specify password
             PASV       prepare for server-to-server transfer
             PORT       specify data connection port
             PWD        print the current working directory
             QUIT       terminate session
             REST       restart incomplete transfer
             RETR       retrieve a file
             RMD        remove a directory
             RNFR       specify rename-from file name
             RNTO       specify rename-to file name
             SITE       non-standard commands (see next section)
             SIZE       return size of file
             STAT       return status of server
             STOR       store a file
             STOU       store a file with a unique name
             STRU       specify data transfer structure
             SYST       show operating system type of server system
             TYPE       specify data transfer type
             USER       specify user name
             XCUP       change to parent of current working directory (deprecated)
             XCWD       change working directory (deprecated)
             XMKD       make a directory (deprecated)
             XPWD       print the current working directory (deprecated)
             XRMD       remove a directory (deprecated)

       The following non-standard or UNIX specific commands are supported by the SITE request.

             Request    Description
             UMASK      change umask, e.g. SITE UMASK 002
             IDLE       set idle-timer, e.g. SITE IDLE 60
             CHMOD      change mode of a file, e.g. SITE CHMOD 755 filename
             HELP       give help information.

       The remaining ftp requests specified in Internet RFC 959 are recognized, but not implemented.  MDTM and SIZE are not specified in RFC 959, but will appear in the next updated FTP RFC.

       The  ftp  server  will abort an active file transfer only when the ABOR command is preceded by a Telnet "Interrupt Process" (IP) signal and a Telnet "Synch" signal in the command Telnet stream, as
       described in Internet RFC 959.  If a STAT command is received during a data transfer, preceded by a Telnet IP and Synch, transfer status will be returned.

       ftpd interprets file names according to the “globbing” conventions used by csh(1).  This allows users to utilize the metacharacters “*?[]{}~”.

       ftpd authenticates users according to three rules.

             1.   The login name must be in the password data base, /etc/passwd, and not have a null password.  In this case a password must be provided by the client before any file  operations  may  be
                  performed.

             2.   The login name must not appear in the file /etc/ftpusers.

             3.   The user must have a standard shell returned by getusershell(3).

             4.   If the user name is “anonymous” or “ftp”, an anonymous ftp account must be present in the password file (user “ftp”).  In this case the user is allowed to log in by specifying any pass‐
                  word (by convention an email address for the user should be used as the password).

       In  the  last case, ftpd takes special measures to restrict the client's access privileges.  The server performs a chroot(2) to the home directory of the “ftp” user.  In order that system security
       is not breached, it is recommended that the “ftp” subtree be constructed with care, following these rules:

             ~ftp      Make the home directory owned by “root” and unwritable by anyone.

             ~ftp/bin  Make this directory owned by “root” and unwritable by anyone (mode 555).  The program ls(1) must be present to support the list command.  This program should be mode 111.

             ~ftp/etc  Make this directory owned by “root” and unwritable by anyone (mode 555).  The files passwd(5) and group(5) must be present for the ls command to be  able  to  produce  owner  names
                       rather  than numbers.  The password field in passwd is not used, and should not contain real passwords.  The file motd, if present, will be printed after a successful login.  These
                       files should be mode 444.

             ~ftp/pub  Make this directory mode 777 and owned by “ftp”.  Guests can then place files which are to be accessible via the anonymous account in this directory.

FILES
       /etc/ftpusers    List of unwelcome/restricted users.
       /etc/ftpchroot   List of users to change root to their home directory.
       /etc/ftpwelcome  Welcome notice.
       /etc/motd        Welcome notice after login.
       /etc/nologin     Displayed and access refused.

SEE ALSO
       ftp(1), getusershell(3), syslogd(8)

BUGS
       The server must run as the super-user to create sockets with privileged port numbers.  It maintains an effective user id of the logged in user, reverting to the super-user only  when  binding  ad‐
       dresses to sockets.  The possible security holes have been extensively scrutinized, but are possibly incomplete.

HISTORY
       The ftpd command appeared in 4.2BSD.

GNU Network Utilities                                                                         February 9, 2019                                                                                      ftpd(8)
