talk(1)                                                                                   User's Reference Manual                                                                                   talk(1)

NAME
       talk — talk to another user

SYNOPSIS
       talk person [ttyname]

DESCRIPTION
       Talk is a visual communication program which copies lines from your terminal to that of another user.

       Options available:

       person   If you wish to talk to someone on your own machine, then person is just the person's login name.  If you wish to talk to a user on another host, then person is of the form ‘user@host’.

       ttyname  If you wish to talk to a user who is logged in more than once, the ttyname argument may be used to indicate the appropriate terminal name, where ttyname is of the form ‘ttyXX’.

       When first called, talk sends the message
             Message from TalkDaemon@his_machine...
             talk: connection requested by your_name@your_machine.
             talk: respond with: talk your_name@your_machine

       to the user you wish to talk to. At this point, the recipient of the message should reply by typing

             talk  your_name@your_machine

       It  doesn't  matter  from which machine the recipient replies, as long as his login-name is the same.  Once communication is established, the two parties may type simultaneously, with their output
       appearing in separate windows.  Typing control-L ‘^L’ will cause the screen to be reprinted, while your erase, kill, and word kill characters will behave normally.  To exit, just type your  inter‐
       rupt character; talk then moves the cursor to the bottom of the screen and restores the terminal to its previous state.

       Permission  to  talk  may  be denied or granted by use of the mesg(1) command.  At the outset talking is allowed.  Certain commands, in particular nroff(1) and pr(1), disallow messages in order to
       prevent messy output.

FILES
       /etc/hosts
                  to find the recipient's machine
       /run/utmp  to find the recipient's tty

SEE ALSO
       mail(1), mesg(1), who(1), write(1)

BUGS
       The version of talk(1) released with 4.3BSD uses a protocol that is incompatible with the protocol used in the version released with 4.2BSD.

HISTORY
       The talk command appeared in 4.2BSD.

GNU Network Utilities                                                                         February 9, 2019                                                                                      talk(1)
