netrc(5)                                                                                  User's Reference Manual                                                                                  netrc(5)

NAME
       netrc — user configuration for ftp

SYNOPSIS
       ~/.netrc

DESCRIPTION
       The  .netrc file contains login and initialization information used by the auto-login process.  It resides in the user's home directory.  The following tokens are recognized; they may be separated
       by spaces, tabs, or new-lines:

       machine name
                 Identify a remote machine name.  The auto-login process searches the .netrc file for a machine token that matches the remote machine specified on the ftp command line or as an open  com‐
                 mand argument.  Once a match is made, the subsequent .netrc tokens are processed, stopping when the end of file is reached or another machine or a default token is encountered.

       default   This is the same as machine name except that default matches any name.  There can be only one default token, and it must be after all machine tokens.  This is normally used as:

                       default login anonymous password user@site

                 thereby giving the user automatic anonymous ftp login to machines not specified in .netrc.  This can be overridden by using the -n flag to disable auto-login.

       login name
                 Identify a user on the remote machine.  If this token is present, the auto-login process will initiate a login using the specified name.

       password string
                 Supply a password.  If this token is present, the auto-login process will supply the specified string if the remote server requires a password as part of the login process.  Note that if
                 this token is present in the .netrc file for any user other than anonymous, ftp will abort the auto-login process if the .netrc is readable by anyone besides the user.

       account string
                 Supply an additional account password.  If this token is present, the auto-login process will supply the specified string if the remote server requires an additional account password, or
                 the auto-login process will initiate an ACCT command if it does not.

       macdef name
                 Define  a macro.  This token functions like the ftp macdef command functions.  A macro is defined with the specified name; its contents begin with the next .netrc line and continue until
                 a null line (consecutive new-line characters) is encountered.  If a macro named init is defined, it is automatically executed as the last step in the auto-login process.

SEE ALSO
       ftp(1), ftpd(8)

GNU Network Utilities                                                                         February 9, 2019                                                                                     netrc(5)
