talkd(8)                                                                                  System Manager's Manual                                                                                  talkd(8)

NAME
       talkd — remote user communication server

SYNOPSIS
       talkd [options]

DESCRIPTION
       talkd  is  the  server  that notifies a user that someone else wants to initiate a conversation.  It acts as a repository of invitations, responding to requests by clients wishing to rendezvous to
       hold a conversation.  In normal operation, a client, the caller, initiates a rendezvous by sending a CTL_MSG to the server of type LOOK_UP (see ⟨protocols/talkd.h⟩).  This  causes  the  server  to
       search  its  invitation  tables to check if an invitation currently exists for the caller (to speak to the callee specified in the message).  If the lookup fails, the caller then sends an ANNOUNCE
       message causing the server to broadcast an announcement on the callee's login ports requesting contact.  When the callee responds, the local server uses the recorded invitation to respond with the
       appropriate rendezvous address and the caller and callee client programs establish a stream connection through which the conversation takes place.

OPTIONS
       -l, --logging
               Enable more verbose logging to syslog.

       -d, --debug
               Enable debug mode.

       -t, --timeout seconds
               Set timeout value to seconds.

       -i, --idle-timeout seconds
               Set idle timeout value to seconds.

       -r, --request-ttl seconds
               Set request time-to-live value to seconds.

       -a, --acl filename
               Read the site-wide ACLs from filename.

       -S, --strict-policy
               Apply a strict ACL policy.

       -?, --help
               Display a help list.

       --usage
               Display a short usage message.

       -V, --version
               Display program version.

SEE ALSO
       talk(1), write(1)

HISTORY
       The talkd command appeared in 4.3BSD.

GNU Network Utilities                                                                         February 9, 2019                                                                                     talkd(8)
