DETOX(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 DETOX(1)

NAME
     inline-detox — clean up filenames (stream-based)

SYNOPSIS
     inline-detox [-hnLrv] [-s sequence] [-f configfile] file ...

DESCRIPTION
     The inline-detox utility can remove spaces and other such annoyances from
     streams.  It'll also translate or cleanup Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1) characters
     encoded in 8-bit ASCII, Unicode characters encoded in UTF-8, and CGI es‐
     caped characters.  Basically it's detox, but does not operate on files.

   Sequences
     inline-detox is driven by a configurable series of filters, called a se‐
     quence.  Sequences are covered in more detail in detoxrc(5) and are dis‐
     coverable with the -L option.  Some examples of default sequences are
     iso8859_1 and utf_8.

   Options
     The main options:

     -f configfile
                 Use configfile instead of the default configuration files for
                 loading translation sequences.  No other config file will be
                 parsed.

     -h --help   Display helpful information.

     -L          List the currently available sequences.  When paired with -v
                 this option shows what filters are used in each sequence and
                 any properties applied to the filters.

     -r          Recurse into subdirectories.

     -s sequence
                 Use sequence instead of default.

     -v          Be verbose about which files are being renamed.

     -V          Show the current version of inline-detox.

   Deprecated Options
     Deprecated Options are options that were available in earlier versions of
     inline-detox but have lost their meaning and are being phased out.

     --remove-trailing
                 Removes _ and - after .'s in filenames.  This was first pro‐
                 vided in the 0.9 series of inline-detox.  After the introduc‐
                 tion of sequences, it lost its meaning, as you could now de‐
                 termine the properties of wipeup through a particular se‐
                 quence's configuration.  It presently forces all instances of
                 the wipeup filter to use remove trailing, regardless of
                 what's actually in the config files.

FILES
     detoxrc        The system-wide detoxrc file.
     ~/.detoxrc     A user's personal detoxrc.  Normally it extends the sys‐
                    tem-wide detoxrc, unless -f has been specified, in which
                    case, it is ignored.
     iso8859_1.tbl  The default ISO 8859-1 translation table.
     unicode.tbl    The default Unicode (UTF-8) translation table.

EXAMPLES
     echo Foo Bar | inline-detox -s iso8859_1 -v
                 Will run the sequence iso8859_1 listing any changes and re‐
                 turning the result to STDOUT.

SEE ALSO
     detox(1), detoxrc(5), detox.tbl(5).

HISTORY
     detox was originally designed to clean up files that I had received from
     friends which had been created using other operating systems.  It's triv‐
     ial to create a filename with spaces, parenthesis, brackets, and amper‐
     sands under some operating systems.  These have special meaning within
     FreeBSD and Linux, and cause problems when you go to access them.  I cre‐
     ated inline-detox to clean up these files.

AUTHORS
     inline-detox was written by Doug Harple.

BUGS
     Long options don't work under Solaris or Darwin.

     An error in the config file will cause a segfault as it's going to print
     the offending word within the config file.

BSD                            February 11, 2021                           BSD
