INEWS(1)                                                          InterNetNews Documentation                                                         INEWS(1)

NAME
       inews - Post an article to a news server

SYNOPSIS
       inews [-ADEhHILNOPRSvVWXY] [-acdefFimnorstwx value] [-p port] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       inews reads a Usenet news article, perhaps with headers, from file or standard input if no file is given.  It adds some header fields and performs
       some consistency checks.  If the article does not meet those checks, the article is rejected.  If it passes the checks, inews sends the article to the
       news server specified in the server parameter in inn.conf or overridden by the "NNTPSERVER" environment variable when running inews.

       inews submits articles via POST and is suitable for posting articles that have not already been injecting into Usenet.  Submitting articles received
       from other sources should generally use rnews(1) instead.

       By default, if a file named .signature exists in the home directory of the posting user, it is appended to the post, preceded by a line that contains
       only "-- ".  Signatures are not allowed to be more than four lines long.

       Control messages other than cancel messages are only allowed if inews is being run by the news user or by a user in the news group and if the control
       message is recognized.  If the article contains a Distribution header field with a distribution that matches one of the bad distribution patterns in
       inn/options.h (anything containing a period by default), the message will be rejected.  The message will also be rejected if checkincludedtext is true
       in inn.conf, it contains more quoted text than original text, and it is over 40 lines long.

       If not provided, the Path header field body will be "not-for-mail".  If -x is given, its value will be added to the beginning of the Path header
       field.  You may for instance want to add a special "path-identity" value related to the host running inews, which will appear as
       "path-identity!not-for-mail" in the Path header field.

       If posting fails, a copy of the failed post will be saved in a file named dead.article in the home directory of the user running inews.  inews exits
       with a non-zero status if posting failed or with a zero status if posting was successful.

OPTIONS
       Most of the options to inews take a single value and set the corresponding header field body in the message that is posted.  If the value is more than
       one word or contains any shell metacharacters, it must be quoted to protect it from the shell.  Here are all the options that set header fields and
       the corresponding header field body:

           -a  Approved
           -c  Control
           -d  Distribution
           -e  Expires
           -F  References
           -f  From
           -m  Message-ID
           -n  Newsgroups
           -o  Organization
           -r  Reply-To
           -t  Subject
           -w  Followup-To
           -x  Path (prefix)

       The -x argument will be added to the beginning of the normal Path header field body; it will not replace it contrary to what other options do.  This
       behaviour is historical, and was first implemented in the inews program shipped with B News (the original meaning of -x was to say not to forward the
       article to a specified site).

       -A, -V, -W
           Accepted for compatibility with C News.  These options have no effect.

       -i, -I, -L, -s, -v, -X
           Accepted for compatibility with tinews.pl, shipped with the news reader tin.  These options have no effect.

       -D, -N
           Perform  the  consistency  checks and add header fields where appropriate, but then print the article to standard output rather than sending it to
           the server.  -N is accepted as a synonym for compatibility with C News.

       -E  If the article is empty (that is to say with no body), inews bails out with an error.  When -E is used,  inews  will  just  silently  discard  the
           message and exit.

           Note that control messages with no body are not rejected.

       -h  Normally, this flag should always be given.  It indicates that the article consists of headers, a blank line, and then the message body.  If it is
           omitted,  the  input  is taken to be just the body of the message, and any desired header fields have to be specified with command-line options as
           described above.

       -H  Print to standard output a help message.

       -O  By default, an Organization header field will be added if none is present in the article.  To prevent adding the  default  (from  organization  in
           inn.conf), use this flag.

       -p port
           Connect to the specified port on the server rather than to the default (port 119).

       -P  inews  computes a sender address with the username of the user running inews and the hostname of the news server.  It represents the actual poster
           of the article.

           By default, a Sender header field will be added with that value if none is present in the article or if the From header field is not  already  set
           to that value.  Moreover, if a Sender header field is already present, it will be replaced with that value.

           To prevent adding or overwriting the Sender header field, use this flag.

       -R  Reject all control messages.

       -S  Do not attempt to append ~/.signature to the message, even if it exists.

       -Y  By default, inews authenticates to the remote news server only if asked to, or if the initial NNTP banner corresponds to a state in which postings
           are not allowed.  Using this flag leads inews to always authenticate, even if not asked to.

EXAMPLES
       The following examples show how to post an article with headers and body, separated by a blank line, written in a file named article.

       To  post  it  to the news server set in the server parameter of inn.conf (which can be "localhost" if it is the local server), without adding a Sender
       header field:

           inews -h -P < article

       To force "news.uu.net" as the server to send the article to:

          NNTPSERVER=news.uu.net inews -h -P < article

       For testing purpose, to see the article that will be posted, without actually sending it but only writing it to the standard output:

           inews -h -P -D < article

       If article only contains a message without headers, you may use:

           inews -t 'Hello' -n misc.test -f 'Bob <bob@uu.net>' -P < article

NOTES
       If the NNTP server requests authentication, inews will try to read passwd.nntp to get the username and password to use and will  therefore  need  read
       access  to  that file.  This is typically done by making that file group-readable and adding all users who should be able to use inews to post to that
       server to the appropriate group.

       inews used to do even more than it does now, and all of the remaining checks that are not dependent on the  user  running  inews  should  probably  be
       removed in favor of letting the news server handle them.

       Since  INN's  inews  uses  inn.conf and some other corners of an INN installation, it's not very appropriate as a general standalone inews program for
       general use on a system that's not running a news server.  Other, more suitable versions of inews are available as part of various Unix  news  clients
       or  by  themselves.   We  try to keep compatibility with the flags other implementations use (like C News, inews-xt, and the still actively maintained
       tinews.pl shipped with the news reader tin or downloadable from <http://bzr.tin.org/tools/tinews.pl> for a standalone use).

HISTORY
       Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten in POD by Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>.

SEE ALSO
       inn.conf(5), passwd.nntp(5), rnews(1).

INN 2.7.4                                                                 2026-01-22                                                                 INEWS(1)
