NNTPGET(1)                                                        InterNetNews Documentation                                                       NNTPGET(1)

NAME
       nntpget - Get Usenet articles from a remote NNTP server

SYNOPSIS
       nntpget [-ov] [-f file] [-n newsgroups] [-t timestring] [-u file] host

DESCRIPTION
       nntpget connects to the NNTP server at the specified host and retrieves articles from it.  The Message-IDs of the desired articles are read from
       standard input.  The articles are sent to standard output.

       Instead of reading Message-IDs from standard output, the -f, -n, -t and -u options make use of the "NEWNEWS" command, which may not be available on
       the remote server.  Only one of the -f, -t or -u option may be given at the same time; -n can be specified only if one of the other three options is
       in use.

       If authentication credentials are present for the remote server in the passwd.nntp file in pathetc, then nntpget will use them to authenticate.

OPTIONS
       -f file
           The  list  of  article Message-IDs is normally read from standard input.  If this option is used, then a "NEWNEWS" command is used to retrieve all
           articles newer than the modification date of the specified file.

       -n newsgroups
           If either the -f, -t or -u options are used, then this option may be used to limit the responses to only the newsgroups (if any) whose names match
           the list.  The default is "*", that is to say all newsgroups are wanted.

           The newsgroups list can contain several patterns and wildmat characters.  For instance "misc.*,!*.test" is a valid list that will be given to  the
           "NEWNEWS" command.

       -o  This option may be used only if the command is executed on the host where the innd server is running.  If this option is used, nntpget connects to
           the  specified  remote  host to retrieve articles.  Any article not present in the local history database is then fetched from the remote site and
           offered to the local server.

           Articles are not written to standard output.  Only processed Message-IDs are, if the -v option is also used.

       -t timestring
           If this option is used, then the specified timestring is used as the time and date parameter to the "NEWNEWS" command.  Only the articles  arrived
           in the remote server since that timestamp are retrieved.

           The  timestring  is  specified as "yyyymmdd hhmmss GMT" where "yyyy" is the year, "mm" the month, "dd" the day of the month, "hh" the hours in the
           24-hour clock, "mm" the minutes, and "ss" the seconds.  The token "GMT" specifies that the date and time are given in Coordinated Universal Time.

       -u file
           This option is like -f except that if the transfer succeeds, the file will be updated with a statistics line, modifying its timestamp so  that  it
           can be used in later invocations.

       -v  If this option is used with -o, then the Message-ID of each article will be sent to standard output as it is processed.

HISTORY
       Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten into POD by Julien Elie.

SEE ALSO
       innd(8), passwd.nntp(5).

INN 2.7.4                                                                 2026-01-22                                                               NNTPGET(1)
