INOTICOMING(1)                                                                                  INOTICOMING                                                                                  INOTICOMING(1)

NAME
       inoticoming - trigger actions when files hit an incoming directory

SYNOPSIS
       inoticoming [ global-options ] directory actions*

DESCRIPTION
       Inoticoming is a daemon to watch a directory with Linux's inotify framework and trigger actions once files with specific names are placed in there.

       For example it can be used to wait for .changes files uploaded into a directory and call reprepro to put them into your repository.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       --foreground
              Do not fork, but stay in the foreground and log to stderr.

       --logfile filename
              After forking in the background, log to the specified filename instead of syslog.

       --pid-file filename
              Write the pid of the running instance into filename.

       --initialsearch
              First  search  the  directory for files already existing and process them with the given rules as if they just appeared.  If files show up in this inital phase, they may be processed twice,
              but should never be missed.  (Unless they are too many and the inotify queue overflows).

ACTIONS
       Each action description is an optional list of options for this action (which files to call it for, what directory to change into before executing it, ...), followed by the command and  its  argu‐
       ments ended with a single ; as argument. Like:
       inoticoming  --foreground  / --regexp ^v echo There appeared {} in the root directory. \; (Note that the \ before the ; is needed if and only if you calling it from a shell or anything else inter‐
       preting the ; on its own).

   ACTION OPTIONS
       --prefix string
              Only trigger this action, if the filename starts with the specified string.

       --suffix string
              Only trigger this action, if the filename ends with the specified string.

       --regexp regular expression
              Only trigger this action, if the filename matches the specified regular expression.

       --chdir directory
              Change into directory before executing the specified commands.  (Note that since it is a well-behaved daemon, its working directory is / which will be inherited by all actions).

       --stdout-to-log
              Redirect the command's output (stdout) to the logfile.

       --stderr-to-log
              Redirect the command's error output (stderr) to the logfile.

EXAMPLES
       inoticoming --logfile logs/ilog --pid-file pid $INCOMINGDIR --suffix .changes --stderr-to-log reprepro -s -b $REPREPROBASEDIR --waitforlock 1000 processincoming rulename {} \;
              This will call reprepro for every new .changes file.  Note that giving {} as argument to processincoming (which inoticoming will replace with the filename) so that only that  .changes  file
              is processed and reprepro will not complain about a possible other yet incomplete .changes file is only available starting with reprepro version 2.2.2.

PROBLEMS
       There is no handling of queue overflows yet.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs or wishlist requests to the Debian BTS
       (e.g. by using reportbug inoticoming under Debian)
       or directly to <brlink@debian.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007 Bernhard R. Link
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

inoticoming                                                                                      2007-08-18                                                                                  INOTICOMING(1)
