CONVICKT(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               CONVICKT(1)

NAME
       convickt - convert INTERCAL files between formats

SYNOPSIS
       convickt incharset outcharset [paddingrule [arrayname]]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page describes the convickt command.  Fuller documentation is available via the command info convickt

       convickt converts INTERCAL programs from one character set to another; it takes input from standard input and sends its output to standard output.

OPTIONS
       For incharset and outcharset

       atari  Interpret the input as being ASCII-7 Atari syntax INTERCAL, as is used by the Atari INTERCAL-72 compiler, J-INTERCAL, and C-INTERCAL default syntax, or output in that syntax.

       baudot Interpret the input as being in CLC-INTERCAL's extended Baudot syntax, or output in that syntax.

       ebcdic Interpret the input as being in the CLC-INTERCAL dialect of EBCDIC, or output in that syntax.

       latin1 Interpret the input as being Latin-1 Princeton syntax INTERCAL, as is used by default by CLC-INTERCAL and also readable by C-INTERCAL with the -X switch, or output in that syntax.

       For paddingrule

       zero   Pad the irrelevant bits in ASCII-7 and Baudot output with zeros.

       printable
              Set  the  values  of the irrelevant bits in ASCII-7 and Baudot output to try to cause the output to stay within character range 32-126. This option is the default. (Note that paddingrule is
              irrelevant for 8-bit character sets like Latin-1 and EBCDIC).

       random Pad the irrelevant bits in ASCII-7 and Baudot output with random data, except that outputing an all-bits-zero octet is avoided.

CAVEATS
       Not all conversions are possible, due to the character sets having different characters available. In most cases, an unconvertible or invalid character will be converted to a 0  (padded  appropri‐
       ately);  the exception is that if a tab cannot be converted, it will instead be converted to a single space (so that INTERCAL programs still run if converted to Baudot). Using atari as an input or
       output character set will literally convert characters which differ between Atari and Princeton syntax without checking to see whether they are being used as operators or not.

       If arrayname is given, then instead of outputting the converted text literally, it will be output as portable (that is, legal in INTERCAL-72, C-INTERCAL, J-INTERCAL and CLC-INTERCAL) INTERCAL that
       dimensions the tail array given as arrayname and assigns each byte of the output to an element of that array; this is mostly useful for producing Baudot text for CLC-INTERCAL-style array IO.

AUTHOR
       convickt and this manual page were written by Alex Smith.

                                                                                                                                                                                                CONVICKT(1)
