ipactl(8)                      IPA Manual Pages                      ipactl(8)

NAME
       ipactl - IPA Server Control Interface

SYNOPSIS
       ipactl command

DESCRIPTION
       A tool to help an administer control an IPA environment.

       IPA glues several discrete services together to work in concert and the
       order that these services are started and stopped is important.  ipactl
       ensures that they are started and stopped in the correct order.

       IPA  stores  the  available masters and the services configured on each
       one. The first thing ipactl does is start (if it is  not  already  run‐
       ning)  the  IPA 389-ds instance to query what services it controls. The
       hostname used in the query needs to match the  hostname  of  the  value
       stored  in  LDAP.  This  can  be  controlled  with  the  host option in
       /etc/ipa/default.conf. This should be a fully-qualified hostname.

OPTIONS
       start  Start all of the services that make up IPA

       stop   Stop all of the services that make up IPA

       restart
              Stop then start all of the services that make up IPA

       status Provides status of all the services that make up IPA

       -d, --debug
              Display debugging information

       --skip-version-check
              Skip version check

       --ignore-service-failures
              If any service start fails, do not rollback the  services,  con‐
              tinue with the operation

       -f, --force
              Force  IPA  to  start.  Combine options --skip-version-check and
              --ignore-service-failures

EXIT STATUS
       All actions except status:

       0 success

       1 a generic error occurred

       2 unknown or invalid argument(s)

       4 user has insufficient privilege

       6 IPA server is not configured

       For the status action:

       0 service is running

       3 service is not running

       4 service status is unknown (or unconfigured)

       If not executed as root then the status action will return 4 for insuf‐
       ficient privileges.

       Some  services are socket activated and may show as STOPPED by the sta‐
       tus action. These services include ipa-ods-exporter and ipa-otpd.

IPA                               Mar 14 2008                        ipactl(8)
