IPETOIPE(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 IPETOIPE(1)

NAME
       ipetoipe - Convert between Ipe file formats

SYNOPSIS
       ipetoipe ( -pdf | -xml ) { options } input-file [ output-file ]

DESCRIPTION
       ipetoipe converts between the two Ipe file formats XML and PDF.  Options are:

       -pdf   convert to PDF format

       -xml   convert to XML format

       -export
              do not include Ipe markup in the output file.
              Warning: this means that Ipe will not be able to read the resulting output file.

       -pages from-to
              restrict exporting to PDF to this page range.  This implies  the -export option.

       -view page-view
              only export this single view from the document.  This implies  the -export option.

       -markedview
              create a PDF page only for the marked views of marked Ipe pages. This is for instance convenient for making handouts for slides used in a presentation. This implies the -export option.

       -runlatex
              run Latex even for XML output. This has the effect of including the dimensions of each text object in the XML file.

       -nozip do not compress streams in PDF or Postscript output.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       ipetoipe respects the following environment variables:

       IPELATEXDIR
              the directory where ipetoipe runs Pdflatex.

       IPELATEXPATH
              the directory containing pdflatex and xelatex.  If not set, they are searched for on the path.

       IPEDEBUG
              set this to 1 for debugging output.

AUTHOR
       Otfried Cheong

REPORTING BUGS
       Please report bugs using Ipe bugzilla at http://ipe.otfried.org/bugzilla.html

SEE ALSO
       Ipe is documented fully in The Ipe Manual, which is available online at http://ipe.otfried.org/manual/manual.html .

                                                                                                 June 27, 2009                                                                                      IPETOIPE(1)
