ipmiconsole(8)                                                                                  System Commands                                                                                  ipmiconsole(8)

NAME
       ipmiconsole - IPMI console utility

SYNOPSIS
       ipmiconsole [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       ipmiconsole  is  a  Serial-over-LAN  (SOL)  console  utility.  It  can be used to establish console sessions to remote machines using the IPMI 2.0 SOL protocol.  Ipmiconsole communicates with a remote
       machine's Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) to establish a console session. Before any SOL communication can take place, the remote machine's BMC must be configured properly.   The  FreeIPMI  tool
       ipmi-config(8) may be used to do this configuration.

       Often  (although  not  always), console redirection must be also be configured properly in the BIOS and/or operating system. Both must be configured to redirect console traffic out the appropriate COM
       port.  Please see your motherboard and OS documentation for instructions on proper setup.

       Listed below are general IPMI options, tool specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For  a  general  introduction  to  FreeIPMI  please  see
       freeipmi(7).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -h IPMIHOST, --hostname=IPMIHOST[:PORT]
              Specify  the  remote  host  to communicate with. An optional port can be specified, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations. If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the
              format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u, --username=USERNAME
              Specify the username to use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must a high enough privilege to  establish  a  SOL
              session and have SOL session abilities.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 60000 milliseconds (60 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 500 milliseconds (0.5 seconds) if not specified.

       -I, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion  algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The user should be aware that only cipher suite ids 3, 8, and 12  encrypt  console  payloads.
              Console information will be sent in the clear if an alternate cipher suite id is selected. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to ADMIN if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  workarounds  to  vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds (may be useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMICONSOLE OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmiconsole.

       -e CHAR, --escape-char=CHAR
              Specify an alternate escape character (default char '&').

       --dont-steal
              Do not steal an SOL session if one is already detected as being in use. Under most circumstances, if SOL is detected as being in use, ipmiconsole will attempt to steal the SOL session away from
              the previous session.  This default behavior exists for several reasons, most notably that earlier SOL sessions may have not been able to be deactivate properly.

       --deactivate
              Deactivate SOL session if one is detected as being in use and exit.

       --serial-keepalive
              Occasionally  send NUL characters to detect inactive serial connections. This option is particularly useful for those who intend to run ipmiconsole without much interaction, such as for logging
              purposes. While IPMI connections may still be alive, some motherboards have exhibited bugs in which underlying serial data can no longer be sent/received. From  the  viewpoint  of  ipmiconsole,
              data is simply not be sent out of the remote system and this problem is only detected once there is user interaction. By sending the occasional NUL character, the underlying loss of serial data
              transfer can be detected far more quickly. There is some risk with this option, as the NUL character byte may affect the remote system depending on what data it may or may not be expecting.

       --serial-keepalive-empty
              This option is identical to --serial-keepalive except that SOL packets will contain no NUL character data. On some motherboards, this may be sufficient to deal with a hanging IPMI session with‐
              out the risk of regularly sending a NUL character byte may have. However, some systems may not ACK a SOL packet without character data in it, meaning these keepalive packets do nothing.

       --sol-payload-instance=NUM
              Specify the SOL payload instance number. The default value is 1, valid values range from 1 to 15. Most systems only support a single instance, however a few allow users to access multiple.

       --deactivate-all-instances
              When used along with the --deactivate option, will deactivate all active SOL instances instead of just the currently configured payload instance.

       --lock-memory
              Lock sensitive information (such as usernames and passwords) in memory.

       --debugfile
              Output debugging to files in current directory rather than to standard output.

ESCAPE CHARACTERS
       The following escape sequences are supported. The default supported escape character is '&', but can be changed with the -e option.

       &?     Display a list of currently available escape sequences.

       &.     Terminate the connection.

       &B     Send a "serial-break" to the remote console.

       &D     Send a DEL character.

       &&     Send a single escape character.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI  over  LAN  problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP address, MAC address,
       subnet mask, username, user enablement, user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check  to  make  sure  the  cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password  verification  timeout"  - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During this point in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege level insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may  require  authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege  level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication type unavailable for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again  with  an  alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher  suite  id  unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also be possible the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session  timeout"  -  The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are considerably slower than
       others.

       "internal IPMI error" - An IPMI error has occurred that FreeIPMI does not know how to handle. Please e-mail <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> to report the issue.

IPMICONSOLE TROUBLESHOOTING
       The following are common issues for error messages in ipmiconsole.

       "SOL unavailable" - SOL is not configured for use on the remote BMC.  It may be not configured in general or for the specific user specified. Authenticating with a different user  may  be  sufficient,
       however the IPMI protocol does not reveal detail on what is not configured on the remote BMC.

       "SOL  in use" - SOL is already in use on the remote BMC. If you do not specify the --dont-steal option, ipmiconsole will attempt to steal the SOL session away from the other session. Not all BMCs sup‐
       port the ability to steal away a SOL session.

       "SOL session stolen" - Your SOL session has been stolen by another session. You may wish to try and steal the session back by reconnecting.

       "SOL requires encryption" - SOL requires a cipher suite id that includes encryption. Please try to use cipher suite id 3, 8, or 12.  It may also be possible the encryption requirements are not config‐
       ured correctly on the remote BMC.

       "SOL  requires no encryption" - SOL requires a cipher suite id that does not use encryption. Please try to use cipher suite id 0, 1, 2, 6, 7, or 11. It may also be possible the encryption requirements
       are not configured correctly on the remote BMC.

       "BMC Implementation" - The BMC on the remote machine has a severe problem in its implementation. Please see the WORKAROUNDS section below for possible workarounds. If additional vendor workarounds are
       required, please contact the authors.

       "excess  retransmissions  sent"  -  An  excessive  number of retransmissions of SOL packets has occurred and ipmiconsole has given up. This may be due to network issues or SOL issues. Some of the same
       issues involved with "connection timeout" or "session timeout" errors may be involved.  Please try to reconnect.

       "excess errors received" - An excessive number of SOL packet errors has occurred and ipmiconsole has given up. This may be due to network issues or SOL issues.  Please try to reconnect.

       "BMC Error" - This error usually means a vendor SOL implementation requires a combination of authentication, encryption, privilege, etc. that have not been met by the user's  choices.   Please  try  a
       combination of different cipher suites, privileges, etc. to resolve the problem. Please see the WORKAROUNDS section below for possible workarounds too.

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able to handle discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify  a  workaround  be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit the same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard  is  not
       listed.

       If  you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       authcap - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple  issues
       in  which  the  remote  system  does  not  properly  report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "authentication type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due  to  implementation
       errors,  but  the  packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely to be an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       intel20  -  This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the authentication algorithm
       is HMAC-MD5-128. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management  Module  (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20  -  This  workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include handling invalid length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20 - This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid  cipher  suite
       records.  Those  hitting  this  issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround automatically includes the "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv - This workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege  level  sent  during
       the  Open  Session  stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid",
       "k_g invalid", or "bad rmcpplus status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro  X8DTH,  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Intel  S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue  - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should be
       0 length, however the remote motherboard responds with a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue  observed  on  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Supermicro  X8DTU,  and  Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       solpayloadsize  -  This workaround flag will not check for valid SOL payload sizes and assume a proper set. It works around remote systems that report invalid IPMI 2.0 SOL payload sizes. Those hitting
       this issue may see "BMC Implementation" errors. Issue observed on Asus P5M2/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Sun x4100, Supermicro X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG,  Supermicro
       X8DTU, and Quanta QSSC-S4R//Appro GB812X-CN.

       solport  -  This workaround flag will ignore alternate SOL ports specified during the protocol. It works around remote systems that report invalid alternate SOL ports. Those hitting this issue may see
       "connection timeout" errors. Issue observed on Asus P5MT-R and Supermicro X8DTH-iF.

       solstatus - This workaround flag will not check the current activation status of SOL during the protocol setup. It works around remote systems that do not properly support this command. Those  hitting
       this issue may see "BMC Error" errors. Issue observed on Supermicro X8SIL-F.

       solchannelsupport  -  This workaround flag will not check if SOL is supported on the current channel. It works around remote systems that do not properly support this command. Those hitting this issue
       may see "BMC Error" errors. Issue observed on Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill

       serialalertsdeferred - This workaround option will set serial alerts to be deferred instead of have them be failures. This works around motherboards that perform  IPMI  over  serial  along  with  IPMI
       serial over LAN. Those hitting this issue may see "excess retransmissions sent" when they attempt to input data via SOL.  Issue observed on Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       solpacketseq  -  This  workaround  option will increment the SOL payload packet sequence number under dire circumstances. Normally SOL should never do this, however some motherboards have shown to get
       "stuck" due to an internal bug on the motherboard. This workaround can help in getting the BMC un-stuck. Those hitting this issue may see "excess retransmissions sent" when they attempt to input  data
       via SOL. Issue observed on Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On  older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In  order  to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up" to pass
       before you may authenticate again.

       Some motherboards define an OEM SOL inactivity timeout for SOL sessions. If SOL sessions stay inactive for long periods of time, ipmiconsole sessions may be abruptly closed, most likely  resulting  in
       session timeout errors. Please see OEM notes for information on modifying this parameter if you wish for sessions to stay active longer.

SPECIFIC HARDWARE NOTES
       Intel  SR1520ML/X38ML: After a reboot, the SOL session appears to "disconnect" from the motherboard but stay alive.  Character data input from the ipmiconsole client is accepted by the remote machine,
       but no character data or console data is ever sent back from the remote machine. The SOL session is subsequently useless. There is currently no workaround in place to handle this. The session must  be
       closed and restarted.

EXAMPLES
       # ipmiconsole -h ahost -u myusername -p mypassword

       Establish a console session with a remote host.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
       Copyright (C) 2006-2007 The Regents of the University of California.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi.conf(5), freeipmi(7), ipmi-config(8)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

ipmiconsole 1.6.8                                                                                  2021-05-20                                                                                    ipmiconsole(8)
