ipmiseld(8)                                                                                         ipmiseld                                                                                        ipmiseld(8)

NAME
       ipmiseld - IPMI SEL logging daemon

SYNOPSIS
       ipmiseld [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  ipmiseld  daemon polls the system event log (SEL) of specified hosts and stores the logs into the local syslog. By default, the daemon can also make best efforts to manage the remote SEL's buffer
       to ensure events are never lost. Recent logging data will be cached to disk to ensure that SEL events are not missed in the event the client or server is rebooted.

       Many of the options for this daemon are very similar to the ipmi-sel(8) tool. It can be configured to log the local host, a remote host, or a range of hosts to the local syslog. It can  be  configured
       via the command line arguments listed below or via the /etc/freeipmi//ipmiseld.conf configuration file.

       Listed  below  are  general  IPMI  options,  tool  specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For a general introduction to FreeIPMI please see
       freeipmi(7).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify the driver type to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI  2.0  respectively.  The  cur‐
              rently available inband drivers are KCS, SSIF, OPENIPMI, SUNBMC, and INTELDCMI.

       --disable-auto-probe
              Do not probe in-band IPMI devices for default settings.

       --driver-address=DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver address to be used instead of the probed value. DRIVER-ADDRESS should be prefixed with "0x" for a hex value and '0' for an octal value.

       --driver-device=DEVICE
              Specify the in-band driver device path to be used instead of the probed path.

       --register-spacing=REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the in-band driver register spacing instead of the probed value. Argument is in bytes (i.e. 32bit register spacing = 4)

       --target-channel-number=CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the in-band driver target channel number to send IPMI requests to.

       --target-slave-address=SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver target slave number to send IPMI requests to.

       -h IPMIHOST1,IPMIHOST2,..., --hostname=IPMIHOST1[:PORT],IPMIHOST2[:PORT],...
              Specify  the remote host(s) to communicate with. Multiple hostnames may be separated by comma or may be specified in a range format; see HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below. An optional port can be speci‐
              fied with each host, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations.  If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify the username to use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast USER  privileges  in  order  for
              this tool to operate fully.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 1000 milliseconds (1 second) if not specified. The retransmission timeout cannot be larger than the session timeout.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion  algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to OPERATOR if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify workarounds to vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds  (may  be  useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMISELD OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmiseld.

       -v     Log  verbose  information. This option will log additional information.  Most notably it will output additional hex codes to given information on ambiguous SEL entries or SEL records. For exam‐
              ple, it will output Generator ID hex codes for sensors without names. Additional non-critical SEL errors or issues will also be logged. Somewhat common errors, such as timeouts or invalid host‐
              names, will output with increased verbosity.

       -t SENSOR-TYPE-LIST, --sensor-types=SENSOR-TYPE-LIST
              Specify  sensor  types of SEL events to log. By default, all sensor types are logged. A special command line type of "all", will indicate all types should be shown (may be useful for overriding
              configured defaults). Multiple types can be separated by commas or spaces.  Users may specify sensor types by string (see --list-sensor-types in ipmi-sel(8)) or by number (decimal or hex).

       -T SENSOR-TYPE-LIST, --exclude-sensor-types=SENSOR-TYPE-LIST
              Specify sensor types of SEL events to not log. By default, no sensor types are filtered. A special command line type of "none", will indicate no types should be  excluded  (may  be  useful  for
              overriding  configured defaults). Multiple types can be separated by commas or spaces. Users may specify sensor types by string (see --list-sensor-types in ipmi-sel(8)) or by number (decimal or
              hex).

       --system-event-only
              Log only system event records (i.e. don't log OEM records).

       --oem-event-only
              Log only OEM event records (i.e. don't log system event records).

       --event-state-config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate event state configuration file.

       --interpret-oem-data
              Attempt to interpret OEM data, such as event data, sensor readings, or general extra info, etc. If an OEM interpretation is not available, the default output will be generated.  Correctness  of
              OEM  interpretations  cannot be guaranteed due to potential changes OEM vendors may make in products, firmware, etc. See OEM INTERPRETATION below for confirmed supported motherboard interpreta‐
              tions.

       --entity-sensor-names
              Output sensor names prefixed with their entity id and instance number when appropriate. This may be necessary on some motherboards to help identify what sensors are referencing. For example,  a
              motherboard may have multiple sensors named 'TEMP'. The entity id and instance number may help clarify which sensor refers to "Processor 1" vs. "Processor 2".

       --non-abbreviated-units
              Output non-abbreviated units (e.g. 'Amps' instead of 'A'). May aid in disambiguation of units (e.g. 'C' for Celsius or Coulombs).

       --event-state-filter=FILTERSTRING
              Specify  event  states  to  be  filtered out and not logged. Possible inputs are NOMINAL, WARNING, CRITICAL, and NA. Multiple states can be listed separated by comma. The special case string of
              "none" will indicate no event states should be excluded (may be useful for overriding configured defaults).

       --warning-threshold=PERCENTINT
              Specify SEL fullness warning threshold as an integer percentage. When the SEL is past this percentage full, a warning will be output indicating that SEL is nearly full.  Specify  0  to  disable
              warning logs. Defaults to 80.

       --clear-threshold=PERCENTINT
              Specify  SEL fullness clear threshold as an integer percentage. When the SEL is past this percentage full, ipmiseld will attempt to clear the SEL. Specify 0 to disable clearing. When the SEL is
              full, it will be the responsibility of the user to clear the SEL manually if clearing is disabled. Defaults to 0. If specified to a non-zero value, be careful that the clearing of the SEL could
              affect other applications that monitor the SEL, such as monitoring applications that use ipmi-sel(8) or libipmimonitoring(3).

       --system-event-format=FORMATSTRING
              Specify the format of the log output when a SEL system event is encountered. Defaults to "SEL System Event: %d, %t, %s, %I, %E" if logging locally, "SEL System Event(%h): %d, %t, %s, %I, %E" if
              logging outofband or with hostranges. See SEL LOG FORMAT STRING below for formatting details.

       --oem-timestamped-event-format=FORMATSTRING
              Specify the format of the log output when a SEL OEM timestamped event is encountered. Defaults to "SEL OEM Event: %d, %t, %I, %o" if logging locally, "SEL OEM Event(%h): %d, %t, %I, %o" if log‐
              ging outofband or with hostranges.. See SEL LOG FORMAT STRING below for formatting details.

       --oem-non-timestamped-event-format=FORMATSTRING
              Specify  the  format of the log output when a SEL OEM non-timestamped event is encountered. Defaults to "SEL OEM Event: %I, %o" if logging locally, "SEL OEM Event(%h): %I, %o" if logging outof‐
              band or with hostranges.. See SEL LOG FORMAT STRING below for formatting details.

       --poll-interval=SECONDS
              Specify the poll interval to check the SEL for new events. Defaults to 300 seconds (i.e. 5 minutes).

       --log-facility=STRING
              Specify the log facility to use. Defaults to LOG_DAEMON. Legal inputs are LOG_DAEMON, LOG_USER, LOG_LOCAL0, LOG_LOCAL1, LOG_LOCAL2, LOG_LOCAL3, LOG_LOCAL4, LOG_LOCAL5, LOG_LOCAL6, LOG_LOCAL7.

       --log-priority=STRING
              Specify the log priority to use. Defaults to LOG_ERR. Legal inputs are LOG_EMERG, LOG_ALERT, LOG_CRIT, LOG_ERR, LOG_WARNING, LOG_NOTICE, LOG_INFO, LOG_DEBUG.

       --cache-directory=DIRECTORY
              Specify an alternate cache directory location for ipmiseld to use. The cache directory will be used to cache a wide variety of data, including the SDR and recent logging information  to  ensure
              log entries are not missed on reboots and other system failures.

       --ignore-sdr
              Ignore  SDR  related  processing.  May lead to incomplete or less useful information being output, however it will allow functionality for systems without SDRs or when the correct SDR cannot be
              loaded.

       --re-download-sdr
              Re-download the SDR on start even if it is not out of date. This may help work around systems that do not properly timestamp SDR modification times.

       --clear-sel
              On startup, clear any SEL being monitored. May be useful the first time running ipmiseld to avoid warning messages or SEL clears until a long time in the future.

       --threadpool-count=NUM
              Specify the number of threads for parallel SEL polling. This option is very similar to the --fanout option in ipmi-sel(8) but the threads are created only once on initialization for faster pro‐
              cessing. Defaults to 8, however the threadpool count will always be decreased if the number of nodes specified is less than the number of threads.

       --test-run
              Do not daemonize, output the current SEL of configured hosts as a test of current settings and configuration. SEL entries will be output to stdout instead of syslog.

       --foreground
              Run daemon in the foreground. SEL entries will be output to stdout instead of syslog.

SEL LOG FORMAT STRING
       The  output  format  of log messages can be adjusted via the --system-event-format, --oem-timestamped-event-format and --oem-non-timestamped-event-format options. Options such as --interpret-oem-data,
       --entity-sensor-names, and --non-abbreviated-units can further adjust the output format. The following conversion directives will allow the user to output specifics of each SEL event that occurs.

       For System, OEM timestamped, and OEM non-timestamped events

       %h - target host, useful if logging from multiple hosts

       %i - record ID in decimal

       %I - event state interpretation (NOMINAL, WARNING, or CRITICAL)

       For System and OEM timestamped events

       %t - time in format H:M:S using 24 hour clock

       %d - date in format D-M-YEAR

       For System events

       %T - sensor type

       %s - sensor name

       %e - event data 1 string

       %f - event data 2 string [2]

       %h - event data 3 string

       %c - combined event data 2 and event data 3 string

       %p - event data 2 previous state string

       %S - event data 2 severity string

       %E - combined event data 1, 2, and 3 string

       %k - event direction

       For OEM timestamped events

       %m - manufacturer id

       For OEM timestamped and OEM non-timestamped events

       %o - oem data in hex

       %O - OEM supplied string describing the event (depends on manufacturer)

HOSTRANGED SUPPORT
       Multiple hosts can be input either as an explicit comma separated lists of hosts or a range of hostnames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc. The later form should not
       be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted by []). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This  range  syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could be specified
       as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:
           foo[01-05] instead of foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05
           foo[7,9-10] instead of foo7,foo9,foo10
           foo[0-3] instead of foo0,foo1,foo2,foo3

       As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ([ and ]) for pattern matching. Depending on your shell, it may be necessary to enclose ranged lists within quotes.

       In-band IPMI Communication will be used when the host "localhost" is specified. This allows the user to add the localhost into the hostranged output.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI over LAN problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP  address,  MAC  address,
       subnet  mask,  username,  user  enablement,  user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check to make sure the cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       Inband IPMI problems are typically caused by improperly configured drivers or non-standard BMCs.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password verification timeout" - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During  this  point  in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege  level  insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may require authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower  privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication  type  unavailable  for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again with an alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher suite id unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also  be  possible  the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session timeout" - The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are  considerably  slower  than
       others.

       "device not found" - The specified device could not be found. Please check configuration or inputs and try again.

       "driver timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "message timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "BMC busy" - The BMC is currently busy. It may be processing information or have too many simultaneous sessions to manage. Please wait and try again.

       "could not find inband device" - An inband device could not be found.  Please check configuration or specify specific device or driver on the command line.

       "driver timeout" - The inband driver has timed out communicating to the local BMC or service processor. The BMC or service processor may be busy or (worst case) possibly non-functioning.

       "internal IPMI error" - An IPMI error has occurred that FreeIPMI does not know how to handle. Please e-mail <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> to report the issue.

IPMISELD TROUBLESHOOTING
       Some  timestamps  in  the  SEL  may report a date of 1-Jan-1970, the epoch for SEL timestamps. This timestamp is not necessarily incorrect. It usually indicates a hardware event that occurred before a
       timestamp in firmware has been initialized. For example, certain hardware components will have their internal clocks reset during a power cycle.

       However, if the internal clock of the SEL appears to be regularly incorrect, you may need to set the SEL time. This can be done using bmc-device(8).

       The following are common SEL related messages.

       "sel config file parse error" - A parse error was found in the sel event interpretation configuration file. Please see freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf(5).

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able  to  handle  discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify a workaround be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit  the  same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard is not
       listed.

       If you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org>  or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       assumeio  - This workaround flag will assume inband interfaces communicate with system I/O rather than being memory-mapped. This will work around systems that report invalid base addresses. Those hit‐
       ting this issue may see "device not supported" or "could not find inband device" errors.  Issue observed on HP ProLiant DL145 G1.

       spinpoll - This workaround flag will inform some inband drivers (most notably the KCS driver) to spin while polling rather than putting the process to sleep. This may significantly  improve  the  wall
       clock  running time of tools because an operating system scheduler's granularity may be much larger than the time it takes to perform a single IPMI message transaction. However, by spinning, your sys‐
       tem may be performing less useful work by not contexting out the tool for a more useful task.

       authcap - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple  issues
       in  which  the  remote  system  does  not  properly  report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "authentication type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due  to  implementation
       errors,  but  the  packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely to be an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero  -  This  workaround  flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting this issue may see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth - This workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain  non-null  authentication  data
       when  they  should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed on newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg - This workaround flag will force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around  an  issue  when  per-message  authentication  is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq  -  This  workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that are the wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems  that  return  invalid  authentication
       codes  due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most organizations,
       this is unlikely to be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue  observed  on  Xyratex  FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20  -  This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the authentication algorithm
       is HMAC-MD5-128. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management  Module  (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20  -  This  workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include handling invalid length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20 - This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid  cipher  suite
       records.  Those  hitting  this  issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround automatically includes the "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv - This workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege  level  sent  during
       the  Open  Session  stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid",
       "k_g invalid", or "bad rmcpplus status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro  X8DTH,  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Intel  S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue  - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should be
       0 length, however the remote motherboard responds with a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue  observed  on  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Supermicro  X8DTU,  and  Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       assumesystemevent  -  This workaround option will assume invalid SEL record types are system event records. Records may be formatted correctly but report invalid record types. Those hitting this issue
       may see "Unknown SEL Record Type" errors. Output may be unknown, pray for the best. This option is confirmed to work around compliances issues on HP DL 380 G5 motherboards.

       No IPMI 1.5 Support - Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable"  or  "connection  timeout"  errors.  This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

OEM INTERPRETATION
       The following motherboards are confirmed to have atleast some support by the --interpret-oem-data option. While highly probable the OEM data interpretations would work across other motherboards by the
       same manufacturer, there are no guarantees. Some of the motherboards below may be rebranded by vendors/distributors.

       Dell Poweredge 2900, Dell Poweredge 2950, Dell Poweredge R610, Dell Poweredge R710, Fujitsu iRMC S1 and iRMC S2 systems, Intel S5500WB/Penguin Computing Relion 700,  Intel  S2600JF/Appro  512X,  Intel
       S5000PAL,  Inventec  5441/Dell  Xanadu  II,  Inventec 5442/Dell Xanadu III, Quanta S99Q/Dell FS12-TY, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, Sun X4140 Supermicro X7DBR-3, Supermicro X7DB8, Supermicro X8DTN,
       Supermicro X7SBI-LN4, Supermicro X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG, Supermicro X8DTU, Supermicro X8DT3-LN4F, Supermicro X8DTU-6+, Supermicro X8DTL, Supermicro X8DTL-3F,  Supermicro  X8SIL-F,  Supermicro  X9SCL,
       Supermicro  X9SCM, Supermicro X8DTN+-F, Supermicro X8SIE, Supermicro X9SCA-F-O, Supermicro H8DGU-F, Supermicro X9DRi-F, Supermicro X9DRI-LN4F+, Supermicro X9SPU-F-O, Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Wistron/Dell
       Poweredge C6220.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when  using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In order to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up"  to  pass
       before you may authenticate again.

FILES
       /etc/freeipmi//ipmiseld.conf /var/cache/ipmiseld/

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi(7), ipmi-sel(8), ipmiseld.conf(5), bmc-device(8), ipmi-config(8), freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf(5)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

ipmiseld 1.6.8                                                                                     2021-05-20                                                                                       ipmiseld(8)
