IPMI-CONFIG(8)                                                                                  System Commands                                                                                  IPMI-CONFIG(8)

NAME
       ipmi-config - configure IPMI values

SYNOPSIS
       ipmi-config [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       ipmi-config  is used to get and set configuration parameters in IPMI. In can be used to configured usernames, passwords, networking information, security, Serial-over-LAN (SOL), Platform Event Filter‐
       ing (PEF), boot devices, power restoration policy, sensor thresholds, sensor events, and many more configuration options.  Some configuration is typically required before most IPMI tools can  be  used
       to  access  a  machine  remotely.  By default, ipmi-config, will let you --checkout or --commit only the core IPMI values necessary for IPMI configuration. For additional advanced configuration fields
       related to Chassis configuration (including boot options), Platform Event Filtering (PEF), or Sensors, see the --category option below.  The majority of configuration operations require  ADMIN  privi‐
       lege  when  using ipmi-config out-of-band. Although connecting via a user with ADMIN privileges is not required for out-of-band use, the vast majority of configuration options will not be retrieved or
       set.

       Listed below are general IPMI options, tool specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For  a  general  introduction  to  FreeIPMI  please  see
       freeipmi(7).  See GENERAL USE below for a description on basic use of ipmi-config.

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify  the  driver  type  to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI 2.0 respectively. The cur‐
              rently available inband drivers are KCS, SSIF, OPENIPMI, SUNBMC, and INTELDCMI.

       --disable-auto-probe
              Do not probe in-band IPMI devices for default settings.

       --driver-address=DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver address to be used instead of the probed value. DRIVER-ADDRESS should be prefixed with "0x" for a hex value and '0' for an octal value.

       --driver-device=DEVICE
              Specify the in-band driver device path to be used instead of the probed path.

       --register-spacing=REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the in-band driver register spacing instead of the probed value. Argument is in bytes (i.e. 32bit register spacing = 4)

       --target-channel-number=CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the in-band driver target channel number to send IPMI requests to.

       --target-slave-address=SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver target slave number to send IPMI requests to.

       -h IPMIHOST1,IPMIHOST2,..., --hostname=IPMIHOST1[:PORT],IPMIHOST2[:PORT],...
              Specify the remote host(s) to communicate with. Multiple hostnames may be separated by comma or may be specified in a range format; see HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below. An optional port can be  speci‐
              fied with each host, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations.  If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify  the  username  to use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast ADMIN privileges in order for
              this tool to operate fully.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 1000 milliseconds (1 second) if not specified. The retransmission timeout cannot be larger than the session timeout.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm  iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to ADMIN if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  workarounds  to  vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds (may be useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMI-CONFIG OPTIONS
       The following options are used to read, write, and find differences in configuration values.

       -g CATEGORY, --category=CATEGORY
              Specify the category or categories of configuration data to configure.  Currently available choices: core, chassis, sensors, pef, dcmi. Multiple categories can  be  separated  by  comma.   core
              includes  all  major IPMI configuration necessary to get IPMI to function on a system, such as configuration for users, passwords, authentication, networking, and serial-over-lan (SOL). chassis
              includes all chassis relevant configuration including boot options, front panel buttons, and power behavior. dcmi includes specialized functions provided by the Data Center Management Interface
              (DCMI). Defaults to core if not specified.

       -o, --checkout
              Fetch configuration information.

       -c, --commit
              Update configuration information from a config file or key pairs.

       -d, --diff
              Show differences between stored information and a config file or key pairs.

       -n FILENAME, --filename=FILENAME
              Specify a config file for checkout/commit/diff. If specified with checkout, cannot use with multiple hosts or with --always-prefix.

       -e "KEY=VALUE", --key-pair="KEY=VALUE"
              Specify KEY=VALUE pairs for checkout/commit/diff. Specify KEY by SectionName:FieldName. This option can be used multiple times. On commit, any KEY=VALUE pairs will overwrite any pairs specified
              in a file with --filename.

       -S SECTION, --section=SECTION
              Specify a SECTION for checkout. This option can be used multiple times. The SECTION you are specifying must be within the category or categories specified with --category.

       -L, --listsections
              List available sections for checkout with respect to the category or categories under --category. Some sections in the list may not be checked out by default and may  require  verbosity  to  be
              increased.

       -v, --verbose
              Output  verbose  information.  When used with --checkout, additional uncommon sections and/or fields will be shown. In the core category, this includes checking out Serial Configuration parame‐
              ters, Vlan parameters, IPv4 Header parameters, RMCP port, and sections for each channel on a system, if multiple channels exist. In the pef category, this includes  checkout  out  sections  for
              each channel on a system, if multiple channels exist.

       -vv    Output  very  verbose information. Output additional detailed information about what fields can and cannot be checked out, and sometimes the reason why. Sometimes output fields that are identi‐
              fied as unsupported on the motherboard.

       --lan-channel-number=NUMBER
              Use an specific channel number for LAN configuration. Particularly useful if motherboard contains multiple LAN channels and a user wishes to use a specific one.

       --serial-channel-number=NUMBER
              Use an specific channel number for serial configuration. Particularly useful if motherboard contains multiple serial channels and a user wishes to use a specific one.

       --sol-channel-number=NUMBER
              Use an specific channel number for SOL configuration. Particularly useful if motherboard contains multiple SOL channels and a user wishes to use a specific one.

SDR CACHE OPTIONS
       This tool requires access to the sensor data repository (SDR) cache for general operation. By default, SDR data will be downloaded and cached on the local machine. The following options apply  to  the
       SDR cache.

       --flush-cache
              Flush  a  cached  version of the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. The SDR is typically cached for faster subsequent access. However, it may need to be flushed and re-generated if the SDR has
              been updated on a system.

       --quiet-cache
              Do not output information about cache creation/deletion. May be useful in scripting.

       --sdr-cache-recreate
              If the SDR cache is out of date or invalid, automatically recreate the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. This option may be useful for scripting purposes.

       --sdr-cache-file=FILE
              Specify a specific sensor data repository (SDR) cache file to be stored or read from. If this option is used when multiple hosts are specified, the same SDR cache file  will  be  used  for  all
              hosts.

       --sdr-cache-directory=DIRECTORY
              Specify an alternate directory for sensor data repository (SDR) caches to be stored or read from. Defaults to the home directory if not specified.

HOSTRANGED OPTIONS
       The following options manipulate hostranged output. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information on hostranges.

       -B, --buffer-output
              Buffer  hostranged output. For each node, buffer standard output until the node has completed its IPMI operation. When specifying this option, data may appear to output slower to the user since
              the the entire IPMI operation must complete before any data can be output.  See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -C, --consolidate-output
              Consolidate hostranged output. The complete standard output from every node specified will be consolidated so that nodes with identical output are not output twice. A  header  will  list  those
              nodes  with  the consolidated output. When this option is specified, no output can be seen until the IPMI operations to all nodes has completed. If the user breaks out of the program early, all
              currently consolidated output will be dumped. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -F NUM, --fanout=NUM
              Specify multiple host fanout. A "sliding window" (or fanout) algorithm is used for parallel IPMI communication so that slower nodes or timed out nodes will not  impede  parallel  communication.
              The maximum number of threads available at the same time is limited by the fanout. The default is 64.

       -E, --eliminate
              Eliminate  hosts  determined as undetected by ipmidetect.  This attempts to remove the common issue of hostranged execution timing out due to several nodes being removed from service in a large
              cluster. The ipmidetectd daemon must be running on the node executing the command.

       --always-prefix
              Always prefix output, even if only one host is specified or communicating in-band. This option is primarily useful for scripting purposes. Option will  be  ignored  if  specified  with  the  -C
              option.

GENERAL USE
       Most users of will want to:

       A) Run with --checkout to get a copy of the current configuration and store it in a file. The standard output can be redirected to a file or a file can be specified with the --filename option.

       B) Edit the configuration file with an editor.

       C)  Commit  the configuration back using the --commit option and specifying the configuration file with the --filename option.  The configuration can be committed to multiple hosts in parallel via the
       hostrange support.

       Although not typically necessarily, some motherboards do not store configuration values in non-volatile memory. Therefore, after system reboots, some configuration values may have  changed.  The  user
       may wish to run configuration tools on each boot to ensure configuration values remain.

       Comments will be listed on occassion in checked out files with information on how to configure fields.  The ipmi-config.conf(5) manpage also provides additional information on the meaning of different
       fields.

       For users with large clusters or sets of nodes, you may wish to use the same configuration file for all nodes. The one problem with this is that the IP address and MAC address  will  be  different  on
       each  node in your cluster and thus can't be configured through the same config file. The IP address and MAC address in your config file may be overwritten on the command line using --key-pair option.
       The following example could be used in a script to configure each node in a cluster with the same BMC config file. The script only needs to determine the correct IP address and MAC address to use.

       # ipmi-config --commit -k Lan_Conf:Ip_Address=$MY_IP -k Lan_Conf:Mac_Address=$MY_MAC --filename=my_bmc.conf

CORE SPECIAL CASE CONFIGURATION INFORMATION
       The UserN:Password fields (where N is a number) cannot be checked out on some systems, therefore the checked out value will always be blank.

       The UserN:Enable_User field (where N is a number) cannot be checked out on older IPMI systems, therefore the checked out value will sometime be blank.

       The UserN:Lan_Session_Limit and UserN:Serial_Session_Limit fields (where N is a number) cannot be checked out on some systems, therefore the checked out value will always be blank. If not specified in
       later  commits of configurations, the field may be reset to 0 due to a requirement that other fields (configured along with the session limit) will require an input value for the session limit.  Under
       most conditions, it is not necessary to set this field and most users may choose to ignore it. This field is considered optional by IPMI standards, and may result in errors when attempting to  config‐
       ure it to a non-zero value. If errors to occur, setting the value back to 0 should resolve problems.

       The fields Lan_Conf:IP_Address and Lan_Conf:MAC_Address cannot be committed in parallel via hostrange support. Each machine must be configured with a unique IP Address and MAC Address tuple, therefore
       we disallow this configuration in ipmi-config.

       On some motherboards, Lan_Conf:MAC_Address may be read only and the MAC address is automatically configured.

       On some motherboards, Lan_Conf:MAC_Address may be read only and the MAC address is configured via an OEM command. See ipmi-oem(8) to see if OEM configuration for your motherboard is supported.

       On some motherboards, a number of user configuration fields cannot be read or configured until after a non-null username or non-null password is configured. In some of these cases, an appropriate out‐
       put in the config file will indicate this situation. However, not all motherboard corner cases may be detected. Users may wish to play around with the ordering of fields to work around these problems.

       On some motherboards, OEM Authentication in Lan_Conf_Auth cannot be enabled. However, the default motherboard settings have these fields enabled. Users are advised to disable all OEM Authentication in
       this section.

       On some motherboards, multiple channels may exist for either LAN or Serial IPMI communication. If multiple channels exist, configuration of both channels can be viewed  and  ultimately  configured  by
       running  --checkout  under  verbose  mode.  Each  section  or  key name will be suffixed appropriately with the word Channel and the channel number. For example, you might see a Lan_Conf_Channel_1 and
       Lan_Conf_Channel_3, where you can configure LAN configuration on Channels 1 and 3 respectively.

       On some motherboards, configuration changes will not be "absorbed" by the system until the motherboard is hard-reset. This can be accomplished by physically powering off and on the system (e.g. button
       push), or it can be accomplished through a cold-reset. A cold-reset can be executed via bmc-device.

CHASSIS SPECIAL CASE CONFIGURATION INFORMATION
       The  Chassis_Front_Panel_Buttons:Enable_Standby_Button_For_Entering_Standy,  Chassis_Front_Panel_Buttons:Enable_Diagnostic_Interrupt_Button  Chassis_Front_Panel_Buttons:Enable_Reset_Button,  and Chas‐
       sis_Front_Panel_Buttons:Enable_Power_Off_Button_For_Power_Off_Only fields may not be able to be checked out on some IPMI systems, therefore the checked out value may be blank. Some of these fields may
       be disableable, while some are not.  The Chassis_Power_Conf:Power_Control_Interval field cannot be checked out. Therefore the checked out value will always be blank.

PEF SPECIAL CASE CONFIGURATION INFORMATION
       On  some  motherboards, multiple channels may exist for LAN IPMI communication. If multiple channels exist, configuration of both channels can be viewed and ultimately configured by running --checkout
       under verbose mode. Each section name will be suffixed appropriately with the word Channel and the channel number. For example, you might see a  Community_String_Channel_1  and  Community_String_Chan‐
       nel_3, where you can configure the Community String on Channels 1 and 3 respectively.  The following are the options suitable for input for Sensor_Type in PEF configuration.

       Sensor_Type Options
              Reserved,  Temperature,  Voltage,  Current,  Fan,  Physical_Security, Platform_Security_Violation_Attempt, Processor, Power_Supply, Power_Unit, Cooling_Device, Other_Units_Based_Sensor, Memory,
              Drive_Slot,  Post_Memory_Resize,  System_Firmware_Progress,  Event_Logging_Disabled,  Watchdog1,  System_Event,  Critical_Interrupt,  Button_Switch,  Module_Board,  Microcontroller_Coprocessor,
              Add_In_Card,  Chassis,  Chip_Set,  Other_FRU,  Cable_Interconnect,  Terminator, System_Boot_Initiated, Boot_Error, OS_Boot, OS_Critical_Stop, Slot_Connector, System_ACPI_Power_State, Watchdog2,
              Platform_Alert, Entity_Presence, Monitor_Asic_IC, Lan, Management_Subsystem_Health, Battery, Session_Audit, Version_Change, FRU_State, and Any

SENSORS SPECIAL CASE CONFIGURATION INFORMATION
       Since many configurable fields involve decimal numbers, precision/floating point inaccuracies may occur when configuring new thresholds. The inaccuracies may not be apparent immediately. It is  recom‐
       mend users verify their changes after configuring new thresholds.

HOSTRANGED SUPPORT
       Multiple hosts can be input either as an explicit comma separated lists of hosts or a range of hostnames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc. The later form should not
       be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted by []). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This range syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could  be  specified
       as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:
           foo[01-05] instead of foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05
           foo[7,9-10] instead of foo7,foo9,foo10
           foo[0-3] instead of foo0,foo1,foo2,foo3

       As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ([ and ]) for pattern matching. Depending on your shell, it may be necessary to enclose ranged lists within quotes.

       When  multiple hosts are specified by the user, a thread will be executed for each host in parallel up to the configured fanout (which can be adjusted via the -F option). This will allow communication
       to large numbers of nodes far more quickly than if done in serial.

       By default, standard output from each node specified will be output with the hostname prepended to each line. Although this output is readable in many situations, it may be difficult to read in  other
       situations. For example, output from multiple nodes may be mixed together. The -B and -C options can be used to change this default.

       In-band IPMI Communication will be used when the host "localhost" is specified. This allows the user to add the localhost into the hostranged output.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI  over  LAN  problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP address, MAC address,
       subnet mask, username, user enablement, user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check  to  make  sure  the  cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       Inband IPMI problems are typically caused by improperly configured drivers or non-standard BMCs.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password  verification  timeout"  - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During this point in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege level insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may  require  authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege  level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication type unavailable for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again  with  an  alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher  suite  id  unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also be possible the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session  timeout"  -  The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are considerably slower than
       others.

       "device not found" - The specified device could not be found. Please check configuration or inputs and try again.

       "driver timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "message timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "BMC busy" - The BMC is currently busy. It may be processing information or have too many simultaneous sessions to manage. Please wait and try again.

       "could not find inband device" - An inband device could not be found.  Please check configuration or specify specific device or driver on the command line.

       "driver timeout" - The inband driver has timed out communicating to the local BMC or service processor. The BMC or service processor may be busy or (worst case) possibly non-functioning.

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able  to  handle  discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify a workaround be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit  the  same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard is not
       listed.

       If you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org>  or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       assumeio  - This workaround flag will assume inband interfaces communicate with system I/O rather than being memory-mapped. This will work around systems that report invalid base addresses. Those hit‐
       ting this issue may see "device not supported" or "could not find inband device" errors.  Issue observed on HP ProLiant DL145 G1.

       spinpoll - This workaround flag will inform some inband drivers (most notably the KCS driver) to spin while polling rather than putting the process to sleep. This may significantly  improve  the  wall
       clock  running time of tools because an operating system scheduler's granularity may be much larger than the time it takes to perform a single IPMI message transaction. However, by spinning, your sys‐
       tem may be performing less useful work by not contexting out the tool for a more useful task.

       authcap - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple  issues
       in  which  the  remote  system  does  not  properly  report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "authentication type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due  to  implementation
       errors,  but  the  packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely to be an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero  -  This  workaround  flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting this issue may see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth - This workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain  non-null  authentication  data
       when  they  should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed on newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg - This workaround flag will force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around  an  issue  when  per-message  authentication  is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq  -  This  workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that are the wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck - This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems  that  return  invalid  authentication
       codes  due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most organizations,
       this is unlikely to be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue  observed  on  Xyratex  FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20  -  This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the authentication algorithm
       is HMAC-MD5-128. Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management  Module  (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20  -  This  workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include handling invalid length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20 - This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid  cipher  suite
       records.  Those  hitting  this  issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround automatically includes the "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv - This workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege  level  sent  during
       the  Open  Session  stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid",
       "k_g invalid", or "bad rmcpplus status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro  X8DTH,  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Intel  S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue  - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should be
       0 length, however the remote motherboard responds with a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue  observed  on  Supermicro  X8DTG,  Supermicro  X8DTU,  and  Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       No  IPMI  1.5  Support  -  Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" or "connection timeout" errors. This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

       slowcommit - This workaround will slow down commits to the BMC by sleeping one second between the commit of sections. It works around motherboards that have BMCs that can be  overwhelmed  by  commits.
       Those hitting this issue may see commit errors or commits not being written to the BMC. Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME.

       veryslowcommit  -  This workaround will slow down commits to the BMC by sleeping one second between the commit of every key. It works around motherboards that have BMCs that can be overwhelmed by com‐
       mits.  Those hitting this issue may see commit errors or commits not being written to the BMC. Issue observed on Quanta S99Q/Dell FS12-TY.

       solchannelassumelanchannel - This workaround will force ipmi-config to assume that the channel used SOL is identical to the channel used for LAN. On some motherboards,  the  SOL  channel  is  reported
       incorrectly, leading to incorrect configuration. Most notably, this problem has come up when attempting to configure multiple channels.  Issue observed on Intel S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700.

EXAMPLES
       # ipmi-config --checkout

       Output all core configuration information to the console.  # ipmi-config --checkout --category=pef

       Output all pef configuration information to the console.  # ipmi-config --checkout --category=pef,chassis

       Output all pef and chassis configuration information to the console.

       # ipmi-config --checkout --filename=bmc-data1.conf

       Store all core configuration information in bmc-data1.conf.

       # ipmi-config --diff --filename=bmc-data2.conf

       Show all difference between the current configuration and the bmc-data2.conf file.

       # ipmi-config --diff --key-pair="lan_conf_misc:gratuitous_arp_interval=8"

       Show difference with the current configuration and the 'lan_conf_misc:gratuitous_arp_interval' of value '8'.

       # ipmi-config --commit --filename=bmc-data1.conf

       Commit all configuration values from the bmc-data1.conf file.

       # ipmi-config --commit --key-pair="lan_conf_misc:gratuitous_arp_interval=4"

       Commit key 'lan_conf_misc:gratuitous_arp_interval' of value '4'.

       # ipmi-config --commit --filename=bmc-data-updt.conf --key-pair="lan_conf_misc:gratuitous_arp_interval=4"

       Commit all configuration values from bmc-data-updt.conf and key 'lan_conf_misc:gratuitous_arp_interval' of value '4'.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Upon successful execution, exit status is 0. On non-fatal error, exit status is 1. On fatal error, exit status is 2.

       If  multiple  hosts  are  specified for communication, the exit status is 0 if and only if all targets successfully execute. If any non-fatal error occurs, exit status is 1. If any fatal error occurs,
       exit status is 2.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when  using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In order to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up"  to  pass
       before you may authenticate again.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2003-2015 FreeIPMI Core Team.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       ipmi-config.conf(5), freeipmi(7), bmc-device(8)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

ipmi-config 1.6.8                                                                                  2021-05-20                                                                                    IPMI-CONFIG(8)
