ipmipower(8)                                                                                    System Commands                                                                                    ipmipower(8)

NAME
       ipmipower - IPMI power control utility

SYNOPSIS
       ipmipower [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       Ipmipower  allows  users  to  remotely power on, off, cycle, hard reset, get a power status query, perform a pulse diagnostic interrupt, or initiate a soft-shutdown of the OS via ACPI through the IPMI
       over LAN protocol.

       When a power command (--on, --off, --cycle, --reset, --stat, --pulse, or --soft) is specified on the command line, Ipmipower will attempt to run the power command on all hostnames listed on  the  com‐
       mand line then exit.

       If  no  power  commands  are  specified  on the command line, ipmipower will run in interactive mode. Interactive mode gives the user a command line interface to enter various commands. Details of the
       interactive command line interface can be found below under INTERACTIVE COMMANDS.

       Listed below are general IPMI options, tool specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For  a  general  introduction  to  FreeIPMI  please  see
       freeipmi(7).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify the driver type to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI 2.0 respectively.

       -h IPMIHOST1,IPMIHOST2,..., --hostname=IPMIHOST1[:PORT],IPMIHOST2[:PORT],...
              Specify  the remote host(s) to communicate with. Multiple hostnames may be separated by comma or may be specified in a range format; see HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below. An optional port can be speci‐
              fied with each host, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations.  If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify the username to use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast OPERATOR privileges to  run  the
              --on, --off, --reset, --cycle, --pulse, or --soft power control commands. The user must have atleast USER privileges to determine the power status of the machine through --stat.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 400 milliseconds (0.4 seconds) if not specified.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion  algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to OPERATOR if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify workarounds to vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds  (may  be  useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMIPOWER OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmipower.

       -n, --on
              Power on the target hosts.

       -f, --off
              Power off the target hosts.

       -c, --cycle
              Power cycle the target hosts.

       -r, --reset
              Reset the target hosts.

       -s, --stat
              Get power status of the target hosts.

       --pulse
              Send power diagnostic interrupt to target hosts.

       --soft Initiate a soft-shutdown of the OS via ACPI.

       --on-if-off
              The  IPMI  specification does not require the power cycle or hard reset commands to turn on a machine that is currently powered off. This option will force ipmipower to issue a power on command
              instead of a power cycle or hard reset command if the remote machine's power is currently off.

       --wait-until-on
              The IPMI specification allows power on commands to return prior to the power on actually taking place. This option will force ipmipower to regularly query the remote BMC and return  only  after
              the machine has powered on.

       --wait-until-off
              The  IPMI  specification  allows power off commands to return prior the power off actually taking place. This option will force ipmipower to regularly query the remote BMC and return only after
              the machine has powered off.

       --oem-power-type=OEM-POWER-TYPE
              This option informs ipmipower to initiate power control operations via an IPMI OEM specific power control extension. The currently available POWERTYPEs are NONE and C410X. Please see OEM  POWER
              EXTENSIONS below for additional information.

IPMIPOWER ADVANCED NETWORK OPTIONS
       The following options are used to change the networking behavior of ipmipower.

       --retransmission-wait-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify  the  retransmission  wait  timeout length in milliseconds. The retransmission wait timeout is similar to the retransmission timeout above, but is used specifically for power completion
              verification with the --wait-until-on and --wait-until-off options.  Defaults to 500 milliseconds (0.5 seconds).

       --retransmission-backoff-count=COUNT
              Specify the retransmission backoff count for retransmissions. After ever COUNT retransmissions, the retransmission timeout length will be increased by another factor. Defaults to 8.

       --ping-interval=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the ping interval length in milliseconds. When running in interactive mode, RMCP (Remote Management Control Protocol) discovery messages will be sent  to  all  configured  remote  hosts
              every  MILLISECONDS to confirm their support of IPMI. Power commands cannot be sent to a host until it is discovered (or re-discovered if previously lost). Defaults to 5000 milliseconds (5 sec‐
              onds). Ping discovery messages can be disabled by setting this valu to 0. RMCP ping discovery messages are automatically disabled in non-interactive mode.

       --ping-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the ping timeout length in milliseconds. When running in interactive mode, RMCP (Remote Management Control Protocol) messages discovery will be sent to all configured  remote  hosts  to
              confirm  their  support of IPMI. A remote host is considered undiscovered if the host does not respond in MILLISECONDS time. Defaults to 30000 milliseconds (30 seconds). The ping timeout cannot
              be larger than the ping interval.

       --ping-packet-count=COUNT
              Specify the ping packet count size. Defaults to 10. See the --ping-percent-fR option below for more information on this option.

       --ping-percent=PERCENT
              Specify the ping percent value. Defaults to 50.  Since IPMI is based on UDP, it is difficult for ipmipower to distinguish between a missing machine and a bad (or heavily loaded) network connec‐
              tion  in interactive mode. when running in interactive mode. For example, suppose a link consistently drops 80% of the packets to a particular machine. The power control operation may have dif‐
              ficulty completing, although a recent pong response from RMCP makes ipmipower believe the machine is up and functioning properly.  The ping packet count and percent options are used to  allevi‐
              ate this problem.  Ipmipower will monitor RMCP ping packets in packet count chunks. If ipmipower does not receive a response to greater than ping percent of those packets, ipmipower will assume
              the link to this node is bad and will not send power control operations to that node until the connection is determined to be reliable. This heuristic can be disabled by setting either the ping
              packet count or ping percent to 0. This feature is not used if ping interval is set to 0.

       --ping-consec-count=COUNT
              Specify  the ping consecutive count. This is another heuristic used to determine if a node should be considered discovered, undiscovered, or with a bad connection. If a valid RMCP pong response
              was received for the last COUNT ping packets, a node will be considered discovered, regardless of other heuristics listed above. Defaults to 5. This heuristic can be disabled  by  setting  this
              value to 0. This feature is not used if other ping features described above are disabled.

HOSTRANGED OPTIONS
       The following options manipulate hostranged output. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information on hostranges.

       -B, --buffer-output
              Buffer  hostranged output. For each node, buffer standard output until the node has completed its IPMI operation. When specifying this option, data may appear to output slower to the user since
              the the entire IPMI operation must complete before any data can be output.  See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -C, --consolidate-output
              Consolidate hostranged output. The complete standard output from every node specified will be consolidated so that nodes with identical output are not output twice. A  header  will  list  those
              nodes  with  the consolidated output. When this option is specified, no output can be seen until the IPMI operations to all nodes has completed. If the user breaks out of the program early, all
              currently consolidated output will be dumped. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -F NUM, --fanout=NUM
              Specify multiple host fanout. Indicates the maximum number of power control operations that can be executed in parallel.

       -E, --eliminate
              Eliminate hosts determined as undetected by ipmidetect.  This attempts to remove the common issue of hostranged execution timing out due to several nodes being removed from service in  a  large
              cluster. The ipmidetectd daemon must be running on the node executing the command.

       --always-prefix
              Always  prefix  output,  even  if  only  one  host is specified or communicating in-band. This option is primarily useful for scripting purposes. Option will be ignored if specified with the -C
              option.

INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
       Ipmipower provides the following interactive commands at the ipmipower> prompt.  Before any power commands (on, off, cycle, reset, stat, pulse, or soft) can be used, hostnames must be configured  into
       ipmipower, either through the command prompt or the hostname command below. The parameters and options to the commands below mirror their appropriate command line options.

       hostname [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Specify a new set of hosts. No input to unconfigure all hosts.

       username [USERNAME]
              Specify a new username. No input for null username.

       password [PASSWORD]
              Specify a new password. No input for null password.

       k_g [K_G]
              Specify a new K_g BMC Key. No input for null key. Prefix with '0x' to enter a key in hexadecimal

       ipmi-version IPMIVERSION
              Specify the ipmi version to use.

       session-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify a new session timeout length.

       retransmission-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify a new retransmiision timeout length.

       authentication-type AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the authentication type to use.

       cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the cipher suite id to use.

       privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to use.

       workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify workaround flags.

       debug [on|off]
              Toggle debug output.

       on [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Turn on all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       off [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Turn off all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       cycle [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Power cycle all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       reset [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Reset all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       stat [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Query power status for all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       pulse [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Pulse diagnostic interrupt all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       soft [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Initiate a soft-shutdown for all configured hosts or specified hosts.

       identify-on [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Turn on physical system identification.

       identify-off [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Turn off physical system identification.

       identify-status [IPMIHOST(s)]
              Query physical system identification status.

       on-if-off [on|off]
              Toggle on-if-off functionality.

       wait-until-on [on|off]
              Toggle wait-until-on functionality.

       wait-until-off [on|off]
              Toggle wait-until-off functionality.

       retransmission-wait-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify a new retransmission wait timeout length.

       retransmission-backoff-count COUNT
              Specify a new retransmission backoff count.

       ping-interval MILLISECONDS
              Specify a new ping interval length.

       ping-timeout MILLISECONDS
              Specify a new ping timeout length.

       ping-packet-count COUNT
              Specify a new ping packet count.

       ping-percent PERCENT
              Specify a new ping percent.

       ping-consec-count COUNT
              Specify a new ping consec count.

       buffer-output [on|off]
              Toggle buffer-output functionality.

       consolidate-output [on|off]
              Toggle consolidate-output functionality.

       fanout COUNT
              Specify a fanout.

       always-prefix [on|off]
              Toggle always-prefix functionality.

       help   Output help menu.

       version
              Output version.

       config Output the current configuration.

       quit   Quit program.

OEM POWER EXTENSIONS
       Some  motherboards  include IPMI OEM extensions for alternate power control mechanisms. For example, these power control mechanisms may allow you to power control a sub-device within the system rather
       than the entire system itself.

       By specifying an OEM power type via --oem-power-type on the command line or freeipmi.conf(5), you can instruct ipmipower to execute alternate power control  implementations  over  the  standard  ones.
       Depending  on  the  OEM  extension, some power control commands may no longer be available. For example, an OEM extension may allow on but not cycle. Specific ipmipower options may not longer function
       either.

       Some OEM extensions may require additional arguments for their power control action, such as a sub-device identifier. Additional arguments can be provided by appending a plus sign ('+') and the  extra
       information  to  the  end of the hostname. This can be done on the command line or in interactive mode. For example, the hostname mynode+18 would indicate the power control operation should be sent to
       the host mynode, and 18 is the identifier of a possible sub-device to be power controlled. The --consolidate-output option is commonly disabled when using an OEM  power  control  that  requires  extra
       arguments.

       Because OEM power control may involve subtypes, it is possible a user may wish to power control multiple sub-devices on the same host. For example, you might specify the hosts mynode+1,mynode+2, indi‐
       cating to power control subdevice 1 and 2 on mynode.  Because many BMCs cannot handle multiple IPMI sessions, power control operations to the same host will be serialized internally by ipmipower.

       The following are the current OEM power types available, along with information on the systems they work with and the power control operations available.

       C410X  This OEM power type supports the power control of PCIe slots on Dell Poweredge C410x systems. It supports on, off, and stat. The PCIe slot number ranges from 1-16 and must always  be  specified
              when attempting to power control with this extension. For example, the hostname mynode+2 would inform ipmipower to operate on slot number 2 on mynode.  The C410x appears to have difficulty han‐
              dling new slot power control requests until prior ones have completed. Users may wish to strongly consider using the --wait-until-on and --wait-until-off options if multiple slots will be power
              controlled in short succession.

       NONE   This informs ipmipower that no OEM power type extension is to be used and standard IPMI power control is used. This is the default.

HOSTRANGED SUPPORT
       Multiple hosts can be input either as an explicit comma separated lists of hosts or a range of hostnames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc. The later form should not
       be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted by []). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This range syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could  be  specified
       as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:
           foo[01-05] instead of foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05
           foo[7,9-10] instead of foo7,foo9,foo10
           foo[0-3] instead of foo0,foo1,foo2,foo3

       As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ([ and ]) for pattern matching. Depending on your shell, it may be necessary to enclose ranged lists within quotes.

       When multiple hosts are specified by the user, a socket will be created for each host and polled on, effectively allowing communication to all hosts in parallel. This will allow communication to large
       numbers of nodes far more quickly than if done in serial.  The -F option can configure the number of nodes that can be communicated with in parallel at the same time.

       By default, standard output from each node specified will be output with the hostname prepended to each line. Although this output is readable in many situations, it may be difficult to read in  other
       situations. For example, output from multiple nodes may be mixed together. The -B and -C options can be used to change this default.

EXAMPLES
       Determine the power status of foo[0-2] with null username and password
               ipmipower -h foo[0-2] --stat

       Determine the power status of foo[0-2] with non-null username and password
               ipmipower -h foo[0-2] -u foo -p bar --stat

       Hard reset nodes foo[0-2] with non-null username and password
               ipmipower -h foo[0-2] -u foo -p bar --reset

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI  over  LAN  problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP address, MAC address,
       subnet mask, username, user enablement, user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check  to  make  sure  the  cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password  verification  timeout"  - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During this point in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege level insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may  require  authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege  level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication type unavailable for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again  with  an  alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher  suite  id  unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also be possible the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session  timeout"  -  The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are considerably slower than
       others.

       "internal IPMI error" - An IPMI error has occurred that FreeIPMI does not know how to handle. Please e-mail <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> to report the issue.

IPMIPOWER TROUBLESHOOTING
       When powering on a powered off machine, the client must have a means by which to resolve the MAC address of the remote machine's ethernet card. While most modern IPMI solutions support the ability  to
       ARP and resolve addresses when the machine is powered off, some older machines do not. This is typically solved in one of two ways:

       1) Enable gratuitous ARPs on the remote machine. The remote machine will send out a gratuitous ARP, which advertises the ethernet IP and MAC address so that other machines on the network this informa‐
       tion their local ARP cache. For large clusters, this method is not recommended since gratuitous ARPs can flood the network with unnecessary traffic.

       2) Permanently store the remote machine's MAC address in the local ARP cache. This is the more common approach on large clusters.

       Other methods are listed in the IPMI specification.

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able  to  handle  discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify a workaround be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit  the  same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard is not
       listed.

       If you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org>  or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       authcap  - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple issues
       in which the remote system does not properly report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see  "username  invalid",  "authentication  type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck  -  This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due to implementation
       errors, but the packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely  to  be  an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero - This workaround flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth  -  This  workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain non-null authentication data
       when they should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed  on  newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg  -  This  workaround  flag  will  force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around an issue when per-message authentication is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq - This workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that  are  the  wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck  -  This  workaround  flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems that return invalid authentication
       codes due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most  organizations,
       this  is  unlikely  to  be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue observed on Xyratex FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20 - This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the  authentication  algorithm
       is  HMAC-MD5-128.  Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management Module (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20 - This workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include  handling  invalid  length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20  -  This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid cipher suite
       records. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround  automatically  includes  the  "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv  -  This  workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege level sent during
       the Open Session stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may  see  "password  invalid",
       "k_g  invalid",  or  "bad  rmcpplus  status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG, Intel S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should  be
       0  length,  however  the  remote  motherboard  responds  with  a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Supermicro X8DTG, Supermicro X8DTU, and Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       ipmiping - This workaround option will inform ipmipower to use IPMI based ping packets instead of RMCP ping packets. Some motherboards have been  observed  to  not  implement  RMCP  ping/pong  support
       despite being required by the IPMI specification. Issue observed on Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       No  IPMI  1.5  Support  -  Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" or "connection timeout" errors. This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Upon successful execution, exit status is 0. On error, exit status is 1.

       If multiple hosts are specified for communication, the exit status is 0 if and only if all targets successfully execute. Otherwise the exit status is 1.

       When operating in interactive mode, the exit value will be based on the last power operation executed.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when  using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In order to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up"  to  pass
       before you may authenticate again.

       IPMI  specifications  do not require BMCs to perform a power control operation before returning a completion code to the caller.  Therefore, it is possible for ipmipower to return power status queries
       opposite of what you are expecting.  For example, if a "power off" operation is performed, a BMC may return a successful completion code to ipmipower before the "power off" operation is actually  per‐
       formed. Subsequent power status queries may return "on" for several seconds, until the BMC actually performs the "power off" operation.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
       Copyright (C) 2003-2007 The Regents of the University of California.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi.conf(5), freeipmi(7), ipmi-config(8), ipmi-oem(8)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

ipmipower 1.6.8                                                                                    2021-05-20                                                                                      ipmipower(8)
