IPMI-SEL(8)                                                                                     System Commands                                                                                     IPMI-SEL(8)

NAME
       ipmi-sel - display SEL entries

SYNOPSIS
       ipmi-sel [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       Ipmi-sel  is used to view and manage System Event Log (SEL) entries. SEL records store system event information and may be useful for debugging problems.  Ipmi-sel does not inform the user if an event
       is particularly good or bad, just that the event occurred. Users may wish to use the --output-event-state option to output the analyzed state.

       Listed below are general IPMI options, tool specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For  a  general  introduction  to  FreeIPMI  please  see
       freeipmi(7).  To perform some advanced SEL management, please see bmc-device(8).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify  the  driver  type  to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI 2.0 respectively. The cur‐
              rently available inband drivers are KCS, SSIF, OPENIPMI, SUNBMC, and INTELDCMI.

       --disable-auto-probe
              Do not probe in-band IPMI devices for default settings.

       --driver-address=DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver address to be used instead of the probed value. DRIVER-ADDRESS should be prefixed with "0x" for a hex value and '0' for an octal value.

       --driver-device=DEVICE
              Specify the in-band driver device path to be used instead of the probed path.

       --register-spacing=REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the in-band driver register spacing instead of the probed value. Argument is in bytes (i.e. 32bit register spacing = 4)

       --target-channel-number=CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the in-band driver target channel number to send IPMI requests to.

       --target-slave-address=SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver target slave number to send IPMI requests to.

       -h IPMIHOST1,IPMIHOST2,..., --hostname=IPMIHOST1[:PORT],IPMIHOST2[:PORT],...
              Specify the remote host(s) to communicate with. Multiple hostnames may be separated by comma or may be specified in a range format; see HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below. An optional port can be  speci‐
              fied with each host, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations.  If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify  the  username  to  use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast USER privileges in order for
              this tool to operate fully.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 1000 milliseconds (1 second) if not specified. The retransmission timeout cannot be larger than the session timeout.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm  iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to OPERATOR if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  workarounds  to  vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds (may be useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMI-SEL OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-sel.

       -v     Output verbose output. This option will output event direction.  Event direction may be useful to differentiate severity between some events. For example, some motherboards may issue  an  event
              both when a temperature exceeds a threshold and when it goes back down below it.

       -vv    Output  very  verbose output. This option will output additional information than verbose output. Most notably it will output additional hex codes to given information on ambiguous SEL entries,
              such as OEM codes. For example, it will output Generator ID hex codes for sensors without names, event type codes for OEM events, and record types for OEM records. This information may be  use‐
              ful if you are writing a parser outside of ipmi-sel to interpret OEM information.

       -i, --info
              Show general information about the SEL.

       --display=RECORD-IDS-LIST
              Display SEL records by record id. Accepts space or comma separated lists.

       --exclude-display=RECORD-IDS-LIST
              Exclude display of SEL records by record id. Accepts space or comma separated lists.

       --display-range=START-END
              Display SEL records from record id START to END.

       --exclude-display-range=START-END
              Exclude display of SEL records from record id START to END.

       --date-range=DATE-DATE
              Display  SEL  records  with  events occurring in the specified date range.  Dates may be specified in MM/DD/YYYY or MM-DD-YYYY format. The month may be specified as a numeral or its abbreviated
              string name. The current local system time can be specified with "now". Note that non-timestamped records will not be displayed automatically because they do not possess a timestamp.

       --exclude-date-range=DATE-DATE
              Exclude display of SEL records with events occurring in the specified date range. Dates may be specified in MM/DD/YYYY or MM-DD-YYYY format. The month may be  specified  as  a  numeral  or  its
              abbreviated string name. The current local system time can be specified with "now". Note that non-timestamped records will be displayed automatically because they do not possess a timestamp.

       -t SENSOR-TYPE-LIST, --sensor-types=SENSOR-TYPE-LIST
              Specify  sensor  types  to show SEL events for. Multiple types can be separated by commas or spaces. A special command line type of "all", will indicate all types should be shown (may be useful
              for overriding configured defaults). Users may specify sensor types by string (see --list-sensor-types below) or by number (decimal or hex).

       -T SENSOR-TYPE-LIST, --exclude-sensor-types=SENSOR-TYPE-LIST
              Specify sensor types to not show SEL events for. Multiple types can be separated by commas or spaces. A special command line type of "none", will indicate no types should be  excluded  (may  be
              useful for overriding configured defaults). Users may specify sensor types by string (see --list-sensor-types below) or by number (decimal or hex).

       -L, --list-sensor-types
              List sensor types.

       --tail=count
              Display approximately the last count SEL records. The display count is calculated by approximating the record ids of the last SEL records. It's correctness depends highly on the SEL implementa‐
              tion by the vendor.

       --clear
              Clear SEL.

       --post-clear
              Identical to --clear, except the SEL clearing will be performed after SEL event records are displayed. This option is useful for scripting if users intend to log SEL events to another log, then
              immediately clear SEL. Unlike calling --clear in another execution of ipmi-sel, this option will use SEL reservations to notify the user if a SEL change has occurred while displaying and clear‐
              ing the SEL. This can protect users from a race, where a new SEL event is unknowingly generated before clearing the SEL. Note that SEL reservations are optionally implemented by vendors and may
              not be available on all machines.

       --delete=RECORD-IDS-LIST
              Delete records by record id in the SEL. Accepts space or comma separated lists.

       --delete-range=START-END
              Delete record ids from START to END in the SEL.

       --system-event-only
              Output only system event records (i.e. don't output OEM records).

       --oem-event-only
              Output only OEM event records (i.e. don't output system event records).

       --output-manufacturer-id
              For OEM SEL record types, output the manufacturer ID along with event data when available.

       --output-event-state
              Output  event  state in output. This will add an additional output reporting if an event should be viewed as NOMINAL, WARNING, or CRITICAL.  The event state is an interpreted value based on the
              configuration file /etc/freeipmi//freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf and the event direction.  See freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf(5) for more information.

       --event-state-config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate event state configuration file. Option ignored if --output-event-state not specified.

       --hex-dump
              Hex-dump SEL entries.

       --interpret-oem-data
              Attempt to interpret OEM data, such as event data, sensor readings, or general extra info, etc. If an OEM interpretation is not available, the default output will be generated.  Correctness  of
              OEM  interpretations  cannot be guaranteed due to potential changes OEM vendors may make in products, firmware, etc. See OEM INTERPRETATION below for confirmed supported motherboard interpreta‐
              tions.

       --output-oem-event-strings
              Some motherboards support an IPMI OEM extension that returns the string output for a system event. Such string output may be beneficial for determining the meaning behind OEM  specific  events.
              This  option  will  use the OEM event string to describe all system events in the ipmi-sel output. This option differs from --interpret-oem-data option in that all system events will output the
              vendor supplied event string, not just events that are OEM specific. The event string may be very different from the normal FreeIPMI event string output. If an OEM event strings is  not  avail‐
              able, the default output will be output.  This option is confirmed to work for Fujitsu iRMC S1 and iRMC S2 systems.

       --entity-sensor-names
              Output  sensor names prefixed with their entity id and instance number when appropriate. This may be necessary on some motherboards to help identify what sensors are referencing. For example, a
              motherboard may have multiple sensors named 'TEMP'. The entity id and instance number may help clarify which sensor refers to "Processor 1" vs. "Processor 2".

       --no-sensor-type-output
              Do not show sensor type output for each entry. On many systems, the sensor type is redundant to the name of the sensor. This can especially be true if --entity-sensor-names  is  specified.   If
              the sensor name is sufficient, or if the sensor type is of no interest to the user, this option can be specified to condense output.

       --comma-separated-output
              Output fields in comma separated format.

       --no-header-output
              Do not output column headers. May be useful in scripting.

       --non-abbreviated-units
              Output non-abbreviated units (e.g. 'Amps' instead of 'A'). May aid in disambiguation of units (e.g. 'C' for Celsius or Coulombs).

       --legacy-output
              Output in legacy format. Newer options may not be applicable to legacy output.

SDR CACHE OPTIONS
       This  tool  requires access to the sensor data repository (SDR) cache for general operation. By default, SDR data will be downloaded and cached on the local machine. The following options apply to the
       SDR cache.

       --flush-cache
              Flush a cached version of the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. The SDR is typically cached for faster subsequent access. However, it may need to be flushed and re-generated if  the  SDR  has
              been updated on a system.

       --quiet-cache
              Do not output information about cache creation/deletion. May be useful in scripting.

       --sdr-cache-recreate
              If the SDR cache is out of date or invalid, automatically recreate the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. This option may be useful for scripting purposes.

       --sdr-cache-file=FILE
              Specify  a  specific  sensor  data  repository (SDR) cache file to be stored or read from. If this option is used when multiple hosts are specified, the same SDR cache file will be used for all
              hosts.

       --sdr-cache-directory=DIRECTORY
              Specify an alternate directory for sensor data repository (SDR) caches to be stored or read from. Defaults to the home directory if not specified.

       --ignore-sdr-cache
              Ignore SDR cache related processing. May lead to incomplete or less useful information being output, however it will allow functionality for systems without SDRs or when the correct SDR  cannot
              be loaded.

TIME OPTIONS
       By  IPMI  definition, all IPMI times and timestamps are stored in localtime. However, in many situations, the timestamps will not be stored in localtime. Whether or not a system truly stored the time‐
       stamps in localtime varies on many factors, such as the vendor, BIOS, and operating system.  The following options will allow the user to adjust the interpretation of the  stored  timestamps  and  how
       they should be output.

       --utc-to-localtime
              Assume all times are reported in UTC time and convert the time to localtime before being output.

       --localtime-to-utc
              Convert all localtime timestamps to UTC before being output.

       --utc-offset=SECONDS
              Specify a specific UTC offset in seconds to be added to timestamps.  Value can range from -86400 to 86400 seconds. Defaults to 0.

HOSTRANGED OPTIONS
       The following options manipulate hostranged output. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information on hostranges.

       -B, --buffer-output
              Buffer  hostranged output. For each node, buffer standard output until the node has completed its IPMI operation. When specifying this option, data may appear to output slower to the user since
              the the entire IPMI operation must complete before any data can be output.  See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -C, --consolidate-output
              Consolidate hostranged output. The complete standard output from every node specified will be consolidated so that nodes with identical output are not output twice. A  header  will  list  those
              nodes  with  the consolidated output. When this option is specified, no output can be seen until the IPMI operations to all nodes has completed. If the user breaks out of the program early, all
              currently consolidated output will be dumped. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -F NUM, --fanout=NUM
              Specify multiple host fanout. A "sliding window" (or fanout) algorithm is used for parallel IPMI communication so that slower nodes or timed out nodes will not  impede  parallel  communication.
              The maximum number of threads available at the same time is limited by the fanout. The default is 64.

       -E, --eliminate
              Eliminate  hosts  determined as undetected by ipmidetect.  This attempts to remove the common issue of hostranged execution timing out due to several nodes being removed from service in a large
              cluster. The ipmidetectd daemon must be running on the node executing the command.

       --always-prefix
              Always prefix output, even if only one host is specified or communicating in-band. This option is primarily useful for scripting purposes. Option will  be  ignored  if  specified  with  the  -C
              option.

HOSTRANGED SUPPORT
       Multiple hosts can be input either as an explicit comma separated lists of hosts or a range of hostnames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc. The later form should not
       be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted by []). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This range syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could  be  specified
       as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:
           foo[01-05] instead of foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05
           foo[7,9-10] instead of foo7,foo9,foo10
           foo[0-3] instead of foo0,foo1,foo2,foo3

       As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ([ and ]) for pattern matching. Depending on your shell, it may be necessary to enclose ranged lists within quotes.

       When  multiple hosts are specified by the user, a thread will be executed for each host in parallel up to the configured fanout (which can be adjusted via the -F option). This will allow communication
       to large numbers of nodes far more quickly than if done in serial.

       By default, standard output from each node specified will be output with the hostname prepended to each line. Although this output is readable in many situations, it may be difficult to read in  other
       situations. For example, output from multiple nodes may be mixed together. The -B and -C options can be used to change this default.

       In-band IPMI Communication will be used when the host "localhost" is specified. This allows the user to add the localhost into the hostranged output.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI  over  LAN  problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP address, MAC address,
       subnet mask, username, user enablement, user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check  to  make  sure  the  cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       Inband IPMI problems are typically caused by improperly configured drivers or non-standard BMCs.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password  verification  timeout"  - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During this point in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege level insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may  require  authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege  level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication type unavailable for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again  with  an  alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher  suite  id  unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also be possible the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session  timeout"  -  The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are considerably slower than
       others.

       "device not found" - The specified device could not be found. Please check configuration or inputs and try again.

       "driver timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "message timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "BMC busy" - The BMC is currently busy. It may be processing information or have too many simultaneous sessions to manage. Please wait and try again.

       "could not find inband device" - An inband device could not be found.  Please check configuration or specify specific device or driver on the command line.

       "driver timeout" - The inband driver has timed out communicating to the local BMC or service processor. The BMC or service processor may be busy or (worst case) possibly non-functioning.

       "internal IPMI error" - An IPMI error has occurred that FreeIPMI does not know how to handle. Please e-mail <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> to report the issue.

IPMI-SEL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Some timestamps in the SEL may report a date of 1-Jan-1970, the epoch for SEL timestamps. This timestamp is not necessarily incorrect. It usually indicates a hardware  event  that  occurred  before  a
       timestamp in firmware has been initialized. For example, certain hardware components will have their internal clocks reset during a power cycle.

       However, if the internal clock of the SEL appears to be regularly incorrect, you may need to set the SEL time. This can be done using bmc-device(8).

       The following are common SEL related messages.

       "sel config file parse error" - A parse error was found in the sel event interpretation configuration file. Please see freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf(5).

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able to handle discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify  a  workaround  be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit the same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard  is  not
       listed.

       If  you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       assumeio - This workaround flag will assume inband interfaces communicate with system I/O rather than being memory-mapped. This will work around systems that report invalid base addresses. Those  hit‐
       ting this issue may see "device not supported" or "could not find inband device" errors.  Issue observed on HP ProLiant DL145 G1.

       spinpoll  -  This  workaround flag will inform some inband drivers (most notably the KCS driver) to spin while polling rather than putting the process to sleep. This may significantly improve the wall
       clock running time of tools because an operating system scheduler's granularity may be much larger than the time it takes to perform a single IPMI message transaction. However, by spinning, your  sys‐
       tem may be performing less useful work by not contexting out the tool for a more useful task.

       authcap  - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple issues
       in which the remote system does not properly report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see  "username  invalid",  "authentication  type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck  -  This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due to implementation
       errors, but the packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely  to  be  an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero - This workaround flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth  -  This  workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain non-null authentication data
       when they should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed  on  newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg  -  This  workaround  flag  will  force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around an issue when per-message authentication is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq - This workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that  are  the  wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck  -  This  workaround  flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems that return invalid authentication
       codes due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most  organizations,
       this  is  unlikely  to  be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue observed on Xyratex FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20 - This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the  authentication  algorithm
       is  HMAC-MD5-128.  Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management Module (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20 - This workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include  handling  invalid  length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20  -  This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid cipher suite
       records. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround  automatically  includes  the  "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv  -  This  workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege level sent during
       the Open Session stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may  see  "password  invalid",
       "k_g  invalid",  or  "bad  rmcpplus  status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG, Intel S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should  be
       0  length,  however  the  remote  motherboard  responds  with  a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Supermicro X8DTG, Supermicro X8DTU, and Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       assumemaxsdrrecordcount - This workaround will inform SDR reading to stop reading after a known maximum number of SDR records have been read. This will work around systems  that  have  mis-implemented
       SDR reading functions. Those hitting this issue may see "SDR record count invalid" errors. Issue observed on unspecified Inspur motherboard.

       assumesystemevent  -  This workaround option will assume invalid SEL record types are system event records. Records may be formatted correctly but report invalid record types. Those hitting this issue
       may see "Unknown SEL Record Type" errors. Output may be unknown, pray for the best. This option is confirmed to work around compliances issues on HP DL 380 G5 motherboards.

       No IPMI 1.5 Support - Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable"  or  "connection  timeout"  errors.  This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

OEM INTERPRETATION
       The following motherboards are confirmed to have atleast some support by the --interpret-oem-data option. While highly probable the OEM data interpretations would work across other motherboards by the
       same manufacturer, there are no guarantees. Some of the motherboards below may be rebranded by vendors/distributors.

       Dell Poweredge 2900, Dell Poweredge 2950, Dell Poweredge R610, Dell Poweredge R710, Fujitsu iRMC S1 and iRMC S2 systems, Gigabyte MD90-FS0-ZB, Gigabyte MG20-OP0-ZB/Penguin Computing  Relgion  X1904GT,
       Intel  S5500WB/Penguin  Computing  Relion  700,  Intel  S2600JF/Appro 512X, Intel S2600GZ, Intel S2600WP, Intel S5000PAL, Intel Windmill, Intel S2600KP, Intel S2600KPR, Intel S2600WT2, Intel S2600WTT,
       Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Inventec 5442/Dell Xanadu III, Quanta S99Q/Dell FS12-TY, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, Quanta Winterfell, Sun X4140 Supermicro X7DBR-3,  Supermicro  X7DB8,  Supermicro
       X8DTN,  Supermicro  X7SBI-LN4,  Supermicro  X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG, Supermicro X8DTU, Supermicro X8DT3-LN4F, Supermicro X8DTU-6+, Supermicro X8DTL, Supermicro X8DTL-3F, Supermicro X8SIL-F, Supermicro
       X9SCL, Supermicro X9SCM, Supermicro X8DTN+-F, Supermicro X8SIE, Supermicro X9SCA-F-O, Supermicro H8DGU-F, Supermicro X9DRi-F, Supermicro X9DRI-LN4F+, Supermicro X9SPU-F-O, Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Super‐
       micro X10SLM-F, Wiwynn Windmill, Wistron/Dell Poweredge C6220.

EXAMPLES
       # ipmi-sel

       Show all SEL records on the local machine.

       # ipmi-sel -h ahost -u myusername -p mypassword

       Show all SEL records of a remote machine using IPMI over LAN.

       # ipmi-sel -h mycluster[0-127] -u myusername -p mypassword

       Show all SEL records across a cluster using IPMI over LAN.

       # ipmi-sel --delete=44,82

       Delete SEL records 44 and 82 on the local machine.

       # ipmi-sel --delete-all

       Delete all SEL entries on the local machine.

       # ipmi-sel --delete-range=12-42

       Delete SEL entries in the range 12 to 42 on the local machine.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Upon successful execution, exit status is 0. On error, exit status is 1.

       If multiple hosts are specified for communication, the exit status is 0 if and only if all targets successfully execute. Otherwise the exit status is 1.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On  older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In  order  to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up" to pass
       before you may authenticate again.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2003-2015 FreeIPMI Core Team.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi(7), bmc-device(8), ipmiseld(8), ipmi-config(8), freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf(5)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

ipmi-sel 1.6.8                                                                                     2021-05-20                                                                                       IPMI-SEL(8)
