IPMI-PET(8)                                                                                     System Commands                                                                                     IPMI-PET(8)

NAME
       IPMI - IPMI Platform Event Trap Interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       ipmi-pet [OPTION...] [SPECIFIC TRAP] [VARIABLE BINDING HEX BYTES ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Ipmi-pet  interprets  hex bytes from a platform event trap (PET) and outputs a string representing its contents. Hex values may be input on the command line, a file via the --file option, or via stdin
       if neither of the previous are specified.  Ipmi-pet is commonly used in conjunction with an SNMP trap daemon to intrepret the results from an IPMI PET trap captured by the daemon. While ipmi-pet could
       be called directly from such a daemon, typically a script is called to parse the SNMP daemon's output and convert it into a form that can be input into ipmi-pet.  On some systems, you may wish to also
       send a PET acknowledge to a remote system to inform it the trap was received and parsed. One can be sent using the --pet-acknowledge option.  While an IPMI session is not required to interpret a  PET,
       data  from  the sensor data repository (SDR) is required to properly interpret sensor names and other information in the PET. IPMI session configuration below, such as driver, hostname, username, etc.
       should be configured to load the SDR of the host where the trap originated.  If this is difficult to perform, it may be wise to cache and load a specific SDR cache using the  --sdr-cache-file  option.
       If  the  SDR  is difficult to obtain, the --ignore-sdr-cache option can be specified so that an SDR will not be loaded, and an IPMI session will not be required. The PET will be interpreted as best as
       possible given no SDR. The --ignore-sdr-cache option may affect other options such as --interpret-oem-data too. Some options, such as --manufacturer-id and --product-id may  alleviate  some  of  these
       issues.   If  the  SNMP  daemon does not output a SNMPv1 specific trap on its own, it is typically output as the last element of the OID in SNMPv2.  If for some reason a specific trap cannot be deter‐
       mined, the value of NA may be input for the specific trap to indicate it is not available.  Ipmi-pet will output as much as possible based on the variable bindings information. Some  of  the  specific
       trap information may be obtained via SDR information.

       Listed  below  are  general  IPMI  options,  tool  specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For a general introduction to FreeIPMI please see
       freeipmi(7).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify the driver type to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI  2.0  respectively.  The  cur‐
              rently available inband drivers are KCS, SSIF, OPENIPMI, SUNBMC, and INTELDCMI.

       --disable-auto-probe
              Do not probe in-band IPMI devices for default settings.

       --driver-address=DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver address to be used instead of the probed value. DRIVER-ADDRESS should be prefixed with "0x" for a hex value and '0' for an octal value.

       --driver-device=DEVICE
              Specify the in-band driver device path to be used instead of the probed path.

       --register-spacing=REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the in-band driver register spacing instead of the probed value. Argument is in bytes (i.e. 32bit register spacing = 4)

       --target-channel-number=CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the in-band driver target channel number to send IPMI requests to.

       --target-slave-address=SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver target slave number to send IPMI requests to.

       -h IPMIHOST, --hostname=IPMIHOST[:PORT]
              Specify  the  remote  host  to communicate with. An optional port can be specified, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations. If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the
              format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify the username to use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast OPERATOR privileges in order for
              this tool to operate fully.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 1000 milliseconds (1 second) if not specified. The retransmission timeout cannot be larger than the session timeout.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion  algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to OPERATOR if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify workarounds to vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds  (may  be  useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMI-PET OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-pet.

       -v     Output verbose output. This option will output event direction and OEM custom messages from the trap.

       -vv    Output very verbose output. This option will output additional information available in the trap, such as GUID, manufacturer ID, and system ID.

       -vvv   Output  very  very verbose output. This option will output additional information than verbose output. Most notably it will output additional hex codes to given information on ambiguous events.
              For example, it will output Generator ID hex codes for sensors without names.

       --pet-acknowledge
              Send PET acknowledge using inputted trap data instead of outputting data. In some circumstances, this may be useful to inform a remote system that a trap was received and parsed. If  specified,
              a hostname must be specified via -h or --hostname to inform ipmi-pet where to send the acknowledge to. When this option is specified, the SDR cache is not loaded and is not required.

       --file=CMD-FILE
              Specify a file to read PET specific trap and variable bindings hex from instead of command line.

       --output-event-severity
              Output  event severity in output. This will add an additional output of an event severity. The outputs may be Monitor, Information, OK, Non-critical condition, Critical condition, or Non-recov‐
              erable condition. This differs from the output of --output-event-state, as event severity is not interpreted, it is a value reported in the SNMP trap. However,  not  all  events  may  report  a
              severity, or some manufacturers may not support the report of a severity. Event severity will automatically be output under verbose output.

       --output-event-state
              Output  event  state in output. This will add an additional output reporting if an event should be viewed as NOMINAL, WARNING, or CRITICAL. This differs from the output of --output-event-sever‐
              ity, as this output is an interpreted value that will be interpreted identically to the --output-event-state output in ipmi-sel(8).  As long as an event interpretation is supported, all  events
              will  have  outputted  state.  The  event  state  is an interpreted value based on the configuration file /etc/freeipmi//freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf and the event direction. See freeipmi_inter‐
              pret_sel.conf(5) for more information.

       --event-state-config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate event state configuration file. Option ignored if --output-event-state not specified.

       --manufacturer-id=NUMBER
              Specify a specific manufacturer id to assume. Useful if you wish to specify --interpret-oem-data, but the manufacturer id cannot be determined by IPMI access or is not  available  in  the  SNMP
              trap.  The manufacturer id of a motherboard can be determined with bmc-info(8).  If this option is specified, so must --product-id.

       --product-id=NUMBER
              Specify  a  specific  product id to assume. Useful if you wish to specify --interpret-oem-data, but the product id cannot be determined by IPMI access or is not available in the SNMP trap.  The
              product id of a motherboard can be determined with bmc-info(8).  If this option is specified, so must --manufacturer-id.

       --interpret-oem-data
              Attempt to interpret OEM data, such as event data, sensor readings, or general extra info, etc. If an OEM interpretation is not available, the default output will be generated.  Correctness  of
              OEM  interpretations  cannot be guaranteed due to potential changes OEM vendors may make in products, firmware, etc. See OEM INTERPRETATION below for confirmed supported motherboard interpreta‐
              tions.

       --entity-sensor-names
              Output sensor names prefixed with their entity id and instance number when appropriate. This may be necessary on some motherboards to help identify what sensors are referencing. For example,  a
              motherboard may have multiple sensors named 'TEMP'. The entity id and instance number may help clarify which sensor refers to "Processor 1" vs. "Processor 2".

       --no-sensor-type-output
              Do  not  show  sensor type output for each entry. On many systems, the sensor type is redundant to the name of the sensor. This can especially be true if --entity-sensor-names is specified.  If
              the sensor name is sufficient, or if the sensor type is of no interest to the user, this option can be specified to condense output.

       --comma-separated-output
              Output fields in comma separated format.

       --no-header-output
              Do not output column headers. May be useful in scripting.

       --non-abbreviated-units
              Output non-abbreviated units (e.g. 'Amps' instead of 'A'). May aid in disambiguation of units (e.g. 'C' for Celsius or Coulombs).

SDR CACHE OPTIONS
       This tool requires access to the sensor data repository (SDR) cache for general operation. By default, SDR data will be downloaded and cached on the local machine. The following options apply  to  the
       SDR cache.

       --flush-cache
              Flush  a  cached  version of the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. The SDR is typically cached for faster subsequent access. However, it may need to be flushed and re-generated if the SDR has
              been updated on a system.

       --quiet-cache
              Do not output information about cache creation/deletion. May be useful in scripting.

       --sdr-cache-recreate
              If the SDR cache is out of date or invalid, automatically recreate the sensor data repository (SDR) cache. This option may be useful for scripting purposes.

       --sdr-cache-file=FILE
              Specify a specific sensor data repository (SDR) cache file to be stored or read from. If this option is used when multiple hosts are specified, the same SDR cache file  will  be  used  for  all
              hosts.

       --sdr-cache-directory=DIRECTORY
              Specify an alternate directory for sensor data repository (SDR) caches to be stored or read from. Defaults to the home directory if not specified.

       --ignore-sdr-cache
              Ignore  SDR cache related processing. May lead to incomplete or less useful information being output, however it will allow functionality for systems without SDRs or when the correct SDR cannot
              be loaded.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI over LAN problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP  address,  MAC  address,
       subnet  mask,  username,  user  enablement,  user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check to make sure the cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       Inband IPMI problems are typically caused by improperly configured drivers or non-standard BMCs.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password verification timeout" - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During  this  point  in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege  level  insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may require authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower  privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication  type  unavailable  for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again with an alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher suite id unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also  be  possible  the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session timeout" - The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are  considerably  slower  than
       others.

       "device not found" - The specified device could not be found. Please check configuration or inputs and try again.

       "driver timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "message timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "BMC busy" - The BMC is currently busy. It may be processing information or have too many simultaneous sessions to manage. Please wait and try again.

       "could not find inband device" - An inband device could not be found.  Please check configuration or specify specific device or driver on the command line.

       "driver timeout" - The inband driver has timed out communicating to the local BMC or service processor. The BMC or service processor may be busy or (worst case) possibly non-functioning.

       "internal IPMI error" - An IPMI error has occurred that FreeIPMI does not know how to handle. Please e-mail <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> to report the issue.

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able to handle discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify  a  workaround  be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit the same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard  is  not
       listed.

       If  you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       assumeio - This workaround flag will assume inband interfaces communicate with system I/O rather than being memory-mapped. This will work around systems that report invalid base addresses. Those  hit‐
       ting this issue may see "device not supported" or "could not find inband device" errors.  Issue observed on HP ProLiant DL145 G1.

       spinpoll  -  This  workaround flag will inform some inband drivers (most notably the KCS driver) to spin while polling rather than putting the process to sleep. This may significantly improve the wall
       clock running time of tools because an operating system scheduler's granularity may be much larger than the time it takes to perform a single IPMI message transaction. However, by spinning, your  sys‐
       tem may be performing less useful work by not contexting out the tool for a more useful task.

       authcap  - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple issues
       in which the remote system does not properly report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see  "username  invalid",  "authentication  type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck  -  This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due to implementation
       errors, but the packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely  to  be  an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero - This workaround flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth  -  This  workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain non-null authentication data
       when they should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed  on  newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg  -  This  workaround  flag  will  force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around an issue when per-message authentication is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq - This workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that  are  the  wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck  -  This  workaround  flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems that return invalid authentication
       codes due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most  organizations,
       this  is  unlikely  to  be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue observed on Xyratex FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20 - This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the  authentication  algorithm
       is  HMAC-MD5-128.  Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management Module (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20 - This workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include  handling  invalid  length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20  -  This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid cipher suite
       records. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround  automatically  includes  the  "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv  -  This  workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege level sent during
       the Open Session stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may  see  "password  invalid",
       "k_g  invalid",  or  "bad  rmcpplus  status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG, Intel S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should  be
       0  length,  however  the  remote  motherboard  responds  with  a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Supermicro X8DTG, Supermicro X8DTU, and Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       assumemaxsdrrecordcount - This workaround will inform SDR reading to stop reading after a known maximum number of SDR records have been read. This will work around systems  that  have  mis-implemented
       SDR reading functions. Those hitting this issue may see "SDR record count invalid" errors. Issue observed on unspecified Inspur motherboard.

       malformedack  -  This  workaround  flag  will  ignore  malformed PET acknowledge responses and assume any PET acknowledge response from the remote machine is valid. It works around remote systems that
       respond with PET acknowledge requests with invalid/malformed IPMI payloads.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors when executing a PET acknowledge. Issue  observed  on  Dell  Pow‐
       eredge R610.

       No  IPMI  1.5  Support  -  Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" or "connection timeout" errors. This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

OEM INTERPRETATION
       The following motherboards are confirmed to have atleast some support by the --interpret-oem-data option. While highly probable the OEM data interpretations would work across other motherboards by the
       same manufacturer, there are no guarantees. Some of the motherboards below may be rebranded by vendors/distributors.

       Currently None

EXAMPLES
       Interpret a PET using the local SDR cache.

       #  ipmi-pet  356224  0x44 0x45 0x4c 0x4c 0x50 0x00 0x10 0x59 0x80 0x43 0xb2 0xc0 0x4f 0x33 0x33 0x58 0x00 0x02 0x19 0xe8 0x7e 0x26 0xff 0xff 0x20 0x20 0x04 0x20 0x73 0x18 0x00 0x80 0x01 0xff 0x00 0x00
       0x00 0x00 0x00 0x19 0x00 0x00 0x02 0xa2 0x01 0x00 0xc1

       Interpret a PET using a remote SDR cache.

       # ipmi-pet -h ahost -u myusername -p mypassword 356224 0x44 0x45 0x4c 0x4c 0x50 0x00 0x10 0x59 0x80 0x43 0xb2 0xc0 0x4f 0x33 0x33 0x58 0x00 0x02 0x19 0xe8 0x7e 0x26 0xff 0xff 0x20 0x20 0x04 0x20  0x73
       0x18 0x00 0x80 0x01 0xff 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x19 0x00 0x00 0x02 0xa2 0x01 0x00 0xc1

       Interpret a PET using a previously stored SDR cache.

       #  ipmi-pet  356224  0x44 0x45 0x4c 0x4c 0x50 0x00 0x10 0x59 0x80 0x43 0xb2 0xc0 0x4f 0x33 0x33 0x58 0x00 0x02 0x19 0xe8 0x7e 0x26 0xff 0xff 0x20 0x20 0x04 0x20 0x73 0x18 0x00 0x80 0x01 0xff 0x00 0x00
       0x00 0x00 0x00 0x19 0x00 0x00 0x02 0xa2 0x01 0x00 0xc1 --sdr-cache-file=/tmp/mysdrcache

       Instead of outputting trap interpretation, send a PET acknowledge using the trap data.

       # ipmi-pet -h ahost --pet-acknowledge 356224 0x44 0x45 0x4c 0x4c 0x50 0x00 0x10 0x59 0x80 0x43 0xb2 0xc0 0x4f 0x33 0x33 0x58 0x00 0x02 0x19 0xe8 0x7e 0x26 0xff 0xff 0x20 0x20 0x04 0x20 0x73 0x18  0x00
       0x80 0x01 0xff 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x19 0x00 0x00 0x02 0xa2 0x01 0x00 0xc1

DIAGNOSTICS
       Upon successful execution, exit status is 0. On error, exit status is 1.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On  older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In  order  to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up" to pass
       before you may authenticate again.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2011-2015 FreeIPMI Core Team

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi(7), bmc-info(8), ipmi-config(8), ipmi-sel(8), freeipmi_interpret_sel.conf(5)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

IPMI-PET version 1.6.8                                                                             2021-05-20                                                                                       IPMI-PET(8)
