IPMI-DCMI(8)                                                                                    System Commands                                                                                    IPMI-DCMI(8)

NAME
       ipmi-dcmi - IPMI DCMI utility

SYNOPSIS
       ipmi-dcmi [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       Ipmi-dcmi  is  used to execute Data Center Manageability Interface (often referred to as DCM or DCMI) IPMI extension commands. DCMI extensions include support for asset management and power usage man‐
       agement. Most will be interested in DCMI for its power management features. By configuring an exception action, power limit, and correction time limit, power usage in a data center can be managed more
       affectively.  Please  see  --set-power-limit  option below for more information.  DCMI can also be configured using the dcmi category in ipmi-config(8).  The DCMI specification encompasses many tradi‐
       tional IPMI features that are not implemented directly in this tool. Please see ipmiconsole(8) for Serial-over-LAN (SOL) support, ipmi-chassis(8) for power status, power control,  identification,  and
       ACPI  power  state  information,  ipmipower(8) for power status and power control, ipmi-sel(8) for System Event Log (SEL) information, bmc-info(8) for device and globally unique ID (guid) information,
       ipmi-sensors(8) for sensor readings, and ipmi-config(8) for configuration.

       Listed below are general IPMI options, tool specific options, trouble shooting information, workaround information, examples, and known issues. For  a  general  introduction  to  FreeIPMI  please  see
       freeipmi(7).

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are general options for configuring IPMI communication and executing general tool commands.

       -D IPMIDRIVER, --driver-type=IPMIDRIVER
              Specify  the  driver  type  to use instead of doing an auto selection.  The currently available outofband drivers are LAN and LAN_2_0, which perform IPMI 1.5 and IPMI 2.0 respectively. The cur‐
              rently available inband drivers are KCS, SSIF, OPENIPMI, SUNBMC, and INTELDCMI.

       --disable-auto-probe
              Do not probe in-band IPMI devices for default settings.

       --driver-address=DRIVER-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver address to be used instead of the probed value. DRIVER-ADDRESS should be prefixed with "0x" for a hex value and '0' for an octal value.

       --driver-device=DEVICE
              Specify the in-band driver device path to be used instead of the probed path.

       --register-spacing=REGISTER-SPACING
              Specify the in-band driver register spacing instead of the probed value. Argument is in bytes (i.e. 32bit register spacing = 4)

       --target-channel-number=CHANNEL-NUMBER
              Specify the in-band driver target channel number to send IPMI requests to.

       --target-slave-address=SLAVE-ADDRESS
              Specify the in-band driver target slave number to send IPMI requests to.

       -h IPMIHOST1,IPMIHOST2,..., --hostname=IPMIHOST1[:PORT],IPMIHOST2[:PORT],...
              Specify the remote host(s) to communicate with. Multiple hostnames may be separated by comma or may be specified in a range format; see HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below. An optional port can be  speci‐
              fied with each host, which may be useful in port forwarding or similar situations.  If specifying an IPv6 address and port, use the format [ADDRESS]:PORT.

       -u USERNAME, --username=USERNAME
              Specify  the  username  to use when authenticating with the remote host.  If not specified, a null (i.e. anonymous) username is assumed. The user must have atleast ADMIN privileges in order for
              this tool to operate fully.

       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Specify the password to use when authenticationg with the remote host.  If not specified, a null password is assumed. Maximum password length is 16 for IPMI 1.5 and 20 for IPMI 2.0.

       -P, --password-prompt
              Prompt for password to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       -k K_G, --k-g=K_G
              Specify the K_g BMC key to use when authenticating with the remote host for IPMI 2.0. If not specified, a null key is assumed. To input the key in hexadecimal form, prefix the string with '0x'.
              E.g., the key 'abc' can be entered with the either the string 'abc' or the string '0x616263'

       -K, --k-g-prompt
              Prompt for k-g to avoid possibility of listing it in process lists.

       --session-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the session timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 20000 milliseconds (20 seconds) if not specified.

       --retransmission-timeout=MILLISECONDS
              Specify the packet retransmission timeout in milliseconds. Defaults to 1000 milliseconds (1 second) if not specified. The retransmission timeout cannot be larger than the session timeout.

       -a AUTHENTICATION-TYPE, --authentication-type=AUTHENTICATION-TYPE
              Specify the IPMI 1.5 authentication type to use. The currently available authentication types are NONE, STRAIGHT_PASSWORD_KEY, MD2, and MD5. Defaults to MD5 if not specified.

       -I CIPHER-SUITE-ID, --cipher-suite-id=CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the IPMI 2.0 cipher suite ID to use. The Cipher Suite ID identifies a set of authentication, integrity, and confidentiality algorithms to use for IPMI 2.0 communication. The authentica‐
              tion algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session setup, the integrity algorithm identifies the algorithm to use for session packet signatures, and the confidentiality algorithm  iden‐
              tifies the algorithm to use for payload encryption. Defaults to cipher suite ID 3 if not specified. The following cipher suite ids are currently supported:

              0 - Authentication Algorithm = None; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              1 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              2 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              3 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-SHA1-96; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              6 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              7 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              8 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC-MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              11 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              12 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-MD5; Integrity Algorithm = MD5-128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

              15 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = None; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              16 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = None

              17 - Authentication Algorithm = HMAC-SHA256; Integrity Algorithm = HMAC_SHA256_128; Confidentiality Algorithm = AES-CBC-128

       -l PRIVILEGE-LEVEL, --privilege-level=PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the privilege level to be used. The currently available privilege levels are USER, OPERATOR, and ADMIN. Defaults to ADMIN if not specified.

       --config-file=FILE
              Specify an alternate configuration file.

       -W WORKAROUNDS, --workaround-flags=WORKAROUNDS
              Specify  workarounds  to  vendor compliance issues. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by commas. A special command line flag of "none", will indicate no workarounds (may be useful
              for overriding configured defaults). See WORKAROUNDS below for a list of available workarounds.

       --debug
              Turn on debugging.

       -?, --help
              Output a help list and exit.

       --usage
              Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the program version and exit.

IPMI-DCMI OPTIONS
       The following options are specific to ipmi-dcmi.

       --get-dcmi-capability-info
              Get DCMI capability information.

       --get-asset-tag
              Get asset tag.

       --set-asset-tag=STRING
              Set asset tag.

       --get-management-controller-identifier-string
              Get management controller identifier string tag.

       --set-management-controller-identifier-string=STRING
              Set management controller identifier string tag.

       --get-dcmi-sensor-info
              Get DCMI sensor information.

       --get-system-power-statistics
              Get system power statistics.

       --get-enhanced-system-power-statistics
              Get enhanced system power statistics.

       --get-power-limit
              Get power limit information.

       --set-power-limit
              Set power limit configuration. Can specify configuration via the --exception-actions, --power-limit-requested, --correction-time-limit, and --correction-time-limit options listed below. If  one
              or more options below are not specified, current configuration will be utilized.

       --exception-actions=BITMASK
              Specify  exception  actions  for set power limit configuration. Special case allowable values: NO_ACTION, HARD_POWER_OFF_SYSTEM, LOG_EVENT_TO_SEL_ONLY. Other values (e.g. 0x02 through 0x10) are
              OEM dependent. Used with the --set-power-limit option.

       --power-limit-requested=WATTS
              Specify power limit for set power limit configuration. Input is specified in watts. Used with the --set-power-limit option.

       --correction-time-limit=MILLISECONDS
              Specify correction time limit for set power limit configuration.  Input is specified in milliseconds. Used with the --set-power-limit option.

       --statistics-sampling-period=SECONDS
              Specify management application statistics sampling period for set power limit configuration. Input is specified in seconds. Used with the --set-power-limit option.

       --activate-deactivate-power-limit=OPERATION
              Activate or deactivate power limit. Allowed values: ACTIVATE, DEACTIVATE.

       --interpret-oem-data
              Attempt to interpret OEM data, such as event data, sensor readings, or general extra info, etc. If an OEM interpretation is not available, the default output will be generated.  Correctness  of
              OEM  interpretations  cannot be guaranteed due to potential changes OEM vendors may make in products, firmware, etc. See OEM INTERPRETATION below for confirmed supported motherboard interpreta‐
              tions.

TIME OPTIONS
       By IPMI definition, all IPMI times and timestamps are stored in localtime. However, in many situations, the timestamps will not be stored in localtime. Whether or not a system truly stored  the  time‐
       stamps  in  localtime  varies  on many factors, such as the vendor, BIOS, and operating system.  The following options will allow the user to adjust the interpretation of the stored timestamps and how
       they should be output.

       --utc-to-localtime
              Assume all times are reported in UTC time and convert the time to localtime before being output.

       --localtime-to-utc
              Convert all localtime timestamps to UTC before being output.

       --utc-offset=SECONDS
              Specify a specific UTC offset in seconds to be added to timestamps.  Value can range from -86400 to 86400 seconds. Defaults to 0.

HOSTRANGED OPTIONS
       The following options manipulate hostranged output. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information on hostranges.

       -B, --buffer-output
              Buffer hostranged output. For each node, buffer standard output until the node has completed its IPMI operation. When specifying this option, data may appear to output slower to the user  since
              the the entire IPMI operation must complete before any data can be output.  See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -C, --consolidate-output
              Consolidate  hostranged  output.  The  complete standard output from every node specified will be consolidated so that nodes with identical output are not output twice. A header will list those
              nodes with the consolidated output. When this option is specified, no output can be seen until the IPMI operations to all nodes has completed. If the user breaks out of the program  early,  all
              currently consolidated output will be dumped. See HOSTRANGED SUPPORT below for additional information.

       -F NUM, --fanout=NUM
              Specify  multiple  host  fanout. A "sliding window" (or fanout) algorithm is used for parallel IPMI communication so that slower nodes or timed out nodes will not impede parallel communication.
              The maximum number of threads available at the same time is limited by the fanout. The default is 64.

       -E, --eliminate
              Eliminate hosts determined as undetected by ipmidetect.  This attempts to remove the common issue of hostranged execution timing out due to several nodes being removed from service in  a  large
              cluster. The ipmidetectd daemon must be running on the node executing the command.

       --always-prefix
              Always  prefix  output,  even  if  only  one  host is specified or communicating in-band. This option is primarily useful for scripting purposes. Option will be ignored if specified with the -C
              option.

HOSTRANGED SUPPORT
       Multiple hosts can be input either as an explicit comma separated lists of hosts or a range of hostnames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc. The later form should not
       be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted by []). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This  range  syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could be specified
       as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:
           foo[01-05] instead of foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05
           foo[7,9-10] instead of foo7,foo9,foo10
           foo[0-3] instead of foo0,foo1,foo2,foo3

       As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ([ and ]) for pattern matching. Depending on your shell, it may be necessary to enclose ranged lists within quotes.

       When multiple hosts are specified by the user, a thread will be executed for each host in parallel up to the configured fanout (which can be adjusted via the -F option). This will allow  communication
       to large numbers of nodes far more quickly than if done in serial.

       By  default, standard output from each node specified will be output with the hostname prepended to each line. Although this output is readable in many situations, it may be difficult to read in other
       situations. For example, output from multiple nodes may be mixed together. The -B and -C options can be used to change this default.

       In-band IPMI Communication will be used when the host "localhost" is specified. This allows the user to add the localhost into the hostranged output.

GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most often, IPMI problems are due to configuration problems.

       IPMI over LAN problems involve a misconfiguration of the remote machine's BMC.  Double check to make sure the following are configured properly in the remote machine's BMC: IP  address,  MAC  address,
       subnet  mask,  username,  user  enablement,  user privilege, password, LAN privilege, LAN enablement, and allowed authentication type(s). For IPMI 2.0 connections, double check to make sure the cipher
       suite privilege(s) and K_g key are configured properly. The ipmi-config(8) tool can be used to check and/or change these configuration settings.

       Inband IPMI problems are typically caused by improperly configured drivers or non-standard BMCs.

       In addition to the troubleshooting tips below, please see WORKAROUNDS below to also if there are any vendor specific bugs that have been discovered and worked around.

       Listed below are many of the common issues for error messages.  For additional support, please e-mail the <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> mailing list.

       "username invalid" - The username entered (or a NULL username if none was entered) is not available on the remote machine. It may also be possible the remote BMC's username configuration is incorrect.

       "password invalid" - The password entered (or a NULL password if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the password for the user is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "password verification timeout" - Password verification has timed out.  A "password invalid" error (described above) or a generic "session timeout" (described below) occurred.  During  this  point  in
       the protocol it cannot be differentiated which occurred.

       "k_g invalid" - The K_g key entered (or a NULL K_g key if none was entered) is not correct. It may also be possible the K_g key is not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "privilege  level  insufficient" - An IPMI command requires a higher user privilege than the one authenticated with. Please try to authenticate with a higher privilege. This may require authenticating
       to a different user which has a higher maximum privilege.

       "privilege level cannot be obtained for this user" - The privilege level you are attempting to authenticate with is higher than the maximum allowed for this user. Please try again with a lower  privi‐
       lege. It may also be possible the maximum privilege level allowed for a user is not configured properly on the remote BMC.

       "authentication  type  unavailable  for attempted privilege level" - The authentication type you wish to authenticate with is not available for this privilege level. Please try again with an alternate
       authentication type or alternate privilege level. It may also be possible the available authentication types you can authenticate with are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "cipher suite id unavailable" - The cipher suite id you wish to authenticate with is not available on the remote BMC. Please try again with an alternate cipher suite id. It may also  be  possible  the
       available cipher suite ids are not correctly configured on the remote BMC.

       "ipmi 2.0 unavailable" - IPMI 2.0 was not discovered on the remote machine. Please try to use IPMI 1.5 instead.

       "connection timeout" - Initial IPMI communication failed. A number of potential errors are possible, including an invalid hostname specified, an IPMI IP address cannot be resolved, IPMI is not enabled
       on the remote server, the network connection is bad, etc. Please verify configuration and connectivity.

       "session timeout" - The IPMI session has timed out. Please reconnect.  If this error occurs often, you may wish to increase the retransmission timeout. Some remote BMCs are  considerably  slower  than
       others.

       "device not found" - The specified device could not be found. Please check configuration or inputs and try again.

       "driver timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "message timeout" - Communication with the driver or device has timed out. Please try again.

       "BMC busy" - The BMC is currently busy. It may be processing information or have too many simultaneous sessions to manage. Please wait and try again.

       "could not find inband device" - An inband device could not be found.  Please check configuration or specify specific device or driver on the command line.

       "driver timeout" - The inband driver has timed out communicating to the local BMC or service processor. The BMC or service processor may be busy or (worst case) possibly non-functioning.

       "internal IPMI error" - An IPMI error has occurred that FreeIPMI does not know how to handle. Please e-mail <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> to report the issue.

WORKAROUNDS
       With so many different vendors implementing their own IPMI solutions, different vendors may implement their IPMI protocols incorrectly. The following describes a number of workarounds currently avail‐
       able to handle discovered compliance issues. When possible, workarounds have been implemented so they will be transparent to the user. However, some will require the user to specify  a  workaround  be
       used via the -W option.

       The hardware listed below may only indicate the hardware that a problem was discovered on. Newer versions of hardware may fix the problems indicated below. Similar machines from vendors may or may not
       exhibit the same problems. Different vendors may license their firmware from the same IPMI firmware developer, so it may be worthwhile to try workarounds listed below even if your motherboard  is  not
       listed.

       If  you  believe  your  hardware  has  an  additional  compliance  issue  that  needs  a  workaround  to  be  implemented,  please  contact  the  FreeIPMI  maintainers  on  <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or
       <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

       assumeio - This workaround flag will assume inband interfaces communicate with system I/O rather than being memory-mapped. This will work around systems that report invalid base addresses. Those  hit‐
       ting this issue may see "device not supported" or "could not find inband device" errors.  Issue observed on HP ProLiant DL145 G1.

       spinpoll  -  This  workaround flag will inform some inband drivers (most notably the KCS driver) to spin while polling rather than putting the process to sleep. This may significantly improve the wall
       clock running time of tools because an operating system scheduler's granularity may be much larger than the time it takes to perform a single IPMI message transaction. However, by spinning, your  sys‐
       tem may be performing less useful work by not contexting out the tool for a more useful task.

       authcap  - This workaround flag will skip early checks for username capabilities, authentication capabilities, and K_g support and allow IPMI authentication to succeed. It works around multiple issues
       in which the remote system does not properly report username capabilities, authentication capabilities, or K_g status. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see  "username  invalid",  "authentication  type
       unavailable for attempted privilege level", or "k_g invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Asus P5M2/P5MT-R/RS162-E4/RX4, Intel SR1520ML/X38ML, and Sun Fire 2200/4150/4450 with ELOM.

       nochecksumcheck  -  This workaround flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the checksums returned from IPMI command responses. It works around systems that return invalid checksums due to implementation
       errors, but the packet is otherwise valid. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes validation of packet integrity in a number of circumstances. However, it is unlikely  to  be  an
       issue in most situations. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors. On IPMI 1.5 connections, the "noauthcodecheck" workaround
       may also needed too. Issue observed on Supermicro X9SCM-iiF, Supermicro X9DRi-F, and Supermicro X9DRFR.

       idzero - This workaround flag will allow empty session IDs to be accepted by the client. It works around IPMI sessions that report empty session IDs to the client. Those hitting  this  issue  may  see
       "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Tyan S2882 with M3289 BMC.

       unexpectedauth  -  This  workaround flag will allow unexpected non-null authcodes to be checked as though they were expected. It works around an issue when packets contain non-null authentication data
       when they should be null due to disabled per-message authentication. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on Dell PowerEdge 2850,SC1425. Confirmed fixed  on  newer
       firmware.

       forcepermsg  -  This  workaround  flag  will  force per-message authentication to be used no matter what is advertised by the remote system. It works around an issue when per-message authentication is
       advertised as disabled on the remote system, but it is actually required for the protocol. Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors.  Issue observed on IBM eServer 325.

       endianseq - This workaround flag will flip the endian of the session sequence numbers to allow the session to continue properly. It works around IPMI 1.5 session sequence numbers that  are  the  wrong
       endian.  Those hitting this issue may see "session timeout" errors. Issue observed on some Sun ILOM 1.0/2.0 (depends on service processor endian).

       noauthcodecheck  -  This  workaround  flag will tell FreeIPMI to not check the authentication codes returned from IPMI 1.5 command responses. It works around systems that return invalid authentication
       codes due to hashing or implementation errors. Users are cautioned on the use of this option, as it removes an authentication check verifying the validity of a packet. However, in most  organizations,
       this  is  unlikely  to  be a security issue. Those hitting this issue may see "connection timeout", "session timeout", or "password verification timeout" errors.  Issue observed on Xyratex FB-H8-SRAY,
       Intel Windmill, Quanta Winterfell, and Wiwynn Windmill.

       intel20 - This workaround flag will work around several Intel IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include padding of usernames, and password truncation if the  authentication  algorithm
       is  HMAC-MD5-128.  Those hitting this issue may see "username invalid", "password invalid", or "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Intel SE7520AF2 with Intel Server Management Module (Professional
       Edition).

       supermicro20 - This workaround flag will work around several Supermicro IPMI 2.0 authentication issues on motherboards w/ Peppercon IPMI firmware. The issues covered include  handling  invalid  length
       authentication codes. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" errors.  Issue observed on Supermicro H8QME with SIMSO daughter card. Confirmed fixed on newerver firmware.

       sun20  -  This workaround flag will work work around several Sun IPMI 2.0 authentication issues. The issues covered include invalid lengthed hash keys, improperly hashed keys, and invalid cipher suite
       records. Those hitting this issue may see "password invalid" or "bmc error" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM.  This workaround  automatically  includes  the  "opensesspriv"
       workaround.

       opensesspriv  -  This  workaround flag will slightly alter FreeIPMI's IPMI 2.0 connection protocol to workaround an invalid hashing algorithm used by the remote system. The privilege level sent during
       the Open Session stage of an IPMI 2.0 connection is used for hashing keys instead of the privilege level sent during the RAKP1 connection stage. Those hitting this issue may  see  "password  invalid",
       "k_g  invalid",  or  "bad  rmcpplus  status code" errors.  Issue observed on Sun Fire 4100/4200/4500 with ILOM, Inventec 5441/Dell Xanadu II, Supermicro X8DTH, Supermicro X8DTG, Intel S5500WBV/Penguin
       Relion 700, Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X, Quanta QSSC-S4R/Appro GB812X-CN, and Dell C5220. This workaround is automatically triggered with the "sun20" workaround.

       integritycheckvalue - This workaround flag will work around an invalid integrity check value during an IPMI 2.0 session establishment when using Cipher Suite ID 0. The integrity check value should  be
       0  length,  however  the  remote  motherboard  responds  with  a non-empty field. Those hitting this issue may see "k_g invalid" errors. Issue observed on Supermicro X8DTG, Supermicro X8DTU, and Intel
       S5500WBV/Penguin Relion 700, and Intel S2600JF/Appro 512X.

       No IPMI 1.5 Support - Some motherboards that support IPMI 2.0 have been found to not support IPMI 1.5. Those hitting this issue may see "ipmi 2.0 unavailable"  or  "connection  timeout"  errors.  This
       issue can be worked around by using IPMI 2.0 instead of IPMI 1.5 by specifying --driver-type=LAN_2_0. Issue observed on a number of HP and Supermicro motherboards.

OEM INTERPRETATION
       The following motherboards are confirmed to have atleast some support by the --interpret-oem-data option. While highly probable the OEM data interpretations would work across other motherboards by the
       same manufacturer, there are no guarantees. Some of the motherboards below may be rebranded by vendors/distributors.

       Currently None

EXAMPLES
       # ipmi-dcmi --get-power-limit

       Get power limit of the local machine.

       # ipmi-dcmi -h ahost -u myusername -p mypassword --get-power-limit

       Get power limit of a remote machine using IPMI over LAN.

       # ipmi-dcmi -h mycluster[0-127] -u myusername -p mypassword --get-power-limit

       Get power limit across a cluster using IPMI over LAN.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Upon successful execution, exit status is 0. On error, exit status is 1.

       If multiple hosts are specified for communication, the exit status is 0 if and only if all targets successfully execute. Otherwise the exit status is 1.

KNOWN ISSUES
       On older operating systems, if you input your username, password, and other potentially security relevant information on the command line, this information may be discovered by other users when  using
       tools like the ps(1) command or looking in the /proc file system. It is generally more secure to input password information with options like the -P or -K options. Configuring security relevant infor‐
       mation in the FreeIPMI configuration file would also be an appropriate way to hide this information.

       In order to prevent brute force attacks, some BMCs will temporarily "lock up" after a number of remote authentication errors. You may need to wait awhile in order to this temporary "lock up"  to  pass
       before you may authenticate again.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
       or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi(7), ipmi-chassis(8), ipmi-config(8), ipmi-sel(8), ipmi-sensors(8), ipmiconsole(8), ipmipower(8)

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

ipmi-dcmi 1.6.8                                                                                    2021-05-20                                                                                      IPMI-DCMI(8)
