IPV6TOOLKIT(7)                                                                        Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                       IPV6TOOLKIT(7)

NAME
       ipv6toolkit - An IPv6 security assessment and trouble-shooting toolkit

DESCRIPTION
       The  SI6  Networks'  IPv6 Toolkit is a security assessment and trouble-shooting toolkit for IPv6 networks and implementations. It provides a number of tools to send arbitrary IPv6 packets, perform
       IPv6 address-scans, analyze IPv6 addresses, etc.

       This version of the toolkit (v2.0) includes the following tools:

         * addr6
         * blackhole6
         * flow6
         * frag6
         * icmp6
         * jumbo6
         * na6
         * ni6
         * ns6
         * path6
         * ra6
         * rd6
         * rs6
         * scan6
         * script6
         * tcp6
         * udp6

       addr6 is an IPv6 address analysis and manipulation tool. Given a list of IPv6 addresses, it can filter such list based on different criteria, such as IPv6 address type, IPv6  address  scope,  IPv6
       prefix,  etc.  Additionally,  given a list of IPv6 addresses addr6 can produce statistics on such addresses, including address scopes, types, and type of IPv6 interface identifier.  addr6 can also
       analyze a single address, producing script-friendly output, such that its analysis can be leveraged by other tools or scripts.

       blackhole6 is a troubleshooting tool which can find IPv6 where in the network topology packets with specific IPv6 Extension Headers are being dropped.

       flow6 allows the security assessment of the IPv6 Flow Label. Essentially, it can be leveraged to assess the Flow Label generation policy of a terget implementation.

       frag6 is a security assessment tool for the IPv6 fragmentation mechanism. It allows the exploitation of fragmentation-based attacks, and can also be employed to assess the Fragment  Identification
       generation policy, assess support for IPv6 atomic fragments, etc.

       icmp6  is  a  security assessment tool for the ICMPv6 protocol. It can easily produce arbitrary ICMPv6 error messages, and includes the capability to generate such messages in response to received
       traffic.  icmp6 can also be used to send crafted ICMPv6 messages of arbitrary type/code combinations.

       jumbo6 is a security assessment tool for IPv6 Jumbograms.

       na6 is a security assessment tool for attack vectors based on Neighbor Advertisement messages (including Neighbor Cache poisoning attacks, DAD attacks, etc.).

       ni6 is a security assessment tool for attacks vectors and reconnaissance techniques based on ICMPv6 Node Information messages.

       ns6 is a security assessment tool for attack vectors based on Neighbor Solicitation messages (including Neighbor Cache poisoning attacks, Neighbor Cache exhaustion attacks, etc.).

       path6 is a versatile IPv6-based traceroute tool (which supports extension headers, IPv6 fragmentation, and other features not present in existing traceroute implementations).

       ra6 is a security assessment tool for attack vectors based on Router Advertisement messages (including various types of fooding attacks, man-in-the-middle attacks, and Denial of  Service  attacks,
       etc.).

       rd6 is a security assessment tool for attack vectors based on ICMPv6 Redirect messages.  It can easily produce arbitrary ICMPv6 Redirect messages, and also includes the capability to generate such
       messages in response to received traffic.

       rs6 is a security assessment tool for attack vectors based on Router Solicitation messages.

       scan6 is a full-fledged IPv6 address scanning tool, which can leverage specific IPv6 address patterns to greatly reduce the search space for "alive" nodes.

       script6 is set of scripts/commands that make rather complex and frequent tasks easy.

       tcp6  is  a  security  assessment  tool  for attack vectors based on TCP/IPv6 packets. It can be easily employed to launch classic TCP-based attacks such as SYN-floods, but can also be employed to
       launch other more complex attacks such as TCP connection floods, etc.

       udp6 is a tool for sending arbitrary IPv6-based UDP datagrams.

SEE ALSO
       ipv6toolkit.conf(5), addr6(1), blackhole6(1), flow6(1), frag6(1), icmp6(1), jumbo6(1), na6(1), ni6(1), ns6(1), path6(1), ra6(1), rd6(1), rs6(1), scan6(1), script6(1), tcp6(1), udp6(1)

AUTHOR
       The SI6 Networks' IPv6 Toolkit and the corresponding manual pages were produced by Fernando Gont <fgont@si6networks.com> for SI6 Networks <http://www.si6networks.com>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Fernando Gont.

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software Founda‐
       tion; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available at <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html>.

                                                                                                                                                                                             IPV6TOOLKIT(7)
