IRCD-IRCU(8)                                                                              System Manager's Manual                                                                              IRCD-IRCU(8)

NAME
       ircd-ircu - The Undernet Internet Relay Chat Daemon

SYNOPSIS
       ircd   [-t] [-d directory] [-f configfile] [-x debuglevel] [-h hostname]

DESCRIPTION
       ircd  is  the  Undernet  Internet  Relay Chat daemon.  ircd is a server in that its function is to "serve" the client program irc(1) with messages and commands.  All commands and user messages are
       passed directly to ircd for processing and relaying to other servers.  irc(1) depends upon there being an ircd server running somewhere for it to connect to  and  thus  allow  the  user  to  begin
       talking to other users.

       There are many common clients including ircII, EPIC, and BitchX for UNIX, mIRC and pIRCh for Windows, and IRCle and Homer for the Macintosh.

OPTIONS
       -d directory
              This option tells the server to change to that directory and use that as a reference point when opening ircd.conf and other startup files.

       -t     Instructs the server run in the foreground and to direct debugging output to standard output.

       -x#    Defines the debug level for ircd. The higher the debug level, the more messages get directed to debugging file (or standard output if the -t option is used).

       -w interface
              This option is deprecated.  Outgoing connections are bound to the interface specified in the M: line, and incoming connections are accepted only on interfaces specified in the P: lines.

       -f filename
              Specifies the ircd.conf file to be used for this server. The option is used to override the default ircd.conf given at compile time.

       -c     This  flag must be given if you are running ircd from /dev/console or any other situation where fd 0 isn't a TTY and you want the server to fork off and run in the background. This needs to
              be given if you are starting ircd from an rc (such as /etc/rc.local) file.

       -h hostname
              Allows the user to manually set the server name at startup. The default name is hostname.domainname.

       -p portname
              This is deprecated in favor of specifying server ports in P: lines.

CONFIGURATION
       If you plan to connect your ircd server to an existing IRC network, you will need to alter your local ircd configuration  file  (typically  named  ircd.conf)  so  that  it  will  accept  and  make
       connections  to  other  IRC  servers.   This  file  contains  the hostnames, network addresses, and passwords for connections to other IRC servers around the world.  Because the description of the
       ircd.conf file is beyond the scope of this document, please refer to the INSTALL file in the ircd documentation directory.

       BOOTING THE SERVER:  The ircd server can be started as part of the UNIX boot procedure or just by placing the server into Unix Background.  Keep in mind that if it is *not*  part  of  your  UNIXES
       Boot-up  procedure  then you will have to manually start the ircd server each time your UNIX is rebooted.  This means if your UNIX is prone to crashing or going for for repairs a lot it would make
       sense to start the ircd server as part of your UNIX bootup procedure.  In some cases the irc(1) will automatically attempt to boot the ircd server if the user is on the SAME UNIX that the ircd  is
       supposed to be running on.  If the irc(1) cannot connect to the ircd server it will try to start the server on it's own and will then try to reconnect to the newly booted ircd server.

EXAMPLE
              tolsun% ircd

       Places ircd into UNIX Background and starts up the server for use.  Note:  You do not have to add the "&" to this command, the program will automatically detach itself from tty.

COPYRIGHT
       (c) 1988,1989 University of Oulu, Computing Center, Finland,

       (c) 1988,1989 Department of Information Processing Science, University of Oulu, Finland

       (c) 1988,1989,1990,1991 Jarkko Oikarinen

       For full COPYRIGHT see LICENSE file with IRC package.

FILES
        /etc/utmp
        "ircd.conf"

SEE ALSO
       irc(1)

BUGS
       See the file 'BUGS' included in the distribution.

AUTHOR
       The current authors of the undernet IRC daemon are coder-com@undernet.org, the original author was Jarkko Oikarinen.

                                                                                                10 July 2000                                                                                   IRCD-IRCU(8)
