isatapd(8)                                                                                ISATAP client for Linux                                                                                isatapd(8)

NAME
       isatapd - ISATAP client for Linux

SYNOPSIS
       isatapd --help
       isatapd [ --daemon ] [ --link device ] [ options ] [ router ] [ ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       isatapd is a userspace program or daemon that sets up and maintains an ISATAP client tunnel by using the kernels ISATAP capabilities, first introduced with 2.6.25.

       The  program  will create the tunnel, periodically query the specified routers, add them to the potential router list , send periodic router solicitations and parse router advertisements.  isatapd
       will try to keep the tunnel up and running, even if the network topology changes.

       See NOTES below for more information

OPTIONS
       -n --name name
              Name of the tunnel interface. Default is is0.

       -l --link device
              Tunnel link device. If specified, tunnel will be restricted to that device, allowing multiple instances of isatapd with different tunnels. The tunnel can only exist as long as the link  de‐
              vice is up and has a IPv4 address configured.

              If  unspecified  or  'auto'  , the outgoing IPv4 address will be guessed for the first router and the tunnel created accordingly. The tunnel device will only created, if there is a possible
              IPv4 source address to reach the first router.

       -m --mtu bytes
              Sets the MTU to bytes for the tunnel device, minimum is 1280. If unspecified, 'auto' or 0, the kernel will choose the MTU, usually 1480.

       -t --ttl hoplimit
              Set the tunnel hoplimit, default is 64. Specifying 'auto' or 'inherit' will make the tunnel inherit the ttl from the linked device.

       -N --nopmtudisc
              Disable (IPv4) Path MTU Discovery on this tunnel. For this to work --ttl has to be set to inherit. Default: do Path MTU Discovery to reduce redundant fragmentation.

       -r --router router
              Set a potential router.  isatapd will resolv the hostname, add the IPv4 address to the PRL and send periodic router solicitation messages. Up to 10 potential routers can be  specified,  the
              default is the unqualified domainname "isatap".

       -i --interval seconds
              Default  interval  to send router solicitations. If the router lifetime is lower or interval is 'auto' , the interval will be 80 of the router's lifetime. Can be used to force solicitations
              at a shorter interval.

              Default: auto

       -D --check-dns seconds
              Interval to perform DNS resolution of configured routers and to recreate the PRL, if necessary. Set to 0 to disable.

              Default: 3600 sec = 1 hour

       -d --daemon
              fork to background. No logging is available yet.

       -p --pid file
              Store the pid as plaintext to file. The pid file will be write-locked to prevent multiple running instances. Useful for scripts and when running isatapd as a daemon.

       --user username
              Drop privileges to this user when running the solicitation loop.

              Default: nobody

       -v --verbose
              increase verbosity

       -q --quiet
              decrease verbosity

       -h --help
              print usage

       --version
              print version

EXIT STATUS
       On success zero is returned, otherwise a non-zero value is returned.

SIGNALS
       SIGHUP Force sending router solicitations and recreate the tunnel, if neccessary.

       SIGINT SIGTERM
              Gracefully shut down tunnel device and terminate.

SYSLOG
       isatapd logs to stderr when run in foreground and to syslog(3), using the facility LOG_DAEMON. Verbosity can be controlled with the -v and -q switches.

NOTES
       Network data will be processed by isatapd with privileges of an unprivileged user to minimize impact of bugs in the networking code. To create and maintain the tunnel device, root  privileges  are
       necessary.

       Whenever  the  tunnel link interface goes down or the source address for the local tunnel endpoint changes, the tunnel device will be destroyed and recreated, if possible. Note that till then your
       tunnel might be in a unusable state.

AUTHORS
       Sascha Hlusiak <mail@saschahlusiak.de>

       Kwong-Sang Yin <kwong-sang.yin@boeing.com>

       Fred Templin <fred.l.templin@boeing.com>

SEE ALSO
       ip(8) syslog-ng(8)

       http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5214.txt

isatapd-0.9.7                                                                               September 13th, 2013                                                                                 isatapd(8)
