ISNSADM(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 ISNSADM(8)

NAME
       isnsadm - iSNS client utility

SYNOPSIS
       isnsadm [options...]  --register object...

       isnsadm [...]  --query attr[=value]

       isnsadm [...]  --deregister attr=value

       isnsadm [...]  --list type attr=value

       isnsadm [...]  --dd-register attr=value

       isnsadm [...]  --dd-deregister dd-id attr=value

       isnsadm [...]  --enroll client-name attr=value

       isnsadm [...]  --edit-policy attr=value

DESCRIPTION
       Isnsadm  is a command line utility for interacting with an iSNS server.
       It operates in one of several  modes,  which  are  mutually  exclusive.
       Currently, isnsadm supports registration, query, and deregistration.

OPTIONS
       By  default, isnsadm will take most of its settings from the configura‐
       tion file /etc/isns/isnsadm.conf, with the exception of  the  following
       options:

       --config filename, -c filename
              This option overrides the default configuration file.

       --debug facility, -d facility
              enables debugging. Valid facilities are

           ┌────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
           │socket  │ network send/receive                                │
           │auth    │ authentication and security related information     │
           │message │ iSNS protocol layer                                 │
           │state   │ database state                                      │
           │scn     │ SCN (state change notification) messages            │
           │esi     │ ESI (entity status inquiry) messages                │
           │all     │ all of the above                                    │
           └────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
       --local
              makes  isnsadm use a Local (aka Unix) socket when talking to the
              iSNS server. This can be used by the  administrator  to  perform
              management  tasks, such as enrolling new clients, editing access
              control and so on. Local mode is only  available  to  the  super
              user.

       --server servername, -s servername
              specifies  the server to use (if not specified in the configura‐
              tion file).

       --control
              makes isnsadm assume the identity of  a  control  node.  Control
              nodes are special in that they have more rights in accessing and
              modifying the database than normal storage nodes have.

       When using this option, isnsadm will use the source name  and  DSA  key
       specified  by the Control.SourceName and Control.AuthKeyFile configura‐
       tion options, respectively.

       --key attr=value
              This option is recognized in registration mode  only,  and  lets
              you  specify  an  object  key.  For a more detailed explanation,
              refer to section Registration mode.

       --keyfile=filename
              When creating a policy for a new iSNS client, isnsadm is able to
              generate a DSA key for the client. The public part of the key is
              stored in a policy object in the iSNS server's database, whereas
              the  private portion is stored in the file specified by the key‐
              file option.

       --help This will print a help message and exit.

   Built-in help
       Isnsadm has built-in help functions. When invoked with --help, it  will
       print  a  general help message showing all supported command modes, and
       exit. Specific help on an  individual  command  mode  is  available  by
       invoking that mode with a single argument of help, like this:

       isnsadm --register help

       This will print a help message describing how to use this command mode,
       followed by a list of attributes this command supports and a help  text
       describing the attribute.

   Supported attributes
       Most  command  modes take a list of attributes as arguments on the com‐
       mand line. The naming and syntax of these attributes are the  same  for
       all commands modes, however certain modes support only a limited set of
       attributes.

       Attributes are usually given as name=value pairs. Where empty (or  NIL)
       attributes are supported, the attribute name by itself can be given.

       The  syntax  of  attribute  value  depends  on  the attribute type. For
       strings and numeric values, no special conventions apply, but bitfields
       have a special syntax described below.

       The attribute name is usually preceded by the object type it applies to
       (such as entity), followed by a hyphen and the  name  itself.  However,
       where the context clearly determines a specific object type, the prefix
       can be omitted. For  instance,  when  editing  a  policy  object  using
       --edit-policy,  it is acceptable to use node-type as shorthand for pol‐
       icy-node-type.

       Likewise, in a query command, it is not  permitted  to  mix  attributes
       from  different  object  types.  Thus,  the  first attribute of a query
       string establishes a type context, so that the  following  two  invoca‐
       tions are equivalent:

       isnsadm --query pg-name=iqn.com.foo pg-addr=10.1.1.1 pg-port=860/tcp
       isnsadm --query pg-name=iqn.com.foo addr=10.1.1.1 port=860/tcp

       Isnsadm currently supports the following attributes:

          ┌───────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┐
          │Context            │ Attribute              iSNS tag   Aliases │
          ├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────────────┤
          │Network Entity     │ entity-id                     1   eid     │
          │                   │ entity-prot                   2           │
          │                   │ entity-index                  7           │
          │iSCSI Storage Node │ iscsi-name                   32           │
          │                   │ iscsi-node-type              33           │
          │                   │ iscsi-alias                  34           │
          │                   │ iscsi-idx                    36           │
          │                   │ iscsi-authmethod             42           │
          │Portal             │ portal-addr                  16           │
          │                   │ portal-port                  17           │
          │                   │ portal-name                  18           │
          │                   │ portal-esi-port              20           │
          │                   │ portal-esi-interval          21           │
          │                   │ portal-idx                   22           │
          │                   │ portal-scn-port              23           │
          │Portal Group       │ portal-group-index           52           │
          │                   │ pg-name                      48           │
          │                   │ pg-addr                      49           │
          │                   │ pg-port                      50           │
          │                   │ pg-tag                       51   pgt     │
          │                   │ pg-idx                       52           │
          │Discovery Domain   │ dd-id                      2065           │
          │                   │ dd-name                    2066           │
          │                   │ dd-member-iscsi-idx        2067           │
          │                   │ dd-member-name             2068           │
          │                   │ dd-member-fc-name          2069           │
          │                   │ dd-member-portal-idx       2070           │
          │                   │ dd-member-addr             2071           │
          │                   │ dd-member-port             2072           │
          │                   │ dd-features                2078           │
          │Policy Object      │ policy-name                   -   spi     │
          │                   │ policy-key                    -           │
          │                   │ policy-entity                 -           │
          │                   │ policy-node-type              -           │
          │                   │ policy-object-type            -           │
          │                   │ policy-functions              -           │
          └───────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────┘
   Portal attributes
       Portal  information  is conveyed by two separate attributes in iSNS; an
       address attribute holding the IP address, and a TCP/UDP port  attribute
       holding  the  port  number and an indication of the protocol to be used
       (TCP or UDP).

       When parsing a TCP/UDP port,  Open-iSNS  will  expect  a  port  number,
       optionally  followed  by  a  slash and the protocol. Port names such as
       "iscsi-target" are not supported.

       As a convenience, isnsadm supports a notation representing a portal  as
       one  pseudo-attribute.   Separating  address and port by a colon. Thus,
       the following two are equivalent, with the latter being  the  shorthand
       representation of the former:

       addr=<address> port=<port>[/protocol].  portal=<adress>:port[/protocol]

       This  notation  can be used in any context where an addr/port attribute
       pair can appear, and may be prefixed by a  type  name,  as  in  pg-por‐
       tal=....

       When  using literal IPv6 addresses, the address has to be surrounded by
       square brackets, otherwise the embedded colons would create  ambiguity:
       portal=[2001:5c0:0:2::24]:860/tcp

   Bitfield attributes
       Some  iSNS attributes are words representing a bit field.  Isnsadm dis‐
       plays and parses these attributes in human-readable  form  rather  than
       using the numerical value. The names of the bit values are displayed by
       built-in help facilities. When specifying a bitfield attribute  on  the
       command  line,  you  can  combine  them using the plus (+) or comma (,)
       character, like this:

       node-type=control+initiator

   Registration mode
       Registration mode is selected by using the --register option,  followed
       by  a list of one or more objects to register with the iSNS server.  By
       default, this will create a network entity  for  the  client  (if  none
       exists),  and  place  the new objects inside it.  Usually, you register
       all objects for a network entity in one operation, rather than each one
       separately.

       Each object is specified as a type, optionally followed by a comma-sep‐
       arated list of attributes, such as this:

       target=iqn.2005-01.org.open-iscsi.foo:disk1,alias=disk1

       The following object types are currently supported:

       entity=name
              Tells the server to group all objects in the  specified  Network
              Entity  container  object.  Normally, the iSNS server will auto‐
              matically assign an entity name that is in line with  its  poli‐
              cies, and there is no need to specify it explicitly.

       initiator[=name]
              This  will register an iSCSI storage node of type initiator.  By
              default, the name is set to the iSNS source name.

              This can be  followed  by  any  number  of  iSCSI  storage  node
              attributes.

       target[=name]
              This  will  register  an  iSCSI storage node of type target.  By
              default, the name is set to the iSNS source name.

              This object accepts the same set of attributes as initiator.

       control[=name]
              This will register an iSCSI storage node of  type  control.   By
              default,  the name is set to the iSNS source name.  Only manage‐
              ment nodes should be registered as control nodes, as this  gives
              a node complete control over the iSNS database.

              This object accepts the same set of attributes as initiator.

       portal=[address:port/proto]
              This  will  register  a portal using the given address, port and
              protocol triple. If the triple is omitted, isnsadm will use  the
              client  host's  IP address. If the portal is preceded by an ini‐
              tiator registration (on the command line), the port defaults  to
              860/tcp;  if  it  is preceded by a target registration, the port
              defaults to 3260/tcp.  For  multi-homed  hosts,  the  choice  of
              address is implementation dependent.

              This can be followed by any number of portal attributes.

       pg     This  will  register a portal group joining the preceding portal
              and node. Portal groups can be used to  describe  the  preferred
              portals for a given node; please refer to RFC 4171 for details.

              This  can  be followed by any number of portal group attributes.
              The attribute list must specify a portal group tag (PGT) via the
              pgt attribute.

       There  are  two  additional command line options of interest, which are
       used exclusively with Registration mode. One is  --replace.   Normally,
       registration mode will add new objects to the network entity associated
       with the client host. If you specify --replace on the command line, the
       server  will wipe the network entity completely, and remove all portals
       and storage nodes it contained. Then  it  will  create  a  new  network
       entity,  and place the portals and storage nodes provided by the caller
       inside.

       In addition, it is possible to replace just parts of a network  entity.
       This  is achieved by using the command line option --key to specify the
       object that should be replaced.

       For instance, assume a network entity contains the portal 10.1.1.1:860,
       and the client's network address changed to 10.2.7.7.  Then the follow‐
       ing command will atomically update the  database,  replacing  just  the
       portal without touching the registered storage nodes:

         isnsadm --replace --key portal=10.1.1.1:860 portal=10.2.7.7:860

       The --key option recognizes only a subset of the usual attributes:

              ┌────────────┬─────────────────────┐
              │Object type │ Syntax              │
              ├────────────┼─────────────────────┤
              │Entity      │ eid=identifier      │
              │Portal      │ portal=address:port │
              │iSCSI Node  │ iscsi-name=name     │
              └────────────┴─────────────────────┘
       To get a list of supported attributes, invoke isnsadm --register help.

   Query mode
       Query mode is selected by using the --query option. A query consists of
       a list of attr=value pairs. All attributes  must  belong  to  the  same
       object type, i.e. queries that mix a Network Entity attribute with e.g.
       a Portal attribute will be rejected.

       It is also possible to specify an attribute name  without  value  (i.e.
       just  attr),  which  will  will  match  any  object  that  has  such an
       attribute, regardless of its value. This is useful  when  you  want  to
       query for all objects of a given type.

       To obtain a list of supported attributes, invoke isnsadm --query help.

   List Mode
       In this mode, isnsadm will display all objects of a given type, option‐
       ally restricted to those matching certain attribute values.

       The arguments to list mode are a type name, optionally followed by  one
       or  more attr=value pairs. Only attributes pertaining to the given type
       are permitted; for instance, if you specify a  type  name  of  portals,
       only portal attributes are permitted.

       Possible type names are: entities, nodes, portals, dds, ddsets, portal-
       groups, and policies.

       Additional information is available via isnsadm --list help.

   Deregistration mode
       In this mode, you can deregister objects previously  registered.   Only
       the  node which registered an entity in the first place is permitted to
       remove it, or any of its child objects. (Control nodes are not bound by
       this restriction).

       In  deregistration  mode,  the  argument  list  consists  of  a list of
       attr=value pairs. Deregistration supports the same set of attributes as
       query mode.

   Discovery Domain Registration
       This  mode allows one to register a discovery domain or to add new mem‐
       bers to an existing discovery domain. Again, attributes  are  specified
       as  a  list  of  attr=value pairs. Only discovery domain attributes are
       recognized.

       Note, in order to add members to an existing domain, you  must  specify
       the domain's numeric ID. The domain's symbolic name is not a valid han‐
       dle when referring to a discovery domain.

   Discovery Domain Deregistration mode
       In this mode, you can deregister a discoery  domain  previously  regis‐
       tered.   Only the node which registered a discovery domain in the first
       place is permitted to remove it, or any of its members. (Control  nodes
       are not bound by this restriction).

       In  Discovery Domain deregistration mode, the argument list consists of
       the Discovery Domain ID, followed by a list of attr=value  pairs.  Dis‐
       covery  Domain  Deregistration  supports  the same set of attributes as
       query mode.

   Client Enrollment
       This mode only works when the server recognizes the  client  as  having
       control node capabilities, which is possible in two ways:

       Invoke isnsadm  --local  as super user on the host isnsd is running on.
              The --local options tells it  to  communicate  with  the  server
              through the local control socket.

       Invoke isnsadm  --control,  which  tells it to assume the identity of a
              control node.  When given this  option,  isnsadm  will  use  the
              source  name and DSA key specified by the Control.SourceName and
              Control.AuthKeyFile configuration  options,  respectively.   The
              server  must  be  configured to grant this identity control node
              status.

       To enroll a client, use the --enroll option, followed by  the  (source)
       name  of the client to enroll.  This string will be used as the name of
       the security policy the client will use to identify itself.

       This is followed by a list of attribute/value pairs, where the  follow‐
       ing set of attributes is supported:

             ┌────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
             │Attribute   │ Description                     Aliases     │
             ├────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────┤
             │name        │ Policy Name                         spi     │
             │key         │ Client's DSA public key                     │
             │entity      │ Assigned Entity Identifier                  │
             │node-type   │ Permitted node type(s)                      │
             │node-name   │ Permitted node name(s)                      │
             │functions   │ Bitmap of permitted functions               │
             │object-type │ Object access mask                          │
             └────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
       The key attribute is used to specify the DSA public key that the server
       should use to authenticate messages from this client.  You  can  either
       provide  a  file  name;  in which case isnsadm will try to read the PEM
       encoded public key from that file.  If no key attribute  is  given,  or
       when  using  key=gen, isnsadm will generate a DSA key. The private por‐
       tion of the newly generated key will be stored in the file specified by
       --keyfile=filename.

       The  object-type  attribute  is  used to specify which object types the
       client is permitted to access.  This  is  a  comma  separated  list  of
       type:perm  pairs,  where type can be any of entity, iscsi-node, portal,
       portal-group, dd, ddset, and policy.  The permissions can be either rw,
       or r.

       The  functions  attribute  can  be used to restrict which functions the
       client is permitted to invoke. This is a bitfield, using  the  standard
       function names from RFC 4171, such as DevAttrReg, DevAttrQry, etc.

       For  a description of the open-isns security model and policies, please
       refer to the isns_config(5) manual page.

       Important note: In order to generate a DSA key, you have to have a  set
       of  DSA  parameters installed. By default, isnsadm expects to find them
       in /etc/isns/dsa.params.  These parameters are created by calling isnsd
       --init  once on the server machine. Alternatively, you can use the fol‐
       lowing command:

               openssl dsaparam 1024 -out /etc/isns/dsa.params

       where 1024 is the chosen DSA key size, in bits.

EXAMPLES
       If you want to use Open-iSNS in authenticated mode, you first  need  to
       initialize  the  server's  DSA key and DSA parameters. This can be done
       conveniently by using

       isnsd --init

       This will create the server's private and public key, and place them in
       /etc/isns/auth_key and auth_key.pub, respectively.

       The  following  command  will  create  a policy object for a node named
       isns.control , and grant it control privileges:

       isnsadm --local --keyfile=control.key --enroll isns.control \
                  node-type=ALL functions=ALL object-type=ALL

       In the process of entrolling the client, this will generate a  DSA  key
       pair,  and place the private key portion in the file control.key.  This
       file must be installed as /etc/isns/control.key on the host you wish to
       use as an iSNS management station.

       Next,  you need to create a storage node object for the management sta‐
       tion:

       isnsadm --local --register control

       On the management station, you can then enroll additional hosts:

       isnsadm --control --keyfile=somehost.key --enroll iqn.2005-01.org.open-
       iscsi.somehost \
                  node-type=target+initiator

       Again, this will generate a DSA key pair and store the private key por‐
       tion in auth_key. Note the use  of  the  --control  option  that  tells
       isnsadm  to use the identity of the control node instead of the default
       key and source name.

       You then need to copy somehost.key to the client host and install it as
       /etc/isns/auth_key.   Likewise,  the server's public key (which resides
       in /etc/isns/auth_key.pub on the server) needs  to  be  copied  to  the
       client machine, and placed in /etc/isns/server_key.pub.

       By  default, when a client registers a storage node (be it initiator or
       target) with iSNS, the client will not be able to see any other storage
       nodes.  In  order  for  targets to be visible to a given initiator, you
       need to create so-called Discovery Domains (or DDs for short).

       Currently, domain membership operations  require  administrator  privi‐
       lege. Future extensions may allow iSNS clients to add themselves to one
       or more DDs upon registration.

       To create a discovery domain, and add nodes to it, you can use

       isnsadm --control --dd-register dd-name=mydomain \
                  member-name=iqn.org.bozo.client iqn.org.bozo.jbod ...

       In order to add members to an existing DD,  you  have  to  specify  the
       numeric  domain ID - using the DD name is not sufficient, unfortunately
       (this is a requirement of the RFC, not an implementation issue):

       isnsadm --control --dd-register dd-id=42 \
                  member-name=iqn.com.foo member-name=iqn.com.bar

       The DD ID can be obtained by doing a query for the DD name:

       isnsadm --control --query dd-name=mydomain

       In management mode, you can also register and deregister nodes and por‐
       tals  manually, in case you want to fix up an inconsisteny in the data‐
       base. For instance, this will register a node  and  portal  on  a  host
       named client.bozo.org:

       isnsadm --control --register entity=client.bozo.org \
                  initiator=iqn.org.bozo.client portal=191.168.7.1:860

       Note  that this registration explicitly specifies the network entity in
       which to place the new objects. If you omit this, the new objects  will
       be  placed  in an entity named CONTROL, which is decidedly not what you
       want.

SEE ALSO
       RFC 4171, isnsd(8), isns_config(5).

AUTHORS
       Olaf Kirch <olaf.kirch@oracle.com>

                                  11 May 2007                       ISNSADM(8)
