JAAA(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   JAAA(1)

NAME
       jaaa — JACK and ALSA Audio Analyser

SYNOPSIS
       jaaa [-h]  [-C nchan]  [-J]  [-A   [-ddevice]    [-rrate]    [-pperiod]    [-nnfraqs] ]

DESCRIPTION
       jaaa is an audio signal generator and spectrum analyser designed to make accurate measurements.

OPTIONS
       -h        Show summary of options.

       -C        Number of channels (1..8) [4

       -J        Use JACK

       -A        Use ALSA (with following options)

       -d device Alsa device [hw:0.0]

       -r rate   Sample frequency [48000]

       -p period Period size [1024]

       -n nfrag  Number of fragments [2]

       Either -J or -A must be given.

INTERACTIVE CONTROL
   Input :
       Select on of the four inputs.

   Frequency and Amplitude :
       These  two sets of buttons set the display view.  One of these six buttons, or 'Bandw', 'Peak', or 'Noise' discussed below, has an orange LED at its left side.  The LED indicates the 'currenty se‐
       lected parameter' that usually can be modified in three ways :

          •  by typing a new value into the text widget, followed by ENTER

          •  by using the '<' or '>' buttons to decrement or increment,

          •  by mouse gestures

   Frequency :
       Buttons 'Min' and 'Max' set the min and max displayed frequencies.  If either of these is selected then

          •  a horizontal Drag Left changes 'Min'

          •  a horizontal Drag Right changes 'Max'

       Button 'Cent' is the frequency at the middle of the x-axis.  Button 'Span' is 'Max' - 'Min', changing this value preserves 'Cent'.  If either of these is selected then

          •  a horizontal Drag Left changes 'Cent'

          •  a horizontal Drag Right changes 'Span'

       Button 'Cent' can also be set by Clicking in the frequency axis scale.

   Amplitude :
       Button 'Max' is the maximum value on the y-axis.  Button 'Range' is the range of the y-axis.  If either of these is selected then

          •  a vertical Drag Left changes 'Max'

          •  a vertical Drag Right changes 'Range'

       So for the last four mouse gestures, a Drag Left will scroll the display, while a Drag Right will zoom in or out.  Maybe I will add and automatic selection of the axis based on  the  direction  of
       the mouse gesture.

   Analyser :
       The  analyser is based on a windowed FFT.  Actually the windowing is performed by convolution after the FFT, and combined with interpolation.  The windowing and interpolation ensure that displayed
       peaks will be accurate to 0.25 dB even if the peak falls between the FFT bins.  More accurate measurements can be made using the markers (see below).

       Button 'Bandw' sets the FFT length, and hence the bandwidth of the analyser.

       Depending on this value, the size of the display and the frequency range, you may sometimes see two traces.

       This happens when the resolution of the analyser is better than the display, so that one pixel contains more than one analyser value.

       In that case, the blue trace is the peak value over the frequency range represented by each pixel, and the gray one is the average value.

       The first one is correct for discrete frequencies, and the latter should be used to read noise densities.

       There is no mouse gesture to change the bandwidth.

       Button 'VidAv' or video average, when switched on, averages the measured energy over time.  This is mainly used to measure noise.  The averaging length increases over time, to a  maxumum  of  1000
       iterations.  Changing the input or bandwidth resets and restarts the averaging.

       Button 'Freeze' freezes the analyser, but not the display, so you can still scroll and zoom or use the markers discussed below.

   Markers :
       Markers  are  used in order to accurately read off values in the display.  There can be up to two markers, set by clicking at the desired frequency inside the display.  When there are two markers,
       the second one will move with each click, while the first remains fixed.  Measured values for the two markers, and their difference in frequency and level are displayed in the upper left corner of
       the display.

       Button 'Clear' clears the markers.

       When 'Peak' is selected, clicking inside the display will set a marker at the nearest peak.

       The exact frequency and level of the peak are found by interpolation, so the frequency can be much more accurate than the FFT step, and the level corresponds to the true peak value  regardless  of
       display or analyser resolution.

       When 'Noise' is selected, clicking inside the display will set a noise marker.

       The noise density (energy per Hz) is calculated and displayed.

SEE ALSO
       jackd (1)

WWW
       http://www.kokkinizita.net/linuxaudio/

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Philippe Coval rzr@gna.org for the Debian system (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms
       of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

       On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.

                                                                                                                                                                                                    JAAA(1)
