JETS3T-SYNCHRONIZE(1)                                                                                                                   JETS3T-SYNCHRONIZE(1)

NAME
       jets3t-synchronize - synchronize local directories with an Amazon S3 account

SYNOPSIS
       Synchronize the contents of a local directory with S3:
         jets3t-synchronize [options] UP <S3path> <path1> [[path2] .. [pathN]]

       Synchronize the contents of S3 with a local directory:
         jets3t-synchronize [options] DOWN <S3path> <download_dir>

OVERVIEW
       jets3t-synchronize is a console (text mode) Java application for synchronizing directories on a computer with an Amazon S3 account.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
         Displays a brief summary with all options.

       -n, --noaction
         No  action  taken.  No  files  will  be changed locally or on S3, instead a report will be generating showing what will happen if the command is run
         without the -n option.

       -q, --quiet
         Runs quietly, without reporting on each action performed or displaying progress messages. The summary is still displayed.

       -p, --noprogress
         Runs somewhat quietly, without displaying progress messages.  The action report and overall summary are still displayed.

       -f, --force
         Force tool to perform synchronization even when files are up-to-date.  This may be useful if you need to update metadata or timestamps in S3.

       -k, --keepfiles
         Keep outdated files on destination instead of reverting/removing them.  This option cannot be used with --nodelete.

       -d, --nodelete
         Keep files on destination that have been removed from the source. This option is similar to --keepfiles except that files  may  be  reverted.   This
         option cannot be used with --keepfiles.

       -m, --move
         Move  items  rather  than  merely  copying them. Files on the local computer will be deleted after they have been uploaded to S3, or objects will be
         deleted from S3 after they have been downloaded. Be *very* careful with this option.  This option cannot be used with --keepfiles.

       -b, --batch
         Download or upload files in batches, rather than all at once. Enabling this option will reduce the memory required to synchronize large buckets, and
         will ensure file transfers commence as soon as possible. When this option is enabled, the progress status lines refer only  to  the  progress  of  a
         single batch.

       -s, --skipmetadata
         Skip  the  retrieval  of  object  metadata  information  from  S3. This will make the synch process much faster for large buckets, but it will leave
         jets3t-synchronize with less information to make decisions. If this option is enabled, empty files or directories will not be synchronized reliably.
         This option cannot be used with the --gzip or --crypto options.

       -g, --gzip
         Compress (GZip) files when backing up and decompress gzipped files when restoring.

       -c, --crypto
         Encrypt files when backing up and decrypt encrypted files when restoring. If this option is specified the properties must contain a password.

       --properties filename
         Load the synchronizer app properties from the given file rather than from a synchronizer.properties file in the classpath.

       --credentials filename
         Load your AWS credentials from an encrypted file, rather than from the synchronizer.properties file. This encrypted file can be  created  using  the
         Cockpit application, or the JetS3t API library.

       --acl ACL_string
         Specifies  the  Access Control List setting to apply. This value must be one of: PRIVATE, PUBLIC_READ, PUBLIC_READ_WRITE. This setting will override
         any acl property specified in the synchronize.properties file

       --reportlevel level
         A number that specifies how much report information will be printed:

         0 - no report items will be printed (the summary will still be printed).

         1 - only actions are reported

         [Prefixes N, U, D, R, F, M]

         2 - differences & actions are reported

         [Prefixes N, U, D, R, F, M, d, r]

         3 - DEFAULT: all items are reported

         [Prefixes N, U, D, R, F, M, d, r, -]

NOTES
       Required properties can be provided via: a file  named  synchronize.properties  in  the  classpath  (or  /etc/jets3t/synchronize.properties),  a  file
       specified with the --properties option, or by typing them in when prompted on the command line. Required properties are:

       accesskey: Your AWS Access Key (Required)
       secretkey: Your AWS Secret Key (Required)
       password: Encryption password (only required when using crypto)

       Properties specified in this file will override those in jets3t.properties (or in /etc/jets3t/jets3t.properties).

REPORT
       Report items are printed on a single line with an action flag followed by the relative path of the file or S3 object. The report legend follows:

       N: A new file/object will be created

       U: An existing file/object has changed and will be updated

       D: A file/object existing on the target does not exist on the source and will be deleted.

       d: A file/object existing on the target does not exist on the source but because the --keepfiles or --nodelete option was set it was not deleted.

       R: An existing file/object has changed more recently on the target than on the source. The target version will be reverted to the older source version

       r: An existing file/object has changed more recently on the target than on the source but because the --keepfiles option was set it was not reverted.

       -: A file is identical between the local system and S3, no action is necessary.

       F: A file identical locally and in S3 was updated due to the Force option.

       M: The file/object will be moved (deleted after it has been copied to/from S3).

SEE ALSO
       http://jets3t.s3.amazonaws.com/applications/synchronize.html

                                                                          2026-01-21                                                    JETS3T-SYNCHRONIZE(1)
