JFBTERM(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  JFBTERM(1)

NAME
       jfbterm - program to print several character sets on framebuffer device.

SYNOPSIS
       jfbterm [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the jfbterm command.

       jfbterm is a program that prints various encodings such as UTF-8, ISO-8859-*, EUC-*, and so on, on Linux framebuffer device, like KON that prints on VGA device.  It supports ISO-2022-compliant charac‐
       ter sets, encodings which consist from such character sets, UTF-8, and encodings which iconv(3) can convert from/to UTF-8.  In GNU libc systems, all encodings which are  available  for  iconv(3)  meet
       this condition and are available.

       This supports fullwidth characters (which occupies two columns, like CJK Ideogram, Hiragana, Katakana, and Hangul).  However, this doesn't support combining characters nor BIDI.

OPTIONS
       This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').  A summary of options is included below.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of current configuration.

       -e, --exec, --shell
              Specify a program that run in jfbterm. Default is $SHELL (or /bin/sh).  Rest of arguments will be passed to the specified program.

       -f, --config
              Specify a pathname of the configuration file. Default is /etc/jfbterm.conf.

       -c, --encoding, --charmap
              Specify the encoding.  The format is same as encoding line of jfbterm.conf(5) file.

              When the given string is "locale" (the first format), the encoding specified by LC_CTYPE locale is adopted.

              When  the  given  string doesn't contain `,' (the second format), the string is assumed as an encoding name.  A valid encoding name is either a name defined in encoding.encodingName line in jf‐
              bterm.conf(5) or a name which is valid for iconv(1) or iconv_open(3).

              When the given string contains a `,' (the third format), the string is assumed to have GL,GR,G0,G1,G2,G3 format.  See jfbterm.conf(5) for detail.

       -r, --reset
              Output ISO-2022 initialize sequence to tty. You can specify codeset name as optional argument like: --reset=encodingName.  Default is locale's codeset.

       -q, --quiet
              Don't print out messages.

NOTES
       Since version 0.3.14, default encoding has been changed from EUC-JP to encoding for locale.  To make it enable to display EUC-JP, run

            $ jfbterm --reset=EUC-JP
       or
            $ export LANG=ja_JP.eucJP
            $ jfbterm -r

       if you have already invoked jfbterm and are on it.  If you have not invoked jfbterm and want to invoke it now, set LANG variable before invoking jfbterm.

SEE ALSO
       jfbterm.conf(5).

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Fumitoshi UKAI <ukai@debian.or.jp>.

                                                                                                  Aug 30, 2003                                                                                       JFBTERM(1)
