JITTERENTROPY-RNGD(1)                                                                     General Commands Manual                                                                     JITTERENTROPY-RNGD(1)

NAME
       jitterentropy-rngd - CPU Jitter Random Number Generator Daemon

SYNOPSIS
       jitterentropy-rngd [OPTION]

DESCRIPTION
       The  jitterentropy-rngd  application provides a source of good entropy by collecting CPU execution time jitter. The collected entropy is injected into the Linux kernel /dev/random device using the
       RNDADDENTROPY ioctl described in random(4).

       The entropy in the CPU execution time jitter is magnified by the CPU Jitter Random Number Generator. The CPU Jitter Random Number Generator uses the CPU execution timing jitter to generate  a  bit
       stream which complies with different statistical measurements that determine the bit stream is random.

       The CPU Jitter Random Number Generator works equally well in virtualized environments as well as on bare-metal provided a high-resolution timer is made available with the clock_gettime() function.
       The  currently  used  timer  can  be checked by reading the file /sys/devices/system/clocksource/clocksource0/current_clocksource.  If the clock source shall be changed, one of the available clock
       sources listed in the file /sys/devices/system/clocksource/clocksource0/available_clocksource can be written into the mentioned current_clocksource file and the kernel immediately changes the  use
       clock.

       The  CPU  Jitter Random Number Generator unconditionally injects 256 bits of entropy into the Linux kernel during startup time before it daemonizes. Thus, when the invocation of the jitterentropy-
       rngd returns, the Linux kernel is seeded with at least 256 bits of entropy. The reader should consider that the Linux kernel performs a schedule operation during the injection of  data  which  im‐
       plies that immediately after starting the jitterentropy-rngd the kernel may still complain about insufficient entropy available for /dev/urandom.

       In addition, the jitterentropy-rngd injects 256 bits of entropy every 10 minutes unconditionally irrespective whether the kernel has sufficient entropy or not.

       The following options are supported when invoking jitterentropy-rngd:

       -v, --verbose
              enable a verbose operation of the daemon. Using this option multiple times increases the verbosity. Using this option implies that the jitterentropy-rngd will not daemonize.

       -p, --pid [FILE]
              triggers the creation of a PID file at the given location.

       -h, --help
              displays the help text

       --version
              returns the version number of the jitterentropy-rngd.

       -s, --sp800-90b
              triggers  a  specific  seeding  strategy  of  the  kernel  /dev/random  device to insert entropy that ensures the ChaCha20 DRNG behind /dev/random receives 256 bits of entropy as defined by
              SP800-90B.

       -f, --flags [FLAGS]
              allows specifying the flags value documented with jitterentropy(3) when allocating the Jitter RNG.

       -o, --osr [OSR]
              allows specifying the oversampling rate (OSR) as documented with jitterentropy(3) when allocating the Jitter RNG.

NOTES
       The jitterentropy-rngd does not perform write operations on any file system object.  Thus, it can be executed on a fully read-only mounted file system.

       The random bit stream generated by jitterentropy-rngd is NOT processed by a cryptographically secure whitening function. Nonetheless, it is believed that the output can be used  as  a  source  for
       cryptographically secure key material or other cryptographically sensitive data.

SEE ALSO
       random(4) clock_gettime(2)

                                                                                                 2017-02-11                                                                           JITTERENTROPY-RNGD(1)
