JMTPFS(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 JMTPFS(1)

NAME
       jmtpfs - FUSE based filesystem for accessing MTP devices

SYNOPSIS
       jmtpfs [options] MOUNTPOINT

DESCRIPTION
       jmtpfs  is  a FUSE and libmtp based filesystem for accessing MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) devices. It was specifically designed for exchanging files between Linux (and Mac OS X) systems and newer
       Android devices that support MTP but not USB Mass Storage.

       The goal is to create a well-behaved filesystem, allowing tools like find(1) and rsync(1) to work as expected. MTP file types are set automatically based on file type detection using  libmagic(3).
       Setting the file type is necessary for some Android applications, like Gallery, to be able to find and use the files uploaded to the device.

USAGE
       For regular use, simply specifying a MOUNTPOINT will have the first available MTP device mounted under it. Mounted devices should be unmounted using

              fusermount -u MOUNTPOINT

       (see fusermount(1) for more details).

       Note: most (if not all) Android phones have to be unlocked when first accessed over MTP; if you get an input/output error on the mountpoint, unlock the phone and retry.

OPTIONS
       jmtpfs accepts the following options:

       -h     Show summary of options.

       -V, --version
              Show the program version.

       -l, --listDevices
              List all available MTP devices.

       -device=<busnum>,<devnum>
              Specify the device to mount. If unspecified, the first device found is used.

       In addition to these options, all options supported by fuse(8) are available. See jmtpfs -h for more information.

SEE ALSO
       fuse(8), fusermount(1)

AUTHORS
       jmtpfs was written by Jason Ferrara <jason.ferrara@jacquette.com>.

       This manual page was written by Apollon Oikonomopoulos <apoikos@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                                May 30, 2013                                                                                      JMTPFS(1)
