
MDATA-DELETE(1)                                                                            Metadata Commands                                                                           MDATA-DELETE(1)

NAME
       mdata-delete -- Delete a metadata key-value pair.

SYNOPSIS
       /usr/sbin/mdata-delete keyname

DESCRIPTION
       The  mdata-delete  command  allows the user (or a script) to modify the metadata for a guest instance running in a SmartDataCenter (SDC) cloud.  Metadata values are generally set programmati‐
       cally via CloudAPI, or during interactive provisioning via a Web Portal.  They may also be set from within the instance with the mdata-put command.

       The key-value pair for keyname will be removed permanently from the metadata stored for this guest instance.  Deletion of a key which did not exist is not considered an error.

       If the metadata service is unavailable at the time of the request, this command will block waiting for it to become available.  Non-transient failures will cause the program to  exit  with  a
       non-zero status.  Depending on the nature of the error, some diagnostic output may be printed to stderr.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values are returned:

       0
            Successful completion.

            The key-value pair named keyname was removed from the instance metadata, or did not initially exist.

       2
            An error occurred.

            An  unexpected error condition occurred, which is believed to be a non-transient condition.  Retrying the request is not expected to resolve the error condition; either a software bug or
            misconfiguration exists.

       3
            A usage error occurred.

            Malformed arguments were passed to the program.  Check the usage instructions to ensure valid arguments are supplied.

SEE ALSO
       mdata-get(1), mdata-list(1), mdata-put(1)

Joyent SmartDataCenter                                                                       October 2013                                                                              MDATA-DELETE(1)
