JYTHON.CONF(5)                                                                              File Formats Manual                                                                              JYTHON.CONF(5)

NAME
       jython.conf - Jython registry for system-wide options

DESCRIPTION
       When  running  jython(1)  or  jythonc(1),  a  number  of  properties may be set to customise Jython's behaviour.  Properties can be assigned values in any of the following four ways.  This list is
       arranged from lowest to highest priority; thus for instance a property set in a user's personal registry will override the same property set in the system-wide registry.

       Java system properties
              Jython options may be set in the standard Java system properties.  However, since the jython and jythonc startup scripts take responsibility for starting the Java  interpreter,  it  is  un‐
              likely that you will use this method of Jython configuration.

       Jython system-wide registry
              The system-wide registry is the file /etc/jython/jython.conf.  It contains a number of lines of the form property=value.  Lines that are empty or that begin with a hash (#) are ignored.

       User's personal registry
              The user's personal registry is the file ~/.jython.  Its format is the same as for the system-wide registry.

       Command-line options
              Properties may be specified when running jython or jythonc at the command-line.  They are set using command-line options of the form -Dproperty=value.

PROPERTIES
       The following properties may be set in the Jython registry.  Other less used properties are also available; see the comments in the default system-wide registry for further details.

       If a property is marked (auto), the jython and jythonc startup scripts will attempt to set this property automatically, although it can still be overridden in the system or user registry or on the
       command-line.

       python.cachedir (auto)
              The directory to use for caches (currently just package information).  This directory must be writable by the user.  If the directory is an absolute path then it is used as given; otherwise
              it is interpreted as relative to the root Jython directory (/usr/share/jython/).

       python.console
              The name of the console class to use when running Jython from the command prompt.  An alternative console class that emulates GNU readline can be specified using this property.

       python.jythonc.classpath (auto)
              Extensions  to  the  Java property java.class.path for use with jythonc.  This is used to put extra classes on your Java compiler's classpath (and the core Java classes as well if your Java
              compiler requires them).

       python.jythonc.compiler (auto)
              The Java compiler to use with jythonc when turning generated Java code into Java class files.  This should be the absolute path to a Java compiler, or the name of a compiler on  your  stan‐
              dard PATH.

       python.jythonc.compileropts
              Options to pass to the Java compiler when using jythonc.

       python.path (auto)
              The path on which Jython will look for additional python modules when importing.  This variable has a similar function to CPython's PYTHONPATH environment variable.

       python.security.respectJavaAccessibility
              Normally, Jython can only provide access to public members of classes.  However if this property is set to false and you are using Java 1.2 then Jython can access non-public fields, methods
              and constructors.

       python.verbose
              Sets  the  verbosity level for informative messages.  All messages with at least the specified severity will be displayed.  Valid values in order of increasing verbosity are error, warning,
              message, comment and debug.

SEE ALSO
       jython(1), jythonc(1).

       If the Debian package jython-doc is installed, full documentation from the Jython authors will be available in /usr/share/doc/jython-doc/html/.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  It is based upon the official Jython documentation.

                                                                                             September 2, 2001                                                                               JYTHON.CONF(5)
