KCAPI-RNG(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                KCAPI-RNG(1)

NAME
       kcapi-rng - Kernel Crypto API Random Number Gatherer

SYNOPSIS
       kcapi-rng [OPTION]

DESCRIPTION
       The  kcapi-rng  application  provides  tool to obtain random numbers from the Linux kernel crypto API via the command line. The tool is similar to reading /dev/hwrand with the difference that the used
       random number generators are fully deterministic - i.e. they are DRNGs.

       Any potential seed data can be provided via STDIN. Some of the DRNGs require seeding as they do not seed themselves. The kcapi-rng tool ensures that the DRNGs are seeded by pulling the seed data  from
       the  getrandom  system call (or /dev/urandom if getrandom is not available). The amount of seed data is defined by the DRNG itself and can be reviewed by assessing /proc/crypto.  The seed provided via
       STDIN will be added to the internally-generated seed.  The generated random numbers are written to STDOUT.

       The following options are supported when invoking kcapi-rng:

       -b, --bytes BYTES
              Generate BYTES number of random bytes.

       -n, --name NAME
              The NAME argument specifies the random number generator implementation to be used. The allowed random number generators are defined by the Linux kernel. Currently registered ciphers can be  re‐
              viewed  at  /proc/crypto.   The  content of this file, however, can change when new ciphers are registered. The NAME argument is given directly to the Linux kernel crypto API. The chosen cipher
              must be of type rng as marked in /proc/crypto.  If this option is not used, the cipher stdrng is used as default.

       --hex  The generated random numbers are print out in hexadecimal notation instead of as binary string.

       -v, --verbose
              Enable a verbose operation of kcapi-rng.  Using this option multiple times increases the verbosity.

       -q, --quiet
              Prevent the generation of any log output.

       -h, --help
              Display the help text.

       --version
              Display the version number of the kcapi-rng application.

SEE ALSO
       kcapi-enc(1) kcapi-dgst(1)

                                                                                                   2017-08-14                                                                                      KCAPI-RNG(1)
