KEA-DHCP4(8)                                                                                        Kea                                                                                        KEA-DHCP4(8)

NAME
       kea-dhcp4 - DHCPv4 server in Kea

SYNOPSIS
       kea-dhcp4 [-v] [-V] [-W] [-d] [-c config-file] [-t config-file] [-p server-port-number] [-P client-port-number]

DESCRIPTION
       The kea-dhcp4 daemon provides the DHCPv4 server implementation.

ARGUMENTS
       The arguments are as follows:

       -v     Displays the Kea version.

       -V     Displays the extended Kea version.

       -W     Displays the configuration report.

       -d     Enables the debug mode with extra verbosity.

       -c config-file
              Specifies the configuration file with the configuration for the DHCPv4 server. It may also contain configuration entries for other Kea services.

       -t config-file
              Checks  the  configuration  file and reports the first error, if any. Note that not all parameters are completely checked; in particular, service and control channel sockets are not opened,
              and hook libraries are not loaded.

       -T config-file
              Checks the configuration file and reports the first error, if any.  It performs extra checks beyond what -t offers, such as establishing database connections (for the  lease  backend,  host
              reservations  backend,  configuration backend, and forensic logging backend), loading hook libraries, parsing hook-library configurations, etc. It does not open UNIX or TCP/UDP sockets, nor
              does it open or rotate files, as any of these actions could interfere with a running process on the same machine.

       -p server-port-number
              Specifies the server port number (1-65535) on which the server listens. This is useful for testing purposes only.

       -P client-port-number
              Specifies the client port number (1-65535) to which the server responds. This is useful for testing purposes only.

DOCUMENTATION
       Kea comes with an extensive Kea Administrator Reference Manual that covers all aspects of running the Kea software - compilation, installation,  configuration,  configuration  examples,  and  much
       more.  Kea  also  features  a Kea Messages Manual, which lists all possible messages Kea can print with a brief description for each of them. Both documents are available in various formats (.txt,
       .html, .pdf) with the Kea distribution. The Kea documentation is available at https://kea.readthedocs.io.

       Kea source code is documented in the Kea Developer's Guide, available at https://reports.kea.isc.org/dev_guide/.

       The Kea project website is available at https://kea.isc.org.

MAILING LISTS AND SUPPORT
       There are two public mailing lists available for the Kea project. kea-users (kea-users at lists.isc.org) is intended for Kea users, while kea-dev (kea-dev at lists.isc.org) is intended for Kea de‐
       velopers, prospective contributors, and other advanced users. Both lists are available at https://lists.isc.org. The community provides best-effort support on both of those lists.

       ISC provides professional support for Kea services. See https://www.isc.org/kea/ for details.

HISTORY
       The b10-dhcp4 daemon was first coded in November 2011 by Tomek Mrugalski.

       In mid-2014, Kea was decoupled from the BIND 10 framework and became a standalone DHCP server. The DHCPv4 server binary was renamed to kea-dhcp4. Kea 1.0.0 was released in December 2015.

SEE ALSO
       kea-dhcp6(8), kea-dhcp-ddns(8), kea-ctrl-agent(8), kea-admin(8), keactrl(8), perfdhcp(8), kea-netconf(8), kea-lfc(8), Kea Administrator Reference Manual.

AUTHOR
       Internet Systems Consortium

COPYRIGHT
       2019-2024, Internet Systems Consortium

2.6.4                                                                                           Aug 28, 2025                                                                                   KEA-DHCP4(8)
