KEA-DHCP-DDNS(8)                                                                                    Kea                                                                                    KEA-DHCP-DDNS(8)

NAME
       kea-dhcp-ddns - DHCP-DDNS process in Kea

SYNOPSIS
       kea-dhcp-ddns [-v] [-V] [-W] [-d] [-c config-file] [-t config-file]

DESCRIPTION
       The  kea-dhcp-ddns  service  process  requests  an update of DNS mapping based on DHCP lease-change events. It runs as a separate process that expects to receive Name Change Requests from Kea DHCP
       servers.

ARGUMENTS
       The arguments are as follows:

       -v     Displays the Kea version.

       -V     Displays the extended Kea version.

       -W     Displays the configuration report.

       -d     Sets the logging level to debug with extra verbosity. This is primarily for development purposes in stand-alone mode.

       -c config-file
              Specifies the configuration file with the configuration for the DHCP-DDNS server. It may also contain configuration entries for other Kea services.

       -t config-file
              Checks the syntax of the configuration file and reports the first error, if any. Note that not all parameters are completely checked; in particular, a service socket is not opened.

DOCUMENTATION
       Kea comes with an extensive Kea Administrator Reference Manual that covers all aspects of running the Kea software - compilation, installation,  configuration,  configuration  examples,  and  much
       more.  Kea  also  features  a Kea Messages Manual, which lists all possible messages Kea can print with a brief description for each of them. Both documents are available in various formats (.txt,
       .html, .pdf) with the Kea distribution. The Kea documentation is available at https://kea.readthedocs.io.

       Kea source code is documented in the Kea Developer's Guide, available at https://reports.kea.isc.org/dev_guide/.

       The Kea project website is available at https://kea.isc.org.

MAILING LISTS AND SUPPORT
       There are two public mailing lists available for the Kea project. kea-users (kea-users at lists.isc.org) is intended for Kea users, while kea-dev (kea-dev at lists.isc.org) is intended for Kea de‐
       velopers, prospective contributors, and other advanced users. Both lists are available at https://lists.isc.org. The community provides best-effort support on both of those lists.

       ISC provides professional support for Kea services. See https://www.isc.org/kea/ for details.

HISTORY
       The b10-dhcp-ddns process was first coded in May 2013 by Thomas Markwalder.

       Kea became a standalone server and the BIND 10 framework was removed. The DHCP-DDNS server binary was renamed to kea-dhcp-ddns in July 2014. Kea 1.0.0 was released in December 2015.

SEE ALSO
       kea-dhcp4(8), kea-dhcp6(8), kea-ctrl-agent(8), kea-admin(8), keactrl(8), perfdhcp(8), kea-netconf(8), kea-lfc(8), Kea Administrator Reference Manual.

AUTHOR
       Internet Systems Consortium

COPYRIGHT
       2019-2024, Internet Systems Consortium

2.6.4                                                                                           Aug 28, 2025                                                                               KEA-DHCP-DDNS(8)
