KERMIT(1)                   General Commands Manual                  KERMIT(1)

NAME
       kermit - C‐Kermit 9.0: transport‐ and platform‐independent interactive
       and scriptable communications software.

              This document is intended to give the beginner sufficient infor‐
              mation to make basic (if not advanced) use of C‐Kermit 9.0.  Al‐
              though it might be rather long for a Unix manual page, it's
              still far shorter than the C‐Kermit manual, which should be con‐
              sulted for advanced topics such as customization, character‐
              sets, scripting, etc. We also attempt to provide a clear struc‐
              tural overview of C‐Kermit's many capabilities, functional ar‐
              eas, states, and modes and their interrelation, that should be
              helpful to beginners and veterans alike, as well as to those up‐
              grading to version 9.0 from earlier releases.

       This document is also available as a Web page at:

              http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckututor.html

DESCRIPTION
       C‐Kermit is an all‐purpose communications software package from the
       Kermit Project at Columbia University that:

       •    Is portable to many platforms, Unix and non‐Unix alike.
       •    Can make both serial and network connections.
       •    Can conduct interactive terminal sessions over its connection.
       •    Can transfer text or binary files over the same connection.
       •    Can convert character sets in the terminal session.
       •    Can convert character sets during text‐file file transfer.
       •    Is customizable in every aspect of its operation.

       C‐Kermit is a modem program, a Telnet client, an Rlogin client, an FTP
       client, an HTTP client, and on selected platforms, also an X.25 client.
       It can make its own secure Internet connections using IETF‐approved se‐
       curity methods including Kerberos IV, Kerberos V, SSL/TLS, and SRP and
       it can also make SSH connections through your external SSH client ap‐
       plication. It can be the far‐end file‐transfer or client/server partner
       of your desktop Kermit client. It can also accept incoming dialed and
       network connections.  It can even be installed as an Internet service
       on its own standard TCP socket, 1649 [RFC2839, RFC2840].

       And perhaps most important, everything you can do "by hand" (interac‐
       tively) with C‐Kermit, can be "scripted" (automated) using its built‐in
       cross‐platform transport‐independent script programming language, which
       happens to be identical to its interactive command language.

       This manual page offers an overview of C‐Kermit 9.0 for Unix ("Unix" is
       an operating system family that includes AIX, DG/UX, FreeBSD, HP‐UX,
       IRIX, Linux, Mac OS X, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Open Server, Open Unix, QNX,
       Solaris, SunOS, System V R3, System V R4, Tru64 Unix, Unixware, Xenix,
       and many others). For thorough coverage, please consult the published
       C‐Kermit manual and supplements (see DOCUMENTATION below). For further
       information about C‐Kermit, Kermit software for other platforms, and
       Kermit manuals, visit the Kermit Project website:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/

       This is a longer‐than‐average manual page, and yet it barely scratches
       the surface. Don't be daunted. C‐Kermit is a large and complex package,
       evolving over decades of practice and experience, but that doesn't mean
       it's hard to learn or use. Its most commonly used functions are ex‐
       plained here with pointers to additional information elsewhere.

SYNOPSIS
       kermit [ filename ] [ options ] [ {=,--,+} text ] ]

       or:

       kermit URL

       If the first command‐line argument is the name of a file, interactive‐
       mode commands are executed from the file. The '=' (or "--") argument
       tells Kermit not to parse the remainder of the command line, but to
       make the words following '=' available as \%1, \%2, ... \%9. The "+"
       argument is like "=" but for use in "kerbang scripts" (explained be‐
       low). A second command‐line format allows the one and only argument to
       be a Telnet, FTP, HTTP, or IKSD URL.

       Order of execution:

        1.    The command file (if any).

        2.    The initialization file, if any, unless suppressed with -Y.

        3.    The customization file (if it is executed by the initialization
              file).

        4.    The command‐line URL (if any, and if so, execution stops here).

        5.    Command‐line options (if any).

        6.    Interactive commands.

       Some command‐line options can cause actions (such as -s to send a
       file); others just set parameters. If any action options are included
       on the command line, Kermit exits when finished unless also given the
       -S ("stay") option. If no action options are given, no initialization
       or command files contained an EXIT or QUIT command, and no fatal errors
       occurred, Kermit issues its prompt and waits for you to type commands.

              Bear in mind that C‐Kermit can be built with selected features
              disabled, and also that certain features are not available on
              all platforms. For example, C‐Kermit can't be built with TCP/IP
              support on a platform that does not have TCP/IP header files and
              libraries (and even if Kermit does include TCP/IP support, it
              can't be used to make TCP/IP connections on a computer that does
              not have a TCP/IP stack installed). If your version of C‐Kermit
              lacks a feature mentioned here, use its SHOW FEATURES command to
              see what might have been excluded.

       C‐Kermit has three kinds of commands: regular single‐letter command‐
       line options, extended‐format command‐line options, and interactive
       commands.

       Like most Unix commands, C‐Kermit can be be given options on the com‐
       mand line. But C‐Kermit also can be used interactively by giving it
       commands composed of words, which are more intuitive than cryptic com‐
       mand‐line options, and more flexible too. In other words, you don't
       have to use C‐Kermit's command‐line options, but they are available if
       you want to. (By the same token, you don't have to use its interactive
       commands either ‐‐ you can use either or both in any combination.)

       C‐Kermit is generally installed in the PATH as "kermit", and therefore
       is invoked by typing the word "kermit" (lowercase) at the shell prompt,
       and then pressing the Return or Enter key. If you wish to include com‐
       mand‐line options, put them after the word "kermit" but before pressing
       Return or Enter, separated by spaces, for example:

         $ kermit -s ckermit.tar.gz

       ('$' is the shell prompt; "kermit -s ckermit.tar.gz" is what you type,
       followed by Return or Enter.)

OPTIONS
       Here is a list of C‐Kermit's single‐letter command‐line options, which
       start with a single dash (-), in ASCII ("alphabetical") order. Alpha‐
       betic case is significant (-A is not the same as -a).  Action options
       are tagged "ACTION".

       -0     (digit zero)  100% transparent Connect state for "in‐the‐middle"
              operation: 8 bits, no parity, no escape character, everything
              passes through.

       -8     (digit eight)  Connection is 8‐bit clean (this is the default in
              C‐Kermit 8.0 and later). Equivalent to the EIGHTBIT command,
              which in turn is a shortcut for SET TERMINAL BYTESIZE 8, SET
              COMMAND BYTESIZE 8, SET PARITY NONE.

       -9 arg (digit nine)  Make a connection to an FTP server.  Equivalent to
              the FTP OPEN command.  Argument: IP‐address‐or‐hostname[:op‐
              tional‐TCP‐port].  NOTE: C‐Kermit also has a separate FTP com‐
              mand‐line personality, with regular FTP‐like command‐line syn‐
              tax. More about this below.

       -A     Kermit is to be started as an Internet service (IKSD) (only from
              inetd.conf).

       -B     Kermit is running in Batch or Background (no controlling termi‐
              nal). To be used in case Kermit doesn't automatically sense its
              background status.  Equivalent to the SET BACKGROUND ON command.

       -C arg Interactive‐mode Commands to be executed.  Argument: Commands
              separated by commas, list in doublequotes.

       -D arg Delay before starting to send in Remote mode.  Equivalent to the
              SET DELAY command.  Argument: Number of seconds.

       -E     Exit automatically when connection closes. Equivalent to SET
              EXIT ON-DISCONNECT ON.

       -F arg Use an open TCP connection.  Argument: Numeric file descriptor
              of open TCP connection.  Also see: -j, -J.

       -G arg (ACTION) Get file(s) from server, send contents to standard out‐
              put, which normally would be piped to another process.  Argu‐
              ment: Remote file specification, in quotes if it contains
              metacharacters.  Also see: -g, -k.

       -H     Suppress program startup Herald and greeting.

       -I     Tell Kermit it has a reliable connection, to force streaming to
              be used where it normally would not be.  Equivalent to the SET
              RELIABLE ON command.

       -J arg (ACTION) "Be like Telnet." Like -j but implies -E.  Argument: IP
              hostname/address optionally followed by service.  NOTE: C‐Kermit
              also has a separate Telnet command‐line personality, with regu‐
              lar Telnet‐like command‐line syntax. More about this below.

       -L     Recursive directory descent for files in -s option.

       -M arg My user name (for use with Telnet, Rlogin, FTP, etc).  Equiva‐
              lent to the SET LOGIN USER command.  Argument: Username string.

       -O     (ACTION) (Uppercase letter O) Be a server for One command only.
              Also see: -x.

       -P     Don't convert file (Path) names of transferred files.  Equiva‐
              lent to SET FILE NAMES LITERAL.

       -Q     Quick Kermit protocol settings. Equivalent to the FAST command.
              This is the default in C‐Kermit 7.0 and later.

       -R     Remote‐only (this just makes IF REMOTE true).

       -S     Stay (enter command parser after action options).

       -T     Force Text mode for file transfer; implies -V.  Equivalent to
              SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL, SET FILE TYPE TEXT.

       -V     Disable automatic per‐file text/binary switching.  Equivalent to
              SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL.

       -Y     Skip (don't execute) the initialization file.

       -a arg As‐name for file(s) in -s, -r, or -g.  Argument: As‐name string
              (alternative filename). When receiving files, this can be a di‐
              rectory name.

       -b arg Speed for serial device. Equivalent to SET SPEED.  Argument: Nu‐
              meric Bits per second for serial connections.

       -c     (ACTION) Enter Connect state before transferring files.

       -d     Create a debug.log file with detailed debugging information (a
              second -d adds timestamps). Equivalent to LOG DEBUG but takes
              effect sooner.

       -e arg Maximum length for incoming Kermit file‐transfer packets. Equiv‐
              alent to SET RECEIVE PACKET-LENGTH.  Argument: Length in bytes.

       -f     (ACTION) Send a FINISH command to a Kermit server.

       -g arg Get file(s) from a Kermit server.  Argument: File specification
              on other computer, in quotes if it contains metacharacters.
              Equivalent to GET. Also see: -a, -G, -r.

       -h     (ACTION) Print Help text for single‐letter command‐line options
              (pipe thru 'more' to prevent scrolling).

       -i     Force binary (Image) mode for file transfer; implies -V. Equiva‐
              lent to SET TRANSFER MODE MANUAL, SET FILE TYPE BINARY.

       -j arg Make a TCP/IP connection.  Argument: IP host name/address and
              optional service name or number. Equivalent to the TELNET com‐
              mand.  Also see: -J, -F.

       -k     (ACTION) Receive file(s) to standard output, which normally
              would be piped to another process.  Also see: -r, -G.

       -l arg (Lowercase letter L) Make a connection on the given serial com‐
              munications device. Equivalent to the SET LINE (SET PORT) com‐
              mand.  Argument: Serial device name, e.g. /dev/ttyS0.

       -m arg Modem type for use with the -l device. Equivalent to the SET MO‐
              DEM TYPE command.  Argument: Modem name as in SET MODEM TYPE
              command, e.g. "usrobotics".

       -n     (ACTION) Enter Connect state after transferring files (histori‐
              cal).

       -p arg Parity. Equivalent to the SET PARITY command.  Argument: One of
              the following: e(ven), o(dd), m(ark), n(one), s(pace).

       -q     Quiet (suppress most messages). Equivalent to SET QUIET ON.

       -r     (ACTION) Receive file(s). Equivalent to the RECEIVE command.
              Argument: (none, but see -a)

       -s arg Send file(s).  Argument: One or more local file specifications.
              Equivalent to the SEND command.  Also see: -a.

       -t     (Historical) Xon (Ctrl-Q) Turnaround character for half‐duplex
              connections (used on serial linemode connections to old main‐
              frames). Equivalent to SET DUPLEX HALF, SET HANDSHAKE XON.

       -v arg Window size for Kermit protocol (ignored when streaming). Equiv‐
              alanet to SET WINDOW-SIZE.  Argument: Number, 1 to 32.

       -w     Incoming files Write over existing files. Equivalent to SET FILE
              COLLISION OVERWRITE.

       -x     (ACTION) Enter server mode. Equivalent to the SERVER command.
              Also see: -O.

       -y arg Alternative initialization file.  Argument: Filename.

       -z     Force foreground behavior. To be used in case Kermit doesn't au‐
              tomatically sense its foreground status.  Equivalent to the SET
              BACKGROUND OFF command.

       Extended command‐line options (necessary because single‐letter ones are
       about used up) start with two dashes (--), with words rather than sin‐
       gle letters as option names. If an extended option takes an argument,
       it is separated from the option word by a colon (:). Extended options
       include:

        --bannerfile:filename
              File to display upon startup or IKSD login.

        --cdfile:filename
              File to be sent for display to the client when server changes
              directory (filename is relative to the changed‐to directory).

        --cdmessage:{on,off}
              Enable/disable the server CD message feature.

        --help
              Prints usage message for extended options.

        --helpfile:filename
              Designates a file containing custom text to replace the top‐
              level HELP command.

        --nointerrupts
              Disables keyboard interrupts.

        --noperms
              Disables the Kermit protocol file Permissions attribute, to pre‐
              vent transmission of file permissions (protection) from sender
              to receiver.

        --version
              (ACTION) C‐Kermit prints its version number.

       Plus several other IKSD‐Only options described at:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/iksd.html

       See the file‐transfer section for examples of command‐line invocation.

COMMAND LANGUAGE
       C‐Kermit's interactive command language is the subject of a 622‐page
       book and another several hundred pages of updates, far too much for a
       manual page. But it's not hard to get started. At the shell prompt,
       just type "kermit" to get C‐Kermit's interactive command prompt:

         $ kermit
         (/current/directory) C-Kermit>

       Begin by typing "help" (and then press the Return or Enter key) for a
       top‐level overview, read it, and go from there. Your second command
       should probably be "intro" (introduction). Note the prompt shows your
       current directory (unless you tell Kermit to prompt you with something
       else).

       Interactive commands are composed mainly of regular English words, usu‐
       ally in the form of imperative sentences, such as:

         send oofa.txt

       which tells Kermit to send (transfer) the file whose name is oofa.txt,
       or:

         set transfer mode automatic

       which sets Kermit's "transfer mode" to "automatic" (whatever that
       means).

       While typing commands, you can abbreviate, ask for help (by pressing
       the "?" key anywhere in a command), complete keywords or filenames
       (with the Tab or Esc key), and edit your typing with Backspace or
       Delete, Ctrl-W, Ctrl-U, etc. You can also recall previous commands,
       save your command history, and who knows what else. Give the INTRO com‐
       mand for details.

       C‐Kermit has hundreds of commands, and they can be issued in infinite
       variety and combinations, including commands for:

       •    Making connections (SET LINE, DIAL, TELNET, SSH, FTP, ...)
       •    Breaking connections (HANGUP, CLOSE)
       •    Transferring files (SEND, GET, RECEIVE, MOVE, RESEND, ...)
       •    Establishing preferences (SET)
       •    Displaying preferences (SHOW)
       •    Managing local files (CD, DELETE, MKDIR, DIR, RENAME, TYPE, ...)
       •    Managing remote files (RCD, RDEL, RMKDIR, RDIR, ...)
       •    Using local files (FOPEN, FCLOSE, FREAD, FWRITE)
       •    Programming (TAKE, DEFINE, IF, FOR, WHILE, SWITCH, DECLARE, ...)
       •    Interacting with the user (ECHO, ASK, ...)
       •    Interacting with a remote computer (INPUT, OUTPUT, ...)
       •    Interacting with local programs (RUN, EXEC, PTY, ...)
       •    Logging things (LOG SESSION, LOG PACKETS, LOG DEBUG, ...)

       And of course QUIT or EXIT to get out and HELP to get help, and for
       programmers: loops, decision making, variables, arrays, associative ar‐
       rays, integer and floating point arithmetic, macros, built‐in and user‐
       defined functions, string manipulation, pattern matching, block struc‐
       ture, scoping, recursion, and all the rest. To get a list of all C‐Ker‐
       mit's commands, type a question mark (?) at the prompt. To get a de‐
       scription of any command, type HELP followed by the name of the com‐
       mand, for example:

         help send

       The command interruption character is Ctrl-C (hold down the Ctrl key
       and press the C key).

       The command language "escape character", used to introduce variable
       names, function invocations, and so on, is backslash (. If you need to
       include a literal backslash in a command, type two of them, e.g.:

         get c:\k95\k95custom.ini

   Command Files, Macros, and Scripts
       A file containing Kermit commands is called a Kermit command file or
       Kermit script. It can be executed with Kermit's TAKE command:

         (/current/dir) C-Kermit> take commandfile

       (where "commandfile" is the name of the command file). Please don't
       pipe a command file into Kermit's standard input (which might or might
       not work); if you have Kermit commands in a file, tell Kermit to TAKE
       the file.

       In Unix only, a Kermit command file can also be executed directly by
       including a "kerbang" line as the first line of the file:

         #!/usr/local/bin/kermit +

       That is, a top line that starts with "#!", followed immediately by the
       full path of the Kermit executable, and then, if the Kermit script is
       to be given arguments on the command line, a space and a plus sign. The
       script file must also have execute permission:

         chmod +x commandfile

       Except for the " +" part, this is exactly the same as you would do for
       a shell script, a Perl script, etc. Here's a simple but useless example
       script that regurgitates its arguments (up to three of them):

         #!/usr/local/bin/kermit +
         if defined \%1 echo "Argument 1: \%1"
         if defined \%2 echo "Argument 2: \%2"
         if defined \%3 echo "Argument 3: \%3"
         if defined \%4 echo "etc..."
         exit

       If this file is stored in your current directory as "commandfile",
       then:

         ./commandfile one two three four five

       prints:

         Argument 1: one
         Argument 2: two
         Argument 3: three
         etc...

       This illustrates the basic structure of a standalone Kermit script: the
       "kerbang line", then some commands. It should end with "exit" unless
       you want the Kermit prompt to appear when it is finished. \%1 is the
       first argument, \%2 the second, and so on.

       You can also create your own commands by defining named macros composed
       of other Kermit commands (or macros). For example:

         define mydelete {
             local trash
             assign trash \v(home)trashcan/
             if not defined \%1 end 1 "Delete what?"
             if wild \%1 {
                 end 1 "Deleting multiple files is too scary"
             }
             if not exist \%1 end 1 "I can't find \%1"
             if not directory \m(trash) {
                 mkdir \m(trash)
                 if fail end 1 "No trash can"
             }
             rename /list \%1 \m(trash)
         }
         define myundelete {
             local trash
             assign trash \v(home)trashcan/
             if not defined \%1 end 1 "Undelete what?"
             if wild \%1 {
                 end 1 "Undeleting multiple files is too hard"
             }
             if not directory \m(trash) end 1 "No trash can"
             if not exist \m(trash)\%1 {
                 end 1 "I can't find \%1 in trash can"
             }
             rename /list \m(trash)\%1 .
         }

       These sample macros are not exactly production quality (they don't han‐
       dle filenames that include path segments, they don't handle multiple
       files, etc), but you get the idea: you can pass arguments to macros,
       and they can check them and make other kinds of decisions. If you put
       the above lines into your initialization or customization file (ex‐
       plained below), you'll have MYDELETE and MYUNDELETE commands available
       every time you start Kermit, at least as long as you don't suppress ex‐
       ecution of the initialization file. (Exercise for the reader: Make
       these macros generally useful: remove limitations, add trashcan dis‐
       play, browsing, emptying, etc.)

       Kerbang scripts execute without the initialization file. This to keep
       them portable and also to make them start faster. If you want to write
       Kerbang scripts that depend on the initialization file, include the
       command

         take \v(home).kermrc

       at the desired spot in the script. By the way, \v(xxx) is a built‐in
       variable (xxx is the variable name, "home" in this case). To see what
       built‐in variables are available, type "show variables" at the C‐Kermit
       prompt. To see what else you can show, type "show ?". \m(xxx) is a user
       defined variable (strictly speaking, it is a macro used as a variable).

   Command List
       C‐Kermit has more than 200 top‐level commands, and some of these, such
       as SET, branch off into hundreds of subcommands of their own, so it's
       not practical to describe them all here. Instead, here's a concise list
       of the most commonly used top‐level commands, grouped by category. To
       learn about each command, type "help" followed by the command name,
       e.g. "help set".  Terms such as Command state and Connect state are ex‐
       plained in subsequent sections.

       Optional fields are shown in [ brackets ].  "filename" means the name
       of a single file. filespec means a file specification that is allowed
       to contain wildcard characters like '*' to match groups of files. op‐
       tions are (optional) switches like /PAGE, /NOPAGE, /QUIET, etc, listed
       in the HELP text for each command. Example:

         send /recursive /larger:10000 /after:-1week /except:*.txt *

       which can be read as "send all the files in this directory and all the
       ones underneath it that are larger than 10000 bytes, no more than one
       week old, and whose names don't end with ".txt".

   Basic Commands
              HELP   Requests top‐level help.

              HELP command
                     Requests help about the given command.

              INTRODUCTION
                     Requests a brief introduction to C‐Kermit.

              LICENSE
                     Displays the C‐Kermit software copyright and license.

              VERSION
                     Displays C‐Kermit's version number.

              EXIT [ number ]
                     Exits from Kermit with the given status code. Synonyms:
                     QUIT, E, Q.

              TAKE filename [ parameters... ]
                     Executes commands from the given

              LOG item [ filename ]
                     Keeps a log of the given item in the given file.

              [ DO ] macro [ parameters... ]
                     Executes commands from the given macro.

              SET parameter value
                     Sets the given parameter to the given value.

              SHOW category
                     Shows settings in a given category.

              STATUS Tells whether previous command succeeded or failed.

              DATE [ date‐and/or‐time ]
                     Shows current date‐time or interprets given date‐time.

              RUN [ extern‐command [ parameters... ]
                     Runs the given external command. Synonym: !.

              EXEC [ extern‐command [ params... ]
                     Kermit overlays itself with the given command.

              SUSPEND
                     Stops Kermit and puts it in the background. Synonym: Z.

   Local File Management
              TYPE [ options ] filename
                     Displays the contents of the given file.

              MORE [ options ] filename
                     Equivalent to TYPE /PAGE (pause after each screenful).

              CAT [ options ] filename
                     Equivalent to TYPE /NOPAGE.

              HEAD [ options ] filename
                     Displays the first few lines of a given file.

              TAIL [ options ] filename
                     Displays the last few lines of a given file.

              GREP [ options ] pattern filespec
                     Displays lines from files that match the pattern. Syn‐
                     onym: FIND.

              DIRECTORY [ options ] [filespec ]
                     Lists files (built‐in, many options).

              LS [ options ] [ filespec ]
                     Lists files (runs external "ls" command).

              DELETE [ options ] [ filespec ]
                     Deletes files. Synonym: RM.

              PURGE [ options ] [ filespec ]
                     Removes backup (*.~n~) files.

              COPY [ options ] [ filespecs... ]
                     Copies files. Synonym: CP.

              RENAME [ options ] [ filespecs... ]
                     Renames files. Synonym: MV.

              CHMOD [ options ] [ filespecs... ]
                     Changes permissions of files.

              TRANSLATE filename charsets [ filename ]
                     Converts file's character set. Synonym: XLATE.

              CD     Changes your working directory to your home directory.

              CD directory
                     Changes your working directory to the one given.

              CDUP   Changes your working directory one level up.

              PWD    Displays your working directory.

              BACK   Returns to your previous working directory.

              MKDIR [ directory ]
                     Creates a directory.

              RMDIR [ directory ]
                     Removes a directory.

   Making Connections
              SET LINE [ options ] devicename
                     Opens the named serial port. Synonym: SET PORT.

              OPEN LINE [ options ] devicename
                     Same as SET LINE. Synonym: OPEN PORT.

              SET MODEM TYPE [ name ]
                     Tells Kermit what kind of modem is on the port.

              DIAL [ number ]
                     Tells Kermit to dial the given phone number with the mo‐
                     dem.

              REDIAL Redials the most recently dialed phone number.

              ANSWER Waits for and answers an incoming call on the modem.

              AUTHENTICATE [ parameters... ]
                     Performs secure authentication on a TCP/IP connection.

              SET NETWORK TYPE { TCP/IP, X.25, ... }
                     Selects network type for subsequent SET HOST commands.

              SET HOST [ options ] host [ port ]
                     Opens a network connection to the given host and port.

              SET HOST * port
                     Waits for an incoming TCP/IP connection on the given
                     port.

              TELNET [ options ] host
                     Opens a Telnet connection to the host and enters Connect
                     state.

              RLOGIN [ options ] host
                     Opens an Rlogin connection to the host and enters Connect
                     state.

              IKSD [ options ] host
                     Opens a connection to an Internet Kermit Service.

              SSH [ options ] host
                     Opens an SSH connection to the host and enters Connect
                     state.

              FTP OPEN host [ options ]
                     Opens an FTP connection to the host.

              HTTP [ options ] OPEN host
                     Opens an HTTP connection to the host.

              PTY external‐command
                     Runs the command on a pseudoterminal as if it were a con‐
                     nection.

              PIPE external‐command
                     Runs the command through a pipe as if it were a connec‐
                     tion.

   Using Connections
              CONNECT [ options ]
                     Enters Connect (terminal) state.  Synonym: C.

              REDIRECT command
                     Redirects the given external command over the connection.

              TELOPT command
                     Sends a Telnet protocol command (Telnet connections
                     only).

              Ctrl-\C
                     "Escapes back" from Connect state to Command state.

              Ctrl-\B
                     (In Connect state) Sends a BREAK signal (serial or Tel‐
                     net).

              Ctrl-\!
                     (In Connect state) Enters inferior shell; "exit" to re‐
                     turn.

              Ctrl-\?
                     (In Connect state) Shows a menu of other escape‐level op‐
                     tions.

              Ctrl-\Ctrl-\
                     (In Connect state) Type two Ctrl-Backslashes to send one
                     of them.

              SET ESCAPE [ character ]
                     Changes Kermit's Connect‐state escape character.

   Closing Connections
              HANGUP Hangs up the currently open serial‐port or network con‐
                     nection.

              CLOSE  Closes the currently open serial‐port or network connec‐
                     tion.

              SET LINE (with no devicename)
                     Closes the currently open serial‐port or network connec‐
                     tion.

              SET HOST (with no hostname)
                     Closes the currently open serial‐port or network connec‐
                     tion.

              FTP CLOSE
                     Closes the currently open FTP connection.

              HTTP CLOSE
                     Closes the currently open HTTP connection.

              EXIT   Also closes all connections. Synonym: QUIT.

              SET EXIT WARNING OFF
                     Suppresses warning about open connections on exit or
                     close.

   File Transfer
              SEND [ options ] filename [ as‐name ]
                     Sends the given file. Synonym: S.

              SEND [ options ] filespec
                     Sends all files that match.

              RESEND [ options ] filespec
                     Resumes an interrupted SEND from the point of failure.

              RECEIVE [ options ] [ as‐name ]
                     Waits passively for files to arrive. Synonym: R.

              LOG TRANSACTIONS [ filename ]
                     Keeps a record of file transfers.

              FAST   Use fast file‐transfer settings (default).

              CAUTIOUS
                     Use cautious and less fast file‐transfer settings.

              ROBUST Use ultra‐conservative and slow file‐transfer settings.

              STATISTICS [ options ]
                     Gives statistics about the most recent file transfer.

              WHERE  After transfer: "Where did my files go?".

              TRANSMIT [ options ] [ofilename ]
                     Sends file without protocol. Synonym: XMIT.

              LOG SESSION [ filename ]
                     Captures remote text or files without protocol.

              SET PROTOCOL [ name... ]
                     Tells Kermit to use an external file‐transfer protocol.

              FTP { PUT, MPUT, GET, MGET, ... }
                     FTP client commands.

              HTTP { PUT, GET, HEAD, POST, ... }
                     HTTP client commands.

   Kermit Server
              ENABLE, DISABLE
                     Controls which server features can be used by clients.

              SET SERVER
                     Sets parameters prior to entering Server state.

              SERVER Enters Server state.

   Client of Kermit or FTP Server
              [ REMOTE ] LOGIN [ user password ]
                     Logs in to a Kermit server or IKSD that requires it.

              [ REMOTE ] LOGOUT
                     Logs out from a Kermit server or IKSD.

              SEND [ options ] filename [ as‐name ]
                     Sends the given file to the server. Synonyms: S, PUT.

              SEND [ options ] filespec
                     Sends all files that match.

              RESEND [ options ] filespec
                     Resumes an interrupted SEND from the point of failure.

              GET [ options ] remote‐filespec
                     Asks the server to send the given files. Synonym: G.

              REGET [ options ] remote‐filespec
                     Resumes an interrupted GET from the point of failure.

              REMOTE CD [ directory ]
                     Asks server to change its working directory. Synonym:
                     RCD.

              REMOTE PWD [ directory ]
                     Asks server to display its working directory. Synonym:
                     RPWD.

              REMOTE DIRECTORY [ filespec... ]
                     Asks server to send a directory listing. Synonym: RDIR.

              REMOTE DELETE [ filespec... ]
                     Asks server to delete files. Synonym: RDEL.

              REMOTE [ command... ]
                     (Many other commands: "remote ?" for a list).

              MAIL [ options ] filespec
                     Sends file(s) to be delivered as e‐mail (Kermit only).

              FINISH Asks the server to exit server state (Kermit only).

              BYE    Asks the server to log out and close the connection.

   Script Programming
              DEFINE, DECLARE, UNDEFINE, UNDECLARE, ASSIGN, EVALUATE, SEXPRES‐
              SION, ARRAY, SORT, INPUT, OUTPUT, IF, FOR, WHILE, SWITCH, GOTO,
              ECHO, ASK, GETC, GETOK, ASSERT, WAIT, SLEEP, FOPEN, FREAD,
              FWRITE, FCLOSE, STOP, END, RETURN, LEARN, SHIFT, TRACE, VOID,
              INCREMENT, DECREMENT, ... For these and many more you'll need to
              consult the manual and supplements, and/or visit the Kermit
              Script Library, which also includes a brief tutorial. Hint: HELP
              LEARN to find out how to get Kermit to write simple scripts for
              you.

       Many of Kermit's commands have synonyms, variants, relatives, and so
       on.  For example, MSEND is a version of SEND that accepts a list of
       file specifications to be sent, rather than just one file specifica‐
       tion, and MPUT is a synonym of MSEND. MOVE means to SEND and then
       DELETE the source file if successful. MMOVE is like MOVE, but accepts a
       list of filespecs, and so on. These are described in the full documen‐
       tation.

       Use question mark to feel your way through an unfamiliar command, as in
       this example:

         C-Kermit> remote ? One of the following:
          assign     directory  kermit     print      rmdir
          cd         exit       login      pwd        set
          copy       help       logout     query      space
          delete     host       mkdir      rename     type
         C-Kermit> remote set ? One of the following:
          attributes   file         retry        transfer
          block-check  receive      server       window
         C-Kermit> remote set file ? One of the following:
          character-set  incomplete     record-length
          collision      names          type
         C-Kermit> remote set file names ? One of the following:
          converted  literal
         C-Kermit> remote set file names literal
         C-Kermit>

       This is called menu on demand: you get a menu when you want one, but
       menus are not forced on you even when know what you're doing. Note that
       you can also abbreviate most keywords, and you can complete them with
       the Tab or Esc key. Also note that ? works for filenames too, and that
       you can use it in the middle of a keyword or filename, not just at the
       beginning. For example, "send x?" lists all the files in the current
       directory whose names start with 'x'.

INITIALIZATION FILE
       In its default configuration, C‐Kermit executes commands from a file
       called .kermrc in your home directory when it starts, unless it is
       given the -Y or -y command‐line option. Custom configurations might
       substitute a shared system‐wide initialization file. The SHOW FILE com‐
       mand tells what initialization file, if any, was used. The standard
       initialization file "chains" to an individual customization file, .myk‐
       ermc, in the home directory, in which each user can establish her/his
       own preferences, define macros, and so on.

       Since execution of the initialization file (at least the standard one)
       makes C‐Kermit take longer to start, it might be better not to have an
       initialization file, especially now that Kermit's default startup con‐
       figuration is well attuned to modern computing and networking ‐‐ in
       other words, you no longer have do anything special to make Kermit
       transfers go fast. So instead of having an initialization file that is
       executed every time Kermit starts, you might consider making one or
       more kerbang scripts (with names other that .kermrc) that do NOT in‐
       clude an "exit" command, and invoke those when you need the settings,
       macro definitions, and/or scripted actions they contain, and invoke C‐
       Kermit directly when you don't.

       To put it another way... We still distribute the standard initializa‐
       tion file since it's featured in the manual and backwards compatibility
       is important to us. But there's no harm in not using it if you don't
       need the stuff that's in it (services directory, dialing directory,
       network directory, and associated macro definitions). On the other
       hand, if there are settings or macros you want in effect EVERY time you
       use Kermit, the initialization file (or the customization file it
       chains to) is the place to put them, because that's the only place Ker‐
       mit looks for them automatically each time you start it.

MODES OF OPERATION
       Kermit is said to be in Local mode if it has made a connection to an‐
       other computer, e.g. by dialing it or establishing a Telnet connection
       to it. The other computer is remote, so if you start another copy of
       Kermit on the remote computer, it is said to be in Remote mode (as long
       as it has not made any connections of its own). The local Kermit commu‐
       nicates over the communications device or network connection, acting as
       a conduit between the the remote computer and your keyboard and screen.
       The remote Kermit is the file‐transfer partner to the local Kermit and
       communicates only through its standard input and output.

       At any moment, a Kermit program can be in any of the following states.
       It's important to know what they are and how to change from one to the
       other.

       Command state
              In this state, Kermit reads commands from:

              •    Your keyboard; or:
              •    A file, or:
              •    A macro definition.

              You can exit from Command state back to Unix with the EXIT or
              QUIT command (same thing). You can enter Connect state with any
              of various commands (CONNECT, DIAL, TELNET, etc). You can enter
              file transfer state with commands like SEND, RECEIVE, and GET.
              You can enter Server state with the SERVER command. The TAKE
              command tells Kermit to read and execute commands from a file.
              The (perhaps implied) DO command tells Kermit to read and exe‐
              cute commands from a macro definition.  While in Command state,
              you can interrupt any command, macro, or command file by typing
              Ctrl-C (hold down the Ctrl key and press the C key); this nor‐
              mally brings you back to the prompt.

       Shell state
              You can invoke an inferior shell or external command from the
              Kermit command prompt by using the PUSH, RUN (!), EDIT, or
              BROWSE command.  While the inferior shell or command is active,
              Kermit is suspended and does nothing. Return to Kermit Command
              state by exiting from the inferior shell or application.

       Connect state
              In this state, which can be entered only when in Local mode
              (i.e. when Kermit has made a connection to another computer),
              Kermit is acting as a terminal to the remote computer. Your key‐
              strokes are sent to the remote computer and characters that ar‐
              rive over the communication connection are displayed on your
              screen. This state is entered when you give a CONNECT, DIAL,
              TELNET, RLOGIN, or IKSD command. You can return to command state
              by logging out of the remote computer, or by typing:

                Ctrl-\c

              That is: Hold down the Ctrl key and press the backslash key,
              then let go of the Ctrl key and press the C key. This is called
              escaping back.  Certain other escape‐level commands are also
              provided; type Ctrl-\?  for a list. For example, you can enter
              Shell state with:

                Ctrl-\!

              To send a Ctrl-\ to the host while in Connect state, type two of
              them in a row. See HELP CONNECT and HELP SET ESCAPE for more
              info.

       Local file‐transfer state
              In this state, Kermit is sending packets back and forth with the
              other computer in order to transfer a file or accomplish some
              other file‐related task. And at the same time, it is displaying
              its progress on your screen and watching your keyboard for in‐
              terruptions. In this state, the following single‐keystroke com‐
              mands are accepted:

              X      Interrupt the current file and go on to the next (if
                     any).

              Z      Interrupt the current file and skip all the rest.

              E      Like Z but uses a "stronger" protocol (use if X or Z
                     don't work).

              Ctrl-C Interrupt file‐transfer mode (use if Z or E don't work).

       Kermit returns to its previous state (Command or Connect) when the
       transfer is complete or when interrupted successfully by X, Z, E, or
       Ctrl-C (hold down the Ctrl key and press the C key).

       Remote file‐transfer state
              In this state, Kermit is exchanging file‐transfer packets with
              its local partner over its standard i/o. It leaves this state
              automatically when the transfer is complete. In case you find
              your local Kermit in Connect state and the remote one in File‐
              transfer state (in which it seems to ignore your keystrokes),
              you can usually return it to command state by typing three
              Ctrl-C's in a row. If that doesn't work, return your local Ker‐
              mit to Command state (Ctrl-\ C) and type "e‐packet" and then
              press the Return or Enter key; this forces a fatal Kermit proto‐
              col error.

       Remote Server state
              This is like Remote File‐transfer state, except it never returns
              automatically to Command state. Rather, it awaits further in‐
              structions from the client program; that is, from your Local
              Kermit program. You can return the Remote Server to its previous
              state by issuing a "finish" command to the client, or if you are
              in Connect state, by typing three Ctrl-C's in a row. You can
              tell the server job to log out and break the connection by issu‐
              ing a "bye" command to the client.

       Local Server state
              Like Remote‐Server state, but in local mode, and therefore with
              its file‐transfer display showing, and listening for single‐key
              commands, as in Local File‐transfer state. Usually this state is
              entered automatically when a remote Kermit program gives a GET
              command.

              C‐Kermit, Kermit 95, and MS‐DOS Kermit all can switch automati‐
              cally from Connect state to Local File‐transfer state when you
              initiate a file transfer from the remote computer by starting
              Kermit and telling it to send or get a file, in which case, Con‐
              nect state is automatically resumed after the file transfer is
              finished.

              Note that C‐Kermit is not a terminal emulator. It is a communi‐
              cations application that you run in a terminal window (e.g. con‐
              sole or Xterm). The specific emulation, such as VT100, VT220,
              Linux Console, or Xterm, is provided by the terminal window in
              which you are running C‐Kermit. Kermit 95 and MS‐DOS Kermit, on
              the other hand, are true terminal emulators. Why is C‐Kermit not
              a terminal emulator? CLICK HERE to read about it.

MAKING CONNECTIONS
       Here is how to make different kinds of connections using interactive
       Kermit commands (as noted above, you can also make connections with
       command‐line options). Note that you don't have to make connections
       with Kermit. It can also be used on the far end of a connection as the
       remote file transfer and management partner of your local communica‐
       tions software.

       Making a Telnet Connection
              At the C‐Kermit command prompt, simply type:

                telnet foo.bar.com

              (substituting desired hostname or address).  You can also in‐
              clude a port number:

                telnet xyzcorp.com 3000 ;

              If the connection is successful, Kermit automically enters Con‐
              nect state. When you logout from the remote host, Kermit auto‐
              matically returns to its prompt. More info: HELP TELNET, HELP
              SET TELNET, HELP SET TELOPT. Also see the IKSD section below.

       Making an Rlogin connection
              This is just like Telnet, except you have to be root to do it
              because Rlogin uses a privileged TCP port:

                rlogin foo.bar.com

              More info: HELP RLOGIN.

       Making an SSH Connection
              Unlike Telnet and Rlogin, SSH connections are not built‐in, but
              handled by running your external SSH client through a pseudoter‐
              minal.  Using C‐Kermit to control the SSH client gives you all
              of Kermit's features (file transfer, character‐set conversion,
              scripting, etc) over SSH.

                ssh foo.bar.com

              More info: HELP SSH, HELP SET SSH.

       Dialing with a Modem
              If it's an external modem, make sure it is connected to a usable
              serial port on your computer with a regular (straight‐through)
              modem cable, and to the telephone jack with a telephone cable,
              and that it's turned on. Then use these commands:

                set modem type usrobotics  ; Or other supported type
                set line /dev/ttyS0        ; Specify device name
                set speed 57600            ; Or other desired speed
                set flow rts/cts           ; Most modern modems support this
                set dial method tone       ; (or pulse)
                dial 7654321               ; Dial the desired number

              Type "set modem type ?" for a list of supported modem types. If
              you omit the SET MODEM TYPE command, the default type is
              "generic‐high‐speed", which should work for most modern AT‐com‐
              mand‐set modems. If the line is busy, Kermit redials automati‐
              cally. If the call does not succeed, use "set dial display on"
              and try it again to watch what happens. If the call succeeds,
              Kermit enters Connect state automatically and returns to its
              prompt automatically when you log out from the remote computer
              or the connection is otherwise lost.

              You can also dial from a modem that is accessible by Telnet,
              e.g. to a reverse terminal server. In this case the command se‐
              quence is:

                set host ts.xxx.com 2000   ; Terminal‐server and port
                set modem type usrobotics  ; Or other supported type
                set dial method tone       ; (or pulse)
                dial 7654321               ; Dial the desired number

              If the terminal server supports the Telnet Com Port Option, RFC
              2217, you can also give serial‐port related commands such as SET
              SPEED, SET PARITY, and so on, and Kermit relays them to the ter‐
              minal server using the protocol specified in the RFC.

              More info: HELP SET MODEM, HELP SET LINE, HELP SET SPEED, HELP
              SET FLOW, HELP DIAL, HELP SET DIAL, HELP SET MODEM, HELP SET
              CARRIER-WATCH, SHOW COMMUNICATIONS, SHOW MODEM, SHOW DIAL.

       Direct Serial Port
              Connect the two computers, A and B, with a null modem cable (or
              two modem cables interconnected with a null‐modem adapter or mo‐
              dem eliminator). From Computer A:

                set modem type none   ; There is no modem
                set line /dev/ttyS0   ; Specify device name
                set carrier-watch off ; If DTR CD are not cross‐connected
                set speed 57600       ; Or other desired speed
                set flow rts/cts      ; If RTS and CTS are cross‐connected
                set parity even       ; (or "mark" or "space", if necessary)
                set stop-bits 2       ; (rarely necessary)
                set flow xon/xoff     ; If you can't use RTS/CTS
                connect               ; Enter Connect (terminal) state

              This assumes Computer B is set up to let you log in. If it
              isn't, you can run a copy of Kermit on Computer B and follow ap‐
              proximately the same directions. More info: As above plus HELP
              CONNECT.

       With modems or direct serial connections, you might also have to "set
       parity even" (or "mark" or "space") if it's a 7‐bit connection.

       Of the connection types listed above, only one can be open at a time.
       However, any one of these can be open concurrently with an FTP or HTTP
       session. Each connection type can be customized to any desired degree,
       scripted, logged, you name it. See the manual.

       NOTE: On selected platforms, C‐Kermit also can make X.25 connections.
       See the manual for details.

TRANSFERRING FILES WITH KERMIT
       There is a widespread and persistent belief that Kermit is a slow pro‐
       tocol.  This is because, until recently, it used conservative tuning by
       default to make sure file transfers succeeded, rather than failing be‐
       cause they overloaded the connection. Some extra commands (or command‐
       line options, like -Q) were needed to make it go fast, but nobody both‐
       ered to find out about them. Also, it takes two to tango: most non‐Ker‐
       mit‐Project Kermit protocol implementations really ARE slow. The best
       file‐transfer partners for C‐Kermit are: another copy of C‐Kermit (7.0
       or later) and Kermit 95.  These combinations work well and they work
       fast by default. MS‐DOS Kermit is good too, but you have to tell it to
       go fast (by giving it the FAST command).

       Furthermore, all three of these Kermit programs support "autodownload"
       and "autoupload", meaning that when they are in Connect state and a
       Kermit packet comes in from the remote, they automatically switch into
       file transfer mode.

       And plus, C‐Kermit and K95 also switch automatically between text and
       binary mode for each file, so there is no need to "set file type bi‐
       nary" or "set file type text", or to worry about files being corrupted
       because they were transferred in the wrong mode.

       What all of these words add up to is that now, when you use up‐to‐date
       Kermit software from the Kermit Project, file transfer is not only
       fast, it's ridiculously easy. You barely have to give any commands at
       all.

       Downloading Files
              Let's say you have Kermit 95, C‐Kermit, or MS‐DOS Kermit on your
              desktop computer, with a connection to a Unix computer that has
              C‐Kermit installed as "kermit". To download a file (send it from
              Unix to your desktop computer), just type the following command
              at your Unix shell prompt:

                kermit -s oofa.txt

              (where oofa.txt is the filename). If you want to send more than
              one file, you can put as many filenames as you want on the com‐
              mand line, and they can be any combination of text and binary:

                kermit -s oofa.txt oofa.zip oofa.html oofa.tar.gz

              and/or you can use wildcards to send groups of files:

                kermit -s oofa.*

              If you want to send a file under an assumed name, use:

                kermit -s friday.txt -a today.txt

              This sends the file friday.txt but tells the receiving Kermit
              that its name is today.txt. In all cases, as noted, when the
              file transfer is finished, your desktop Kermit returns automati‐
              cally to Connect state.  No worries about escaping back, re‐con‐
              necting, text/binary mode switching. Almost too easy, right?

       Uploading Files
              To upload files (send them from your desktop computer to the re‐
              mote Unix computer) do the same thing, but use the -g (GET) op‐
              tion instead of -s:

                kermit -g oofa.txt

              This causes your local Kermit to enter server mode; then the re‐
              mote Kermit program requests the named file and the local Kermit
              sends it and returns automatically to Connect state when done.

              If you want to upload multiple files, you have have use shell
              quoting rules, since these aren't local files:

                kermit -g "oofa.txt oofa.zip oofa.html oofa.tar.gz"
                kermit -g "oofa.*"

              If you want to upload a file but store it under a different
              name, use:

                kermit -g friday.txt -a today.txt

       Kermit Transfers the Old‐Fashioned Way
              If your desktop communications software does not support autou‐
              pload or autodownload, or it does not include Kermit server
              mode, the procedure requires more steps.

              To download a file, type:

                kermit -s filename

              on the host as before, but if nothing happens automatically in
              response to this command, you have to switch your desktop commu‐
              nications software into Kermit Receive state. This might be done
              by escaping back using keyboard characters or hot keys (Alt-x is
              typical) and/or with a command (like RECEIVE) or a menu. When
              the file transfer is complete, you have to go back to Connect
              state, Terminal emulation, or whatever terminology applies to
              your desktop communications software.

              To upload a file, type:

                kermit -r

              on the host (rather than "kermit -g"). This tells C‐Kermit to
              wait passively for a file to start arriving. Then regain the at‐
              tention of your desktop software (Alt-x or whatever) and in‐
              struct it to send the desired file(s) with Kermit protocol. When
              the transfer is finished, return to the Connect or Terminal
              screen.

       If File Transfer Fails
              Although every aspect of Kermit's operation can be finely tuned,
              there are also three short and simple "omnibus tuning" commands
              you can use for troubleshooting:

              FAST   Use fast file‐transfer settings. This has been the de‐
                     fault since C‐Kermit 7.0 now that most modern computers
                     and connections support it. If transfers fail with fast
                     settings, try . . .

              CAUTIOUS
                     Use cautious but not paranoid settings. File transfers,
                     if they work, will go at medium speed. If not, try . . .

              ROBUST Use the most robust, resilient, conservative, safe, and
                     reliable settings. File transfers will almost certainly
                     work, but they will be quite slow (of course this is a
                     classic tradeoff; ROBUST was C‐Kermit's default tuning in
                     versions 6.0 and earlier, which made everybody think Ker‐
                     mit protocol was slow). If ROBUST doesn't do the trick,
                     try again with SET PARITY SPACE first in case it's not an
                     8‐bit connection.

       Obviously the success and performance of a file transfer also depends
       on C‐Kermit's file transfer partner. Up‐to‐date, real Kermit Project
       partners are recommended because they contain the best Kermit protocol
       implementations and because we can support them in case of trouble.

       If you still have trouble, consult Chapter 10 of Using C‐Kermit, or
       send email to kermit‐support@columbia.edu.

       Advanced Kermit File‐Transfer Features
              Obviously there is a lot more to Kermit file transfer, including
              all sorts of interactive commands, preferences, options, log‐
              ging, debugging, troubleshooting, and anything else you can
              imagine but that's what the manual and updates are for. Here are
              a few topics you can explore if you're interested by Typing HELP
              for the listed commands:

              Logging transfers:
                     LOG TRANSACTIONS (HELP LOG)

              Automatic per‐file text/binary mode switching:
                     SET TRANSFER MODE { AUTOMATIC, MANUAL } (HELP SET TRANS‐
                     FER).

              Cross‐platform recursive directory tree transfer:
                     SEND /RECURSIVE, GET /RECURSIVE (HELP SEND, HELP GET).

              File collision options:
                     SET FILE COLLISION { OVERWRITE, BACKUP, DISCARD, ... }
                     (HELP SET FILE).

              Update: Transfer only files that changed since last time:
                     SET FILE COLLISION UPDATE (HELP SET FILE).

              Filename selection patterns:
                     (HELP WILDCARD).

              Flexible file selection:
                     SEND (or GET) /BEFORE /AFTER /LARGER /SMALLER /TYPE /EX‐
                     CEPT, ...

              Character‐set conversion:
                     SET { FILE, TRANSFER } CHARACTER-SET, ASSOCIATE, ...

              File/Pathname control:
                     SET { SEND, RECEIVE } PATHNAMES, SET FILE NAMES.

              Atomic file movement:
                     SEND (or GET) /DELETE /RENAME /MOVE-TO

              Transferring to/from standard i/o of other commands:
                     SEND (or GET) /COMMAND

              Recovery of interrupted transfer from point of failure:
                     RESEND, REGET (HELP RESEND, HELP REGET).

       Non‐Kermit File Transfer
              You can also use C‐Kermit to transfer files with FTP or HTTP In‐
              ternet protocols; see below.

              On a regular serial or Telnet connection where the other com‐
              puter doesn't support Kermit protocol at all, you have several
              options. For example, if your desktop communications software
              supports Zmodem, use "rz" and "sz" on the host rather than Ker‐
              mit. But if Kermit is your desktop software, and you are using
              it to make calls or network connections to other computers that
              don't support Kermit protocol (or that don't have a good imple‐
              mentation of it), then if your computer also has external X, Y,
              or Zmodem programs that are redirectable, Kermit can use them as
              external protocols. HELP SET PROTOCOL for details.

              You can also capture "raw" data streams from the other computer
              with LOG SESSION (HELP LOG and HELP SET SESSION-LOG for de‐
              tails), and you can upload files without any protocol at all
              with TRANSMIT (HELP TRANSMIT, HELP SET TRANSMIT).

KERMIT'S BUILT‐IN FTP AND HTTP CLIENTS
       Kermit's FTP client is like the regular Unix FTP client that you're
       used to, but with some differences:

       •      It has lots more commands and features.

       •      Each FTP command must be prefixed with "ftp", for example "ftp
              open", "ftp get", "ftp bye", etc (this is not strictly true, but
              until you're more familiar with it, it's best to follow this
              rule).

       •      Commands like "cd", "directory", etc, execute locally, not on
              the server. Use "ftp cd", "ftp dir", etc, to have them act on
              the server.

       •      You can have an FTP session and a regular Kermit serial or Tel‐
              net session open at the same time.

       •      FTP sessions can be fully automated.

       Pending publication of the next edition of the manual, the Kermit FTP
       client is thoroughly documented at the Kermit Project website:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ftpclient.html

       You also can use HELP FTP and HELP SET FTP to get descriptions of Ker‐
       mit's FTP‐related commands.

       The HTTP client is similar to the FTP one, except you prefix each com‐
       mand with HTTP instead of FTP: HTTP OPEN, HTTP GET, HTTP PUT, HTTP
       CLOSE, etc.  Type HELP HTTP for details, or visit the to view the man‐
       ual supplements.  HTTP connections can be open at the same time as reg‐
       ular serial or Telnet connections and FTP connections. So Kermit can
       manage up to three types connections simultaneously.

INTERNET KERMIT SERVICE
       C‐Kermit can be configured and run as an Internet service (called
       IKSD), similar to an FTP server (FTPD) except you can (but need not)
       interact with it directly, plus it does a lot more than an FTP server
       can do. The TCP port for IKSD is 1649. It uses Telnet protocol. C‐Ker‐
       mit can be an Internet Kermit Server, or it can be a client of an IKSD.
       You can make connections from C‐Kermit to an IKSD with any of the fol‐
       lowing commands:

         telnet foo.bar.edu 1649
         telnet foo.bar.edu kermit   ; if "kermit" is listed in /etc/services
         iksd foo.bar.edu

       The IKSD command is equivalent to a TELNET command specifying port
       1649.  For more information about making and using connections to an
       IKSD, see:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/cuiksd.html

       You can run an Internet Kermit Service on your own computer too (if you
       are the system administrator). For instructions, see:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/iksd.html

SECURITY
       All of C‐Kermit's built‐in TCP/IP networking methods (Telnet, Rlogin,
       IKSD, FTP, and HTTP) can be secured by one or more of the following
       IETF‐approved methods:

       •    MIT Kerberos IV
       •    MIT Kerberos V
       •    SSL/TLS
       •    Stanford SRP

       For complete instructions see:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/security.html

       And as noted previously, you can also make SSH connections with C‐Ker‐
       mit if you already have an SSH client installed.

ALTERNATIVE COMMAND‐LINE PERSONALITIES
       When invoked as "kermit" or any other name besides "ftp" or "telnet",
       C‐Kermit has the command‐line options described above in the OPTIONS
       section. However, if you invoke C‐Kermit as "telnet" or "ftp", it
       changes its command‐line personality to match. This can be done (among
       other ways) with symbolic links (symlinks). For example, if you want C‐
       Kermit to be your regular Telnet client, or the Telnet helper of your
       Web browser, you can create a link like the following in a directory
       that lies in your PATH ahead of the regular telnet program:

         ln -s /usr/local/bin/kermit telnet

       Now when you give a "telnet" command, you are invoking Kermit instead,
       but with its Telnet command‐line personality so, for example:

         telnet xyzcorp.com

       Makes a Telnet connection to xyzcorp.com, and Kermit exits automati‐
       cally when the connection is closed (just like the regular Telnet
       client). Type "telnet -h" to get a list of Kermit's Telnet‐personality
       command‐line options, which are intended to be as compatible as possi‐
       ble with the regular Telnet client.

       Similarly for FTP:

         ln -s /usr/local/bin/kermit ftp

       And now type "ftp -h" to see its command‐line options, and command
       lines just like you would give your regular FTP client:

         ftp xyzcorp.com

       but with additional options allowing an entire session to be specified
       on the command line. Finally, if Kermit's first command‐line option is
       a Telnet, FTP, IKSD, or HTTP URL, Kermit automatically makes the appro‐
       priate kind of connection and, if indicated by the URL, takes the de‐
       sired action:

       kermit telnet:xyzcorp.com
              Opens a Telnet session

       kermit telnet://olga@xyzcorp.com
              Ditto for user olga

       kermit ftp://olga@xyzcorp.com/public/oofa.zip
              Downloads a file

       kermit kermit://kermit.columbia.edu/kermit/f/READ.ME
              Ditto for IKSD

       kermit iksd://kermit.columbia.edu/kermit/f/READ.ME
              (This works too)

       kermit http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/index.html
              Grabs a web page

LICENSE
       C‐Kermit has an unusual license, but a fair and sensible one since the
       Kermit Project must support itself out of revenue: it's not a BSD li‐
       cense, not GPL, not Artistic, not commercial, not shareware, not free‐
       ware. It can be summed up like this: if you want C‐Kermit for your own
       use, you can download and use it without cost or license (but we'd ap‐
       preciate it if you would purchase the manual). But if you want to sell
       C‐Kermit or bundle it with a product or otherwise distribute it in a
       commercial setting EXCEPT WITH AN OPEN‐SOURCE OPERATING SYSTEM DISTRI‐
       BUTION such as Linux, FreeBSD, NetBSD, or OpenBSD, you must license it.
       To see the complete license, give the LICENSE command at the prompt, or
       see the COPYING.TXT file distributed with C‐Kermit 7.0 or later, or
       download it from

         ftp://kermit.columbia.edu/kermit/c-kermit/COPYING.TXT

       Send licensing inquiries to kermit@columbia.edu.

BUGS
       See the following files for listings of known bugs, limitations, work‐
       arounds, hints and tips:

       ckcbwr.txt
              General C‐Kermit bugs, hints, tips.

       ckubwr.txt
              Unix‐specific C‐Kermit bugs, hints, tips.

       Report bugs and problems by email to:

          kermit-support@columbia.edu.

       Before requesting technical support, please read the hints here:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/support.html

       and also read the C‐Kermit Frequently Asked Questions:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckfaq.html

OTHER TOPICS
       There's way more to C‐Kermit than we've touched on here ‐‐ trou‐
       bleshooting, customization, character sets, dialing directories, send‐
       ing pages, script writing, and on and on, all of which are covered in
       the manual and updates and supplements. For the most up‐to‐date infor‐
       mation on documentation (or updated documentation itself) visit the
       Kermit Project website:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/

       There you will also find Kermit software packages for other platforms:
       different Unix varieties, Windows, DOS, VMS, IBM mainframes, and many
       others: 20+ years' worth.

DOCUMENTATION AND UPDATES
       The manual for C‐Kermit is:

       Using C‐Kermit
              Frank da Cruz and Christine M. Gianone, Second Edition, Digital
              Press / Butterworth‐Heinemann, Woburn, MA, 1997, 622 pages, ISBN
              1-55558-164-1. This is a printed book. It covers C‐Kermit 6.0.

       The C‐Kermit 7.0 Supplement
              http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckermit70.html

       The C‐Kermit 8.0 Supplement
              http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckermit80.html

       The C‐Kermit 9.0 Supplement
              http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckermit90.html

       Visit C‐Kermit home page:

         http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckermit.html

       to learn about new versions, Beta tests, and other news; to read case
       studies and tutorials; to download source code, install packages, and
       prebuilt binaries for many platforms. Also visit:

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/scriptlib.html
              The Kermit script library and tutorial

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/newfaq.html
              The Kermit FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions about Kermit)

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/ckfaq.html
              The C‐Kermit FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions about C‐Kermit)

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/telnet.html
              C‐Kermit Telnet client documentation

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/security.html
              C‐Kermit security documentation (Kerberos, SSL/TLS, etc)

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/cuiksd.html
              Internet Kermit Service user documentation

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/iksd.html
              Internet Kermit Service administrator documentation

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/studies.html
              Case studies.

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/support.html
              Technical support.

       http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/k95tutorial.html
              Kermit 95 tutorial.

       comp.protocols.kermit.misc
              The Kermit newsgroup (unmoderated).

FILES
       COPYING.TXT
              C‐Kermit license.

       ~/.kermrc
              Initialization file.

       ~/.mykermrc
              Customization file.

       ~/.kdd Kermit dialing directory (see manual).

       ~/.knd Kermit network directory (see manual).

       ~/.ksd Kermit services directory (see manual).

       ca_certs.pem
              Certificate Authority certifcates used for SSL connections.

       ckuins.txt
              Installation instructions for Unix.  Also at http://www.colum‐
              bia.edu/kermit/ckuins.html.

       ckcbwr.txt
              General C‐Kermit bugs, hints, tips.

       ckubwr.txt
              Unix‐specific C‐Kermit bugs, hints, tips.

       ckcplm.txt
              C‐Kermit program logic manual.

       ckccfg.txt
              C‐Kermit compile‐time configuration options.

       ssh    (in your PATH) SSH connection helper.

       rz, sz, etc.
              (in your PATH) external protocols for XYZmodem.

       /var/spool/locks (or whatever)
              UUCP lockfile for dialing out (see installation instructions).

AUTHORS
       Software
              Frank da Cruz and Jeffrey E Altman,
              1985‐present, with contributions from hundreds of others all
              over the world.

       Documentation
              Frank da Cruz

       Address
              The Kermit Project ‐ Columbia Univerity
              612 West 115th Street
              New York NY 10025-7799
              USA

       E‐Mail kermit@columbia.edu

       Web    http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/

User Manuals                       JULY 2011                         KERMIT(1)
