KEYARCH(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           KEYARCH(1)

NAME
       keyarch - DNSSEC-Tools daemon to archive old KSK and ZSK keys

SYNOPSIS
         keyarch [options] <keyrec_file | rollrec_file>

DESCRIPTION
       The keyarch program archives old KSK and ZSK keys.  Keys are considered
       old if they are revoked or obsolete.  Keys marked as either kskrev or
       zskrev are revoked; keys marked as either kskobs or zskobs are
       obsolete.  Archived keys are prefixed with the seconds-since-epoch as a
       means of distinguishing a zone's keys that have the same five digit
       number.

       If the required file argument is a keyrec file, then expired keys
       listed in that file are archived.  If the file argument is a rollrec
       file, the keyrec files of the zones in that file are checked for
       expired keys.

       If the -zone option is given, then only revoked and obsolete keys
       belonging to the specified zone will be archived.

       The archive directory is either zone-specific (listed in the zone's
       keyrec record in the zone's keyrec file) or the default archive
       directory given in the DNSSEC-Tools configuration file.

       The count of archived keys is given as the program's exit code.  Error
       exit codes are negative.

OPTIONS
       The following options are recognized:

       -zone zone_file
           Name of the zone whose KSKs will be archived.  If this is not
           given, then all the zones defined in the rollrec file will be
           checked.

       -kskonly
           Only archive KSK keys.

       -zskonly
           Only archive ZSK keys.

       -dtconfig config_file
           Name of an alternate DNSSEC-Tools configuration file to be
           processed.  If specified, this configuration file is used in place
           of the normal DNSSEC-Tools configuration file not in addition to
           it.  Also, it will be handled prior to keyrec files, rollrec files,
           and command-line options.

       -quiet
           No output will be given.

       -verbose
           Verbose output will be given.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for keyarch and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

EXIT VALUES
       On success, keyarch's exit code is the number of keys archived.

       keyarch has a 0 exit code if the help message is given.

       keyarch has a negative exit code if an error is encountered.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2007-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       rollerd(8), zonesigner(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::conf.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::dnssectools.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::defaults.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::keyrec.pm(3), Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::rollrec.pm(3)

       keyrec(5), rollrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                        KEYARCH(1)
