KEYMOD(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            KEYMOD(1)

NAME
       keymod - Modifies key parameters in a DNSSEC-Tools keyrec file

SYNOPSIS
         keymod [options] keyrec1 ... keyrecN

DESCRIPTION
       keymod modifies the key parameters in a keyrec file that are used to
       generate cryptographics keys used to sign zones.  The new parameters
       will be used by zonesigner when generating new keys.  It has no effect
       on existing keys.

       zonesigner will use the new parameter for a zone the next time it
       generates a key that requires that parameter.  This means that, for
       example, a new ZSK length will not be used during the next invocation
       of zonesigner if that invocation will be performing KSK-rollover
       actions.

       The following fields may be modified:

           kskcount - count of KSK keys
           ksklength - length of KSK keys
           ksklife - lifetime of KSK keys
           random - random number generator device file
           revperiod - revocation period for KSK keys
           zskcount - count of ZSK keys
           zsklength - length of ZSK keys
           zsklife - lifetime of ZSK keys

       New key/value fields will be added to a zone keyrec file to inform
       zonesigner that new values should be used.  The key portion of the
       added fields will begin with "new_".  For example, a new KSK length of
       2048 will be written to the keyrec file as:

           new_ksklength        2048

       All zone records in the specified keyrec file will be modified, unless
       the -zone option is given.  In that case, only the named zone will be
       modified.

       If a zone keyrec already contains a new key/value field, then the value
       will be modified on subsequent runs of keymod.

OPTIONS
       keymod recognizes the following options.  Multiple options may be
       combined in a single keymod execution.

       All numeric values must be positive or zero.

       If a new key/value field should be deleted from a zone keyrec, then a
       zero or empty string value should be specified for the appropriate
       option.

       -zone zonename
           The zone keyrec whose name matches zonename is selected as the only
           keyrec that will be modified.  If this name is not given, then all
           zone keyrec records will be modified.

       -ksklength ksklength
           The ksklength field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field whose values depend on
           the cryptographic algorithm to be used to generate keys for the
           zone.

       -kskcount kskcount
           The kskcount field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field.

       -ksklife ksklife
           The ksklife field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field.

       -random random
           The random field will be modified in the selected keyrec records to
           the given value.  This is a text field that will be passed to the
           key generator.

       -revperiod revperiod
           The revperiod field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field.

       -zskcount zskcount
           The zskcount field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field.

       -zsklength zsklength
           The zsklength field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field whose values depend on
           the cryptographic algorithm to be used to generate keys for the
           zone.

       -zsklife zsklife
           The zsklife field will be modified in the selected keyrec records
           to the given value.  This is a numeric field.

       -nocheck
           If this option is given, the krfcheck command will not be run on
           the modified keyrec file.

       -verbose
           Display information about every modification made to the keyrec
           file.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for keymod and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2012-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       zonesigner(8), krfcheck(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::keyrec.pm(3)

       file-keyrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                         KEYMOD(1)
