KHARD(1)                                                                    khard                                                                    KHARD(1)

NAME
       khard - Console address book manager

SYNOPSIS
          usage: khard [-h] [-c CONFIG] [--debug] [--skip-unparsable] [-v]
                       SUBCOMMAND ...

   Positional Arguments
       SUBCOMMAND
              Possible  choices:  list, ls, show, details, template, birthdays, bdays, email, phone, postaddress, post, postaddr, new, add, add-email, merge,
              edit, modify, ed, copy, cp, move, mv, remove, delete, del, rm, addressbooks, abooks, filename, file

   Named Arguments
       -c, --config
              config file to use

              The default value and the syntax of the config file are explained in khard.conf(5).

       --debug
              enable debug output

              Default: False

       --skip-unparsable
              skip unparsable vcard files

              Default: False

       -v, --version
              show program’s version number and exit

DESCRIPTION
       khard is an address book for the Unix command line.  It can read, create, modify and delete vCard address book entries.  khard only works with a local
       store of vCard files.  It is intended to be used in conjunction with other programs like an email client,  text  editor,  vdir  synchronizer  or  VOIP
       client.

SUBCOMMANDS
       The functionality of khard is divided into several subcommands.  All of these have their own help text which can be seen with khard SUBCOMMAND --help.
       The full list of subcommands and all options can be found in khard-subcommands(1).

       Many  subcommands  accept search terms to limit the number of contacts they should work on, display or present for selection.  The syntax is described
       in Search query syntax.

   Listing subcommands
       These subcommands list information of several contacts who match a search query.

       list   list all (selected) contacts

       birthdays
              list birthdays (sorted by month and day)

       email  list email addresses

       phone  list phone numbers

       postaddress
              list postal addresses

       filename
              list filenames of all matching contacts

   Detailed display
       These subcommands display detailed information about one subcommand.

       show   display detailed information about one contact, supported output formats are “pretty”, “yaml” and “vcard”

   Modifying subcommands
       These subcommands are used to modify contacts.

       edit   edit the data of a contact, supported formats for editing are “yaml” and “vcard”

       new    create a new contact

       add-email
              Extract email address from the “From:” field of an email header and add to an existing contact or create a new one

       merge  merge two contacts

       copy   copy a contact to a different addressbook

       move   move a contact to a different addressbook

       remove remove a contact

   Other subcommands
       addressbooks
              list all address books

       template
              print an empty yaml template

SEARCH QUERY SYNTAX
       Search queries consist of one or more command line arguments.  Each can be a simple search term or a search term for a specific field.  The field name
       is separated from the search term by a colon (:) without any spaces.

       Spaces in the field name have to be replaced with underscores.

       The available fields are the same fields as in the YAML template with the exception of the five name components (first, last,  prefix,  suffix,  addi‐
       tional).  But there is the special pseudo field specifier name: which will search in any name related field (including nicknames and formatted names).

       If  a  field name is not known the search term is interpreted as a plain search term and the string (including the colon) is looked up in any field of
       the contact.

CONFIGURATION
       See khard.conf(5).

Copyright
       2020, Eric Scheibler

0.20                                                                     Jan 08, 2026                                                                KHARD(1)
