
KNEWSD(1)                                                          General Commands Manual                                                          KNEWSD(1)

NAME
       knewsd - a tiny nntp demon

SYNOPSIS
       knewsd [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       Knewsd  is  intended  to be used with knews(1) to read news (in)directly from the spool directory or even from a mail folder hierarchy.  It reads NNTP
       commands from standard input and writes replies to standard output.  The following commands are implemented:

       ARTICLE [number]
       BODY [number]
       HEAD [number]
              Return the head and/or body of the current or the specified article.  Message-id lookups are not supported.

       GROUP newsgroup
              Enters the given newsgroup.

       HELP
              Gives a list of the implemented commands.

       LIST [active | newsgroups]
              Lists the active file or the newsgroups file.

       NEXT
              Changes the current article pointer to the next article

       POST
              Post an article via the specified posting agent.  If none has been specified, the reply will be '440 Posting not implemented.'

       QUIT
              Makes knewsd exit.

       STAT number
              Sets the current article pointer.

       XOVER range
              Returns the overview data for the specified range of articles.

       Knewsd implements the 'xover' command either by using the overview files if present, or creating overview records on the fly, or a combination of both
       if the overview file is incomplete.  In the latter case, if the -update flag is given, knewsd will update the overview files.

OPTIONS
       There is no need to spell out the entire option name, it is sufficient to give a unique prefix, such as -a for -active.

       -spool directory
              This is the spool directory.  It must be specified, either at compile time or at run time.

       -active file
              This is the active file containing the newsgroups and the high and low article counts.  If this is not specified, knews must be told not to try
              to read the active file.

       -newsgroups file
              This is the newsgroups file containing the group descriptions. It's entirely optional.

       -overview dir
              This can be used if the overview files reside in a different directory hierarchy than the spool directory.

       -update
              If this is set, knewsd will (try to) update any incomplete overview files it encounters.  Not a good idea if you're reading a system wide spool
              directory.

       -postingagent agent
              If this is set, the 'agent' will be used to post articles.  A possible agent is 'exec inews -h'.  This command is interpreted by the shell, and
              it is important that it is exec'ed, so that knewsd may kill it on a broken pipe to prevent posting of duplicate or truncated articles.   Knewsd
              will warn about this on startup.

AUTHOR
       This software is Copyright 1995, 1996 by Karl-Johan Johnsson.

SEE ALSO
       knews(1), inews(1)

                                                                             1996                                                                   KNEWSD(1)
