KZONECHECK(1)                                                                                     Knot DNS                                                                                    KZONECHECK(1)

NAME
       kzonecheck - Knot DNS zone check tool

SYNOPSIS
       kzonecheck [options] filename

DESCRIPTION
       The utility checks zone file syntax and runs semantic checks on the zone content. The executed checks are the same as the checks run by the Knot DNS server.

       Please, refer to the semantic-checks configuration option in knot.conf(5) for the full list of available semantic checks.

   Parameters
       filename
              Path to the zone file to be checked. For reading from stdin use /dev/stdin or just -.

   Options
       -o, --origin origin
              Zone  origin.  If  not  specified,  the SOA record owner in the zone file is used and the zone file name (without possible .zone suffix) is considered as the initial zone origin in case the
              owner isn't FQDN.

       -d, --dnssec on|off
              Also check DNSSEC-related records. The default is to decide based on the existence of a RRSIG for SOA.

       -z, --zonemd
              Also check the zone hash against a ZONEMD record, which is required to exist.

       -t, --time time
              Current time specification. Use UNIX timestamp, YYYYMMDDHHmmSS format, or [+/-]time[unit] format, where unit can be Y, M, D, h, m, or s. Default is current UNIX timestamp.

       -j, --jobs jobs
              The number of threads used for DNSSEC validation. Default is all CPU threads available.

       -p, --print
              Print the zone on stdout.

       -v, --verbose
              Enable debug output.

       -h, --help
              Print the program help.

       -V, --version
              Print the program version. The option -VV makes the program print the compile time configuration summary.

EXIT VALUES
       Exit status of 0 means successful operation. Any other exit status indicates an error.

SEE ALSO
       knotd(8), knot.conf(5).

AUTHOR
       CZ.NIC, z.s.p.o. and contributors <https://www.knot-dns.cz/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) CZ.NIC, z.s.p.o. and contributors

3.5.1                                                                                            2025-10-16                                                                                   KZONECHECK(1)
