kresd.systemd(7)                                                                     Knot Resolver 5.7.5 Systemd Units                                                                     kresd.systemd(7)

NAME
       kresd.systemd - managing Knot Resolver 5.7.5 through systemd.

SYNOPSIS
       kresd@.service
       kresd.target
       system-kresd.slice

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page describes how to manage kresd using systemd units.

       QUICKSTART

           systemctl start kresd@1 - single instance of kresd, responding on localhost

       CONCURRENT DAEMONS

       kresd daemon can be executed in multiple independent processes, which are managed with systemd via systemd templates (see systemd.unit(5)).  Each systemd service instance of kresd (kresd@.service)
       represents a single, independent kresd process.

       If  you have more than one CPU core available, a single running kresd daemon will only be able to make use of one core at a time, leaving the other cores idle.  If you want kresd to take advantage
       of all available cores, while sharing both cache and sockets, you should enable and start as many instances of the kresd@.service as you  have  cores.   Typically,  each  instance  is  just  named
       kresd@N.service, where N is a decimal number. For example, to enable and start 3 concurrent daemons:

           systemctl enable --now kresd@1.service kresd@2.service kresd@3.service

       The systemd-managed kresd service set is grouped in the system-kresd.slice slice.  The slice includes all running daemons (instances of kresd@.service).

EXAMPLES
       To start a single kresd instance and enable it at boot:
           systemctl enable --now kresd@1.service

       To restart (or stop) all running instances, you can use a glob expression.  Please note that glob can't be used to start or enable instances.
           systemctl restart 'kresd@*'

       Bash users can also use Brace Expansion to enable or start multiple instances, instead of listing them manually.
           systemctl enable --now kresd@{1..4}.service

       To start all enabled kresd daemons, you can also use the provided kresd.target:
           systemctl start kresd.target

SEE ALSO
       kresd(8), systemd.unit(5), https://knot-resolver.readthedocs.io/en/v5.7.5/

AUTHORS
       kresd developers are mentioned in the AUTHORS file in the distribution.

CZ.NIC                                                                                           2025-04-24                                                                                kresd.systemd(7)
