KOMI(6)                                                                                         Games Manual                                                                                        KOMI(6)

NAME
       komi - A simple game for one player.

SYNOPSIS
       komi [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the komi game.

PLAYING
       Using  the  left  and right arrow keys you may guide Komi the space frog from left to right across the bottom of the screen.  Left-handers can use Q and W.  Use the space bar to extend Komi's long
       tongue and capture the floating orange prizes, whilst avoiding the predators.

OPTIONS
       The following command line options are supported:

       --delay <x>
              Wait for x milliseconds between frames, so lower is faster.

       --fastdraw
              Use a faster drawing method. Forces starfield to be off.

       --fullscreen
              Run the game in fullscreen mode, rather than in a window of its own.

       --nosound
              Disable all sound effects.

       --nostars
              Disable the starfield simulation in the background of the game.

       --resetprefs
              Reset preferences file (which includes the high score).

       --copying
              Show the terms under which komi may be copied.

       --help Display the command line options.

       --version
              Show the version number of komi

WEBSITE
       The game has a website where you can find updates and source code. See the following URL for details:

            http://komi.sourceforge.net/

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Steve Kemp <steve@steve.org.uk>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).  komi was written by Allan Crossman <acrossman@users.sourceforge.net>.

                                                                                               June 20, 2004                                                                                        KOMI(6)
