KRENEW(1)                           kstart                           KRENEW(1)

NAME
       krenew - Renew a Kerberos ticket

SYNOPSIS
       krenew [-abhiLstvx] [-c child pid file] [-H minutes]
           [-K minutes] [-k ticket cache] [-p pid file]
           [command ...]

DESCRIPTION
       krenew renews an existing renewable ticket.  When run without any
       arguments, it just attempts to renew the existing ticket-granting
       ticket in the current ticket cache, equivalent to "kinit -R", but it
       can optionally run a program like aklog to refresh AFS tokens, can run
       as a daemon and wake up periodically to renew the ticket cache, or can
       run a specified command and keep renewing the ticket cache until the
       command finishes (or renewal is no longer possible).  If a command is
       specified, krenew by default wakes up every 60 minutes (1 hour) to
       check the ticket cache.

       If a command is given, krenew makes a copy of the ticket cache and
       creates a private ticket cache just for that command, thus isolating it
       from later destruction of the original ticket cache.  This allows
       krenew to maintain authentication for a command even if, for example,
       the user running the command logs out and OpenSSH destroys their
       original ticket cache.

       If a command is given, it will not be run using the shell, so if you
       want to use shell metacharacters in the command with their special
       meaning, give "sh -c command" as the command to run and quote command.
       If the command contains command-line options (like "-c"), put "--" on
       the command line before the beginning of the command to tell krenew to
       not parse those options as its own.

       If krenew is built with setpag() support and AFS tokens are requested
       with the -t option, it will put the command in a separate PAG before
       obtaining AFS tokens so that they don't interfere with other processes
       on the system.

       When running a command, krenew propagates HUP, TERM, INT, and QUIT
       signals to the child process and does not exit when those signals are
       received.  (If the propagated signal causes the child process to exit,
       krenew will then exit.)  This allows krenew to react properly when run
       under a command supervision system such as runit(8) or svscan(8) that
       uses signals to control supervised commands, and to run interactive
       commands that should receive Ctrl-C.

       If a running krenew receives an ALRM signal, it immediately refreshes
       the ticket cache regardless of whether it is in danger of expiring.

OPTIONS
       -a  When run with either the -K flag or a command, always renew tickets
           each time krenew wakes up.  Without this option, krenew will only
           try to renew a ticket as often as necessary to prevent the ticket
           from expiring.  With this option, krenew will renew tickets
           according to the interval specified with the -K flag.

           This behavior probably should have been the default behavior of -K.
           The default was not changed to avoid changes for existing users,
           but for new applications, consider always using -a with -K.

           This option is important if another program is manipulating the
           ticket cache that krenew is using.  For example, if another program
           is automatically renewing a ticket more frequently than krenew,
           then krenew will never see a ticket that is close to expiring and
           will therefore, by default, never try to renew the ticket.  This
           means that krenew will also never renew AFS tokens, even if the -t
           option was given, since krenew only renews AFS tokens after it
           successfully renews a ticket.  If this option is specified in such
           a situation, krenew will renew its ticket every time it checks the
           ticket, so AFS tokens will be renewed.

           This argument is only valid in combination with either -K or a
           command to run.

       -b  After starting, detach from the controlling terminal and run in the
           background.  This option only makes sense in combination with -K or
           a command that krenew will be running.  krenew will not background
           itself until after it does the initial ticket renewal, so that any
           initial errors will be reported, but it will then redirect output
           to /dev/null and no subsequent errors will be reported.

           If this flag is given, krenew will also change directories to "/".
           All paths (such as to a command to run or a PID file) should
           therefore be given as absolute, not relative, paths.

           If used in conjunction with a command to run, that command will
           also run in the background and will also have its input and output
           redirected to /dev/null.  It will have to report any errors via
           some other mechanism for the errors to be seen.

           Use of this flag on Mac OS X without specifying a file-based ticket
           cache by either using -k or setting KRB5CCNAME will probably not do
           what you want.  Ticket caches on Mac OS X are, by default, per-
           session and with -b krenew will detach itself from your existing
           ticket cache.  Instead, to renew the default ticket cache on Mac OS
           X, try something like:

               (krenew -K 60 &)

           to run krenew in the background but within the current session.

           When using this option, consider also using -L to report krenew
           errors to syslog.

       -c child pid file
           Save the process ID (PID) of the child process into child pid file.
           child pid file is created if it doesn't exist and overwritten if it
           does exist.  This option is only allowed when a command was given
           on the command line and is most useful in conjunction with -b to
           allow management of the running child process.

           Note that, when used with -b, the PID file is written out after
           krenew is backgrounded and changes its working directory to /, so
           relative paths for the PID file will be relative to / (probably not
           what you want).

       -H minutes
           Only renew the ticket if it has a remaining lifetime of less than
           minutes minutes.  If either the ticket already has a sufficiently
           long remaining lifetime or renewal was successful, run the command
           (if one was specified) or exit immediately with status 0 (if none
           was).  Otherwise, try to renew the ticket so that it will have a
           remaining lifetime of at least minutes, exit with an error if
           unsuccessful, and then run the command, if any.

           If -H is used with -K, krenew will not exit immediately.  Instead,
           the specified remaining lifetime will replace the default value of
           two minutes, meaning that krenew will ensure, each time it wakes
           up, that the ticket has a remaining lifetime of the minutes
           argument.  This is an alternative to -a to ensure that tickets
           always have a certain minimal amount of lifetime remaining.

       -h  Display a usage message and exit.

       -i  Ignore errors in renewing the ticket and keep running.  Normally,
           krenew exits as soon as the ticket cache either disappears or the
           tickets run out of renewable lifetime.  If this flag is given, it
           will complain about the failure to standard error (unless -b was
           given) but continue running, waking up to try again after the next
           check interval (see -K).  This is useful if some other process may
           recreate an expired ticket cache and krenew should stay around and
           act on that recreated ticket cache once it's present.

           If the initial ticket cache renew fails, krenew will retry the
           renewal immediately and then with exponential backoff to once per
           minute, and keep trying until authentication succeeds or it is
           killed.  The command, if any, will not be started until cache
           renewal succeeds.

           This flag is only useful in daemon mode or when a command was
           given.

       -K minutes
           Run in daemon mode to keep a ticket alive indefinitely.  The
           program reawakens after minutes minutes, checks if the ticket will
           expire before or less than two minutes before the next scheduled
           check, and renews the ticket if needed.  (In other words, it
           ensures that the ticket will always have a remaining lifetime of at
           least two minutes.)  If the -H flag is also given, the lifetime
           specified by it replaces the two minute default.

           If this option is not given but a command was given on the command
           line, the default interval is 60 minutes (1 hour).

           If an error occurs in refreshing the ticket cache that doesn't
           cause krenew to exit, the wake-up interval will be shortened to one
           minute and the operation retried at that interval for as long as
           the error persists.

       -k ticket cache
           Use ticket cache as the ticket cache rather than the contents of
           the environment variable KRB5CCNAME or the library default.  ticket
           cache may be any ticket cache identifier recognized by the
           underlying Kerberos libraries.  This generally supports a path to a
           file, with or without a leading "FILE:" string, but may also
           support other ticket cache types.

       -L  Report messages to syslog as well as to standard output or standard
           error.  All messages will be logged with facility LOG_DAEMON.
           Regular messages that are displayed on standard output are logged
           with level LOG_NOTICE.  Errors that don't cause krenew to terminate
           when run with -i are logged with level LOG_WARNING.  Fatal errors
           are logged with level LOG_ERR.

           This is useful when debugging problems in combination with -b.

       -p pid file
           Save the process ID (PID) of the running krenew process into pid
           file.  pid file is created if it doesn't exist and overwritten if
           it does exist.  This option is most useful in conjunction with -b
           to allow management of the running krenew daemon.

           Note that, when used with -b the PID file is written out after
           krenew is backgrounded and changes its working directory to /, so
           relative paths for the PID file will be relative to / (probably not
           what you want).

       -s  Normally, when krenew exits abnormally while running a command (if,
           for example, the ticket's renewable lifetime has expired), it
           leaves the command running.  If -s is given, it will send a SIGHUP
           signal to the command before exiting.  This can be useful if it's
           pointless for the command to keep running without Kerberos tickets.

       -t  Run an external program after getting a ticket.  The default use of
           this is to run aklog to get a token.  If the environment variable
           KINIT_PROG is set, it overrides the compiled-in default.

           If krenew has been built with AFS setpag() support and a command
           was given on the command line, krenew will create a new PAG before
           obtaining AFS tokens.  Otherwise, it will obtain tokens in the
           current PAG.

       -v  Be verbose.  This will print out a bit of additional information
           about what is being attempted and what the results are.

       -x  Exit immediately on any error.  Normally, when running a command or
           when run with the -K option, krenew keeps running even if it fails
           to renew the ticket cache as long as the ticket cache still exists
           and appears to be renewable.  It tries again at the next check
           interval.  With this option, krenew will instead exit.

RETURN VALUES
       The program normally exits with status 0 if it successfully renews a
       ticket.  If krenew runs aklog or some other program krenew returns the
       exit status of that program.

EXAMPLES
       Renew the current ticket-granting ticket.

           krenew

       Wake up every ten minutes and check to see if the ticket cache needs
       renewing.  If it does, re-run aklog as well.

           krenew -K 10 -t

       Run the program /usr/local/bin/compute-job in the background, checking
       every hour to see if the ticket needs to be renewed (the default).  Put
       the PID of the krenew job in /var/run/compute.pid.  Obtain a new AFS
       token each time the ticket has to be renewed.

           krenew -b -t -p /var/run/compute.pid /usr/local/bin/compute-job

       If you wanted to pass options to /usr/local/bin/compute-job, putting a
       "--" argument before it would be necessary to keep krenew from
       interpreting those options as its own.

       If you want to redirect output to a file that requires authentication
       to write to, you will need to do that redirection in a sub-shell.  In
       other words, the following command:

           krenew -t compute-job > /afs/local/data/output

       won't work if /afs/local/data/output requires an AFS token to write to.
       The job, while running, will have an AFS token, but the output
       redirection is done in the parent shell and doesn't benefit from
       krenew.  The above should instead be written as:

           krenew -t -- sh -c 'compute-job > /afs/local/data/output'

       With this command, the shell doing the redirection will also be run
       under krenew and have the benefit of the AFS token it obtains.

ENVIRONMENT
       If the environment variable AKLOG is set, its value will be used as the
       program to run with -t rather than the default complied into krenew.
       If AKLOG is not set and KINIT_PROG is set, its value will be used
       instead.  KINIT_PROG is honored for backward compatibility but its use
       is not recommended due to its confusing name.

       If no ticket file (with -k) or command is specified on the command
       line, krenew will use the environment variable KRB5CCNAME to determine
       the location of the the ticket granting ticket.  If the -k option is
       used, KRB5CCNAME will be set to point to the ticket file before running
       the aklog program or any command given on the command line.

FILES
       The default ticket cache is determined by the underlying Kerberos
       libraries.  The default path for aklog is determined at build time, and
       will normally be whichever of aklog or afslog is found in the user's
       path.

AUTHORS
       krenew was written by Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>.  It was based
       heavily on k5start by Booker C. Bense, which in turn was based on the
       k4start code written by Robert Morgan.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2015 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

       Copyright 2006, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014 The Board of
       Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

       Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
       are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
       without any warranty.

SEE ALSO
       k5start(1), kinit(1)

       The kstart web page at <http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/kstart/>
       will have the current version of krenew.

4.2                               2015-12-26                         KRENEW(1)
