tlshd.conf(5)                                                        File Formats Manual                                                        tlshd.conf(5)

NAME
       tlshd.conf - tlshd configuration file

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/tlshd/config
       /etc/tlshd.conf (deprecated)

DESCRIPTION
       The tlshd program implements a user agent that services TLS handshake requests on behalf of kernel TLS consumers.  Its configuration file contains in‐
       formation  that  the program reads when it starts up.  The file is designed to be human readable and contains a list of keywords with values that pro‐
       vide various types of information.  The configuration file is considered a trusted source of information.

       The tlshd program reads this file once when it is launched.  Thus changes made in this file take effect only when the tlshd program is restarted.   If
       this file does not exist, the tlshd program exits immediately.

OPTIONS
       The configuration file is split into sections.

       The [debug] section specifies debugging settings for the tlshd program.  In this section, there are three available options:

       loglevel
              This option specifies an integer which indicates the debug message level.  Zero, the quietest setting, is the default.

       tls    This option specifies an integer which indicates the debug message level for TLS library calls.  Zero, the quietest setting, is the default.

       nl     This  option  specifies  an  integer which indicates the debug message level for netlink library calls.  Zero, the quietest setting, is the de‐
              fault.

       The [authenticate] section specifies default authentication material when establishing TLS sessions.  In this section, there is one available option:

       keyrings
              This option specifies a semicolon-separated list of auxiliary keyrings  that  contain  handshake  authentication  tokens.   tlshd  links  these
              keyrings  into  its  session  keyring.  The configuration file may specify either a keyring's name or serial number.  tlshd always includes the
              .nvme, .nfs, and .nfsd keyrings on its session keyring.

       And, in this section, there are two subsections: [client] and [server].  The tlshd program consults the settings in the [client] subsection when  han‐
       dling the client end of a handshake, and it consults the settings in the [server] subsection when handling the server end of a handshake.

       In each of these two subsections, there are four available options:

       x509.truststore
              This  option  specifies  the  pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded trust store that is to be used to verify a certificate during a hand‐
              shake.  If this option is not specified, tlshd uses the system's trust store.

       x509.crl
              This option specifies the pathname of a file containing PEM-encoded certificate revocation lists (CRL) that are to be used to verify the  revo‐
              cation status of certificates during each handshake.  If this option is not specified, CRL checking is skipped.

       x509.certificate
              This option specifies the pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded x.509 certificate that is to be presented during a handshake request when
              no other certificate is available.

       x509.private_key
              This option specifies the pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded private key associated with the above certificate.

       x509.pq.certificate
              This  option  specifies the pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded x.509 certificate that is to be presented during a handshake request if
              the peer supports post-quantum cryptography.  This certificate must be using a post-quantum public-key algorithm (ML-DSA-44, ML-DSA-65, or  ML-
              DSA-87).   If  the peer does not support post-quantum cryptography, the certificate configured in the x509.certificate option will be presented
              instead.

       x509.pq.private_key
              This option specifies the pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded private key associated with the above certificate.

SEE ALSO
       tlshd(8)

AUTHOR
       Chuck Lever

                                                                         23 Sep 2025                                                            tlshd.conf(5)
