
LAMEXEC(1)                                                                                        LAM COMMANDS                                                                                       LAMEXEC(1)

NAME
       lamexec - Run non-MPI programs on LAM nodes.

SYNOPSIS
       lamexec [-fhvD] [-c # | -np #] [-nw | -w] [-pty] [-s node] [-x VAR1[=VALUE1][,VAR2[=VALUE2],...]]  [where] program [-- args]

OPTIONS
       -c #      Synonym for -np (see below).

       -D        Use  the  executable program location as the current working directory for created processes.  The current working directory of the created processes will be set before the user's program is
                 invoked.

       -f        Do not configure standard I/O file descriptors - use defaults.

       -h        Print useful information on this command.

       -np #     (see below).  Run this many copies of the program on the given nodes.  This option indicates that the specified file is an executable program and not an application schema.  If no nodes  are
                 specified, all LAM nodes are considered for scheduling; LAM will schedule the programs in a round-robin fashion, "wrapping around" (and scheduling multiple copies on a single node) if neces‐
                 sary.

       -nw       Do not wait for all processes to complete before exiting lamexec.  This option is mutually exclusive with -w.

       -pty      Enable pseudo-tty support.  Among other things, this enabled line-buffered output (which is probably what you want).  The only reason that this feature is not enabled by default  is  because
                 it is so new and has not been extensively tested yet.

       -s node   Load the program from this node.  This option is not valid on the command line if an application schema is specified.

       -v        Be verbose; report on important steps as they are done.

       -w        Wait for all applications to exit before lamexec exits.

       -x        Export  the specified environment variables to the remote nodes before executing the program.  Existing environment variables can be specified (see the Examples section, below), or new vari‐
                 able names specified with corresponding values.  The parser for the -x option is not very sophisticated; it does not even understand quoted values.  Users are advised to set variables in the
                 environment, and then use -x to export (not define) them.

       where     A set of node and/or CPU identifiers indicating where to start

       -- args   Pass these runtime arguments to every new process.  This must always be the last argument to lamexec.  This option is not valid on the command line if an application schema is specified.

DESCRIPTION
       lamexec is essentially a clone of the mpirun(1), but is intended for non-MPI programs.

       One  invocation of lamexec starts a non-MPI application running under LAM.  To start the same program on all LAM nodes, the application can be specified on the lamexec command line.  To start multiple
       applications on the LAM nodes, an application schema is required in a separate file.  See appschema(5) for a description of the application schema syntax, but it essentially contains multiple  lamexec
       command lines, less the command name itself.  The ability to specify different options for different instantiations of a program is another reason to use an application schema.

   Location Nomenclature
       The  location  nomenclature  that is used for the where clause mention in the SYNOPSIS section, above, is identical to mpirun(1)'s nomenclature.  See the mpirun(1) man page for a lengthy discussion of
       the location nomenclature.

       Note that the by-CPU syntax, while valid for lamexec, is not quite as meaningful because process rank ordering in MPI_COMM_WORLD is irrelevant.  As such, the by-node nomenclature is typically the pre‐
       ferred syntax for lamexec.

   Application Schema or Executable Program?
       To  distinguish the two different forms, lamexec looks on the command line for nodes or the -c option.  If neither is specified, then the file named on the command line is assumed to be an application
       schema.  If either one or both are specified, then the file is assumed to be an executable program.  If nodes and -c both are specified, then copies of the program are started on the  specified  nodes
       according  to  an internal LAM scheduling policy.  Specifying just one node effectively forces LAM to run all copies of the program in one place.  If -c is given, but not nodes, then all LAM nodes are
       used.  If nodes is given, but not -c, then one copy of the program is run on each node.

   Program Transfer
       By default, LAM searches for executable programs on the target node where a particular instantiation will run.  If the file system is not shared, the target nodes are homogeneous, and the  program  is
       frequently  recompiled, it can be convenient to have LAM transfer the program from a source node (usually the local node) to each target node.  The -s option specifies this behavior and identifies the
       single source node.

   Locating Files
       LAM looks for an executable program by searching the directories in the user's PATH environment variable as defined on the source node(s).  This behavior is consistent with  logging  into  the  source
       node and executing the program from the shell.  On remote nodes, the "." path is the home directory.

       LAM  looks  for  an application schema in three directories: the local directory, the value of the LAMAPPLDIR environment variable, and laminstalldir/boot, where "laminstalldir" is the directory where
       LAM/MPI was installed.

   Standard I/O
       LAM directs UNIX standard input to /dev/null on all remote nodes.  On the local node that invoked lamexec, standard input is inherited from lamexec.  The default is what used to be the  -w  option  to
       prevent conflicting access to the terminal.

       LAM  directs  UNIX  standard output and error to the LAM daemon on all remote nodes.  LAM ships all captured output/error to the node that invoked lamexec and prints it on the standard output/error of
       lamexec.  Local processes inherit the standard output/error of lamexec and transfer to it directly.

       Thus it is possible to redirect standard I/O for LAM applications by using the typical shell redirection procedure on lamexec.

              % lamexec N my_app  my_input  my_output

       The -f option avoids all the setup required to support standard I/O described above.  Remote processes are completely directed to /dev/null and local  processes  inherit  file  descriptors  from  lam‐
       boot(1).

   Pseudo-tty support
       The -pty option enabled pseudo-tty support for process output.  This allows, among other things, for line buffered output from remote nodes (which is probably what you want).

       This  option  is  not currently the default for lamexec because it has not been thoroughly tested on a variety of different Unixes. Users are encouraged to use -pty and report any problems back to the
       LAM Team.

   Current Working Directory
       The current working directory for new processes created on the local node is inherited from lamexec.  The current working directory for new processes created on remote nodes is the remote user's  home
       directory.  This default behavior is overridden by the -D option.

       The -D option will change the current working directory of new processes to the directory where the executable resides before the new user's program is invoked.

       An alternative to the -D option is the -wd option.  -wd allows the user to specify an arbitrary current working directory (vs. the location of the executable).  Note that the -wd option can be used in
       application schema files (see appschema(5)) as well.

   Process Environment
       Processes in the application inherit their environment from the LAM daemon upon the node on which they are running.  The environment of a LAM daemon is fixed upon booting of the  LAM  with  lamboot(1)
       and is inherited from the user's shell.  On the origin node this will be the shell from which lamboot(1) was invoked and on remote nodes this will be the shell started by rsh(1).  When running dynami‐
       cally linked applications which require the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to be set, care must be taken to ensure that it is correctly set when booting the LAM.

   Exported Environment Variables
       The -x option to lamexec can be used to export specific environment variables to the new processes.  While the syntax of the -x option allows the definition of new variables, note that the parser  for
       this option is currently not very sophisticated - it does not even understand quoted values.  Users are advised to set variables in the environment and use -x to export them; not to define them.

EXAMPLES
       lamexec N prog1
           Load and execute prog1 on all nodes.  Search for the executable file on each node.

       lamexec -c 8 prog1
           Run 8 copies of prog1 wherever LAM wants to run them.

       lamexec n8-10 -v -nw -s n3 prog1 -- -q
           Load  and  execute  prog1 on nodes 8, 9, and 10.  Search for prog1 on node 3 and transfer it to the three target nodes.  Report as each process is created.  Give "-q" as a command line to each new
           process.  Do not wait for the processes to complete before exiting lamexec.

       lamexec -v myapp
           Parse the application schema, myapp, and start all processes specified in it.  Report as each process is created.

       lamexec N N -pty -wd /workstuff/output -x DISPLAY run_app.csh
           Run the application "run_app.csh" (assumedly a C shell script) twice on each node in the system (ideal for 2-way SMPs).  Also enable pseudo-tty support, change directory to /workstuff/output,  and
           export the DISPLAY variable to the new processes (perhaps the shell script will invoke an X application such as xv to display output).

       lamexec -np 5 -D `pwd`/my_application
           A  common  usage  of lamexec in environments where a filesystem is shared between all nodes in the multicomputer, using the shell-escaped "pwd" command specifies the full name of the executable to
           run.  This prevents the need for putting the directory in the path; the remote notes will have an absolute filename to execute (and change directory to it upon invocation).

DIAGNOSTICS
       lamexec: Exec format error
           A non-ASCII character was detected in the application schema.  This is usually a command line usage error where lamexec is expecting an application schema and an executable file was given.

       lamexec: syntax error in application schema, line XXX
           The application schema cannot be parsed because of a usage or syntax error on the given line in the file.

       filename: No such file or directory
           This error can occur in two cases.  Either the named file cannot be located or it has been found but the user does not have sufficient permissions to execute the program or  read  the  application
           schema.

RETURN VALUE
       lamexec returns 0 if all processes started by lamexec exit normally.  A non-zero value is returned if an internal error occurred in lamexec, or one or more processes exited abnormally.  If an internal
       error occurred in lamexec, the corresponding error code is returned.  In the event that one or more processes exit with non-zero exit code, the return value of the process that lamexec  first  notices
       died abnormally will be returned.  Note that, in general, this will be the first process that died but is not guaranteed to be so.

       However, note that if the -nw switch is used, the return value from lamexec does not indicate the exit status of the processes started by it.

SEE ALSO
       mpimsg(1), mpirun(1), mpitask(1), loadgo(1)

LAM 7.1.4                                                                                          July, 2007                                                                                        LAMEXEC(1)
