
LAMSHRINK(1)                                                                                      LAM COMMANDS                                                                                     LAMSHRINK(1)

NAME
       lamshrink - Shrink a LAM universe.

SYNOPSIS
       lamshrink [-dhv] [-w delay] nodeid

OPTIONS
       -d            Print detailed debugging information.

       -h            Print useful information on this command.

       -v            Be verbose.

       -w delay      Notify processes on the doomed node and pause for delay seconds before proceeding.

       nodeid        Remove the LAM node with this ID.

DESCRIPTION
       An existing LAM session, initiated by lamboot(1), can be shrunk to include less nodes with lamshrink.  One node is removed for each invocation.  At a minimum, the node ID is given on the command line.
       Once lamshrink completes, the node ID is invalid across the remaining nodes (as can be seen by running lamnodes(1)).

       Existing application processes on the target node can be warned of impending shutdown with the -w option.  A LAM signal (SIGFUSE) will be sent to these processes and lamshrink will then pause for  the
       given number of seconds before proceeding with removing the node.  By default, SIGFUSE is ignored.  A different handler can be installed with ksignal(2).

       All application processes on all remaining nodes are always informed of the death of a node.  This is also done with a signal (SIGSHRINK), which by default causes a process's runtime route cache to be
       flushed (to remove any cached information on the dead node).  If this signal is re-vectored for the purpose of fault tolerance, the old handler should be called at the beginning of  the  new  handler.
       The  signal  does  not, by itself, give the process information on which node has been removed.  One technique for getting this information is to query the router for information on all relevant nodes
       using getroute(2).  The dead node will cause this routine to return an error.

   FAULT TOLERANCE
       If enabled with lamboot(1), LAM will watch for nodes that fail.  The procedure for removing a node that has failed is the same as lamshrink after the warning step.  In particular, the SIGSHRINK signal
       is delivered.

EXAMPLES
       lamshrink -v n1 Remove LAM on n1.  Report about important steps as
           they are done.

       lamshrink n30 -w 10
           Inform all processes on LAM node 30, that the node will be dead in 10 seconds.  Wait 10 seconds and remove the node.  Operate silently.

SEE ALSO
       lamboot(1), lamnodes(1), ksignal(2), getroute(2)

LAM 7.1.4                                                                                          July, 2007                                                                                      LAMSHRINK(1)
