LATE(6)                                                                                         Games Manual                                                                                        LATE(6)

NAME
       late - A simple game for one player.

SYNOPSIS
       late [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the late game.  This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.  Instead, it has documentation
       in the GNU Info format; see below.

OPTIONS
       This program does not follow the usual GNU command line syntax, only long options starting with two dashes (`-') are supported.  A summary of options is included below.

       --help Show summary of options.

       --version
              Show version of program.

       --cheat
              Gives you infinite lives.

Playing
       Your  mouse  is controls a sophisticated tool against evil: basically a fancy fancy tube. This is your weapon, a savage gillotine that cuts up wallpaper with not a shred of hesitation nor remorse.
       It has but one weakness, it can only withstand a few impacts with balls....  Fortunantly for you, the evil, heartless little balls also have a weakness, they can only travel  across  the  original
       terrain and may be locked up tight by its removal.  And lock them up tight you must, for the only way to exact vengance from these ricocheting feinds is to choke them out of existence. Your gillo‐
       tine  is  sharp  and  quick, it may be shot out using the left button, and its orientation may be changed in ninety degree increments with the right, but once you fire, there is no way to stop its
       cutting and razing until it has made its cut, or been struck.  The balls, in their spherical cunning have developed many tricks beyond just the contemptable bounce tactics of the simple  fireball,
       there are balls made from goo that divide and disperse when hit and can reform in an effort to confuse their prey. There are unstable groups of three balls that will spontaniously explode when en‐
       capsulated tight enough. There are balls that will teleport for surprise tactics. And even cold blooded balls that will be towards the cutters whenever they are seen.

       You must fight these crewl balls, and you must prevail!

WEBSITE
       The game has a website accessible at http://late.sourceforge.net/

       The programs are documented fully by The Rise and Fall of a Fooish Bar, available via the Info system.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Steve Kemp <skx@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                              August  9, 2003                                                                                       LATE(6)
