Mono(lc)                                                              Mono(lc)

NAME
       lc - Mono License Compiler

SYNOPSIS
       lc -c filename -t targetassembly [-i reference...] [-v] [-o outputpath]
       [-nologo]

DESCRIPTION
       lc tool is a  license  compiler  for  Mono.  It's  used  to  convert  a
       licenses.licx  file  to  a  resource  that can be embedded into an exe‐
       cutable.

       When using commercial components for .NET they often require a  license
       resource at runtime to make sure the developer was licensed to use this
       control. The most common way of making sure the component was  properly
       licensed  is  by using license resources. At compile time the developer
       uses the lc  tool  to  convert  a  licenses.licx  file  to  a  program‐
       name.exe.licenses file and embed that as a managed resource during com‐
       pilation.

RUNTIME OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       --complist=filename, -c filename
              This option is used to specify the input file, the licenses.licx
              file to create a license reesource for. This option is required.
              The license compiler will read each line in this file and try to
              load the types specified on that line.

       --target=assemblyname, -t targetassembly
              full  assembly name with file extension for the target assembly.
              The license compiler uses this  as  a  key  when  compiling  the
              licenses.  It  has  to  match  the assembly the resource will be
              embedded in. This option is required.

       --load=reference, -i reference
              Assembly reference to load before trying to compile  a  license.
              This  option  is  needed for assemblies where the references are
              not in the gac. Compilers should  pass  all  references  to  the
              license compiler.

       --verbose,, -v
              Gives more verbose output about the license compiling process.

       --help, -h
              Displays usage instructions.

       --outdir=path, -o path
              Target  path  file the licenses resource. By default the license
              compiler emits the resource in the current directory. The  file‐
              name  will  always  match the target assembly passed to --target
              with .licenses added.

       --nologo
              Do not emit the "Mono License Compiler" logo   on  stdout  while
              compilng.

LICENSE FILES
       The format for the license files (licenses.licx) is the following:
            # comment
            namespace.type, assemblyname
            namespace.type, full-assemblyname

       All  lines  starting with a # are ignored. the first form requires that
       the assembly was loaded through  the  --load,-i  option  but  does  not
       require the full assembly name, only the first part.

       The  second form requires the full assembly name including locale, ver‐
       sion and publickeytoken.

MAILING LISTS
       Mailing lists  are  listed  at  the  http://www.mono-project.com/commu‐
       nity/help/mailing-lists/

WEB SITE
       http://www.mono-project.com

SEE ALSO
       mono(1), mcs(1)

                                                                      Mono(lc)
