LCG-INFOSITES(1)                 User Commands                LCG-INFOSITES(1)

NAME
       lcg-infosites - list grid service information matching given criteria

SYNOPSIS
       lcg-infosites [options] selection(s)

DESCRIPTION
       lcg-infosites provides a user-friendly way to query the EGI/WLCG infor‐
       mation system for services that match given  criteria.   The  supported
       options and selections are detailed below.

OPTIONS
       -f site_name
              Restrict the listed service information to the given site.

       -h | --help
              Display a usage reminder and exit.

       --is BDII_host[:port]
              Indicate  the  BDII  to  be  used.   By  default  the BDII(s) in
              $LCG_GFAL_INFOSYS will be tried.

       --trust host
              For the 'myproxy' selection only list MyProxy servers that trust
              the given host for renewing proxies.

       -v {1 | 2 | 3 | 4}
              Change the output verbosity for certain selections (see below).

       -V | --version
              Output version information and exit.

       --vo VO
              Restrict  the listed service information to the given VO or VOMS
              attribute name.  By default the VO is determined from the user's
              VOMS  proxy, even if it has expired.  The wildcard character '*'
              can be used to list service information pertaining  to  multiple
              VOs or VOMS attributes.

SELECTIONS
       For  any listings of service endpoints the corresponding site names are
       added when the '-v' option is supplied with argument '4'.

       all    Equivalent to selecting 'ce' and 'se'.

       bdii_site
              List site BDII endpoints.

       bdii_top
              List top BDII endpoints.

       ce     If no '-v' option is supplied, list matching CE  endpoints  with
              their  total  and  free  CPU counts and their total, running and
              waiting job counts.

              If the '-v' option is  supplied  with  argument  '1',  list  the
              matching CE endpoints.

              If  the  '-v'  option  is  supplied  with argument '2', list the
              matching GLUE SubClusters with their values for  RAM,  operating
              system name and version, and processor type.

              If  the  '-v'  option  is  supplied  with argument '3', list the
              matching CE endpoints with their values for RAM, operating  sys‐
              tem name and release, and processor type.  A CE will appear mul‐
              tiple times if  it  is  associated  with  multiple  SubClusters.
              Note:  the WMS currently cannot submit jobs to such a CE, unless
              all its SubClusters match the job requirements.

              If the '-v' option is  supplied  with  argument  '4',  list  the
              matching CE endpoints along with the corresponding site names.

       closeSE
              For  each  matching  CE  list the matching close SEs.  Close SEs
              that do not match the VO criteria are skipped.

       cream  List the matching CREAM endpoints.

       dli, dliLocal
              List the Data Location Interface endpoints corresponding to  the
              matching global or local LCG File Catalog endpoints (see below).
              The DLI is used by the WMS to resolve  Logical  File  Names  and
              files identified by GUIDs.

       fts    List matching instances of the File Transfer Service.

       gridice
              List  matching  collector  endpoints for GridICE monitoring ser‐
              vices.

       lb     List matching Logging and Bookkeeping endpoints.

       lcg-ce List the matching LCG-CE endpoints.

       lfc, lfcLocal
              List the global or local LCG File Catalog  endpoints.   Each  VO
              can  have  only a single global LFC at most, but (also) can have
              multiple local LFC instances.

       myproxy
              List the MyProxy service endpoints.  If the '--trust' option  is
              specified,  only  those  endpoints  are  listed that support the
              given host as an authorized renewer of proxies.  This allows the
              user to find MyProxy servers that support e.g. a given WMS host.

       se     If  no  '-v' option is supplied, list matching SE endpoints with
              their amounts of available and  used  space  (deprecated  legacy
              attributes,  in  kB) and their types.  The type is SRM if the SE
              supports the Storage Resource Manager interface version  1.1  or
              2.2, else xroot if it supports the Xroot(d) interface, else gftp
              if it supports gsiftp (GridFTP),  else  '-'.   See  the  'space'
              selection for detailed information about SRM spaces.

              If  the  '-v'  option  is  supplied  with argument '1', list the
              matching SE endpoints.

              If the '-v' option is supplied with argument '4' (sic), list the
              matching SE endpoints along with the corresponding site names.

       sitenames
              List the sites.

       space  For  each  matching  SRM space on the matching SE endpoints list
              the amounts of free, used and reserved space in  GB  for  online
              and  nearline  latencies  and,  if defined, the tag (space token
              user description) identifying the space.

       tag    For each matching CE list the matching software  tags  published
              by the CE.

       vobox  List the matching VOBOX endpoints.

       voms   List the matching VOMS endpoints.

       voms-admin
              List the matching VOMS-Admin endpoints.

       voview If  no  '-v' option is supplied, list matching CE endpoints with
              their matching VO-specific attributes: the running, waiting  and
              total  job  counts,  the free job slots, the estimated and worst
              response times, the default SE and the location of the  software
              area.

              If  the  '-v'  option  is  supplied  with argument '1', list the
              matching CE endpoints with a subset of the matching  VO-specific
              attributes:  the free job slots and the total, running and wait‐
              ing job counts.  This allows for easier comparison with the out‐
              put for the 'ce' selection.

       wms    List the matching Workload Management System endpoints.

AUTHOR
       Versions <= 2.6.9 by Patricia Mendez Lorenzo
       Versions >= 3.0.0 by Maarten Litmaath

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs via GGUS (http://ggus.org).

lcg-infosites 3.0.1                Jan 2011                   LCG-INFOSITES(1)
