lcsync(1)                                                                              IPv6 multicast file sync tool                                                                              lcsync(1)

NAME
       lcsync - IPv6 multicast file sync tool

SYNOPSIS
       Serve a a single file:
           lcshare [OPTION...] FILENAME

       Serve all files below a directory:
           lcshare [OPTION...] DIRECTORY

       Sync remote file(s) with local:
           lcsync [OPTION...] REMOTEFILENAME LOCALFILENAME

       Sync two local files (Path required. Can be ./):
           lcsync ./LOCALFILE1 ./LOCALFILE2

DESCRIPTION
       lcsync  is  a  pair  of  tools  to sync files over IPv6 multicast or the local filesystem. It splits the file into blocks, hashes them, and compares them in order to efficiently transfer a minimal
       amount of data.

       lcshare is the server-side component which indexes files and listens for MLD multicast group joins and sends the file and directory block data.

       lcsync is the client-side component which joins multicast groups to receive files and directories.

       lcshare (server) Options:

       --loopback
              enable multicast loopback (sending host will receive sent data)

       lcsync (client) Options:

       -a, --archive
              set archive options [-g -o -p -r -t]

       -n, --dry-run
              don't copy any data

       -g, --group
              set group on destination

       -o, --owner
              set owner on destination

       -p, --perms
              set permissions on destination

       --remote
              source path is remote

       -t, --times
              set modification times on destination

       General Options:

       -b, --batch
              Batch mode. No prompting. NB: if you do not specify a keyfile for encryption, encryption will be disabled.

       --bwlimit INTEGER
              Set send rate limit (bps). An SI prefix of T, G, M or K may be added (eg.  --bwlimit 10M)

       --hex  print file hashes in hex

       -i, --interface INTERFACE
              Set network interface to use (default: all)

       --keyfile keyfile
              Read symmetric key from keyfile, which must be the path to a file containing a 128 byte random key. This can be created with a command like:

              dd if=/dev/random of=keyfile count=1 bs=128

       --loglevel INTEGER
              set loglevel

       -r, --recursive
              recurse into directories

       -q, --quiet
              shhh - we're hunting wabbits

       -v, --verbose
              increase verbosity

       -V, --version
              display version and exit

       To sync remote files, each file is split into blocks and a merkle tree is built by hashing the blocks using BLAKE3. On the sending/server side, this tree is sent on Librecast Channel (IPv6  multi‐
       cast  group)  that is formed from the hash of the filename.  The receiver/client joins this channel, and receives the tree.  If the client already has some data to compare, it builds a merkle tree
       of the destination file and uses this to quickly compare which blocks differ. It builds a bitmap with this information, and then joins the Channel(s) for the block(s) required which  are  sent  by
       the server

       Forward Error Correction (FEC) is enabled by default using RaptorQ (RFC 6330) from the Librecast LCRQ library.

       Symmetric  encryption  is  provided  using  the XSalsa20 stream cipher from libsodium with Poly1305 MAC authentication tags. A keyfile can be provided, or a key can be derived from a user-supplied
       password.

       There is no unicast communication with the server. There are no requests sent, and the server can sit behind a firewall which is completely closed to inbound TCP and  UDP  traffic.   Instead,  the
       server  listens  on  a raw socket for Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD2) reports. It compares any MLD multicast group JOINs against the index it built on startup and finds matches for file (tree)
       and blocks. In this way, the server only sends data when at least one client is subscribed.  If more clients want to download the data, the server need take no further action.  Thus, the  load  on
       the server does not change at all, regardless of whether there is one client or a billion.

ENVIRONMENT
       LCSYNC_PASSWORD
              the value of LCSYNC_PASSWORD will be used to derive the symmetric encryption key used for encryption and decryption.

BUGS
       If you find one, email bugs@librecast.net

SEE ALSO
       rsync(1), ipv6(7), lcrq(7)

AUTHOR
       lcsync was written by Brett Sheffield <bacs@librecast.net> and released under the terms of the GPL-2 or (at your option) GPL-3.

       https://librecast.net/lcsync.html

lcsync                                                                                           2025-03-08                                                                                       lcsync(1)
