LEPTONICA(3)                                                                              Library Functions Manual                                                                             LEPTONICA(3)

NAME
       leptonica - image processing library

SYNOPSIS
       #include <leptonica/allheaders.h>

       cc file.c -llept

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the leptonica image processing library.

       Leptonica  is  a well-tested C library for some basic image processing operations, along with a description of the functions and some design methods. A full set of affine transformations (transla‐
       tion, shear, rotation, scaling) on images of all depths is included, with the exception that some of the scaling methods do not work at all depths. There are also implementations  of  binary  mor‐
       phology, grayscale morphology, convolution and rank order filters, and applications such as jbig2 image processing and color quantization. You will also find basic utilities for the safe and effi‐
       cient handling of arrays (of strings, numbers, number pairs and image-related geometrical objects), byte queues, generic stacks, generic lists, and endian-independent indexing into 32-bit arrays.

OPTIONS
       Most example programs included with leptonica will report their usage if you try to run them on the command line with no arguments. Usage varies from program to program. These are sample programs;
       read their source code if you are trying to do something similar.

SEE ALSO
       convertfilestopdf(1), convertfilestops(1), convertformat(1), convertsegfilestopdf(1), convertsegfilestops(1), converttopdf(1), converttops(1), fileinfo(1), xtractprotos(1),

       The library and sample programs are documented more fully by http://www.leptonica.com, available via your favorite web user agent.

AUTHOR
       leptonica was written by Dan Bloomberg <bloomberg@ieee.org>.

       This manual page was written by Jeff Breidenbach <jab@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                               June 27, 2006                                                                                   LEPTONICA(3)
