lepton-tragesym(1)                                                     1.9.18.20220529                                                     lepton-tragesym(1)

NAME
       lepton-tragesym - create Lepton EDA symbols from structured text files

SYNOPSIS
       lepton-tragesym SOURCE-FILE SYMBOL-FILE

DESCRIPTION
       lepton-tragesym creates lepton-schematic symbols from structured text files.

       lepton-tragesym can:

       •      create pins, their elements (clocksign, negation bubble), and attributes (“pinnumber”, “pinseq”, “pintype”, and “pinlabel”);

       •      sort the pins alphabetically by their attributes;

       •      rotate pinlabel attributes of the top and bottom pins if requested;

       •      swap  words in the pinlabel attributes if requested (only for attributes of the right and top pins, in the latter case only if rotation is also
              requested);

       •      do some syntax checking to the input file.

SOURCE FILE FORMAT
   General
       Source file is a text file consisting of three sections:
       • [geda_attr]
       • [options]
       • [pins]

       Section name should be enclosed in square brackets.

       Empty lines, lines consisting of whitespaces only, as well as lines beginning with the character '#' (comments) are silently ignored.

   [options]
       The section contains export settings.  The following settings are supported:

       •      wordswap (boolean)
              Swap labels if the pin is on the right side and contains space between words, that is, looks like this: “PB1 (CLK)”.  That may  be  useful  for
              micro controller port labels.

       •      rotate_labels (boolean)
              Rotate  the  “pinlabel” attribute of the top and bottom pins by 90 degrees.  This may be useful for large symbols like FPGAs with more than 100
              pins.

       •      sort_labels (boolean)
              Sort the pins by their “pinlabel” attributes, which is useful for address ports, busses, etc.

       •      generate_pinseq (boolean)
              Automatically generate “pinseq” attributes for those pins whose corresponding field in the source file is empty.  The generated attribute  val‐
              ues are numbers incremented in the order the pin description lines appear in the [pins] section except for already existing numbers.

       •      sym_width (integer)
              Minimum box width of the resulting symbol.

       •      pinwidthvertical (integer)
              The vertical distance between pins on the left or right hand side of the symbol.

       •      pinwidthhorizontal (integer)
              The horizontal distance between pins on the top or bottom of the symbol.

              The boolean values are specified in the source file by the words “yes” or “on” meaning TRUE and “no” or “off” meaning FALSE.

   [geda_attr]
       The  section  contains  the list of Lepton symbol attributes (“name=value” pairs) which you would want to see in the symbol file.  The attribute names
       may be separated by the equal or tabulation character (“=” or “\t”).  The tab separator is supported for convenient export from spreadsheet programs.

   [pins]
       The section contains the description of symbol pins to be made, one pin per line.  The pin description consists of seven tab separated fields, any  of
       which may contain empty value (no character between tabs).  The fields define the following pin attributes and properties:

       1. “pinnumber” attribute
          The “pinnumber” attribute represents the physical number of the component pin.

       2. “pinseq” attribute
          The  “pinseq”  attribute  is  used  in Lepton to assign pin numbers for slotted components and by the SPICE backends to output pins in right order.
          Leave the field blank if it doesn't matter.

       3. “pintype” attribute
          The “pintype” attribute defines the pin function (input, output, power, etc.) and can be one of “in”, “out”, “io”, “oc”, “oe”, “pas”, “tp”,  “tri”,
          “clk”, or “pwr”.  The attribute is used by the DRC backends to check component interconnection validity.

       4. pin style
          Pin style determines the appearance of the pin.  It can be one of “line” (simple pin), “dot” (pin with negation bubble), “clk” (pin with clock sym‐
          bol),  “dotclk”  (bubble  and  clock),  “spacer” (not a pin, just additional empty space between two pins), or “none” (to add a virtual pin via the
          “net” attribute).

       5. pin position
          Pin position determines the side of the component the pin should be placed on.  It can be “l” (left), “r” (right),  “t”  (top),  “b”  (bottom),  or
          empty (“”) when the pin should be defined in the “net” attribute.

       6. pin net
          Specifies the net name of the pin to define via the “net” attribute, for example, “Vcc” or “GND”.

       7. “pinlabel” attribute
          The  “pinlabel”  attribute represents the visible pin label defining its name in the component, for example “A” (anode) or “C” (cathode) in a diode
          symbol.  Negation lines can be added with “\_”, for example, “\_enable\_”.  If you want to add the character “\”,  use  “\\”  as  escape  sequence.
          This is supported by `lepton-schematic`.

TUTORIAL
       There is a tutorial on the use of tragesym, the predecessor of lepton-tragesym, at:

              http://wiki.geda-project.org/geda:tragesym_tutorial

AUTHOR
       The  initial  Python  script  has  been  written  by  Werner Hoch <werner.ho@gmx.de>.  The program has been rewritten almost from scratch in Scheme by
       Vladimir Zhbanov <vzhbanov@gmail.com>.

SEE ALSO
       lepton-schematic(1),

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2012-2017 gEDA Contributors.
       Copyright © 2019-2022 Lepton EDA Contributors.
       License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later. Please see the `COPYING'
       file included with this program for full details.

       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

Lepton EDA                                                               May 29, 2022                                                      lepton-tragesym(1)
