LGWAM(1)                                                                                         User Commands                                                                                         LGWAM(1)

NAME
       lgwam - Logiweb Abstract Machine

SYNOPSIS
       lgwam command [file arg1 ...  argn]

DESCRIPTION
       In normal use, the lgwam command is installed in /usr/bin/lgwam and is used as the first line of Logiweb scripts. The first line of such scripts typically read

           #!/usr/bin/lgwam script

       The Logiweb compiler lgc(1) generates such scripts. The format of scripts is described in SCRIPT FORMAT below.

OPTIONS
       The lgwam command may take the following forms:

       lgwam script FILE ARG1 ... ARGn
              Execute the given file as a Logiweb program. Pass the command line arguments to the program with FILE as ARG0. For the format of FILE see SCRIPT FORMAT below.

       lgwam execute FCT ARG1 ... ARGn
              Same  as  above,  but execute the given function. The function must be defined on a page which has been compiled into lgwam. As an example, if the lgc compiler has been compiled in, then 'lgwam
              execute lgc ARG1 ... ARGn' executes the lgc compiler but needs no script file.

       lgwam test
              Execute basic built in testsuite.

       lgwam testrun FILE
              Load the Logiweb page referenced in FILE and all pages referenced transitively from that page. Then execute an extended testsuite. The extended testsuite first  executes  the  basic  testsuite.
              Then the extended testsuite looks for pages named 'base', 'check', 'Peano', and 'test'. If one or more of these are found, the extended testsuite executes a number of associated tests. The FILE
              must be a Logiweb script, c.f. SCRIPT FORMAT below.

       lgwam dry
              Do dry run: initialize memory and exit.

       lgwam deff SOURCE OUT1 ... OUTn
              Execute the deff-lisp program defined in SOURCE and write the output to the given output files. This option works even when no pages have been compiled into lgwam. It is used for  bootstrapping
              the system in that it allows to compile an lgc compiler expressed in deff-lisp. That lgc compiler can then be used to compile an lgc compiler expressed in the compilers own language.

       lgwam { -h | help | --help }
              Print help message

       lgwam { -v | version | --version }
              Print version and license information.

       lgwam { pages | --pages }
              List built in pages.

SCRIPT FORMAT
       A Logiweb script file consists of lines of text. Blank lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are ignored. Lines can be ended by arbitrary sequences of CR and LF characters.

       A script may look thus:

           #!/usr/bin/lgwam script
           string
           015F43BE4A17DAD915936B7A773154A80946AEC82EFBEECDA4A7D7B80806
           hello
           execute
           foo=bar
           magicword=xyzzy

       The first line starts with a hash mark so it is ignored.

       The first proper line (the second line) indicates the format of the rest of the script. The 'string' format is the only format which is not deprecated, so the first proper line always says 'string'.

       The second proper line contains the reference of a Logiweb page expressed in mixed endian hexadecimal, c.f. REFERENCES below.

       The third proper line indicates the name of the program ('hello' in this case).

       The fourth proper line indicates the aspect defining the program. The lgc compiler always sets the aspect to 'execute'.

       All remaining lines define script options which are passed to the program.

       When  lgwam  executes a Logiweb script, it first loads the referenced page and all its transitively referenced pages. It does so using the LGW_PATH environment variable described under ENVIRONMENT be‐
       low.

       Then lgwam looks up the given aspect of the given name on the referenced page where both aspect and name are treated as strings. The base page which comes with the distribution defines  the  'execute'
       aspect of 'hello' such that the resulting program prints 'Hello World'.

       Then lgwam invokes the given aspect of the given name in the way described on the base page. See the base page for further information.

ENVIRONMENT
       Whenever lgwam needs to load a page, it locates the page using the LGW_PATH environment variable. If that variable is not set, it defaults to

           $HOME/.logiweb/logiweb/:/rack.lgr

       The value of LGW_PATH must be a list of locations separated by semicolons. The default path above contains only one location and, thus, no semicolons.

       To  load  a referenced page, lgwam tries each location in turn. For each location, lgwam replaces the rightmost colon character by the reference of the page expressed in mixed endian hexadecimal, c.f.
       REFERENCES below. Then lgwam reads the file at the resulting path, if any. The file must be a rack file, c.f. logiweb(5).

REFERENCES
       The Logiweb reference of a Logiweb page is a sequence of around 30 bytes which identifies the page uniquely. References are often expressed in mixed endian hexadecimal.

       In mixed endian hexadecimal, each byte is represented by two hexadecimal digits with the most significant digit first. Bytes are given in network order. Capital letters are used for the hex  digits  A
       to F.

AUTHOR
       Klaus Grue, http://logiweb.eu/

SEE ALSO
       lgc(1), lgc(5), lgc.conf(5), logiweb(5)

Logiweb                                                                                            JULY 2009                                                                                           LGWAM(1)
