lha(1)                                                             General Commands Manual                                                             lha(1)

NAME
       lha - compression tool for .lzh archive files.

SYNOPSIS
       lha [-]{lvtxep[q{num}][finv]}[w=<dir>] archive_file [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       lha is a tool for extracting .lzh archive files. It also supports variants of the .lzh archive, such as .lzs and .pma.

       This version of the lha tool is part of Lhasa, a free implementation of the .lzh format.

COMMAND SYNTAX
       The  lha tool has an unusual command syntax, compared to most other Unix commands. The first parameter to the program specifies the command to perform
       and all additional options. The second parameter specifies the path to the archive file to operate on. Following this is a list of  wildcard  patterns
       to match against the filenames of the archived files.

       The first character of the command parameter specifies the command to perform, which is one of the following:

       -l     List contents of the specified archive.

       -v     Verbosely list contents of the specified archive.

       -t     Test the integrity of the specified archive: decompress its contents and check the CRC.

       -e or -x
              Extract archive. Files are extracted to the current working directory unless the 'w' option is specified.

       -p     Extract  archive,  sending decompressed files to stdout rather than writing them to the filesystem as actual files. This is useful when used as
              part of a shell pipeline.

OPTIONS
       The remainder of the command parameter is used to specify additional options:

       q[012] Quiet mode. Higher numbers suppress more output. Level 0 is normal operation. If no number is specified, full suppression (level  2)  is  used.
              The quiet option also turns on the force overwrite option ('f').

       f      Force overwrite of existing files: do not prompt.

       i      Ignore paths of archived files: extract all archived files to the same directory, ignoring subdirectories.

       n      Do  not perform any actual operations: instead, perform a dry run of the requested operation and describe what would have been done on standard
              output.

       v      Verbose mode: causes extra information to be written to standard output.

       w=dir  Specify destination directory for extracting files. This must be the last option of the first parameter.

LIST OUTPUT FORMAT
       Lhasa inherits its list output format from the original Unix port of lha, and retains the same format for compatibility, since some  tools  parse  the
       output.  Four different output formats are supported, depending on the command line arguments:

       lha -l filename.lzh
              Shows: Unix permissions / OS type, UID/GID, uncompressed size, compression ratio, modification time, filename.

       lha -lv filename.lzh
              Two  line  output. First line shows the filename, second line shows: Unix permissions / OS type, UID/GID, uncompressed size, compression ratio,
              modification time, filename, header level.

       lha -v filename.lzh
              Shows: Unix permissions / OS type, UID/GID, compressed size, uncompressed size, compression ratio, compression format,  checksum,  modification
              time, filename.

       lha -vv filename.lzh
              Two  line  output.  First  line shows the filename, second line shows: Unix permissions / OS type, UID/GID, compressed size, uncompressed size,
              compression ratio, compression format, checksum, long form modification time, header level.

       The following are detailed descriptions of each of these fields:

       Unix permissions / OS type (PERMSSN)
              For files compressed on a Unix system, this lists the permissions in the same format that ls(1) uses when it is invoked with the -l option.  If
              the  file  was not created on a Unix system, the OS type is instead displayed in square brackets. Examples are "[MS-DOS]" and "[MacOS]"; the OS
              name never contains a space. If the file was created on Microware OS-9, the permissions for that system will also be shown.

       Unix user ID / group IDs (UID/GID)
              For files compressed on a Unix system, this lists the user and group IDs of the file, similar to the output seen from ls(1) when it is  invoked
              with the -ln option. If the file was not created on a Unix system, "*****/*****" is shown; see LIST FORMAT DIFFERENCES below.

       Compressed size (PACKED)
              Size  of  the file in bytes as it is stored inside the archive (not including the header, which contains metadata about the file). If an uncom‐
              pressed format like -lh0- is used, this will be equal to SIZE.

       Uncompressed size (SIZE)
              Size of the file in bytes before it was compressed.

       File compression ratio (RATIO)
              Compressed size as a percentage of uncompressed size. This measures the effectiveness of the compression format; the  smaller  the  percentage,
              the  better.  The  value  is (pessimistically) rounded up to the next 0.1%. If an uncompressed format like -lh0- is used, this will be equal to
              100%. For directories, "******" is shown. Note that the value here is backwards relative to unzip(1), which instead shows the percentage of the
              original file size reduced.

       Compression format (METHOD)
              The compression format used to store this file. See the COMPRESSION FORMATS section below.

       Checksum (CRC)
              CRC16 checksum of the file's contents in hexadecimal format. Warning: while this is useful for casually checking file integrity, it is  only  a
              16-bit checksum and should not be considered reliable for protecting files larger than a few kilobytes.

       Modification time (STAMP)
              Date  and  time  that  the  file was last modified before it was stored in the archive. If the file doesn't have a timestamp stored, nothing is
              shown.  The output can be in one of two forms: if the date is within the past six months, the month, day and time are shown; an example is "Aug
              24 12:38". For older files, the month, day and year are shown; an example is "Aug 24 2020".

       Long form modification time (STAMP)
              This is only used when listing in the -vv format. The full date and timestamp are listed in numeric form, close to ISO 8601 format (though  not
              quite conformant with that standard). An example is "2020-08-24 12:38:25".

       Header level (LV)
              Lha header format used to store this file. Supported formats are 0-3.

LIST FORMAT DIFFERENCES
       The  list  mode  output  from  the  original  Unix lha tool was not designed to be machine-readable. Since some tools do try to parse the list output,
       Lhasa's list output has been deliberately tweaked slightly to make the output more consistent and easier to parse.

       Here are the main differences:

       •      If a file was not created on a Unix system, a spacer word is shown in the UID/GID column. The original lha just showed whitespace.

       •      The OS type for archives generated by MacLHA is listed as "MacOS" (no space).  The original lha showed "Mac OS".

       Note that in general, the approach of parsing text output is inherently fragile and prone to bugs. It's recommended that you instead  use  the  proper
       API (liblhasa).

COMPRESSION FORMATS
       The  following  gives  some basic description of the various different supported compression formats (as listed when using the list command documented
       above).  All formats are variants on the LZSS compression algorithm.

       -lz4-  Uncompressed (stored) data, as used by the original LArc tool. This is not related to the LZ4 compression algorithm of the same name.

       -lz5-, -lzs-
              Compression formats introduced with the original LArc tool.  -lzs- uses a 2KiB sliding window while -lz5- uses a 4KiB window.

       -lhd-  Directory entry. No data is stored, only headers.

       -lh0-  Uncompressed (stored) data, as used in LHarc and LHa.

       -lh1-  Compression algorithm introduced with LHarc. This uses a 4KiB sliding window with dynamic Huffman encoding.

       -lh4-, -lh5-, -lh6-, -lh7-
              New algorithm introduced with LHa (aka LHarc v2.0). The original versions (-lh4- and -lh5-) used 8KiB and 16KiB sliding window  sizes,  respec‐
              tively.  Later versions introduced new variants with larger window sizes: -lh6- (64KiB) and -lh7- (128KiB).

       -lhx-  Variant on the -lh4- format listed above introduced by UNLHA32.dll that extends the window size to 1MiB.

       -lk7-  Variant on the -lh4- format listed above that was introduced by the LHark tool (a fork of LHa). This is actually named -lh7- within the archive
              files, but Lhasa renames it internally to avoid clashing with the other algorithm of the same name. Uses a 128KiB sliding window, with some mi‐
              nor improvement to the algorithm.

       -pm0-  Uncompressed (stored) data, as used by the PMarc tool.

       -pm1-  Algorithm used by version 1 of the PMarc tool.

       -pm2-  Algorithm used by version 2 of the PMarc tool.

UNSUPPORTED FORMATS
       The following formats are not currently supported by Lhasa (but possibly will be in the future):

       -lh2-, -lh3-
              These  formats  can  be decompressed by LHa v2.0 but the tool could not actually generate archives with these formats; they appear to have only
              been supported in beta versions before the v2.0 release. As a result, few if any examples exist in the wild.

       -lh8-, -lh9-, -lha-, -lhb-, -lhc-, -lhe-
              Extensions of the -lh4- format to even larger window sizes.

       -ll0-, -ll1-
              Generated by ThunderSoft's PAKLEO utility (.pll).

       -sw0-, -sw1-
              Used in SourceWare Archival Group's .swg (SWAG packet) format.

       -lz6-, -LD6-
              Generated by LDarc and LDIFF (.lzd).

       -hf0-, -ah0-, -ari-, -arn-, -arw-
              Generated by the Micrognosis Compression Archiver utility.

       -pc1-  Format generated by the PopCom! compression utility for CP/M.

       If you encounter examples of these in the wild, please get in touch.

EXAMPLES
       Here are some examples for how to invoke the program:

       lha -v foobar.lzs
              List the contents of the file foobar.lzs (producing verbose output).

       lha -xf foobar.exe
              Extract the contents of a self-extracting archive file named foobar.exe to the current directory, overwriting  existing  files  with  the  same
              names if they exist.

       lha -xqw=/tmp foobar.lzh
              Extract  the  contents  of  foobar.lzh to /tmp, overwriting any existing files found there, and suppressing normal output (similar to how other
              Unix tools such as cp(1) or tar(1) act silently by default).

WWW
       https://lhasa.soulsphere.org/

BUG REPORTS
       Bugs can be reported to the GitHub issue tracker: https://github.com/fragglet/lhasa

SEE ALSO
       unzip(1), tar(1), gzip(1), bzip2(1), xz(1), lzip(1)

HISTORY
       The .lzh format originated with Kazuhiko Miki's MS-DOS archive tool, LArc, using the LZSS algorithm developed by Haruhiko Okumura, and the .lzs  file‐
       name  extension.  The container format was reused for LHarc, by Haruyasu Yoshizaki (Yoshi), which used a new algorithm named LZHUF and the .lzh exten‐
       sion. In later versions, LHarc was renamed to LHA and extended with more effective compression algorithms.

       Versions of the LHA tool were later ported to various different operating systems, including the Amiga, Atari, MacOS,  OS/2  and  Unix.   A  tool  for
       MSX-DOS named PMarc reused the container format with a new compression algorithm (.pma extension).

       The  Unix  version  of the tool was developed by Masaru Oki, Nobutaka Watazaki and Tsugio Okamoto, but was released under a software license that does
       not conform to the Free Software or Open Source Definitions. Lhasa was developed as a drop-in replacement that is Free Software and Open Source.

       The name "LHA" and the .lzh filename extension are a reference to the compression algorithm: a combination of  Lempel–Ziv–Storer–Szymanski  dictionary
       coding  and  Huffman  encoding.  Similar schemes are used in other compression algorithms such as Deflate (used in gzip/zlib, PNG image files, and the
       .zip format).

BUGS
       The current version does not allow the creation of new archive files.

       Some obscure compression algorithms are not currently supported (see the UNSUPPORTED FORMATS section above).

       The tool does not currently do text format conversion for non-ASCII filenames when listing the contents of archives. Non-ASCII characters are replaced
       by a question mark.

AUTHOR
       Lhasa was written and is maintained by Simon Howard.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2011-2025 Simon Howard.

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above  copy‐
       right notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

       THE  SOFTWARE  IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS"  AND  THE  AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MER‐
       CHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
       RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF  OR  IN  CONNECTION
       WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

                                                                                                                                                       lha(1)
