App::Packager(3pm)                                                                  User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                  App::Packager(3pm)

NAME
     App::Packager - Abstraction for Packagers

SYNOPSIS
     App::Packager provides an abstract interface to a number of common packagers, trying to catch as much common behaviour as possible.

     The main purpose is to have uniform access to application specific resources.

     Supported packagers are PAR::Packer, Cava::Packager and unpackaged. In the latter case, resources are looked up in @PATH, and the name of the application package must be passed to the first "use" of
     App::Packager.

     For example:

         use App::Packager qw(:name My::App);
         print "My packager is: ", App::Packager::Packager(), "\n";
         print getresource("README.txt");

EXPORT
     By default, function "getresource" is exported. It can be exported under a different name by providing an alternative name as follows:

         use App::Packager( ':rsc' => '...alternative name...' );

FUNCTIONS
   App::Packager::Packager
     Returns the name of the actual packager, or "App Packager" if unpackaged.

   App::Packager::Version
     Returns the version of the packager.

   App::Packager::IsPackaged
     Returns true if the application was packaged.

     Note that it is usually easier, and safer, to use $App::Packager::PACKAGED for testing since that will work even if App::Packager is not available.

App::Packager::GetResourcePath
     Returns the path name of the application resources directory.

App::Packager::GetResource($rsc)
     Returns the file name of the application resource.

App::Packager::GetUserFile($rsc)
     Returns the file name of the user specific resource.

AUTHOR
     Johan Vromans, "<JV at CPAN dot org>"

SUPPORT
     Development of this module takes place on GitHub: <https://github.com/sciurius/perl-App-Packager>.

     You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

         perldoc App::Packager

     Please report any bugs or feature requests using the issue tracker on GitHub.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
     This module was inspired by Mark Dootson's Cava packager.

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
     Copyright 2017,2018 Johan Vromans, all rights reserved.

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

POD ERRORS
     Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained below:

     Around line 253:
         =back without =over

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2026-03-03                                                                              App::Packager(3pm)
