DBILogger(3pm)                                                                      User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                      DBILogger(3pm)

NAME
       Apache::DBILogger - Tracks what's being transferred in a DBI database

SYNOPSIS
         # Place this in your Apache's httpd.conf file
         PerlLogHandler Apache::DBILogger

         PerlSetVar DBILogger_data_source    DBI:mysql:httpdlog
         PerlSetVar DBILogger_username       httpduser
         PerlSetVar DBILogger_password       secret
         PerlSetvar DBILogger_table          requests

       Create a database with a table named requests like this:

       CREATE TABLE requests (
         server varchar(127) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         bytes mediumint(9) DEFAULT '0' NOT NULL,
         user varchar(15) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         filename varchar(200) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         remotehost varchar(150) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         remoteip varchar(15) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         status smallint(6) DEFAULT '0' NOT NULL,
         timeserved datetime DEFAULT '0000-00-00 00:00:00' NOT NULL,
         contenttype varchar(50) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         urlpath varchar(200) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         referer varchar(250) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         useragent varchar(250) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         usertrack varchar(100) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
         KEY server_idx (server),
         KEY timeserved_idx (timeserved) );

       Please note that for some databases (notably, PostgreSQL) you will need to double-quote the user column name (that is, to specify it as ""user" varchar(15)") in order for the database not to
       mistake it with a keyword.

       Its recommended that you include

       use Apache::DBI; use DBI; use Apache::DBILogger;

       in your startup.pl script. Please read the Apache::DBI documentation for further information.

DESCRIPTION
       This module tracks what's being transferred by the Apache web server in a SQL database (everything with a DBI/DBD driver). This allows one to get statistics (of almost everything) without having
       to parse the log files (like the Apache::Traffic module, just in a "real" database, and with a lot more logged information).

       Apache::DBILogger will track the cookie from 'mod_usertrack' if it's there.

       After installation, follow the instructions in the synopsis and restart the server.

       The statistics are then available in the database. See the section VIEWING STATISTICS for more details.

PREREQUISITES
       You need to have compiled mod_perl with the LogHandler hook in order to use this module. Additionally, the following modules are required:

               o DBI
               o Date::Format

INSTALLATION
       To install this module, move into the directory where this file is located and type the following:

               perl Makefile.PL
               make
               make test
               make install

       This will install the module into the Perl library directory.

       Once installed, you will need to modify your web server's configuration file so it knows to use Apache::DBILogger during the logging phase.

VIEWING STATISTICS
       Please see the bin/ directory in the distribution for a statistics script.

       Some funny examples on what you can do might include:

       hit count and total bytes transferred from the virtual server www.company.com
               select count(id),sum(bytes) from requests
               where server="www.company.com"

       hit count and total bytes from all servers, ordered by number of hits
               select server,count(id) as hits,sum(bytes) from requests
               group by server order by hits desc

       count of hits from macintosh users
               select count(id) from requests where useragent like "%Mac%"

       hits and total bytes in the last 30 days select count(id),sum(bytes) from requests where server="www.company.com" and TO_DAYS(NOW()) - TO_DAYS(timeserved) <= 30
           This is pretty unoptimal.  It would be faster to calculate the dates in perl and write them in the sql query using f.x. Date::Format.

       hits and total bytes from www.company.com on mondays.
               select count(id),sum(bytes) from requests where
               server="www.company.com" and dayofweek(timeserved) = 2

       It's often pretty interesting to view the referer info too.

       See your sql server documentation of more examples. I'm a happy mySQL user, so I would continue on

       http://www.tcx.se/Manual_chapter/manual_toc.html

LOCKING ISSUES
       MySQL  'read locks' the table when you do a select. On a big table (like a large httpdlog) this might take a while, where your httpds can't insert new logentries, which will make them 'hang' until
       the select is done.

       One way to work around this is to create another table (f.x. requests_insert) and get the httpd's to insert to this table.

       Then run a script from crontab once in a while which does something like this:

         LOCK TABLES requests WRITE, requests_insert WRITE
         insert into requests select * from requests_insert
         delete from requests_insert
         UNLOCK TABLES

       You can use the moverows.pl script from the bin/ directory.

       Please note that this won't work if you have any unique id field!  You'll get duplicates and your new rows won't be inserted, just deleted. Be careful.

TRAPS
       I've experienced problems with 'Packets too large' when using Apache::DBI, mysql and DBD::mysql 2.00 (from the Msql-mysql 1.18x packages).  The DBD::mysql module from Msql-mysql 1.19_17  seems  to
       work fine with Apache::DBI.

       You might get problems with Apache 1.2.x. (Not supporting post_connection?)

MOD_PERL 2 SUPPORT
       The  official  version  of  this module, as Ask Bjoern Hansen last modified it, lacks support for the API changes introduced with Apache 2.x and the corresponding mod_perl 2.x - Of course, this is
       quite understandable as this module was last updated in 1998 ;-) But anyway, the module does its job still quite fine, and users still require its functionality.

       For any help requests regarding this module on Apache 2 systems, contact Gunnar Wolf <gwolf@debian.org> directly. If your system is based on Debian  GNU/Linux,  you  can  use  the  regular  Debian
       bugtracking facilities, as the multi-API patch was introduced specifically for Debian.

SUPPORT
       This module is supported via the mod_perl mailinglist (modperl@apache.org, subscribe by sending a mail to modperl-request@apache.org).

       I would like to know which databases this module have been tested on, so please mail me if you try it.

       The latest version can be found on your local CPAN mirror or at "ftp://ftp.netcetera.dk/pub/perl/"

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1998, Ask Bjoern Hansen <ask@netcetera.dk>. All rights reserved. This module is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       perl(1), mod_perl(3)

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2022-12-06                                                                                  DBILogger(3pm)
