Alzabo::Schema(3pm)                                                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                 Alzabo::Schema(3pm)

NAME
       Alzabo::Schema - Schema objects

SYNOPSIS
         use base qw(Alzabo::Schema);

DESCRIPTION
       This is the base class for schema objects..

METHODS
   name
       Returns a string containing the name of the schema.

   table ($name)
       Returns an "Alzabo::Table" object representing the specified table.

       An "Alzabo::Exception::Params" exception is throws if the schema does not contain the table.

   tables (@optional_list)
       If no arguments are given, this method returns a list of all "Alzabo::Table" objects in the schema, or in a scalar context the number of such tables.  If one or more arguments are given, returns a
       list of table objects with those names, in the same order given (or the number of such tables in a scalar context, but this isn't terribly useful).

       An "Alzabo::Exception::Params" exception is throws if the schema does not contain one or more of the specified tables.

   has_table ($name)
       Returns a boolean value indicating whether the table exists in the schema.

   begin_work
       Starts a transaction.  Calls to this function may be nested and it will be handled properly.

   rollback
       Rollback a transaction.

   commit
       Finishes a transaction with a commit.  If you make multiple calls to "begin_work()", make sure to call this method the same number of times.

   run_in_transaction ( sub { code... } )
       This method takes a subroutine reference and wraps it in a transaction.

       It will preserve the context of the caller and returns whatever the wrapped code would have returned.

   driver
       Returns the "Alzabo::Driver" object for the schema.

   rules
       Returns the "Alzabo::RDBMSRules" object for the schema.

   sqlmaker
       Returns the "Alzabo::SQLMaker" object for the schema.

AUTHOR
       Dave Rolsky, <autarch@urth.org>

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-06-14                                                                             Alzabo::Schema(3pm)
