Bio::Procedural(3pm)                                                                User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                Bio::Procedural(3pm)

NAME
       Bio::Procedural - Simple low-dependency procedural interfaces to BioPerl

VERSION
       version 1.7.4

SYNOPSIS
       See Bio::Perl for examples.

DESCRIPTION
       The code in this distribution focuses on simple low-dependency procedural interfaces to BioPerl that don't require knowledge of BioPerl classes and methods.

FEEDBACK
   Mailing lists
       User feedback is an integral part of the evolution of this and other Bioperl modules. Send your comments and suggestions preferably to the Bioperl mailing list.  Your participation is much
       appreciated.

         bioperl-l@bioperl.org               - General discussion
         https://bioperl.org/Support.html    - About the mailing lists

   Support
       Please direct usage questions or support issues to the mailing list: bioperl-l@bioperl.org rather than to the module maintainer directly. Many experienced and reponsive experts will be able look
       at the problem and quickly address it. Please include a thorough description of the problem with code and data examples if at all possible.

   Reporting bugs
       Report bugs to the Bioperl bug tracking system to help us keep track of the bugs and their resolution. Bug reports can be submitted via the web:

         https://github.com/bioperl/bio-procedural/issues

AUTHOR
       See the individual modules for their authors.

COPYRIGHT
       This software is copyright (c) by many people (see the individual modules for their copyright holders).

       This software is available under the same terms as the perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-04-09                                                                            Bio::Procedural(3pm)
