Catalyst::Manual::DevelopmentProcess(3pm)                    User Contributed Perl Documentation                    Catalyst::Manual::DevelopmentProcess(3pm)

NAME
       Catalyst::Manual::DevelopmentProcess - Administrative structure of the Catalyst Development Process

Contributing to Catalyst
       The main philosophy behind Catalyst development can be summarized as:

           Patches welcome!

       Everyone is welcome (and will be encouraged) to contribute to Catalyst in whatever capacity they're able to. People in #catalyst-dev will be more than
       happy to talk newcomers through contributing their first patch, or how best to go about their first CPAN extension module....

Catalyst development
   Discussing proposed bugfixes or improvements
       <http://wiki.catalystframework.org/wiki/#Community> has information about how to get in touch with the Catalyst "community".  In particular, you would
       want to discuss a proposed change on the mailing list:

           http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/catalyst-dev

       or on IRC:

           irc://irc.perl.org/catalyst-dev
           http://wiki.catalystframework.org/wiki/livegroups

       Usually, the core team will be more than happy for you to contribute, and will talk you through how to submit a patch, or get a "commit bit".

   Repositories
       The Catalyst git repository can be found at:

           read: git://git.shadowcat.co.uk/catagits/PROJECTNAME
           write: catagits@git.shadowcat.co.uk:PROJECTNAME
           browser: https://git.shadowcat.co.uk/gitweb/gitweb.cgi

   Schedule
       There is no dated release cycle for Catalyst. New releases will be made when sufficient small fixes have accumulated; or an important bugfix, or
       significant feature addition, is completed.

The Catalyst Core Team
       The intention of the Catalyst Core Team is to maintain and support the Catalyst framework, in order for it to be a viable and stable framework for
       developing web-based MVC applications. This includes both technical decisions about the Catalyst core distribution, and public relations relating to
       the Catalyst framework as a whole.

       The current goals of the Catalyst core development team are stability, performance, and a properly paced addition of features, with a focus on
       extensibility.

       The core team is concerned with the 'core' Catalyst distributions (i.e. Catalyst::Runtime, Catalyst::Devel and Catalyst::Manual), and also tries to
       encourage best practices for extension authors, and cooperation and shared vision within the Catalyst community.

   Membership
       The Catalyst Core Team consists of the developers who have full commit privileges to the entire Catalyst source tree, and who have made a significant
       contribution to the core Catalyst distributions, and various extensions and plugins.

       In addition, the core team includes members that have non-technical roles, such as marketing, legal, or economic responsibilities.

       Currently, the Core Team consists of the following people:

       Brian Cassidy
       Andy Grundman
       Christian Hansen
       Yuval Kogman
       Marcus Ramberg
       Jonathan Rockway
       Jesse Sheidlower
       Matt S. Trout
       Florian Ragwitz
       Tomas Doran

       New members of the Core Team must be accepted by a 2/3 majority by the current members.

   Technical Decisions.
       Any change to the Catalyst core which can not be conceived as a correction of an error in the current feature set will need to be accepted by at least
       3 members of the Core Team before it can be committed to master (which is the basis for CPAN releases). Anyone with access is at any time free to make
       a branch to develop a proof of concept for a feature to be committed to master.

   Organizational and Philosophical Decisions.
       Any  organizational  or  philosophical  decision  should be decided by majority vote. Thus it should be a goal of the organization that its membership
       number should at any time be an odd number, to render it effective with regards to decision making. The exceptions to this rule are  changes  to  this
       charter and additions to the membership of the Core Team, which require a 2/3 majority.

   CPAN Releases
       Planned releases to CPAN should be performed by the release manager, at the time of writing Marcus Ramberg, or the deputy release manager, at the time
       of writing Florian Ragwitz. In the case of critical error correction, any member of the Core Team can perform a rescue release.

   Public statements from the Core Team
       The  Core  Team should strive to appear publicly as a group when answering questions or other correspondence. In cases where this is not possible, the
       same order as for CPAN releases applies.

   New Catalyst Extensions
       As Catalyst is deliberately designed for extension, there is an ecosystem of several hundred Catalyst extensions that can be found on CPAN.

       See Catalyst::Manual::ExtendingCatalyst for more information on how to extend Catalyst in various ways  and  how  to  write  CPANable  components  for
       Catalyst which can be reused in many applications.

       It is recommended to post a request for comments to the Catalyst mailing list, or ask around in the #catalyst IRC channel before starting to implement
       something,  as  another  member of the community is likely to have example or prototype code that you can reuse, and members of the community and core
       team are happy to advise on the best way to implement a generic solution to a particular problem.

       This could save you duplicate work, and will help you produce a better thought out and designed extension.

AUTHORS
       Catalyst Contributors, see Catalyst.pm

COPYRIGHT
       This library is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.38.2                                                              2024-03-30                                Catalyst::Manual::DevelopmentProcess(3pm)
