CPANDB(1p)                                                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                          CPANDB(1p)

NAME
       cpandb - interface to "CPAN::SQLite"

VERSION
       version 0.220

DESCRIPTION
       This script is an interface to the routines of CPAN::SQLite for setting up, maintaining and searching a "DBD::SQLite" database of CPAN. Available options can be grouped into three categories.

   Common options
       These are options which are common to both setting up and maintaining the database or performing queries on it.  These are

       •  "--CPAN  '/path/to/CPAN'"

          This  specifies  the  path  to  where  the index files are to be stored. This could be a local CPAN mirror, defined here by the presence of a MIRRORED.BY file beneath this directory, or a local
          directory in which to store these files from a remote CPAN mirror. In the latter case, the index files are fetched from a remote CPAN mirror, using the same list that "CPAN.pm" uses, if this is
          configured, and are updated if they are more than one day old.

          If the "CPAN" option is not given, it will default to "cpan_home" of CPAN::, if this is configured, with the sources being found under "keep_source_where".  A fatal  error  results  if  such  a
          directory isn't found.  Updates to these index files are assumed here to be handled by "CPAN.pm".

       •  "--db_name  'cpan-sqlite'"

          This is the name of the database that "DBD::SQLite" will use. If not given, this defaults to "cpandb-sqlite".

       •  "--db_dir  '/path/to/db/dir'"

          This  specifies  the  path  to  where  the  database  file is found. If not given, it defaults to the "cpan_home" directory of "CPAN.pm", if present, or to the directory in which the script was
          invoked.

   Indexing options
       These are options which are used for setting up and maintaining the database. These include

       •  "--setup"

          This specifies that the database is to be created and populated from the CPAN indices; any existing database will be overwritten.

       •  "--update"

          This is used to update an existing database, which must have first been created with the "setup" option.

       •  "--reindex 'dist_name'"

          This specifies that the CPAN distribution "dist_name" is to be reindexed.

   Querying options
       These options are used to query the database. Available options are

       •  "--module Mod::Name"

          This provides information on the specified module name.

       •  "--dist Dist-Name"

          This provides information on the specified distribution name.

       •  "--cpanid CPANID"

          This provides information on the specified CPAN author id

       All search terms are assumed to be exact matches in a case-insensitive manner.

       There's no limit on maximum number of records. If you need to adjust the number because you get too many results, set the CPAN_SQLITE_MAX_RESULTS environment variable.

SEE ALSO
       CPAN::SQLite.

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2022-10-30                                                                                      CPANDB(1p)
