Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace(3pm)                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                   Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace(3pm)

NAME
       Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace - Display a stack trace on the debug screen

SYNOPSIS
           use Catalyst qw/-Debug StackTrace/;

DESCRIPTION
       This plugin will enhance the standard Catalyst debug screen by including a stack trace of your appliation up to the point where the error occurred.  Each stack frame is displayed along with the
       package name, line number, file name, and code context surrounding the line number.

       This plugin is only active in -Debug mode by default, but can be enabled by setting the "enable" config option.

CONFIGURATION
       Configuration is optional and is specified in MyApp->config->{stacktrace}.

   enable
       Allows you forcibly enable or disalbe this plugin, ignoring the current debug setting. If this option is defined, its value will be used.

   context
       The number of context lines of code to display on either side of the stack frame line.  Defaults to 3.

   reverse
       By default, the stack frames are shown in from "top" to "bottom" (newest to oldest). Enabling this option reverses the stack frames so they will be displayed "bottom" to "top", or from the callers
       perspective.

   verbose
       This option sets the amount of stack frames you want to see in the stack trace.  It defaults to 0, meaning only frames from your application's namespace are shown.  You can use levels 1 and 2 for
       deeper debugging.

       If set to 1, the stack trace will include frames from packages outside of your application's namespace, but not from most of the Catalyst internals.  Packages ignored at this level include:

           Catalyst
           Catalyst::Action
           Catalyst::Base
           Catalyst::Dispatcher
           Catalyst::Engine::*
           Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace
           Catalyst::Plugin::Static::Simple
           NEXT
           main

       If set to 2, the stack trace will include frames from everything except this module.

INTERNAL METHODS
       The following methods are extended by this plugin.

       execute
           In execute, we create a local die handler to generate the stack trace.

       finalize_error
           In finalize_error, we inject the stack trace HTML into the debug screen below the error message.

       setup

SEE ALSO
       Catalyst

AUTHORS
       Andy Grundman, <andy@hybridized.org>

       Matt S. Trout, <mst@shadowcatsystems.co.uk>

THANKS
       The authors of CGI::Application::Plugin::DebugScreen, from which a lot of code was used.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2005 - 2009 the Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace "AUTHORS" as listed above.

LICENSE
       This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-10-14                                                               Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace(3pm)
