CCCONFIG(1p)                                                                        User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                        CCCONFIG(1p)

NAME
       ccconfig - Get Convert::Binary::C configuration for a compiler

SYNOPSIS
       ccconfig options [-- compiler-options]

       options:

         -c
         --cc             compiler   compiler executable to test
                                     default: auto-determined

         -o
         --output-file    file       output filename
                                     default: output to stdout

         -f
         --output-format  format     output format
                                     default: dumper

         --basename       name       basename of the temporary test files
                                     default: _t_e_s_t

         -I
         --inc-path       path       manually set compiler include path

         --preprocess     rule       compiler rule for preprocessing
         --compile-obj    rule       compiler rule for compiling objects
         --compile-exe    rule       compiler rule for compiling executables

         --c-ext          ext        extension of C source files
         --pp-ext         ext        extension of preprocessor output files
         --obj-ext        ext        extension of object files
         --exe-ext        ext        extension of executable files

         --nodelete                  don't delete temporary files
         --norun                     don't try to run executables
         --quiet                     don't display anything
         --nostatus                  don't display status indicator

         --version                   print version number

         --debug                     debug mode

       Placeholders allowed in compiler rules:

         %c    C source file
         %o    object file
         %e    executable file
         %i    preprocessor output file
         |     result is written to stdout (only at end of rule)

DESCRIPTION
       "ccconfig" will try to determine a usable configuration for Convert::Binary::C from testing a compiler executable. It is not necessary that the binaries generated by the compiler can be executed,
       so "ccconfig" can also be used for cross-compilers.

       This tool is still experimental, and you should neither rely on its output without checking, nor expect it to work in your environment.

OPTIONS
   "--cc" compiler
       This option allows you to explicitly specify a compiler executable. This is especially useful if you don't want to use your system compiler. If this options is not given, "ccconfig" tries to guess
       a compiler.

   "--output-file" file
       Write Convert::Binary::C configuration to the specified file. The default is to write the configuration to "stdout".

   "--output-format" format
       Specify the output format of the Convert::Binary::C configuration.  The following formats are currently supported:

         dumper      Output a %config hash using Data::Dumper
         require     Output in a format suitable for require

       The default is "dumper".

   "--basename" name
       Allows you to change the base name of the temporary test files.  This is used along with the various "-ext" options to build the filenames of C source files, preprocessor output files, object
       files and executables.

   "--inc-path" path
       This option allows you to manually set the include path of the compiler. This is useful if "ccconfig" cannot determine the include path automatically, most probably because it cannot parse the
       preprocessor output. This option can be specified more than once.

   "--preprocess" rule
       Using this option, you can specify a rule that "ccconfig" uses to run the compiler to get preprocessor output. Most compilers write the preprocessor output to standard output when given the "-E"
       option, i.e.

         cc -E foo.c

       will preprocess foo.c to standard output. The corresponding rule for "ccconfig" would be:

         ccconfig --preprocess='-E %c |'

       The <%c> will be replaced with the C source filename, and the pipe symbol signals that the result will be written to standard output.

       The following placeholders can be used in "ccconfig" rules:

         %c    C source file
         %o    object file
         %e    executable file
         %i    preprocessor output file

       Usually, "ccconfig" tries to figure out the correct rules on its own.

   "--compile-obj" rule
       Like "--preprocess", this option allows you to define a rule for how to compile an object file. For most compilers, this rule will be something like

         ccconfig --compile-obj='-c -o %o %c'

   "--compile-exe" rule
       Like "--preprocess", this option allows you to define a rule for how to compile an executable file. For most compilers, this rule will be something like

         ccconfig --compile-exe='-o %e %c'

       Note that it is sufficient to specify either "--compile-obj" or "--compile-exe". So if your compiler can only create object files, that's just fine.

   "--c-ext"
       This option is used along with "--basename" to build the name of a C source file. This is usually set to ".c".

   "--pp-ext"
       This option is used along with "--basename" to build the name of a preprocessor output file.

   "--obj-ext"
       This option is used along with "--basename" to build the name of an object file.

   "--exe-ext"
       This option is used along with "--basename" to build the name of an executable file.

   "--nodelete"
       Don't attempt to delete temporary files that have been created by the compiler. Normally, "ccconfig" will look for all files with the same basename as the temporary test file and delete them.

   "--norun"
       You can specify this option if the executables generated by your compiler cannot be run on your machine, i.e. if you have a cross-compiler. However, "ccconfig" will automatically find out that it
       cannot run the executables.

       When this option is set, a different set of algorithms is used to determine a couple of configuration settings. These algorithms are all based upon placing a special signature in the object file.
       They are less reliable that the standard algorithms, so you shouldn't use them unless you have to.

   "--quiet"
       Don't display anything except for the final configuration.

   "--nostatus"
       Hide the status indicator. Recommended if you want to redirect the script output to a file:

         ccconfig --nostatus >config.pl 2>ccconfig.log

   "--version"
       Writes the program name, version and path to standard output.

   "--debug"
       Generate tons of debug output. Don't use unless you know what you're doing.

EXAMPLES
       Normally, a simple

         ccconfig

       without arguments is enough if you want the configuration for your system compiler. While "ccconfig" is running, it will write lots of status information to "stderr". When it's done, it will
       usually dump a Perl hash table to "stdout" which can be directly used as a configuration for Convert::Binary::C.

       If you want the configuration for a different compiler, or "ccconfig" cannot determine your system compiler automatically, use

         ccconfig -c gcc32

       if your compiler's name is "gcc32".

       If you want to pass additional options to the compiler, you can do so after a double-dash on the command line:

         ccconfig -- -g -DDEBUGGING

       or

         ccconfig -c gcc32 -- -ansi -fshort-enums

       If you'd like to interface with the Perl core, you may find a suitable configuration using something like:

         ccconfig --cc=`perl -MConfig -e 'print $Config{cc}'` \
                  -- `perl -MConfig -e 'print $Config{ccflags}'`

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2002-2024 Marcus Holland-Moritz. All rights reserved.  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       See Convert::Binary::C.

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-09-07                                                                                    CCCONFIG(1p)
