Config::MVP::Reader::Finder(3pm)                                                    User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                    Config::MVP::Reader::Finder(3pm)

NAME
       Config::MVP::Reader::Finder - a reader that finds an appropriate file

VERSION
       version 2.200013

DESCRIPTION
       The Finder reader multiplexes many other readers that implement the Config::MVP::Reader::Findable role.  It uses Module::Pluggable to search for modules, limits them to objects implementing the
       Findable role, and then selects the those which report that they are able to read a configuration file found in the config root directory.  If exactly one findable configuration reader finds a
       file, it is used to read the file and the configuration sequence is returned.  Otherwise, an exception is raised.

       Config::MVP::Reader::Finder's "build_assembler" method will decline a new assembler, so if none was passed to "read_config", the Findable reader to which reading is delegated will be responsible
       for building the assembler, unless a Finder subclass overrides "build_assembler" to set a default across all possible delegates.

PERL VERSION
       This module should work on any version of perl still receiving updates from the Perl 5 Porters.  This means it should work on any version of perl released in the last two to three years.  (That
       is, if the most recently released version is v5.40, then this module should work on both v5.40 and v5.38.)

       Although it may work on older versions of perl, no guarantee is made that the minimum required version will not be increased.  The version may be increased for any reason, and there is no promise
       that patches will be accepted to lower the minimum required perl.

METHODS
   default_search_path
       This is the default search path used to find configuration readers.  This method should return a list, and by default returns:

         qw( Config::MVP::Reader )

AUTHOR
       Ricardo Signes <cpan@semiotic.systems>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2022 by Ricardo Signes.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2023-01-08                                                                Config::MVP::Reader::Finder(3pm)
