CGI::Compress::Gzip::FileHandle(3pm)                                                User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                CGI::Compress::Gzip::FileHandle(3pm)

NAME
       CGI::Compress::Gzip::FileHandle - CGI::Compress::Gzip helper package

LICENSE
       Copyright 2006-2007 Clotho Advanced Media, Inc., <cpan@clotho.com>

       Copyright 2007-2008 Chris Dolan <cdolan@cpan.org>

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SYNOPSIS
          use CGI::Compress::Gzip;

          my $cgi = new CGI::Compress::Gzip;
          print $cgi->header();
          print "<html> ...";

DESCRIPTION
       This is intended for internal use only!  Use CGI::Compress::Gzip instead.

       This CGI::Compress::Gzip helper class subclasses IO::Zlib.  It is is needed to make sure that output is not compressed until the CGI header is emitted.  This filehandle delays the ignition of the
       zlib filter until it sees the exact same header generated by CGI::Compress::Gzip::header() pass through it's WRITE() method.  If you change the header before printing it, this class will throw an
       exception.

       This class holds one global variable representing the previous default filehandle used before the gzip filter is put in place.  This filehandle, usually STDOUT, is replaced after the gzip stream
       finishes (which is usually when the CGI object goes out of scope and is destroyed).

FUNCTIONS
       OPEN
           Overrides  IO::Zlib::OPEN.   This  method doesn't actually do anything -- it just stores it's arguments for a later call to SUPER::OPEN in WRITE().  The reason is that we may not have seen the
           header yet, so we don't yet know whether to compress output.

       WRITE buffer, length, offset
           Emit the uncompressed header followed by the compressed body.

       CLOSE
           Flush the compressed output.

AUTHOR
       Clotho Advanced Media, cpan@clotho.com

       Primary developer: Chris Dolan

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-06-09                                                            CGI::Compress::Gzip::FileHandle(3pm)
