
DIRECTFB-CSOURCE(1)                                                                      DirectFB Manual Pages                                                                     DIRECTFB-CSOURCE(1)

NAME
       directfb-csource - C code generation utility for DirectFB surfaces

SYNOPSIS
       directfb-csource [options] <imagefiles>

DESCRIPTION
       directfb-csource  is  a small utility that reads PNG (Portable Network Graphics) image files and generates C code that can be used to compile an image into a DirectFB application.  Below is a
       simple example to illustrate this.

       If multiple PNG image files are passed to directfb-csource, they are combined into a single surface. The different images can then be blitted from this surface using the array  of  rectangles
       that is also dumped. This can be useful for example for icons or sprites.

OPTIONS
       --name=identifier
              Specifies  the  identifier  name (prefix) for the generated variables.  If this option is not used, the identifier is generated from the filename. You have to specify an identifer name
              when processing multiple images.

       --format=pixelformat
              Specifies the pixel-format of the generated inline surface. Possible values are ARGB, RGB32, RGB24, RGB16, RGB15, RGB332, A8 and LUT8.  By default the format is ARGB if the  PNG  image
              has an alpha channel or RGB32 otherwise.

       --dither-rgb16
              If specified, images rendered to RGB16 surfaces are dithered. This reduces banding caused by the limited colorspace. This option has no effect for other pixel-formats than RGB16.

       --transparent=AARRGGBB
              If specified, completely transparent pixels are set to this color value.  This may be useful for color keying and to work around bugs in graphics driver.

       --version
              Output version information.

       --help Print brief help and exit.

EXAMPLE
       Generate a header file from a PNG image file:

            directfb-csource --name=foo foo.png > foo.h

       Include the generated header in your application and create a surface using the surface description from the header file:

         #include <directfb.h>
         #include "foo.h"

         IDirectFB        *dfb;
         IDirectFBSurface *surface;

         ...

         dfb->CreateSurface( dfb, &foo_desc, &surface );

OTHER INFO
       directfb-csource was inspired by and uses code from gdk-pixbuf-csource, a similar program written by Tim Janik.

       The canonical place to find informations about DirectFB is at http://www.directfb.org/.

Version 1.7.7                                                                                 14 May 2009                                                                          DIRECTFB-CSOURCE(1)
