Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuildTiny(3pm)                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation                                           Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuildTiny(3pm)

NAME
       Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuildTiny - Build a Build.PL that uses Module::Build::Tiny

VERSION
       version 0.020

DESCRIPTION
       This plugin will create a Build.PL for installing the dist using Module::Build::Tiny.

ATTRIBUTES
   version
       Optional: Specify the minimum version of Module::Build::Tiny to depend on.

       Defaults to the version determined by "version_method".

   version_method
       This attribute determines how the default minimum perl is detected. It has two possible values:

       •   installed

           This will give the version installed on the author's perl installation.

       •   conservative

           This will return a heuristically determined minimum version of MBT.

   minimum_perl
       Optional: Specify the minimum version of perl to require in the Build.PL.

       This is normally taken from dzil's prereq metadata.

   static
       This is an option to set the HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL "x_static_install" metadata field. DO NOT USE THIS OPTION if you are not involved in its testing with the Perl Toolchain Gang.

       It has three possible values:

       •   no

           No extra metadata is added. This is the default setting.

       •   yes

           Sets "x_static_install = 1" in metadata.

       •   auto

           Sets "x_static_install = 1" in metadata if the distribution appears to be compatible - presently only the existence of .PL and .xs files are checked.

   header
       A line of code which is included near the top of Build.PL.  Can be used more than once.

   footer
       A line of code which is included at the bottom of Build.PL.  Can be used more than once.

   delimiter
       A  string,  usually  a  single  character,  which  is stripped from the beginning of all "header", and "footer" lines. This is because the INI file format strips all leading whitespace from option
       values, so including this character at the front allows you to use leading whitespace in an option string.  This is helpful for the formatting of Build.PLs, but a nice thing to have when inserting
       any block of code.

AUTHOR
       Leon Timmermans <fawaka@gmail.com>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Leon Timmermans.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-05-17                                                       Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ModuleBuildTiny(3pm)
