Data::DPath::Context(3pm)                                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                           Data::DPath::Context(3pm)

NAME
       Data::DPath::Context - Abstraction for a current context that enables incremental searches

API METHODS
   new ( %args )
       Constructor; creates instance.

       Args:

       give_references
           Default 0. If set to true value then results are references to the matched points in the data structure.

   match( $dpath )
       Return array of all data that match the given DPath.

   matchr( $dpath )
       Return array ref of all data that match the given DPath.

   isearch( $path_str )
       Searches a path relative to current context and returns an iterator.  See Iterator style for usage.

   ref()
       It returns the reference to the actual data from the current context's first element. This mostly makes sense on contexts returned by iterators as there is only one point there.

       (Having  the reference theoretically allows you to even change the data on this point. It's not yet clear what impact this has to currently active iterators, which should still return the original
       data but that's not yet tested. So don't rely on that behaviour.)

   deref()
       This is one dereference step on top of ref(). It gives you the actual data found. Most of the time you want this.

   first_point
       On a current context consisting on a set of points it returns the first point. This makes most sense with Iterator style API when the current iterator contains exactly one point.

   all_points
       On a current context consisting on a set of points it returns all those. This method is a functional complement to first_point.

UTILITY SUBS/METHODS
   _all
       Returns all values covered by current context.

       If "give_references" is set to true value then results are references to the matched points in the data structure.

   _search( $dpath )
       Return new context for a DPath relative to current context.

   _filter_points
       Evaluates the filter condition in brackets. It differenciates between simple integers, which are taken as array index, and all other conditions, which are taken as evaled perl expression in a grep
       like expression onto the set of points found by current step.

   current_points
       Attribute / accessor.

   give_references
       Attribute / accessor.

aliased classes
       That's just to make Pod::Coverage happy which does not handle aliased modules.

   Context
   Point
   Step
AUTHOR
       Steffen Schwigon <ss5@renormalist.net>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2024 by Steffen Schwigon.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.38.2                                                                                     2024-10-05                                                                       Data::DPath::Context(3pm)
