DANCER2(1p)                                                                         User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                         DANCER2(1p)

NAME
       dancer2 - Dancer2 command line interface

VERSION
       version 1.1.2

SYNOPSIS
       dancer2 <command> [options...]

DESCRIPTION
       Dancer2 is the new generation lightweight web-framework for Perl.  This tool provides nice, easily-extendable CLI interface for it.

   Documentation Index
       Documentation on Dancer2 is split into several manpages. Below is a complete outline on where to go for help.

       •   Dancer2 Tutorial

           If you are new to the Dancer approach, you should start by reading our Dancer2::Tutorial.

       •   Dancer2 Manual

           Dancer2::Manual  is  the  reference  for Dancer2. Here you will find information on the concepts of Dancer2 application development and a comprehensive reference to the Dancer2 domain specific
           language.

       •   Dancer2 Keywords

           The keywords for Dancer2 can be found under DSL Keywords.

       •   Dancer2 Deployment

           For configuration examples of different deployment solutions involving Dancer2 and Plack, refer to Dancer2::Manual::Deployment.

       •   Dancer2 Cookbook

           Specific examples of code for real-life problems and some 'tricks' for applications in Dancer can be found in Dancer2::Cookbook

       •   Dancer2 Config

           For configuration file details refer to Dancer2::Config. It is a complete list of all configuration options.

       •   Dancer2 Plugins

           Refer to Dancer2::Plugins for a partial list of available Dancer2 plugins. Note that although we try to keep this list up to date we expect plugin authors to tell us about new modules.

       •   Dancer2 Migration guide

           Dancer2::Manual::Migration provides the most up-to-date instruction on how to convert a Dancer (1) based application to Dancer2.

NAME
       dancer2 - Dancer2 command line interface

COMMANDS
       •   gen

           Create a new Dancer2 application.

       •   version

           Display version of Dancer2 currently installed.

       To get detailed description of each individual command run:

           dancer2 <command> --help

       The latest list of available commands can be displayed by:

           dancer2

AUTHOR
       Dancer Core Developers

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Alexis Sukrieh.

       This  is  free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5  programming  language  system itself.

AUTHOR
       Dancer Core Developers

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2024 by Alexis Sukrieh.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.0                                                                                     2024-12-08                                                                                     DANCER2(1p)
