FirebirdEmbedded(3pm)                                                               User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                               FirebirdEmbedded(3pm)

NAME
       DBD::FirebirdEmbedded - embedded Firebird server (and client)

SYNOPSIS
         use DBI;

         $dbh = DBI->connect("dbi:FirebirdEmbedded:db=$dbname", undef, undef);

         # See the DBI module documentation for full details

DESCRIPTION
       DBD::FirebirdEmbedded is a variant of DBD::Firebird, linked with the Firebird embedded library, libfbembed. In addition to the ability to work with remote Firebird servers (which
       DBD::FirebirdEmbedded has, being linked with the Firebird client library, libfbclient), DBD::FirebirdEmbedded can be used to work with Firebird databases without the need of a dedicated Firebird
       server.

       The following things should be set up first:

       Username/password
           These should be unset. Both in the "DBI->connection(...)" call and in the environment ("ISC_USER", "ISC_PASSWORD", "DBI_USER", "DBI_PASSWORD" variables).

       Firebird lock directory
           The  "FIREBIRD_LOCK"  environment  variable  should be set to some place where the process can write. Note that if you plan for several processes to access the database file directly, they all
           should have "FIREBIRD_LOCK" set to the same directory, or else database corruption will occur.

       No "host" in the DSN
           Obviously, do not set any host when calling "DBI->connection(...)", not even "localhost".

       Permissions to read/write the database
           Obviously, the process needs to be able to read/write the database file.

COMPARISON WITH DBD::FIREBIRD
       DBD::FirebirdEmbedded provides exactly the same functionality as the Firebird server of the same version as the libfbembed library. It still can work with remote datases, in which case the use  is
       exactly the same (DSN, environment) as with the regular DBD::Firebird.

   Pros
       Standalone work with Firebird databases
           No  need  to  setup/administer  a  Firebird  server. All the server functionality is available via the libfbembed library. Shared access to databases is still possible (but read "Firebird lock
           directory" above).

       No network latency
           Working directly with the database file eliminates possible network delays (even if the server is on the local host).

   Cons
       Memory footprint
           The libfbembed library contains a fully functional Firebird server and is therefore bigger than the ordinary client library, libfbclient.

       Setup complexity
           It is very important to make sure that all processes that access a given database use the same lock directory. See "Firebird lock directory" above.

SEE ALSO
       DBD::Firebird

perl v5.40.0                                                                                     2025-02-08                                                                           FirebirdEmbedded(3pm)
