HAMLIB-UTILITIES(7)                                                                      Hamlib Information Manual                                                                      HAMLIB-UTILITIES(7)

NAME
       hamlib-utilties - radio and rotator control utilities of Hamlib

DESCRIPTION
       Included  with  the Hamlib distribution are several utility programs.  Besides providing a way for developers to test new code and bug fixes, the programs also offer a reference implementation for
       interfacing to the Hamlib library functions both through the C API (Application Programming Interface) and offering a network accessible API.

       This page summarizes the three test programs, ampctl(1) for testing amplifier back ends, rigctl(1) for testing radio back ends, and rotctl(1) for testing rotator back ends and  the  three  network
       daemons, ampctld(1), rigctld(1), and rotcltd(1) for amplifier, radio, and rotator access via network sockets.  Also included are three demonstration utilities, rigmem(1), rigsmtr(1), and rigswr(1)
       which provide functional examples of how Hamlib may be used to accomplish various tasks.

rigctl
       rigctl(1) is the most frequently used Hamlib utility.  As the other ctl utilities share many of the same characteristics, much of the introductory information presented in this section is applica‐
       ble to the other utility programs.

   Introduction to rigctl
       Most  likely  the  first  of the Hamlib utility programs that is used is rigctl(1).  rigctl is a character based interactive program and a command line program able to set or query a radio's value
       with a single command.  rigctl is invoked from a shell command prompt with various options and additional commands.

       In its most simple use as a command line program, rigctl is used to set frequency and mode by typing commands after any rigctl options:

           rigctl F 14205000
           rigctl M USB 2400

       and then query those values:

           rigctl f
           rigctl m

       Entering interactive mode is a simple matter of not placing any commands after any rigctl options:

           rigctl

       Entering interactive mode allows successive commands to be entered without exiting rigctl.  Recent additions to rigctl allow command editing and history recall through use of the Readline library.

       Interactive mode is indicated by the spartan prompt:

           Rig command:

       Commands are given at the prompt and follow the general rule that upper case letters set a value and lower case letters query a value:

           Rig command: M
           Mode: USB
           Passband: 2500

           Rig command: m
           Mode: USB
           Passband: 2500

           Rig command:

       An additional prompt is printed when more information is required by the command.  For M above, rigctl prompted for the Mode and Passband values.  For m above, rigctl returned the Mode  and  Pass‐
       band values without further prompts.  The command prompt is returned after each command invocation.

       The  above  examples invoked rigctl without specifying a radio model.  This is a feature where the Hamlib internal radio model 1 dummy is used.  The dummy radio provides a way to test Hamlib func‐
       tions without the need for actual radio hardware.  However, to develop the Hamlib backend capability for a given radio, having the actual radio connected to the computer is  necessary  for  debug‐
       ging.

       For example, to quickly set frequency on an Elecraft K3:

           rigctl -m 2029 -r /dev/rig F 3900000

       and to query the frequency and then mode:

           rigctl -m 2029 -r /dev/rig f
           3900000

           rigctl -m 2029 -r /dev/rig m
           LSB
           2000

              Note: the returned values do not have the prompt strings associated with interactive mode as shown above.

       The -m option takes a numeric value that corresponds to a given radio back end model.  The -r option takes the path to the port device on POSIX and the device name on Microsoft Windows.

              Note: A complete list of supported radio models may be seen by use of the -l option:

           rigctl -l
            Rig #  Mfg              Model         Version    Status
                1  Hamlib           Dummy         0.5        Beta
                2  Hamlib           NET rigctl    0.3        Beta
             1001  Yaesu            FT-847        0.5        Beta
             1003  Yaesu            FT-1000D      0.0.6      Alpha
           .
           .
           .
            27002  Rohde&Schwarz    EB200         0.1        Untested
            28001  Philips/Simoco   PRM8060       0.1        Alpha
            29001  ADAT www.adat.ch ADT-200A      1.36       Beta

       The  list is long so use Shift-PageUp/Shift-PageDown on Linux, ScrollLock then PageUp/PageDown on Free BSD, or use the scrollbar to the virtual terminal window (cmd window on Microsoft Windows) or
       the output can be piped to more(1) or less(1), e.g., “rigctl -l | more” to scroll back up the list.  The list is sorted numerically by model number since Hamlib 1.2.15.1.  Model numbers of a manu‐
       facturer/protocol family are grouped together.

   rigctl reference
       The complete reference for rigctl can be found in the rigctl(1) manual page.

rotctl
       Identical in function to rigctl(1), rotctl(1) provides a means for testing Hamlib functions useful for rotator control and QTH (Maidenhead gridsquare system, see Maidenhead Locator System) locator
       computations.  As rotators have a much narrower scope than radios, there are fewer command line options and commands for rotctl.

   Introduction to rotctl
       rotctl(1) is a character based interactive program and a command line program able to set or query a rotator's value with a single command.  rotctl is invoked from a shell command prompt with var‐
       ious options and additional commands.

       In its most simple use as a command line program, rotctl is used to set azimuth position and (optionally) elevation by typing commands after any rotctl options:

           rotctl P 145.0 23.0
           rotctl M 8 25

       and then query those values:

           rotctl p

       Entering interactive mode is a simple matter of not placing any commands after any rotctl options:

           rotctl

       Entering interactive mode allows successive commands to be entered without exiting rotctl.  Interactive mode allows for command editing and history recall through the use of the Readline library.

       Interactive mode is indicated by the spartan prompt:

           Rotator command:

       Commands are given at the prompt:

           Rotator command: M
           Direction: 16
           Speed: 60

           Rotator command: p
           Azimuth: 11.352000
           Elevation: 0.000000

           Rotator command: p
           Azimuth: 27.594000
           Elevation: 0.000000

           Rotator command:

       An additional prompt is printed when more information is required by the command.  For M above, rotctl prompted for the Direction and Speed values.  For p above, rotctl returned  the  Azimuth  and
       Elevation values without further prompts.  The command prompt is returned after each command invocation.

       The  above examples invoked rotctl without specifying a rotator model.  This is a feature where the Hamlib internal rotator model 1 dummy is used instead.  The dummy rotator provides a way to test
       Hamlib functions without the need for actual rotator hardware.  However, to develop back end capability for a given rotator, having the actual controller connected to the computer is necessary for
       debugging.

       For example, to quickly set position for RotorEZ:

           rotctl -m 401 -r /dev/rotor P 100.0 0.0

       and to query the position:

           rotctl -m 401 -r /dev/rotor p
           100.000000
           0.000000

       The returned values do not have the prompt strings associated with interactive mode as shown above.

       The -m option takes a numeric value that corresponds to a given rotator back end model.  The -r option takes the path to the port device on POSIX or the device name on Microsoft Windows.

              Note: A complete list of supported rotator models may be seen by use of the -l option:

           rotctl -l
            Rot #  Mfg              Model         Version    Status
                1  Hamlib           Dummy         0.5        Beta
                2  Hamlib           NET rotctl    0.3        Beta
              201  Hamlib           EasycommI     0.3        Beta
              202  Hamlib           EasycommII    0.3        Beta
           .
           .
           .
             1201  AMSAT            IF-100        0.1        Untested
             1301  LA7LKA           ts7400        0.1        Beta
             1401  Celestron        NexStar       0.1        Untested

       The list is long so use Shift-PageUp/Shift-PageDown on Linux, ScrollLock then PageUp/PageDown on Free BSD, or use the scrollbar to the virtual terminal window (cmd window on Microsoft Windows)  or
       the  output can be piped to more(1) or less(1), e.g. “rotctl -l | more” to scroll back up the list.  The list is sorted numerically by model number since Hamlib 1.2.15.1.  Model numbers of a manu‐
       facturer/protocol family are grouped together.

   rotctl reference
       The complete reference for rotctl can be found in the rotctl(1) manual page.

ampctl
       The ampctl(1) utility is a recent addition to the Hamlib utilities as a part of the 4.0 development cycle.  It is intended to test the Hamlib implementation of amplifier control and is similar  in
       function to the utilities previously described.  See the ampctl(1) manual page for the complete reference.

rigctld
       The  rigctld(1) program is a network server that accepts the familiar commands of rigctl(1) and provides the response data over a TCP/IP network socket to an application.  In this manner an appli‐
       cation can access a rigctld instance from nearly anywhere (caveat, no security is currently provided by rigctld).  Applications using rigctld do not link directly to Hamlib nor use its C API.

   Introduction to rigctld
       rigctld(1) communicates to a client through a TCP network socket using text commands shared with rigctl(1).  The protocol is simple; commands are sent to rigctld on one line and  rigctld  responds
       to get commands with the requested values, one per line, when successful, otherwise, it responds with one line RPRT x, where x is a negative number indicating the Hamlib error code.  Commands that
       do not return values respond with the line RPRT x, where x is zero when successful, otherwise a negative number indicating the Hamlib error code.  Each line is terminated with a newline, \n, char‐
       acter.  This protocol is primarily for use by the NET rigctl (radio model 2) backend.

       A  separate  Extended Response protocol extends the above behavior by echoing the received command string as a header, any returned values as a key: value pair, and the RPRT x string as the end of
       response marker which includes the Hamlib success or failure value.  Consider using this protocol for clients that will interact with rigctld directly through a TCP network socket.

       Multiple radios can be controlled on different TCP ports by use of multiple rigctld processes each listening on a unique TCP port.  It is hoped that rigctld will be especially  useful  for  client
       authors using languages such as Perl, Python, PHP, Ruby, TCL, and others.

   rigctld reference
       The complete reference for rigctld can be found in the rigctld(1) manual page.

rotctld
       The  rotctld(1) program is a network server that accepts the familiar commands of rotctl(1) and provides the response data over a TCP/IP network socket to an application.  In this manner an appli‐
       cation can access a rotctld instance from nearly anywhere (caveat, no security is currently provided by rotctld).  Applications using rotctld do not link directly to Hamlib nor use its C API.

   Introduction to rotctld
       rotctld(1) communicates to a client through a TCP network socket using text commands shared with rotctl(1).  The protocol is simple, commands are sent to rotctld on one line and  rotctld  responds
       to get commands with the requested values, one per line, when successful, otherwise, it responds with one line RPRT x, where x is a negative number indicating the Hamlib error code.  Commands that
       do  not return values respond with the line RPRT x, where x is zero when successful, otherwise a negative number indicating the Hamlib error code.  Each line is terminated with a newline, \n char‐
       acter.  This protocol is primarily for use by the NET rotctl (rotator model 2) backend.

       A separate Extended Response protocol extends the above behavior by echoing the received command string as a header, any returned values as a key: value pair, and the RPRT x string as the  end  of
       response marker which includes the Hamlib success or failure value.  Consider using this protocol for clients that will interact with rotctld directly through a TCP network socket.

       Multiple  rotators can be controlled on different TCP ports by use of multiple rotctld processes each listening on a unique TCP port.  It is hoped that rotctld will be especially useful for client
       authors using languages such as Perl, Python, PHP, Ruby, TCL, and others.

   rotctld reference
       The complete reference for rotctld can be found in the rotctld(1) manual page.

ampctl
       The ampctld(1) utility is a recent addition to the Hamlib utilities as a part of the 4.0 development cycle.  It provides network socket access for the Hamlib implementation  of  amplifier  control
       and is similar in function to the network utilities previously described.  See the ampctld(1) manual page for the complete reference.

rigmem
       rigmem may be used to backup and restore memory of radio transceivers and receivers.

   Introduction to rigmem
       Backup and restore memory of radio transceivers and receivers.  rigmem accepts commands from the command line only.

   rigmem reference
       The complete reference for rigmem can be found in the rigmem(1) manual page.

rigsmtr
       rigsmtr uses Hamlib to control a radio to measure S-Meter value versus antenna azimuth.

   Introduction to rigsmtr
       rigsmtr rotates the antenna from minimum azimuth to maximum azimuth.  Every second, or time_step if specified in seconds, it retrieves the signal strength. Azimuth in degrees and the corresponding
       S-Meter level in dB relative to S9 are then printed on stdout.

       To work correctly, rigsmtr needs a radio that could measure S-Meter and a Hamlib backend that is able to retrieve it, connected to a Hamlib supported rotator.

   rigsmtr reference
       The complete reference for rigsmtr can be found in the rigsmtr(1) manual page.

rigswr
       rigswr may be used to measure VSWR vs frequency.

   Introduction to rigswr
       rigswr uses Hamlib to control a radio to measure VSWR (Voltage Standing Wave Ratio) over a frequency range.

       It scans frequencies from start_freq to stop_freq with an optional increment of freq_step (default step is 100 kHz).  All values must be entered as an integer in Hertz (cycles per second).

       Note: rigswr assumes that start_freq is less than or equal to stop_freq.  If it is greater, rigswr will exit without doing anything.

       For each frequency, rigswr transmits at 25% of total POWER during 0.5 second in CW mode and reads VSWR.

       Frequency and the corresponding VSWR are then printed on stdout.

       To work correctly, rigswr needs a radio that can measure VSWR and a Hamlib backend that supports reading VSWR from the radio.

   rigswr reference
       The complete reference for rigswr can be found in the rigswr(1) manual page.

COPYING
       This  file is part of Hamlib, a project to develop a library that simplifies radio and rotator control functions for developers of software primarily of interest to radio amateurs and those inter‐
       ested in radio communications.

       Copyright © 2001-2020 Hamlib Group (various contributors)

       This is free software; see the file COPYING for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       less(1), more(1), ampctl(1), ampctld(1), rigctl(1), rigctld(1), rotctl(1), rotctld(1), rigmem(1), rigsmtr(1), rigswr(1), hamlib(7), hamlib-primer(7)

COLOPHON
       Links to the Hamlib Wiki, Git repository, release archives, and daily snapshot archives are available via hamlib.org.

Hamlib                                                                                           2020-09-08                                                                             HAMLIB-UTILITIES(7)
