HTTP::Throwable::Role::Status::Gone(3pm)                     User Contributed Perl Documentation                     HTTP::Throwable::Role::Status::Gone(3pm)

NAME
       HTTP::Throwable::Role::Status::Gone - 410 Gone

VERSION
       version 0.028

DESCRIPTION
       The requested resource is no longer available at the server and no forwarding address is known. This condition is expected to be considered permanent.
       Clients with link editing capabilities SHOULD delete references to the Request-URI after user approval.  If the server does not know, or has no
       facility to determine, whether or not the condition is permanent, the status code 404 (Not Found) SHOULD be used instead. This response is cacheable
       unless indicated otherwise.

       The 410 response is primarily intended to assist the task of web maintenance by notifying the recipient that the resource is intentionally unavailable
       and that the server owners desire that remote links to that resource be removed. Such an event is common for limited-time, promotional services and
       for resources belonging to individuals no longer working at the server's site. It is not necessary to mark all permanently unavailable resources as
       "gone" or to keep the mark for any length of time -- that is left to the discretion of the server owner.

PERL VERSION
       This library should run on perls released even a long time ago.  It should work on any version of perl released in the last five years.

       Although it may work on older versions of perl, no guarantee is made that the minimum required version will not be increased.  The version may be
       increased for any reason, and there is no promise that patches will be accepted to lower the minimum required perl.

AUTHORS
       •   Stevan Little <stevan.little@iinteractive.com>

       •   Ricardo Signes <cpan@semiotic.systems>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Infinity Interactive, Inc.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.36.0                                                              2023-01-24                                 HTTP::Throwable::Role::Status::Gone(3pm)
