LIBIPMICONSOLE(5)                                                           Configuration                                                          LIBIPMICONSOLE(5)

NAME
       libipmiconsole.conf - specify default values for libipmiconsole

DESCRIPTION
       The  Libipmiconsole configuration file can be used to set alternate default values for the libipmiconsole library. The configuration of these defaults may be
       useful for environments in which programs link to libipmiconsole but do not support configuration of libipmiconsole parameters. Users  should  be  ware  that
       setting  alternate  default  values into libipmiconsole will affect all tools that link to the library, such as the ipmiconsole(8) tool. For users wishing to
       set alternate defaults to ipmiconsole(8) please use the freeipmi.conf(5) file instead.

       The configuration file is stored at /etc/freeipmi//libipmiconsole.conf.

FORMAT
       The configuration options that can be specified in the configuration file are listed below. Each configuration option must be listed on a separate line.  Ar‐
       guments  for  an  option are separated by any amount of whitespace. Multiple arguments are also separated by whitespace.  Comments can be marked by using the
       pound sign ("#") character, and lines can be continued on the next using backslash ("\").

CONTEXT IPMI CONFIG OPTIONS
       Every SOL session is housed within an libipmiconsole context. The following defines IPMI config default values for each context created.

       libipmiconsole-context-username USERNAME
              Specify the default username to use.

       libipmiconsole-context-password PASSWORD
              Specify the default password to use.

       libipmiconsole-context-k_g str
              Specify the default BMC key (K_g) to use. Prefix with '0x' to enter the key in hex.

       libipmiconsole-context-privilege-level PRIVILEGE-LEVEL
              Specify the default privilege type to use. The following privilege levels are supported: USER, OPERATOR, ADMIN.

       libipmiconsole-context-cipher-suite-id CIPHER-SUITE-ID
              Specify the default cipher suite id to use. The following cipher suite ids are supported: 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12.

       libipmiconsole-context-workaround-flags WORKAROUNDS
              Specify default workaround flags to use. Multiple workarounds can be specified separated by whitespace. The following workarounds are supported: auth‐
              cap,  intel20,  supermicro20,  sun20,  opensesspriv, integritycheckvalue, solpayloadsize, solport, solstatus, solchannelsupport, serialalertsdeferred,
              solpacketseq

CONTEXT PROTOCOL CONFIG OPTIONS
       Every SOL session is housed within an libipmiconsole context. The following defines protocol config default values for each context created.

       libipmiconsole-context-session-timeout-len MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default session timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       libipmiconsole-context-retransmission-timeout-len MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default retransmission timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       libipmiconsole-context-retransmission-backoff-count NUM
              Specify the default retransmission backoff count to use.

       libipmiconsole-context-keepalive-timeout-len MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default keepalive timeout length to use in milliseconds.

       libipmiconsole-context-retransmission-keepalive-timeout-len MILLISECONDS
              Specify the default retransmission timeout length to use for keepalive packets in milliseconds.

       libipmiconsole-context-acceptable-packet-errors-count NUM
              Specify the default packet errors count to use.

       libipmiconsole-context-maximum-retransmission-count NUM
              Specify the default maximum retransmission count to use.

CONTEXT ENGINE CONFIG OPTIONS
       Every SOL session is housed within an libipmiconsole context. The following defines engine config default values for each context created. Knowledge  of  the
       libipmiconsole  library  may be necessary to understand the meaning of these settings. Please see the ipmiconsole.h header file for additional information on
       the library.

       libipmiconsole-context-engine-flags FLAGS
              Specify default engine flags to use. Multiple flags can be specified separated by whitespace. The following flags are  supported:  closefd,  outputon‐
              solestablished, lockmemory, serialkeepalive.

       libipmiconsole-context-behavior-flags FLAGS
              Specify  default  behavior  flags to use. Multiple flags can be specified separated by whitespace. The following flags are supported: erroronsolinuse,
              deactivateonly, deactivateallinstances.

       libipmiconsole-context-debug-flags FLAGS
              Specify default debug flags to use. Multiple flags can be specified separated by whitespace. The following flags are supported: stdout,  stderr,  sys‐
              log, file, ipmipackets.

       libipmiconsole-context-sol-payload-instance NUM
              Specify default SOL payload instance. Has range of 1 to 15.

FILES
       /etc/freeipmi//libipmiconsole.conf

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <freeipmi-users@gnu.org> or <freeipmi-devel@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
       Copyright (C) 2006-2007 The Regents of the University of California.

       FreeIPMI is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foun‐
       dation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

SEE ALSO
       freeipmi.conf(5), freeipmi(7), libipmiconsole(3), ipmiconsole(8),

       http://www.gnu.org/software/freeipmi/

FreeIPMI 1.6.6                                                               2021-10-31                                                            LIBIPMICONSOLE(5)
