LCRQ(7)                                                                                Librecast Programmer's Manual                                                                                LCRQ(7)

NAME
       LCRQ - C library implementation of RFC6330 (RaptorQ) for Librecast

DESCRIPTION
       IP  Multicast  is based on UDP, which is inherently unreliable. Packets may arrive out of order, or not at all. TCP provides unicast with a reliable messaging layer on top of this unreliable, con‐
       nectionless medium.

       Unicast, however, is one-to-one only. Multicast could, in theory, use all of the same reliability options (ACKs etc.) as TCP, at the cost of not being scalable any more.

       Fortunately there are other ways to achieve similar reliability.  RFC3208 describes Pragmatic General Multicast (PGM) based on NAKs (negative acknowledgements). This, too, has scaling issues.

       Forwards Error Correction (FEC) offers us another approach.

       Thanks to parity checking in the network stack, we don't generally need to worry about errors within packets. Every packet has a checksum, and if that doesn't match, the packet is  dropped  before
       it reaches us. Our encryption provides further checking of data received.  We need only concern ourselves with erasures.  ie. dropped packets.

       RaptorQ is an implementation of a class of systematic erasure codes called fountain codes.

       The  data we want to send is split into blocks, and then pre-encoded into a set of intermediate symbols.  From these intermediate symbols we can generate both our original source symbols, and also
       additional repair symbols.

       Provided the recipient receives at least a minimum value K' of these symbols (any unique combination of source and repair) the intermediate symbols can be reconstituted, and the original data  re‐
       covered.

       RaptorQ  is  what is called a systematic encoding, because the set of symbols we send includes our original data as plain text. Provided all source symbols are received, the original data has been
       transmitted with no decoding overhead.  It is only in the case where we need to supplement the source symbols with repair symbols that we must perform the decoding process.

CONFORMING TO
       RFC6330 (IETF) describes the RaptorQ proposed standard, which LCRQ more-or-less follows. The primary focus has been on building a fast, simple and dependency-free FEC implementation for  use  with
       Librecast, and not on strict standards compliance. The code does, however, fairly closely follow the RFC.

EXAMPLES
       There is example code in the examples/ directory of the source repository.

BUGS
       If you find one, email bugs@librecast.net

SEE ALSO
       rq_init(3), rq_free(3), rq_query(3), rq_encode(3), rq_decode(3), rq_symbol(3), rq_pid2sbn(3), rq_pid2esi(3), rq_pidsetsbn(3), rq_pidsetesi(3)

       https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6330

LCRQ                                                                                             2022-07-15                                                                                         LCRQ(7)
