
lopsub(7)                                                         Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                         lopsub(7)

NAME
       lopsub - Long option parser for subcommands

About
       Lopsub is an open source library written in C which aims to ease the task of creating, documenting and parsing the options of Unix command line utilities. It
       is suitable for simple commands as well as complex command line utilities with many subcommands where each subcommand has its own set of options. Options and
       documentation  are  kept  together  in a single file which can be translated to C code (to be included in the application), or to a manual page.  The library
       supports single-character short options and GNU-style long options. The public API is well documented and stable.

       To make use of the library, the programmer provides a so-called suite file which describes the options of the application in an intuitive  syntax.  At  build
       time the suite file is translated into C code by the lopsubgen utility which also ships with the lopsub package. The generated code defines an instance of an
       opaque C structure and exposes a reference to this structure which can be passed to the option parser at run time, together with the usual  argument  vector.
       The  option parser is part of the lopsub library, so applications need to link with -llopsub.  In addition to the option parser, the library offers many more
       features. For example, there is a function for merging two different parse results to generate an effective configuration. This is  useful  for  applications
       which can be configured through command line options and via a config file.

       The  suite file can also be processed into roff format to create a manual page. Conversion into html can easily be performed with tools like grohtml (part of
       GNU roff) or man2html.

       Lopsub does not rely on the system's getopt() or getopt_long() functions of the C library and is thus portable across different flavors of Unix. It is  known
       to work on Linux, NetBSD and FreeBSD.

License
       The  lopsub  library is licensed under the LGPLv3 while the lopsubgen utility is licensed under the GPLv3.  The examples and all code generated by the utili‐
       ties, however, is licensed under the public domain. You are free to do anything you like with the generated code, including incorporating it into or  linking
       it with proprietary software.

Quick Start
       Compile and run the minimal example included at the end of lopsub-suite(5) ⟨./lopsub-suite.5.html⟩.  Examine lopsubex.c and lopsubex.suite in the source tree
       and run the lopsubex command.

API documentation
       See ⟨./lopsub-api.html⟩.  Alternatively, examine lopsub.h or lopsub.h.m4.

Resources
       • git clone URL: ⟨git://git.tuebingen.mpg.de/lopsub.git⟩

       • gitweb: ⟨http://git.tuebingen.mpg.de/lopsub.git⟩

       • The author's homepage: ⟨http://people.tuebingen.mpg.de/maan/⟩

       • Send feedback to Andre Noll ⟨maan@tuebingen.mpg.de⟩

1.0.3                                                                         July 2019                                                                    lopsub(7)
