
lopsub(7)                                                                             Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                            lopsub(7)

NAME
       lopsub - Long option parser for subcommands

About
       Lopsub  is  an  open  source library written in C which aims to ease the task of creating, documenting and parsing the options of Unix command line utilities. It is suitable for simple commands as
       well as complex command line utilities with many subcommands where each subcommand has its own set of options. Options and documentation are kept together in a single file which can be  translated
       to C code (to be included in the application), or to a manual page.  The library supports single-character short options and GNU-style long options. The public API is well documented and stable.

       To  make use of the library, the programmer provides a so-called suite file which describes the options of the application in an intuitive syntax. At build time the suite file is translated into C
       code by the lopsubgen utility which also ships with the lopsub package. The generated code defines an instance of an opaque C structure and exposes a reference  to  this  structure  which  can  be
       passed  to  the option parser at run time, together with the usual argument vector. The option parser is part of the lopsub library, so applications need to link with -llopsub.  In addition to the
       option parser, the library offers many more features. For example, there is a function for merging two different parse results to generate an effective configuration. This is useful  for  applica‐
       tions which can be configured through command line options and via a config file.

       The suite file can also be processed into roff format to create a manual page. Conversion into html can easily be performed with tools like grohtml (part of GNU roff) or man2html.

       Lopsub does not rely on the system's getopt() or getopt_long() functions of the C library and is thus portable across different flavors of Unix. It is known to work on Linux, NetBSD and FreeBSD.

License
       The  lopsub library is licensed under the LGPLv3 while the lopsubgen utility is licensed under the GPLv3.  The examples and all code generated by the utilities, however, is licensed under the pub‐
       lic domain. You are free to do anything you like with the generated code, including incorporating it into or linking it with proprietary software.

Quick Start
       Compile and run the minimal example included at the end of lopsub-suite(5).  Examine lopsubex.c and lopsubex.suite in the source tree and run the lopsubex command.

API documentation
       See ./lopsub-api.html.  Alternatively, examine lopsub.h or lopsub.h.m4.

Resources
       • git clone URL: https://git.tuebingen.mpg.de/lopsub.git

       • gitweb: https://git.tuebingen.mpg.de/lopsub.git

       • The author's homepage: https://people.tuebingen.mpg.de/maan/

       • Send feedback to Andre Noll

1.0.5-3.1                                                                                        April 2025                                                                                       lopsub(7)
