Logger::Syslog(3pm)                                                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                 Logger::Syslog(3pm)

NAME
       Logger::Syslog -- an intuitive wrapper over Syslog for Perl

DESCRIPTION
       You want to deal with syslog, but you don't want to bother with Sys::Syslog, that module is for you.

       Logger::Syslog takes care of everything regarding the Syslog communication, all you have to do is to use the function you need to send a message to syslog.

       Logger::Syslog provides one function per Syslog message level: debug, info, warning, error, notice, critic, alert.

NOTES
       Logger::Syslog is compliant with mod_perl, all you have to do when using it in such an environment is to call logger_init() at the beginning of your CGI, that will garantee that everything will
       run smoothly (otherwise, issues with the syslog socket can happen in mod_perl env).

SYNOPSIS
           use Logger::Syslog;

           info("Starting at ".localtime());
           ...
           if ($error) {
               error("An error occured!");
               exit 1;
           }
           ...
           notice("There something to notify");

FUNCTIONS
   logger_init
       Call this to explicitly open a Syslog socket. You can optionally specify a Syslog facility.

       That function is called when you use the module, if you're not in a mod_perl environment.

       Examples:

           # open a syslog socket with default facility (user)
           logger_init();

           # open a syslog socket on the 'local' facility
           logger_init('local');

   logger_close
       Call this to close the Syslog socket.

       That function is called automatically when the calling program exits.

   logger_prefix
       That function lets you set a string that will be prefixed to every messages sent to syslog.

       Example:

           logger_prefix("my program");
           info("starting");
           ...
           info("stopping");

   logger_set_default_facility(facility)
       You can choose which facility to use, the default one is "user".  Use that function if you want to switch smoothly from a facility to another.

       That function will close the existing socket and will open a new one with the appropriate facility.

       Example:

           logger_set_default_facility("cron");

LOGGING
       Logger::Syslog provides one function per Syslog level to let you send messages.  If you want to send a debug message, just use debug(), for a warning, use warning() and so on...

       All those function have the same signature : thay take a string as their only argument, which is the message to send to syslog.

       Examples:

           debug("my program starts at ".localtime());
           ...
           warning("some strange stuff occured");
           ...
           error("should not go there !");
           ...
           notice("Here is my notice");

LICENSE
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

COPYRIGHT
       This program is copyright 2004-2006 Alexis Sukrieh

AUTHOR
       Alexis Sukrieh <sukria@sukria.net>

       Very first versions were made at Cegetel (2004-2005) ; Thomas Parmelan gave a hand for the mod_perl support.

perl v5.38.2                                                                                     2024-03-06                                                                             Logger::Syslog(3pm)
