Bulkmail::DummyServer(3pm)                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                   Bulkmail::DummyServer(3pm)

NAME
       Mail::Bulkmail::DummyServer - dummy class for dummy server objects

AUTHOR
       Jim Thomason, jim@jimandkoka.com

DESCRIPTION
       Mail::Bulkmail::DummyServer is a drop in replacement for Mail::Bulkmail::Server.

       Sometimes you just want to test things on your end - make sure your list iterates properly, make sure your mail merge is functioning fine, make sure
       your logging functions are correct, whatever.  And in those cases, you probably don't want to worry about futzing around with your SMTP relay and
       sending junk messages through it that you don't care about. Not to mention the fact that those probably will need to be inspected and deleted later. A
       hassle for debugging.

       Enter DummyServer. This is a subclass of Mail::Bulkmail::Server that behaves exactly the same except for the fact that it doesn't actually connect to
       a server. Instead, it sends all data that would be going to the server to a file instead. This file should be specified in the conf file.

        #in your conf file
        define package Mail::Bulkmail::DummyServer
        dummy_file     = ./my.dummy.file

       Now, instead of sending commands to your SMTP relay, they'll get sent to ./my.dummy.file for easy inspection at a later date.

CLASS ATTRIBUTES
       dummy_file Stores the dummy_file that you want to output your data to.

METHODS
       connect    "connects"  to  your  DummyServer.  Actually,  internally  it  ties  a  filehandle  onto  this  package.   Yes,  this thing has a (minimal)
                  implementation of a tied handle class to accomplish this feat.

                  This method is known to return

                   MBDu001 - server won't say EHLO

       disconnect overloaded disconnect method. Wipes out the internal socket as usual, but doesn't try to say RSET or QUIT to the server.

                  disconnect can also disconnect quietly, i.e., it won't try to issue a RSET and then quit before closing the socket.

                   $server->disconnect();                         #issues RSET and quit
                   $server->disconnect('quietly');        #issues nothing

SEE ALSO
       Mail::Bulkmail::Server

COPYRIGHT (again)
       Copyright and (c) 2003 James A Thomason III (jim@jimandkoka.com). All rights reserved.  Mail::Bulkmail::DummyServer is distributed under the terms  of
       the Perl Artistic License.

CONTACT INFO
       So   you  don't  have  to  scroll  all  the  way  back  to  the  top,  I'm  Jim  Thomason  (jim@jimandkoka.com)  and  feedback  is  appreciated.   Bug
       reports/suggestions/questions/etc.  Hell, drop me a line to let me know that you're using the module and that it's made your life easier.  :-)

perl v5.36.0                                                              2022-10-22                                               Bulkmail::DummyServer(3pm)
