MetaCPAN::Client::File(3pm)                                                         User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                         MetaCPAN::Client::File(3pm)

NAME
       MetaCPAN::Client::File - A File data object

VERSION
       version 2.033000

DESCRIPTION
       A MetaCPAN file entity object.

ATTRIBUTES
   status
       Returns a release status like "backpan", "cpan", or "latest".

   date
       An ISO8601 datetime string like "2016-11-19T12:41:46" indicating when the file was uploaded.

   author
       The author's PAUSE id.

   maturity
       This will be either "release" or "developer".

   directory
       A boolean indicating whether or not the path represents a directory.

   indexed
       A boolean indicating whether or not the content is indexed.

   documentation
       The name of the module for which this file contains docs. This may be "undef"

   id
       The file's internal MetaCPAN id.

   authorized
       A boolean indicating whether or not this file was part of an authorized upload.

   version
       The distribution version that contains this file.

   version_numified
       The numified version of the distribution that contains the file.

   release
       The release that contains this file, which will be something like "Moose-2.2004".

   binary
       A boolean indicating whether or not this file contains binary content.

   name
       The File's name, without any directory path included.

   path
       The file's path within the distribution archive, relative to the root of the archive.

   abstract
       If the file contains POD with a "NAME" section, then this attribute will include the abstract portion of the name.

   deprecated
       The deprecated field value for this file.

   description
       If the file contains POD with a "DESCRIPTION" section, then this attribute will contain that description.

   distribution
       The name of the distribution that contains the file.

   level
       A 0-indexed indication of how many directories deep this file is, relative to the archive root.

   sloc
       If the file contains code, this will contain the number of lines of code in the file.

   slop
       If the file contains POD, this will contain the number of lines of POD in the file.

   mime
       The file's mime type.

   module
       If the file contains module indexed by PAUSE, then this attribute contains an arrayref of hashrefs, one for each module. The hashrefs have the following keys:

       •   name

           The module name.

       •   indexed

           Whether or not the file is indexed by MetaCPAN.

       •   authorized

           Whether or not the module is part of an authorized upload.

       •   version

           The version of the module that this file contains.

       •   version_numified

           The numified version of the module that this file contains.

       •   associated_pod

           A path you can use with the "MetaCPAN::Client->file" method to get the file that contains POD for this module. In most cases, that will be the same file as that one that contains this "module"
           data.

   pod_lines
       An arrayref.

   stat
       A hashref containing stat() all information about the file. The keys are:

       •   mtime

           The Unix epoch of the file's last modified time.

       •   mode

           The file's mode (as an integer, not an octal representation).

       •   size

           The file's size in bytes.

   download_url
       A URL for the distribution archive that contains this file.

METHODS
   pod
           my $pod = $module->pod(); # default = plain
           my $pod = $module->pod($type);

       Returns the POD content for the module/file.

       Takes a type as argument.

       Supported types: plain, html, x-pod, x-markdown.

   source
           my $source = $module->source();

       Returns the source code for the file.

   metacpan_url
       Returns a link to the file source page on MetaCPAN.

AUTHORS
       •   Sawyer X <xsawyerx@cpan.org>

       •   Mickey Nasriachi <mickey@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2016 by Sawyer X.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.0                                                                                     2024-12-07                                                                     MetaCPAN::Client::File(3pm)
