MBCONV(1)                                                                                                                                                                                         MBCONV(1)

NAME
       mbconv - Character encoding scheme converter

SYNOPSIS
         mbconv [options] <file> ...

DESCRIPTION
       This is an application of a library to handle multiple octets character encoding:

         http://pub.ks-and-ks.ne.jp/prog/libmoe/

       mainly written for debugging of the library.

       It reads octet by octet from files given on command line (or standard input if no file is specified), converts character encoding scheme (CES) as specified by command line options (described
       below), and output to standard output (or a file specified by -t option or -a option).

   Options
       -?, -h, --help
           display summary of options and exits.

       -a file, --append-to=file
           output is appended to file.

       -c converters, --convert-to=converters
           specifies character encoding conversion.  converters must be comma separated list of words described in "Conversion specifiers".

       -f flags, --flag=flags
           specifies flags to change behavior of conversion.  flags must be comma separated list of words describe in "Flag specifiers".

       -i, --input
           succeeding options apply to input stream.

       -m string, --mime-charset=string
           mime encoding conforming to RFC2047 is performed.  <string> is used as charset name.

       -n, --line-number
           line number (>= 1) is inserted to beginning of each line.

       -o, --output
           succeeding options apply to output stream.

       -t file, --to=file
           output to file (truncated).

       -w, --width
           output width of each line.

       -cs <string>, --charset=string
           specifies  charset  name.   Some  language specifications are also accepted as well as MIME charset names, which are used to restrict candidates of encoding scheme of input stream.  Acceptable
           languages are listed in "Acceptable languages".

       --format=string
           specifies output format

       --which
           output charset name of each input stream to stderr, in the form

           file name":" charset name

           if two or more files are specifed on the command line, or

           charset name

           otherwise.

       --regex=regular expression
           specifies regeular expression to filter output.  Character encoding of regular expression can be specified by putting string of the form

           "*"charset name"*"

           at the beginning of the regular expression, otherwise UTF-8.  Character encoding of the expression is converted to that of output stream before matching.

   Conversion specifiers
       Conversion is applied just before each character is output to stream.  Conversion setup is automatically performed based on CES.  So in most cases, yo need not to specify converters explicitly.

       ascii
           domestic ASCII converted to US-ASCII,

       ces converted appropriately according to the CES bound to input/output stream,

       to-ucs
           converted to Unicode,

       f2h, full-to-half
           Fullwidth compatibility characters are converted to corresponding halfwidth ones,

       h2f, half-to-full
           Halfwidth compatibility characters are converted to corresponding fullwidth ones,

       jisx0213
           Codepoints in JIS C 6226 or in JIS X 0208 which are bound to no character are converted into JIS X 0213 plane 1,

       jisx0213-aggressive
           All codepoints in JIS C 6226 or in JIS X 0208 are converted into JIS X 0213 plane 1,

       ms-latin1
           Unicode characters of code point between 0x80 and 0x9F (both inclusive) are converted to other Unicode characters as if they are characters of those code point in  Microsoft  Windows  Codepage
           1252.

       ucs-to-jis0208-extra, jis0208-to-ucs-extra
           Converters between some JIS X 0208 and Unicode characters having similar glyphs (by the courtesy of Ambrose Li <acli@ada.dhs.org>).

   Flag specifiers
       use-0x28-for-94x94inG0, 28
           use "1/11 2/4 2/8 F" instead of "1/11 2/4 F" to designate charsets with final octet 4/0, 4/1, or 4/2 to G0,

       ac, ascii-at-control
           escape sequence "1/11 2/8 4/2" is output before every control character,

       nossl, ignore-7bit-single-shift
           escape sequence for 7 bit single shift is ignored,

       dnc, discard-notprefered-char
           discard characters which CES bound to output stream can not decode.

   Acceptable languages
       The following words may be given instead of MIME charset name for input stream.  In that case, encoding scheme is automatically detected (hopefully) among succeeding ones.

       c, cn, china, chinese
           x-gb-18030-2000, cn-big5, utf-8, or x-euc-tw.

       j, ja, jp, japan, japanese
           euc-jp, shift_jis, or utf-8.

       k, ko, kr, korea, korean
           euc-kr, x-johab, utf-8, or x-unified-hangul.

       cjk iso-8859-1, x-gb-18030-2000, cn-big5, x-euc-tw, euc-jp, shift_jis, euc-kr, x-johab, x-unified-hangul, or utf-8.

AUTHOR
       Kiyokazu SUTO <suto@ks-and-ks.ne.jp>

DISCLAIMER etc.
       This program is distributed with absolutely no warranty.

       Anyone can use, modify, and re-distibute this program without any restriction.

perl v5.38.2                                                                                     2024-09-20                                                                                       MBCONV(1)
