Mail::Milter::Module::MailDomainDNSBL(3pm)                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                   Mail::Milter::Module::MailDomainDNSBL(3pm)

NAME
       Mail::Milter::Module::MailDomainDNSBL - milter to accept/reject mail whose sender domain matches a DNSBL

SYNOPSIS
           use Mail::Milter::Module::MailDomainDNSBL;

           my $milter = new Mail::Milter::Module::MailDomainDNSBL('foo.spamlist.dom');

           my $milter2 = &MailDomainDNSBL('foo.spamlist.dom'); # convenience

           $milter2->set_message('Mail from %M disallowed');

DESCRIPTION
       This milter module rejects any mail from a sender's domain (in the MAIL FROM part of the SMTP transaction, not in the From: header) matching a given
       DNS Blocking List (DNSBL).  It can also function as a whitelisting Chain element; see "accept_match()".  (This is known as a "RHSBL" check in some
       anti-spam lingo.)

       The check used by this module is a simple "A" record lookup, via the standard "gethostbyname" lookup mechanism.  This method does not require the use
       of Net::DNS and is thus typically very fast.

METHODS
           new(DNSBL)

           new(DNSBL, MATCHRECORD[, ...])

           new(DNSBL, SUBREF)

           Creates a MailDomainDNSBL object.  DNSBL is the root host hierarchy to use for lookups.  Three methods of matching can be used:

           If no additional arguments are provided, the match succeeds if there is any address entry present for the DNSBL lookup; the values are not
           examined.

           If one or more MATCHRECORD values are supplied, they are string representations of IPv4 addresses.  If any of these match record values is the
           same as any address record returned by the DNSBL lookup, the match succeeds.

           If a SUBREF (reference to a subroutine; may be an anonymous inline "sub{}") is supplied, it is called for each of the address records returned by
           the DNSBL lookup.  The subroutine should return 0 or undef to indicate a failed match, and nonzero to indicate a successful match.  The subroutine
           receives two arguments: a binary-encoded four byte scalar that should be transformed as needed with "inet_ntoa()" or "unpack", and the domain name
           being checked by the DNSBL.

           accept_match(FLAG)

           If FLAG is 0 (the default), a matching DNSBL will cause the mail to be rejected.

           If FLAG is 1, a matching DNSBL will cause this module to return SMFIS_ACCEPT instead.  This allows a "MailDomainDNSBL" to be used inside a
           "Mail::Milter::Chain" container (in accept_break(1) mode), to function as a whitelist rather than a blacklist.

           This method returns a reference to the object itself, allowing this method call to be chained.

           ignore_tempfail(FLAG)

           If FLAG is 0 (the default), a DNSBL lookup which fails the underlying DNS query will cause the milter to return a temporary failure result
           (SMFIS_TEMPFAIL).

           If FLAG is 1, a temporary DNS failure will be treated as if the lookup resulted in an empty record set (SMFIS_CONTINUE).

           This method returns a reference to the object itself, allowing this method call to be chained.

           check_superdomains(NUM)

           If no match is returned by checking the domain name verbatim, recurse one level upward at a time and attempt the check again.  If NUM is positive,
           the recursion will stop after NUM recursions; if negative, the recursion will stop when abs(NUM) domain levels have been reached.  The default is
           0, meaning that no recursion will be done.

           For example, when checking the domain name FOO.BAR.BAZ.COM, NUM=1 will also check BAR.BAZ.COM; NUM=-1 will check BAR.BAZ.COM, BAZ.COM, and COM.

           This method returns a reference to the object itself, allowing this method call to be chained.

           set_message(MESSAGE)

           Sets the message used when rejecting messages.  This string may contain the substring %M, which will be replaced by the matching e-mail address,
           or %L, which will be replaced by the name of the matching DNSBL.

           This method returns a reference to the object itself, allowing this method call to be chained.

AUTHOR
       Todd Vierling, <tv@duh.org> <tv@pobox.com>

SEE ALSO
       Mail::Milter::Object

POD ERRORS
       Hey! The above document had some coding errors, which are explained below:

       Around line 78:
           You can't have =items (as at line 90) unless the first thing after the =over is an =item

perl v5.36.0                                                              2023-01-22                               Mail::Milter::Module::MailDomainDNSBL(3pm)
