Net::Duo::Admin::Integration(3pm)                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                   Net::Duo::Admin::Integration(3pm)

NAME
       Net::Duo::Admin::Integration - Representation of a Duo integration

SYNOPSIS
           my $decoded_json = get_json();
           my $integration = Net::Duo::Admin::Integration->new($decoded_json);
           say $integration->secret_key;

REQUIREMENTS
       Perl 5.14 or later and the modules HTTP::Request and HTTP::Response (part of HTTP::Message), JSON, LWP (also known as libwww-perl), Perl6::Slurp, Sub::Install, and URI::Escape (part of URI), all
       of which are available from CPAN.

DESCRIPTION
       An integration is Duo's name for the metadata for a system or service that is allowed to use one or more of the Duo APIs.  This object is the Perl representation of a Duo integration as returned
       by the Duo Admin API, usually via the integrations() method of Net::Duo::Admin or by retrieving an integration by integration key.

CLASS METHODS
       create(DUO, DATA)
           Creates  a  new  integration in Duo and returns the resulting integration as a new Net::Duo::Admin::Integration object.  DUO is the Net::Duo object that should be used to perform the creation.
           DATA is a reference to a hash with one or more of the following keys (the "name" and "type" keys are required):

           adminapi_admins
               Only valid for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API methods.  Optional and defaults to false.

           adminapis_info
               Only valid for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API account info methods.  Optional and defaults to false.

           adminapis_integrations
               Only valid for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API integration methods.  Optional and defaults to false.

           adminapis_read_log
               Only valid for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API log methods.  Optional and defaults to false.

           adminapis_read_resource
               Only valid for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API methods that retrieve objects such as  users,  phones,  and  hardware  tokens.
               Setting this key does not grant permission to change those objects or create new ones.  Optional and defaults to false.

           adminapis_settings
               Only  valid  for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API settings methods.  These control global settings for the entire Duo account.
               Optional and defaults to false.

           adminapis_write_resource
               Only valid for integrations of type "adminapi".  Set to a true value to grant permission to use all Admin API methods that create or modify objects such as as users, phones,  and  hardware
               tokens.  Optional and defaults to false.

           enroll_policy
               What to do after an enrolled user passes primary authentication.  See the "enroll_policy()" method below for the possible values.  Optional and defaults to "enroll".

           greeting
               Voice greeting read before the authentication instructions to users who authenticate with a phone callback.  Optional.

           groups_allowed
               A comma-separated list of group IDs that are allowed to authenticate with the integration.  Optional.  By default, all groups are allowed.

           ip_whitelist
               CSV  string  of trusted IPs or IP ranges.  Both CIDR-style ranges and ranges specified by two IP addresses separated by a dash ("-") are supported.  Authentications from these IP addresses
               will not require a second factor.

               This can only be set for certain integrations.  For the range of valid values and circumstances in which this can be used, see the Duo Admin API documentation.  Optional.

           ip_whitelist_enroll_policy
               What to do after a new user from a trusted IP completes primary authentication.  See the "ip_whitelist_enroll_policy()" method below for the possible  values.   Optional  and  defaults  to
               "enforce".

           name
               The name of the integration.  Required.

           notes
               Any further description of the integration.  Optional.

           trusted_device_days
               Number  of  days to allow a user to trust the device they are logging in with.  This can only be set for certain integrations and must be between 0 and 60.  (0 disables this feature.)  For
               the circumstances in which this can be used, see the Duo Admin API documentation.  Optional.

           type
               The type of the integration.  For a list of valid values, see the Duo Admin API documentation.  Required.

           username_normalization_policy
               Controls whether or not usernames should be altered before trying to match them to a user account.   See  the  "username_normalization_policy()"  method  below  for  the  possible  values.
               Optional and defaults to "simple".

           visual_style
               Look  and feel of web content generated by the integration.  This can only be set for certain integrations.  For a list of valid values and circumstances in which this can be used, see the
               Duo Admin API documentation.  Optional.

       new(DUO, DATA)
           Creates a new Net::Duo::Admin::Integration object from a full data set.  DUO is the Net::Duo object that should be used for any further actions  on  this  object.   DATA  should  be  the  data
           structure returned by the Duo REST API for a single user, after JSON decoding.  This constructor is primarily used internally by other Net::Duo::Admin methods.

       new(DUO, KEY)
           Creates  a  new  Net::Duo::Admin::Integration object from the integration key.  DUO is the Net::Duo object that is used to retrieve the integration from Duo and will be used for any subsequent
           operations.  The KEY should be the integration key of the integration.  This constructor is distinguished from the previous constructor by checking whether KEY is a reference.

INSTANCE ACTION METHODS
       delete()
           Delete this integration from Duo.  After successful completion of this call, the Net::Duo::Admin::Integration object should be considered read-only, since no further changes to the object  can
           be meaningfully sent to Duo.

       json()
           Convert the data stored in the object to JSON and return the results.  The resulting JSON should match the JSON that one would get back from the Duo web service when retrieving the same object
           (plus any changes made locally to the object via set_*() methods).  This is primarily intended for debugging dumps or for passing Duo objects to other systems via further JSON APIs.

INSTANCE DATA METHODS
       adminapi_admins()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API methods.

       adminapis_info()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API account info methods.

       adminapis_integrations()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API integration methods.

       adminapis_read_log()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API log methods.

       adminapis_read_resource()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API methods that retrieve objects such as users, phones, and hardware tokens.

       adminapis_settings()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API settings methods.

       adminapis_write_resource()
           Whether this admin integration may use all Admin API methods that create or modify objects such as as users, phones, and hardware tokens.

       enroll_policy()
           What  to  do after an enrolled user passes primary authentication.  The value will be one of "enroll", to prompt the user to enroll, "allow", to allow the user to sign in without presenting an
           additional factor, and "deny", to deny authentication for this user.

       greeting()
           Voice greeting read before the authentication instructions to users who authenticate with a phone callback.

       groups_allowed()
           A reference to an array of group IDs that are allowed to authenticate with the integration.

       ip_whitelist()
           List of trusted IPs or IP ranges.  Ranges may be in the form of CIDR network blocks or ranges specified by two IP addresses separated by a dash ("-") are supported.  Authentications from these
           IP addresses will not require a second factor.  Example values:

               192.0.2.8
               198.51.100.0-198.51.100.20
               203.0.113.0/24

           This is only supported with certain integration types.

       ip_whitelist_enroll_policy()
           What to do after a new user from a trusted IP completes primary authentication.  The value will be either "enforce", meaning that the user will be subject to the normal  enrollment  policy  as
           returned by enroll_policy(), or "allow", which means that the user will be successfully authenticated without being required to enroll, skipping any enrollment policy.

       integration_key()
           The identifier of this integration.  For "adminapi", "accountsapi", "rest", and "verify" integrations, this is the key used as the "integration_key" value when constructing a Net::Duo object.

       name()
           The name of the integration.

       notes()
           Any further description of the integration.

       secret_key()
           Secret  used  when  configuring  systems  to  use  this  integration.   For  "adminapi",  "accountsapi",  "rest", and "verify" integrations, this is the key used as the "secret_key" value when
           constructing a Net::Duo object.  This is equivalent to a password and should be treated with the same care.

       trusted_device_days()
           Number of days to allow a user to trust the device they are logging in with, or 0 if this is disabled.  This setting only has an effect for certain integrations.

       type()
           The type of the integration.  For a list of possible values, see the Duo Admin API documentation.

       username_normalization_policy()
           Controls whether or not usernames should be altered before trying to match them to a user account.  The value will be  either  "none",  indicating  no  normalization,  or  "simple",  in  which
           "DOMAIN\username" and "username@example.com" will be converted to "username" before authentication is attempted.

       visual_style()
           Look and feel of web content generated by the integration.  This only has an effect for some integrations.  For a list of valid values, see the Duo Admin API documentation.

AUTHOR
       Russ Allbery <rra@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2014 The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

       Permission  is  hereby  granted,  free  of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
       including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to
       do so, subject to the following conditions:

       The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

       THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT  LIMITED  TO  THE  WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY,  FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR  PURPOSE  AND
       NONINFRINGEMENT.   IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
       OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

SEE ALSO
       Net::Duo::Admin

       Duo Admin API for integrations <https://www.duo.com/docs/adminapi#integrations>

       This module is part of the Net::Duo distribution.  The current version of Net::Duo is available from CPAN, or directly from its web site at <https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/net-duo/>.

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2022-12-18                                                               Net::Duo::Admin::Integration(3pm)
