Net::SIP::StatelessProxy(3pm)                                User Contributed Perl Documentation                                Net::SIP::StatelessProxy(3pm)

NAME
       Net::SIP::StatelessProxy - Simple implementation of a stateless proxy

SYNOPSIS
       ..

DESCRIPTION
       This package implements a simple stateless SIP proxy.  Basic idea is that the proxy has either a single or two legs and that the packets are exchanged
       between those legs, e.g. packets incoming on one leg will be forwarded through the other leg.

       Because this is a stateless proxy no retransmits will be done by the proxy.

       If the proxy should work as a registrar too it should be put after a Net::SIP::Registrar in a Net::SIP::ReceiveChain.

       While forwarding the proxy will be insert itself into the packet, e.g. it will add Via and Record-Route header while forwarding requests.

       Additionally it will rewrite the Contact header while forwarding packets (see below), e.g. if the Contact header points to some client it will rewrite
       it, so that it points to the proxy and if it already points to the proxy it will rewrite it back so that it again points to the client.

CONSTRUCTOR
       new ( %ARGS )
           Creates a new stateless proxy. With %ARGS the behavior can be influenced:

           dispatcher
                   The Net::SIP::Dispatcher object managing the proxy.

           rewrite_contact
                   Callback  which  is  used  in rewriting Contact headers.  If one puts user@host in it or if it is called with force_rewrite then it should
                   rewrite it and if one puts something without '@' it should try to rewrite it back or return () if it cannot be rewritten back.

                   A working default implementation is provided.  If you want to implement your own: the callbacks gets the arguments  contact,  incoming_leg
                   and  outgoing_leg  and  force_rewrite.   For  rewriting  a contact of user@host the legs will be Net::SIP::Leg objects.  For rewriting the
                   contact back outgoing_leg can be either a leg object and you should check if it is the expected leg. Or it is a scalar reference which you
                   should fill with the leg extracted from the contact.  The function should return the new contact  or  nothing  if  there  was  nothing  to
                   rewrite or the rewrite failed.

                   Note that some servers apply length limitations to the contact so the function should not return too long values.

           rewrite_crypt
                   If you want to have your own encryption for the rewritten contact you should defined a subroutine here, which gets "data" as the first and
                   "dir"  as the second parameter and should return the de/encrypted data. If "dir" is +1 it should encrypt and on -1 it should decrypt.  The
                   optional third argument "add2mac" should be included in calculation  and  verification  of  the  MAC.   The  function  should  return  the
                   encrypted/decrypted data or undef if decryption failed because the MAC did not match.

                   If not defined, then RC4 will be used with a (pseudo)random key, 4 byte (pseudo)random seed and 4 byte MAC (md5) over seed and data.

           nathelper
                   Optional Net::SIP::NATHelper::* object. When given it will be used to do NAT, e.g. if the incoming and outgoing legs are different it will
                   rewrite the SDP bodies to use local sockets and the nathelper will transfer the RTP data between the local and the original sockets.

           force_rewrite
                   Usually  the  contact  header  will  only be rewritten, if the incoming and outgoing leg are different. With this option one can force the
                   rewrite, even if they are the same.

METHODS
       receive ( PACKET, LEG, FROM )
           PACKET is the incoming packet, LEG is the Net::SIP::Leg where the packet arrived and FROM is the "ip:port" of the sender.

           Called from the dispatcher on incoming packets. The packet will be rewritten ("Via" and "Record-Route" headers added, Contact modified)  and  then
           the packet will be forwarded.

           For  requests  it  can  determine  the target of the forwarded packet by looking at the route or if no route it looks at the URI. For responses it
           looks at the next Via header.

       do_nat ( PACKET, INCOMING_LEG, OUTGOING_LEG )
           This will be called from receive while forwarding data.  If nathelper is defined it will be used to  rewrite  SDP  bodies  and  update  nathelpers
           internal states to forward RTP data.

           Return  values  are  like  forward_outgoing in Net::SIP::Leg, e.g.  it will return "[code,text]" on error or "()" on success, where success can be
           that the packet was rewritten or that there was no need to touch it.

UNDOCUMENTED METHODS
       idside2hash

perl v5.40.1                                                              2025-12-07                                            Net::SIP::StatelessProxy(3pm)
