Net::SNMP::Interfaces(3pm)                                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                          Net::SNMP::Interfaces(3pm)

NAME
       Net::SNMP::Interfaces - provide simple methods to gain interface data via

       SNMP

SYNOPSIS
           use Net::SNMP::Interfaces;

           my $interfaces = Net::SNMP::Interfaces->new(Hostname => 'localhost',
                                                       Community => 'public' );

           my @ifnames = $interfaces->all_interfaces();

DESCRIPTION
       Net::SNMP::Interfaces aims to provide simple object methods to obtain information about a host's network interfaces ( be it a server a router or whatever ).  The motivation was largely to allow a
       programmer to use SNMP to obtain this information without needing to know a great deal about the gory details.

       The module uses Net::SNMP under the hood to do the dirty work although the user shouldn't have to worry about that ( the Net::SNMP object is available though for those who might feel the need ).

       The actual details for a particular interface are obtained from the methods of Net::SNMP::Interfaces::Details - objects of which type can be obtained for the methods all_interfaces() and
       interface().

       Of course the simpler interface has its limitations and there may well be things that you would like to do which you cant do with this module - in which case I would recommend that you get a good
       book on SNMP and use Net::SNMP :)

       The module uses blocking SNMP requests at the current time so if some of the methods are taking too long you may want to time them out yourself using alarm().

   METHODS
       new(  HASH %args )
           The constructor of the class. It takes several arguments that are passed to Net::SNMP :

           Hostname
               The name of the host which you want to connect to. Defaults to 'localhost'.

           Community
               The SNMP community string which you want to use for this session.  The default is 'public'.

           Port
               The UDP port that the SNMP service is listening on.  The default is 161.

           Version
               The SNMP version (as described in the Net::SNMP documentation) to be used.  The default is 'snmpv1'.  Support for SNMPv3 is currently somewhat limited.

           There  is  a  also  an  optional argument 'RaiseError' which determines the behaviour of the module in the event there is an error while creating the SNMP.  Normally new() will return undef if
           there was an error but if RaiseError is set to a true value it will die() printing the error string to STDERR.  If this is not set and an error occurs undef will be  return  and  the  variable
           $Net::SNMP::Interfaces::error will contain the test of the error.

           Because  the  interfaces are discovered in the constructor, if the module is to be used in a long running program to monitor a host where interfaces might be added or removed it is recommended
           that the object returned by new() is periodically destroyed and a new one constructed.

       if_names()
           Returns a list of the interface names.

       if_indices()
           Returns a list of the indices of the interfaces - this probably shouldn't be necessary but is here for completeness anyway.  If you don't know what the index is for  you  are  safe  to  ignore
           this.

       error()
           Returns the text of the last Net::SNMP error.  This method only makes sense if the previous method call indicated an error by a false return.

       session()
           Returns  the  Net::SNMP  session  object for this instance. Or a false value if there is no open session.  This might be used to call methods on the Net::SNMP object if some facility is needed
           that isn't supplied by this module.

       all_interfaces()
           Returns a list of Net::SNMP::Interface::Details objects corresponding to the interfaces discovered on this host.  In scalar context it will return a reference to an array.

       interface( SCALAR $name )
           Returns a Net::SNMP::Interfaces::Details object for the named interface.  Returns undef if the supplied name is not a known interface.

       In addition to the methods above, you can also use the methods from Net::SNMP::Interfaces::Details but with the addition of the interface name as an argument. e.g:

             $in_octs = $self->ifInOctets('eth0');

       Please see the documentation for Net::SNMP::Interfaces::Details for more on these methods.

SUPPORT
       The code is host on Github at

            https://github.com/jonathanstowe/Net-SNMP-Interfaces

       Pull requests are welcome, especially if they help support SNMPv3 better.

       Email to <bug-Net-SNMP-Interfaces@rt.cpan.org> is preferred for non-patch requests.

AUTHOR
       Jonathan Stowe <jns@gellyfish.co.uk>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) Jonathan Stowe 2000 -2013.  All rights reserved.  This is free software it can be ditributed and/or modified under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       perl(1), Net::SNMP, Net::SNMP::Interfaces::Details.

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-08-15                                                                      Net::SNMP::Interfaces(3pm)
