NIFTI(1)                                                                                                                                                                                           NIFTI(1)

NAME
       nifti - IO libraries and tools for the NIFTI-1 data format

DESCRIPTION
       The NIfTI-1 data format is a binary file format for storing medical image data, e.g. magnetic resonance image (MRI) and functional MRI (fMRI) brain images.

       The  NIfTI  format  is  an  extension of the widely used ANALYZE 7.5 format. The goals of this modified data format are (1) to add information to the header that will be useful for functional neu‐
       roimaging data analysis and display. These additions include:

              - More basic data types.
              - Two affine transformations to specify voxel coordinates.
              - "Intent" codes and parameters to describe the meaning of the data.
              - Affine scaling of the stored data values to their "true" values.
              - Optional storage of the header and image data in one file (.nii).

       And (2) To maintain compatibility with non-NIFTI-aware ANALYZE 7.5 compatible software (i.e., such a program should be able to do something useful with a NIFTI-1 dataset  --  at  least,  with  one
       stored in a traditional .img/.hdr file pair).

       The NIfTI library package consists of two libraries:

       znzlib -- low level library for handling read/write of compressed files.

       niftilib -- core i/o routines for reading and writing nifti-1 format files. Primarily routines to read/write and manipulate the header field information, including orientation matrices.  Vol‐
       ume-wise, timecourse-wise, access to image data.

SEE ALSO
       nifti_tool(1), nifti1_test(1), nifti_stats(1).

       Homepage: http://niftilib.sourceforge.net

AUTHOR
       The NIfTI libraries were written by the NIfTI Data Format Working Group (DFWG, http://nifti.nimh.nih.gov/ ).

       This manual page was written by Michael Hanke <michael.hanke@gmail.com>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

Michael Hanke                                                                                   August 2006                                                                                        NIFTI(1)
