Net::CLI::Interact::Transport::Serial(3pm)                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                          Net::CLI::Interact::Transport::Serial(3pm)

NAME
       Net::CLI::Interact::Transport::Serial - Serial-line based CLI connection

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides a wrapped instance of a Serial-line client for use by Net::CLI::Interact.

INTERFACE
   app
       On Windows platforms you must download the "plink.exe" program, and pass its location to the library in this parameter. On other platforms, this defaults to "cu", which again you must download and
       install.

   runtime_options
       Based on the "connect_options" hash provided to Net::CLI::Interact on construction, selects and formats parameters to provide to "app" on the command line. Supported attributes:

       FIXME: on Windows platforms, only the device attribute is supported.

       device (required)
           Name of the device providing access to the Serial-line (e.g. "/dev/ttyUSB0" or "COM5".

       parity
           You have a choice of "even", "odd" or "none" for the parity used in serial communication. The default is "none".

       nostop
           You can control whether to use "XON/XOFF" handling for the serial communication. The default is to disable this, so to enable it pass any True value.

       speed
           You can set the speed (or baud rate) of the serial line by passing a value to this named parameter. The default is 9600.

       opts
           If  you  want  to  pass  any other options to the application, then use this option, which should be an array reference. Each item in the list will be passed to the application, separated by a
           single space character.

       reap
           Only used on Unix platforms, this installs a signal handler which attempts to reap the child process. Pass a true value to enable this feature only if you notice  zombie  processes  are  being
           left behind after use.

COMPOSITION
       See the following for further interface details:

       •   Net::CLI::Interact::Transport::Base

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2023-10-28                                                      Net::CLI::Interact::Transport::Serial(3pm)
