SIMPLE2ZOOM(1p)                                                                     User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                     SIMPLE2ZOOM(1p)

NAME
       simple2zoom - generic Swiss Army Server for proxying between IR standards

SYNOPSIS
       "simple2zoom" [ "-c" configFile ] [ "--" YAZ-options ] [ listener-address ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       "simple2zoom" provides a generic gateway between the Z39.50 and SRU/SRW Information Retrieval protocols.  Because it relies on the "Net::Z3950::SimpleServer" and "ZOOM" modules for the server and
       client funcationality respectively, because both of these modules are based on the YAZ toolkit, and because YAZ transparently handles all three standard IR protocols (ANDI/NISO Z39.50, SRU and
       SRW), it can function as a gateway from any and to any of these protocols.  However, its principle purpose is as a Z39.50 server that proxies requests through to a backend by acting as an SRU
       client.

       The following command-line options govern how the gateway functions:

       -c configFile
           Specifies  that  the  named  configFile  should  be  used to configure the functionality of the gateway: if this option is not specified, then the file "client.xml" is used.  The format of the
           configuration file is described separately in "Net::Z3950::Simple2ZOOM::Config", and a sample configuration file, "test.xml", is supplied in the "etc" directory of the distribution.

       --  Indicates the end of "simple2zoom"-specific options.  This is required if YAZ options are to be specified, so that "simple2zoom" doesn't try to interpret them itself.

       YAZ-options
           Command-line arguments subsequent to the "--" option are interpreted by the YAZ backend server as described at http://www.indexdata.dk/yaz/doc/server.invocation.tkl

           These options provide the means to control many aspects of the gateway's functioning: for example, whether the server forks a new process for  each  client  or  runs  a  single  process  using
           select(); how (if at all) to interpret incoming SRU requests; whether and how to log protocol packets for debugging.

       listener-address
           One  or  more YAZ-style listener addresses may be specified, and the server will accept connections on those addresses: for example, @:9998, "unix:/tmp/somesocket" or "ssl:myhost.com:210".  If
           no explicit listener addresses are provided, the server listens on port 9999.

SEE ALSO
       The "Net::Z3950::Simple2ZOOM" module.

       The "Net::Z3950::Simple2ZOOM::Config" manual for the configuration-file format.

       The "Net::Z3950::SimpleServer" module.

       The "ZOOM" module (in the "Net::Z3950::ZOOM" distribution).

AUTHOR
       Sebastian Hammer <quinn@miketaylor.org.uk>

       Mike Taylor <mike@indexdata.com>

       The development of "simple2zoom", and the "Net::Z3950::Simple2ZOOM" library that provides its functionality, has been partially sponsored by the National Library of Australia,  whose  contribution
       we gratefully acknowledge.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE
       Copyright (C) 2007 by Index Data.

       This  library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.8 or, at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have
       available.

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-08-18                                                                                 SIMPLE2ZOOM(1p)
