POE::Component::Jabber::J2(3pm)                                                     User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                     POE::Component::Jabber::J2(3pm)

NAME
       POE::Component::Jabber::J2 - connect to the jabberd20 router as a service

SYNOPSIS
       PCJ::J2 is a Protocol implementation that is used to connect to the jabberd20 router as a service.

DESCRIPTION
       PCJ::J2 implements the jabberd2 component spec located here: (http://jabberd.jabberstudio.org/dev/docs/component.shtml) Specifically, PCJ::J2 will negotiate TLS, SASL, and domain binding required
       to establish a working connection with jabberd2 as a service.

METHODS
       Please see PCJ::Protocol for what methods this class supports.

EVENTS
       Listed are the exported events that make their way into the PCJ session:

       set_auth
         This handles the initial SASL authentication portion of the connection.

       init_input_handler
         This is our entry point. This is what PCJ uses to deliver events to us.  It handles various responses until the connection is initialized fully.

       build_tls_wheel
         If TLS is required by the server, this is where that negotiation process happens.

       challenge_response
         This handles the subsequent SASL authentication steps.

       binding
         This handles the domain binding

NOTES AND BUGS
       This Protocol may implement the spec, but this spec hasn't been touched in quite some time. If for some reason my implementation fails against a particular jabberd2 version, please let me know.

       The underlying backend has changed this release to now use a new Node implementation based on XML::LibXML::Element. Please see POE::Filter::XML::Node documentation for the relevant API changes.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (c) 2003-2009 Nicholas Perez. Distributed under the GPL.

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2023-08-26                                                                 POE::Component::Jabber::J2(3pm)
