PPI::Token::Quote::Double(3pm)                               User Contributed Perl Documentation                               PPI::Token::Quote::Double(3pm)

NAME
       PPI::Token::Quote::Double - A standard "double quote" token

INHERITANCE
         PPI::Token::Quote::Double
         isa PPI::Token::Quote
             isa PPI::Token
                 isa PPI::Element

DESCRIPTION
       A "PPI::Token::Quote::Double" object represents a double-quoted interpolating string.

       The string is treated as a single entity, PPI will not try to understand what is in the string during the parsing process.

METHODS
       There are several methods available for "PPI::Token::Quote::Double", beyond those provided by the parent PPI::Token::Quote, PPI::Token and
       PPI::Element classes.

   interpolations
       The interpolations method checks to see if the double quote actually contains any interpolated variables.

       Returns true if the string contains interpolations, or false if not.

   simplify
       For various reasons, some people find themselves compelled to have their code in the simplest form possible.

       The "simplify" method will, if possible, modify a simple double-quoted string token in place, turning it into the equivalent single-quoted string. If
       the token is modified, it is reblessed into the PPI::Token::Quote::Single package.

       Because the length of the content is not changed, there is no need to call the document's "flush_locations" method.

       The object itself is returned as a convenience.

SUPPORT
       See the support section in the main module.

AUTHOR
       Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2001 - 2011 Adam Kennedy.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

       The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included with this module.

perl v5.40.1                                                              2025-10-29                                           PPI::Token::Quote::Double(3pm)
