PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper(3pm)                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                 PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper(3pm)

NAME
       PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper - Dump the results of parsing quotelike things

SYNOPSIS
        use PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper;
        PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper->new( '"foo$bar baz"' )
          ->print();

DESCRIPTION
       This class generates a formatted dump of a PPIx::QuoteLike object, or a string that can be made into such an object.

METHODS
       This class supports the following public methods. Methods not documented here are private, and unsupported in the sense that the author reserves the
       right to change or remove them without notice.

   new
        my $dumper = PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper->new(
            '"foo$bar baz"',
            variables  => 1,
        );

       This static method instantiates the dumper. It takes the string or PPIx::QuoteLike object to be dumped as the first argument. Optional further
       arguments may be passed as name/value pairs.

       The following optional arguments are recognized:

       encoding name
           This  argument  is  the  encoding  of  the  object  to  be  dumped.  It is passed through to PPIx::QuoteLike new() unless the first argument was a
           PPIx::QuoteLike object, in which case it is ignored.

       indent number
           This argument specifies the number of additional spaces to indent each level of the parse hierarchy. This is ignored if the "tokens"  argument  is
           true.

           The default is 2.

       margin number
           This argument is the number of additional spaces to indent the parse hierarchy, over those specified by the margin.

           The default is 0.

       perl_version Boolean
           This argument specifies whether or not the perl versions introduced and removed are included in the dump.

           The default is 0 (i.e. false).

       postderef Boolean
           THIS ARGUMENT IS DEPRECATED.  See DEPRECATION NOTICE in PPIx::QuoteLike for the details.

           This argument specifies whether or not postfix dereferences are recognized in interpolations. It is passed through to PPIx::QuoteLike new() unless
           the first argument was a PPIx::QuoteLike object, in which case it is ignored.

       ppi Boolean
           This argument specifies whether or not a PPI dump is provided for interpolations.

           The default is 0 (i.e. false).

       short Boolean
           If true, leading 'PPIx::QuoteLike::' will be removed from the class names in the output.

       tokens boolean
           If true, this argument causes an unstructured dump of tokens found in the parse.

           The default is 0 (i.e. false).

       variables Boolean
           If true, this argument causes all variables actually interpolated by any interpolations to be dumped.

           The default is 0 (i.e. false).

   dump
        print PPIx::Regexp::Dumper->dump( 'foo/bar.pl',
            variables => 1,
        );

       This  static  method returns a string that represents a dump of its first argument. It takes the same optional arguments as new(). This method differs
       from new() in its interpretation of the first argument.

       •   If the first argument is the name of a file, or is a SCALAR reference, it is made into a PPI::Document and all strings in the document are dumped.

       •   If the first argument is a PPI::Node all strings in the node are dumped. Note that a PPI::Document is a PPI::Node.

       Otherwise the first argument is handled just like new() would handle it.

       The return is the string representation of the dump.

       In addition to the optional arguments accepted by new(), the following can be specified:

       none
           This argument specifies a string to return if no dump can be produced (typically because the first argument is neither a file name nor  text  that
           is recognized by this package). If unspecified, or specified as "undef", nothing is returned in this case.

       The  output  for an individual quote-like object differs from the string() output on the same object in that it is preceded by the literal sting being
       dumped, and file and location information if that can be determined.

   list
        print map { "$_\n" } $dumper->list();

       This method returns an array containing the dump output. one line per element. The output has no  left  margin  applied,  and  no  trailing  newlines.
       Embedded newlines are probable if the "ppi" argument was specified when the dumper was instantiated.

   print
        $dumper->print();

       This method simply prints the result of "string" to standard out.

   string
        print $dumper->string();

       This method adds left margin and newlines to the output of "list", concatenates the result into a single string, and returns that string.

SUPPORT
       Support    is    by    the    author.    Please    file    bug    reports    at    <https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=PPIx-QuoteLike>,
       <https://github.com/trwyant/perl-PPIx-QuoteLike/issues>, or in electronic mail to the author.

AUTHOR
       Thomas R. Wyant, III wyant at cpan dot org

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2016-2022 by Thomas R. Wyant, III

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the  full  text  of
       the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

       This  program  is  distributed  in  the hope that it will be useful, but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability or
       fitness for a particular purpose.

perl v5.36.0                                                              2022-09-21                                             PPIx::QuoteLike::Dumper(3pm)
