SMS::Send::Driver(3pm)                                                              User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                              SMS::Send::Driver(3pm)

NAME
       SMS::Send::Driver - Base class for SMS::Send drivers

DESCRIPTION
       The "SMS::Send::Driver" class provides an abstract base class for all SMS::Send driver classes.

       At this time it does not provide any implementation code for drivers (although this may change in the future) with the exception of some methods provided to trigger "does not implement method"
       errors.

       However, it does serve as something you should sub-class your driver from to identify it as a SMS::Send driver.

       Please note that if your driver class not not return true for "$driver-"isa('SMS::Send::Driver')> then the SMS::Send constructor will refuse to use your class as a driver.

METHODS
   new
       The "new" constructor is required to be implemented by your driver subclass.

       It recieves a set of arbitrary paired params. The values of these params are assumed to be driver-specific (this is expected to change).

       If your driver will need to login to some system, locate hardware, or do some other form of initialisation to validate the SMS delivery mechanism exists, it should do so in "new".

       Should return a new SMS::Send::Driver-subclass object, or die on error.

   send_sms
       The "send_sms" method is required to be implemented by your driver subclass.

       It recieves a set of param pairs as documented in SMS::Send.

       Should return true for either success or fire-and-forget with unknown result, defined-but-false ('' or 0) for a failed message send, or die on a fatal error.

SUPPORT
       Bugs should be reported via the CPAN bug tracker at

       <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=SMS-Send>

       For other issues, contact the author.

AUTHOR
       Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2005 - 2011 Adam Kennedy.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

       The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included with this module.

perl v5.36.0                                                                                     2023-08-18                                                                          SMS::Send::Driver(3pm)
