DTDPARSE(1p)                                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                 DTDPARSE(1p)

NAME
       dtdparse - Generate an XML representation of an SGML or XML DTD.

SYNOPSIS
        dtdparse [options] [dtdfile]

DESCRIPTION
       dtdparse parses an XML or SGML DTD and prints an XML representation of it.  The XML version can be further processed by other tools to aid in the
       analysis and documentation of the DTD.

       The first non-option-related argument provided on the command-line specifies the file to parse.  If no filename is given, then the DTD is read from
       standard input.

       The generated XML document is printed to standard output unless the "--output" option is specified.

OPTIONS
       --catalog <catalog>
           Specify catalog files to parse for resolving external entity references.  This option can be specified multiple times.

           NOTE: Currently, only SGML Open Catalog format is supported.  XML Catalog support is not implemented (yet).

       --debug
           Extra debugging output.  This option can be specified multiple times to increase the amount of output.

           Debugging output is sent to standard error.

       --declaration <file>
           Specify  the  SGML declaration.  The SGML declaration is parsed to determine the type of DTD being parsed, XML or SGML.  The key parts of the SGML
           declaration examined are the NAMECASE and CHARSET directives to determine the DTD type.

           If no SGML declaration is available, the "--xml", "--namecase-general", and "--namecase-entity" options can be used.

       --namecase-general
       --nonamecase-general
           In the absence of an SGML declaration, these options specifiy if "NAMECASE GENERAL" is YES or NO.  The default is YES unless "--xml" is specified.

       --namecase-entity
       --nonamecase-entity
           In the absence of an SGML declaration, these options specifiy if "NAMECASE ENTITY" is YES or NO.  The default is NO.

       --output <file>
           Specifies the filename to send XML output.

       --public-id <pubid>
           The DTD's public ID.

       --system-id <sysid>
           The DTD's system ID.

       --title <title>
           Set the title of the DTD.

       --unexpanded
       --nounexpanded
           Include, or do not include, unexpanded content models in generated XML.  By default, unexpanded content models are included.

           It is common for DTD authors and maintainers to use parameter entities within content models.  When this option is enabled, dtdparse will  include
           a version of content models with parameter entities not expanded.

       --verbose
       --noverbose
           Print parsing progress.  By default, this option is enabled.  Verbose output is sent to standard error.

           If "--debug" is specified, then this option is automatically enabled.

       --xml
       --noxml
           In the absence of an SGML declaration, this option specifies if the DTD is an XML DTD or an SGML DTD (the default is --noxml).

       --version
           Print version and synopsis.

       --help
           Print synopsis and options available.

       --man
           Print manual page.

SEE ALSO
       dtdformat, dtddiff, dtdflatten

       See SGML::DTDParse for an overview of the DTDParse package.

PREREQUISITES
       Getopt::Long, Text::DelimMatch

AVAILABILITY
       <http://dtdparse.sourceforge.net/>

AUTHORS
       Originally developed by Norman Walsh, <ndw@nwalsh.com>.

       Earl Hood <earl@earlhood.com> picked up support and maintenance.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       See SGML::DTDParse for copyright and license information.

perl v5.40.1                                                              2025-11-25                                                             DTDPARSE(1p)
