Sub::Delete(3pm)                                                                    User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                    Sub::Delete(3pm)

NAME
       Sub::Delete - Perl module enabling one to delete subroutines

VERSION
       1.00003

SYNOPSIS
           use Sub::Delete;
           sub foo {}
           delete_sub 'foo';
           eval 'foo();1' or die; # dies

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides one function, "delete_sub", that deletes the subroutine whose name is passed to it. (To load the module without importing the function, write "use Sub::Delete();".)

       This does more than simply undefine the subroutine in the manner of "undef &foo", which leaves a stub that can trigger AUTOLOAD (and, consequently, won't work for deleting methods).  The
       subroutine is completely obliterated from the symbol table (though there may be references to it elsewhere, including in compiled code).

PREREQUISITES
       This module requires perl 5.8.3 or higher.

LIMITATIONS
       If you take a reference to a glob containing a subroutine, and then delete the subroutine with "delete_sub", you will find that the glob you referenced still has a subroutine in it. This is
       because "delete_sub" removes a glob, replaces it with another, and then copies the contents of the old glob into the new one, except for the "CODE" slot. (This is nearly impossible to fix without
       breaking constant::lexical.)

BUGS
       If you find any bugs, please report them to the author via e-mail.

AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2008-10 Father Chrysostomos (sprout at, um, cpan dot org)

       This program is free software; you may redistribute or modify it (or both) under the same terms as perl.

SEE ALSO
       perltodo, which has "delete &sub" listed as a possible future feature

       Symbol::Glob and Symbol::Util, both of which predate this module (but I only discovered them recently), and which allow one to delete any arbitrary slot from a glob. Neither of them takes perl
       5.10 constants into account, however. They also both differ from this module, in that a subroutine referenced in compiled code can no longer be called if deleted from its glob. The entire glob
       must be replaced (which this module does).

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-09-28                                                                                Sub::Delete(3pm)
