Test::Trap::Builder::TempFile(3pm)                                                  User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                  Test::Trap::Builder::TempFile(3pm)

NAME
       Test::Trap::Builder::TempFile - Capture strategies using File::Temp

VERSION
       Version 0.3.5

DESCRIPTION
       This module by default provides a capture strategy based on File::Temp for the trap's output layers.

       The import accepts a name (as a string; default tempfile) and options (as a hashref; by default empty), and registers a capture strategy with that name and a variant implementation based on the
       options.

       Note that you may specify different strategies for each output layer on the trap.

       See also Test::Trap (:stdout and :stderr) and Test::Trap::Builder (output_layer).

OPTIONS
       The following options are recognized:

   preserve_io_layers
       A boolean, indicating whether to apply to the handles writing to and reading from the tempfile, the same perlio layers as are found on the to-be-trapped output handle.

   io_layers
       A colon-separated string representing perlio layers to be applied to the handles writing to and reading from the tempfile.

       If the preserve_io_layers option is set, these perlio layers will be applied on top of the original (preserved) perlio layers.

CAVEATS
       Using File::Temp, we need privileges to create tempfiles.

       We need disk space for the output of every trap (it should clean up after the trap is sprung).

       Disk access may be slow -- certainly compared to the in-memory files of PerlIO.

       If the options specify (explicitly or via preserve on handles with) perlio custom layers, they may (or may not) fail to apply to the tempfile read and write handles.

       Threads?  No idea.  It might even work correctly.

BUGS
       Please report any bugs or feature requests directly to the author.

AUTHOR
       Eirik Berg Hanssen, "<ebhanssen@cpan.org>"

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
       Copyright 2006-2014 Eirik Berg Hanssen, All Rights Reserved.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-08-01                                                              Test::Trap::Builder::TempFile(3pm)
