Task::Kensho(3pm)                                                                   User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                   Task::Kensho(3pm)

NAME
       Task::Kensho - A Glimpse at an Enlightened Perl

VERSION
       version 0.41

SYNOPSIS
           # apt-get install libtask-kensho-all-perl

DESCRIPTION
       Task::Kensho is a list of recommended, widely used and best-in-class modules for Enlightened Perl development. CPAN is wonderful, but there are too many wheels and you have to pick and choose
       amongst the various competing technologies.

       From <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kensho>:

           Kenshō (見性) (C. Wu) is a Japanese term for enlightenment experiences - most commonly used within the confines of Zen Buddhism - literally meaning "seeing one's nature"[1] or "true self."[2]
           It generally "refers to the realization of nonduality of subject and object."[3]

       The plan is for Task::Kensho to be a rough testing ground for ideas that go into among other things the Enlightened Perl Organisation Extended Core (EPO-EC).

       The modules that are bundled by Task::Kensho are broken down into several categories and are still being considered. They are all taken from various top 100 most used perl modules lists and from
       discussions with various subject matter experts in the Perl Community. That said, this bundle does not follow the guidelines established for the EPO-EC for peer review via industry advisers.

       Starting in 2011, Task::Kensho split its sub-groups of modules into individually-installable tasks.  Each Task::Kensho sub-task is listed at the beginning of its section in this documentation.

       When installing Task::Kensho in Debian GNU/Linux, you can install each sub-task metapackage separately (e.g. libtask-kensho-async-perl), or you can install all tasks at once by installing the
       libtask-kensho-all-perl metapackage.  These metapackages facilitate the ease and simplicity the distribution aims to achieve whilst utilising the power of the Debian GNU/Linux package system.

RECOMMENDED MODULES
   Task::Kensho::Async: Async Programming
       Future
           represent an operation awaiting completion

       IO::Async
           Asynchronous event-driven programming

       MCE Many-Core Engine for Perl providing parallel processing capabilities

       Mojo::IOLoop
           Minimalistic event loop

       POE Multitasking and networking framework for Perl

       Parallel::ForkManager
           A simple parallel processing fork manager

   Task::Kensho::CLI: Useful Command-line Tools
       App::Ack
           A grep-like text finder

       App::Nopaste
           Easy access to any pastebin

       Module::CoreList
           What modules shipped with versions of perl

       Reply
           reply - read, eval, print, loop, yay!

   Task::Kensho::Config: Config Modules
       Config::Any
           Load configuration from different file formats, transparently

       Config::General
           Generic Config Module

       JSON::MaybeXS
           wrapper around the most current and fast JSON backends

   Task::Kensho::DBDev: Database Development
       DBD::SQLite
           Self Contained RDBMS in a DBI Driver

       DBI Database independent interface for Perl

       DBIx::Class
           Extensible and flexible object <-> relational mapper.

       DBIx::Class::Schema::Loader
           Dynamic definition of a DBIx::Class::Schema

       SQL::Translator
           Manipulate structured data definitions (SQL and more)

   Task::Kensho::Dates: Date Modules
       DateTime
           A date and time object

       Time::Moment
           A fast immutable object representing a date and time

       Time::ParseDate
           Date parsing both relative and absolute

       Time::Piece
           A date and time object based on localtime or gmtime

   Task::Kensho::Email: Email
       Email::MIME::Kit
           The Swiss army chainsaw of assembling email messages

       Email::Sender
           A library for sending email

       Email::Simple
           A simple email object. No, really!

       Email::Stuffer
           A more casual approach to creating and sending Email:: emails

       Email::Valid
           Check validity of Internet email addresses

   Task::Kensho::ExcelCSV: Excel/CSV
       Excel::Writer::XLSX
           Create spreadsheets in the XLSX format

       Spreadsheet::Read
           Read the data from a spreadsheet

       Spreadsheet::WriteExcel::Simple
           Create XLS documents easily

       Text::CSV_XS
           Manipulate comma-separated values (CSV)

   Task::Kensho::Exceptions: Exception Handling
       Syntax::Keyword::Try
           try/catch/finally with full syntax support for control statements

       Try::Tiny
           Lightweight exception handling that handles the vagaries of $@.

       autodie
           Make builtins and other functions die instead of returning undef on failure.

   Task::Kensho::Hackery: Script Hackery
       These  packages are included less for production work and more for whippitupitude. They reflect packages that people have found incredibly useful for prototyping and debugging before reducing down
       to a production script.

       IO::All
           IO::All combines all of the best Perl IO modules into a single nifty object oriented interface to greatly simplify your everyday Perl IO idioms.

       Smart::Comments
           Comments that do more than just sit there

       Term::ProgressBar::Simple
           Simple progress bars

       ojo Fun one-liners with Mojo

   Task::Kensho::Logging: Logging
       Log::Any
           Bringing loggers and listeners together.

       Log::Contextual
           Log::Contextual is a simple interface to extensible logging.  It is bundled with a really basic logger, Log::Contextual::SimpleLogger.

       Log::Dispatch
           This module manages a set of Log::Dispatch::* output objects that can be logged to via a unified interface.

       Log::Log4perl
           Log::Log4perl lets you remote-control and fine-tune the logging behaviour of your system from the outside. It implements the widely popular (Java-based) Log4j logging package in pure Perl.

   Task::Kensho::ModuleDev: Module Development
       CPAN::Uploader
           Upload things to the CPAN

       Code::TidyAll
           Engine for tidyall, your all-in-one code tidier and validator

       Data::Printer
           Colored pretty-print of Perl data structures and objects

       Devel::Confess
           Include stack traces on all warnings and errors

       Devel::Dwarn
           Combine warns and Data::Dumper::Concise

       Devel::NYTProf
           Powerful feature-rich perl source code profiler

       Dist::Zilla
           Builds distributions of code to be uploaded to the CPAN.

       Modern::Perl
           enable all of the features of Modern Perl with one command

       Module::Build::Tiny
           A simple, lightweight, drop-in replacement for ExtUtils::MakeMaker or Module::Build

       Perl::Critic
           Critique Perl source code for best-practices.

       Perl::Tidy
           Parses and beautifies perl source

       Pod::Readme
           Convert POD to README file

       Software::License
           Packages that provide templated software licenses

   Task::Kensho::OOP: Object Oriented Programming
       Moo Minimalist Object Orientation (with Moose compatibility)

       Moose
           a postmodern object system for Perl5 (see also Task::Moose for a larger list of Moose extensions)

       MooseX::Aliases
           easy aliasing of methods and attributes in Moose

       MooseX::Getopt
           a Moose role for processing command line options

       MooseX::NonMoose
           easy subclassing of non-Moose classes

       MooseX::Role::Parameterized
           Moose roles with composition parameters

       MooseX::SimpleConfig
           a Moose role for setting attributes from a simple configuration file

       MooseX::StrictConstructor
           a Moose extension that makes your object constructors blow up on unknown attributes

       Package::Variant
           Parameterizable packages

       Type::Tiny
           tiny, yet Moo(se)-compatible type constraints

       namespace::autoclean
           keep imports out of your namespace (Moose-aware)

   Task::Kensho::Scalability: Scalability
       CHI A unified cache interface, like DBI

       Redis
           Perl binding for Redis database

   Task::Kensho::Testing: Testing
       Devel::Cover
           Code coverage metrics for Perl

       Test2::Suite
           Distribution with a rich set of tools built upon the Test2 framework.

       Test::Deep
           Test deep data structures

       Test::Fatal
           Test exception-based code

       Test::Memory::Cycle
           Check for memory leaks and circular memory references

       Test::Pod
           Check for POD errors in files

       Test::Pod::Coverage
           Check for pod coverage in your distribution.

       Test::Requires
           Make running a test conditional on a particular module being installed

       Test::Simple
           Basic utilities for writing tests.

       Test::Warnings
           Test for warnings and the lack of them

   Task::Kensho::Toolchain: Basic Toolchain
       App::FatPacker
           Pack your dependencies onto your script file

       App::cpanminus
           Get, unpack, build and install modules from CPAN

       App::cpm
           a fast CPAN module installer

       App::perlbrew
           Manage perl installations in your $HOME

       CPAN::Mini
           Create a minimal mirror of CPAN

       Carton
           Perl module dependency manager (aka Bundler for Perl)

       Pinto
           Curate a repository of Perl modules

       local::lib
           Create and use a local lib/ for perl modules with PERL5LIB

       version
           Perl extension for Version Objects

   Task::Kensho::WebCrawling: Web Crawling
       HTTP::Thin
           A Thin Wrapper around HTTP::Tiny to play nice with HTTP::Message

       HTTP::Tiny
           Lightweight HTTP client implementation

       LWP::Simple
           Simple procedural interface to LWP

       LWP::UserAgent
           Full-featured Web client library for Perl

       Mojo::UserAgent
           Non-blocking I/O HTTP and WebSocket user agent

       WWW::Mechanize
           Handy web browsing in a Perl object

       WWW::Mechanize::TreeBuilder
           This module combines WWW::Mechanize and HTML::TreeBuilder.

       WWW::Selenium
           Perl Client for the Selenium Remote Control test tool

   Task::Kensho::WebDev: Web Development
       Attean
           A Semantic Web Framework

       CGI::FormBuilder::Source::Perl
           Build CGI::FormBuilder configs from Perl syntax files.

       Dancer2
           the new generation of Dancer, a lightweight yet powerful web application framework

       HTML::FormHandler
           HTML forms using Moose

       HTTP::BrowserDetect
           Determine Web browser, version, and platform from an HTTP user agent string

       MIME::Types
           Definition of MIME types

       Mojolicious
           Real-time web framework

       Plack
           Flexible superglue between Web Servers and Perl Web Frameworks or code.

       Task::Catalyst
           Catalyst is The Elegant MVC Web Application Framework. Task::Catalyst is all you need to start with Catalyst.

       Template
           (Template::Toolkit) Template Processing System

       Web::Simple
           A quick and easy way to build simple web applications

       XML::Atom
           Atom feed and API implementation

       XML::RSS
           Creates and updates RSS files

   Task::Kensho::XML: XML Development
       XML::Generator::PerlData
           Perl extension for generating SAX2 events from nested Perl data structures.

       XML::LibXML
           Perl Binding for libxml2

       XML::LibXSLT
           Interface to the gnome libxslt library

       XML::SAX
           Simple/Streaming API for XML

       XML::SAX::Writer
           Output XML from SAX2 Events

INSTALLING
       To install all Task::Kensho tasks and their recommended modules on Debian GNU/Linux, install the libtask-kensho-all-perl metapackage:

           # apt-get install libtask-kensho-all-perl

       Each Kensho task is itself a metapackage. To install a specific task, install the relevant metapackage. E.g. for Task::Kensho::Async:

           # apt-get install libtask-kensho-async-perl

LIMITATIONS
       This list is by no means comprehensive of the "Good" Modules on CPAN.  Nor is this necessarily the correct path for all developers. Each of these modules has  a  perfectly  acceptable  replacement
       that may work better for you. This is however a path to good perl practice, and a starting place on the road to Enlightened Perl programming.

SEE ALSO
       <http://www.enlightenedperl.org/>, Perl::Dist::Strawberry

SUPPORT
       Bugs may be submitted through <https://github.com/EnlightenedPerlOrganisation/task-kensho/issues>.

       There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at "#epo" on "irc.perl.org" <irc://irc.perl.org/#epo>.

AUTHOR
       Chris Prather <chris@prather.org>

CONTRIBUTORS
       •   Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

       •   Chris Nehren <apeiron@cpan.org>

       •   Leo Lapworth <leo@cuckoo.org>

       •   Dan Book <grinnz@grinnz.com>

       •   Dan Book <grinnz@gmail.com>

       •   Mohammad S Anwar <mohammad.anwar@yahoo.com>

       •   Olaf Alders <olaf@wundersolutions.com>

       •   Rachel Kelly <rkellyalso@gmail.com>

       •   Shawn Sorichetti <shawn@coloredblocks.com>

       •   Andrew Whatson <whatson@gmail.com>

       •   Florian Ragwitz <rafl@debian.org>

       •   Rick Leir <rleir@leirtech.com>

       •   Tina Müller <cpan2@tinita.de>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE
       This software is copyright (c) 2008 by Chris Prather.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-10-13                                                                               Task::Kensho(3pm)
