Tickit::Event(3pm)                                                                  User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                  Tickit::Event(3pm)

NAME
       "Tickit::Event" - event information structures

DESCRIPTION
       When event handlers bound to Tickit::Term or Tickit::Window instances are invoked they receive an object instance to contain information about the event. Details of the event can be accessed as
       via accessor methods on these instances.

ACCESSORS
       The following methods are shared between "Tickit::Event::Key" and "Tickit::Event::Mouse" instances.

   mod_is_alt
   mod_is_ctrl
   mod_is_shift
       Convenient shortcuts to tests on the "mod" bitmask to test if each of the modifiers is set.

Tickit::Event::Expose
   rb
       The Tickit::RenderBuffer instance containing the buffer for this redraw cycle.

   rect
       A Tickit::Rect instance containing the region of the window that needs repainting.

Tickit::Event::Focus
   type
       This accessor has two forms of operation.

       The new behaviour is that it returns a dualvar giving the focus event type as an integer or a string event name ("in" or "out"). This behaviour is selected if the method is invoked with any true
       value as an argument.

       The legacy behaviour is that it returns a simple boolean giving the focus direction; 1 for in, 0 for out. This legacy behaviour will be removed in a later version.

   win
       The child Tickit::Window instance for child-focus notify events.

Tickit::Event::Key
   type
       A dualvar giving the key event type as an integer or string event name ("text" or "key").

   str
       A string containing the key event string.

   mod
       An integer bitmask indicating the modifier state.

Tickit::Event::Mouse
   type
       A dualvar giving the mouse event type as an integer or string event name ("press", "drag", "release" or "wheel").

   button
       An integer for non-wheel events or a dualvar for wheel events giving the wheel direction ("up" or "down").

   line
   col
       Integers giving the mouse position.

   mod
       An integer bitmask indicating the modifier state.

Tickit::Event::Resize
   lines
   cols
       Integers giving the new size.

AUTHOR
       Paul Evans <leonerd@leonerd.org.uk>

perl v5.40.0                                                                                     2024-10-15                                                                              Tickit::Event(3pm)
