Web::Machine::Manual(3pm)                                    User Contributed Perl Documentation                                    Web::Machine::Manual(3pm)

NAME
       Web::Machine::Manual - Learn how to use Web::Machine

VERSION
       version 0.17

Web::Machine IN A NUTSHELL
       The basic idea behind "Web::Machine" is that the handling of a web request is implemented as a state machine. If you're not familiar with state
       machines, think of a flowchart. We look at the request and the resource we provide and ask questions about them. Is our service available? Is this a
       GET, POST, PUT, etc.? Does the request ask for a content type our resource provides?

       The result of each question leads us to the next state (or flowchart box). Eventually we reach a point where we have a response for the client. Since
       this is all built on top of Plack and PSGI <http://plackperl.org/>, the response consists of a status code, some headers, and an optional body.

       The best way to understand the full request/response cycle is to look at the original Erlang webmachine state diagram
       <https://github.com/basho/webmachine/wiki/Diagram>. Each diamond in that diagram corresponds to a method that your Web::Machine::Resource subclass can
       implement. The return value from your method determines what method to call next.

       However, unlike on that diagram, we often support return values beyond simple true/false values for methods. The Web::Machine::Resource documentation
       describes what each method can return.

Web::Machine and Plack
       "Web::Machine" is built on top of Plack and follows the PSGI <http://plackperl.org/> spec. You can mix "Web::Machine" applications with other Plack
       applications using standard Plack tools like Plack::Builder.

   Web::Machine and Plack Middleware
       Since "Web::Machine" implements the complete request and response cycle, some Plack middleware is not really needed with "Web::Machine". For example,
       it wouldn't make sense to use something like "Plack::Middleware::XSLT" with "Web::Machine". "Web::Machine" implements the full content negotiation
       process, so if you want to handle requests for "text/html" it probably makes more sense to do this in your resources. The benefit of doing so is that
       with "Web::Machine" you can easily ensure that you return a proper "406 Not Acceptable" status for content types you can't handle.

       There are still many pieces of Plack middleware that are useful with "Web::Machine", such as logging middleware, debugging/linting middleware, etc.

       That all said, "Web::Machine" won't break if you use an inappropriate middleware; you'll just lose some of the benefits you get from implementing
       things the "Web::Machine" way.

   Bodies Must be Bytes
       The PSGI spec requires that the body you return contain bytes, not Perl characters. In other words, strings you return must be passed through
       "Encode::encode" so that Perl interprets their contents as bytes.

       If your data is not binary or ASCII, your resource should make sure to provide charset_provided() and default_charset() methods. This will make sure
       that "Web::Machine" knows how to turn your response bodies into bytes.

       CAVEAT: Note that currently "Web::Machine" does not provide full charset or encoding support when the body is returned as a CODE ref. This is a bug to
       be remedied in the future, but currently you are responsible for making sure this code ref returns bytes.

SUPPORT
       bugs may be submitted through <https://github.com/houseabsolute/webmachine-perl/issues>.

AUTHORS
       •   Stevan Little <stevan@cpan.org>

       •   Dave Rolsky <autarch@urth.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE
       This software is copyright (c) 2016 by Infinity Interactive, Inc.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.40.1                                                              2025-08-04                                                Web::Machine::Manual(3pm)
