WIKI-TOOLKIT-SETUPDB(1p)                                                            User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                            WIKI-TOOLKIT-SETUPDB(1p)

NAME
       wiki-toolkit-setupdb - Set up a database storage backend for Wiki::Toolkit.

SYNOPSIS
         # Set up or update the storage backend, leaving any existing data
         # intact. Useful for upgrading from old versions of Wiki::Toolkit to
         # newer ones with more backend features.

         wiki-toolkit-setupdb --type postgres
                              --name mywiki \
                              --user wiki  \
                              --pass wiki \
                              --host 'db.example.com'

         # Clear out any existing data and set up a fresh backend from scratch.

         wiki-toolkit-setupdb --type postgres
                              --name mywiki \
                              --user wiki  \
                              --pass wiki  \
                              --force-preclear

DESCRIPTION
       Takes three mandatory arguments:

       type
           The database type.  Should be one of 'postgres', 'mysql' and 'sqlite'.

       name
           The database name.

       user
           The user that connects to the database. It must have permission to create and drop tables in the database.

       two optional arguments:

       pass
           The user's database password.

       host
           The hostname of the machine the database server is running on (omit for local databases).

       and one optional flag:

       force-preclear
           By default, this script will leave any existing data alone.  To force that to be cleared out first, pass the "--force-preclear" flag.

AUTHOR
       Kake Pugh (kake@earth.li).

COPYRIGHT
            Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Kake Pugh.  All Rights Reserved.
            Copyright (C) 2006 the Wiki::Toolkit team. All Rights Reserved.

       This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       Wiki::Toolkit

perl v5.32.0                                                                                     2021-01-04                                                                        WIKI-TOOLKIT-SETUPDB(1p)
