
LIGHTSPEED(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               LIGHTSPEED(1)

NAME
       lightspeed - Shows how objects moving at speeds near the speed of light look like.

SYNOPSIS
       lightspeed [-hsa] [object]

DESCRIPTION
       Light  Speed!  is a simulator which can illustrate the effects of special relativity on the appearance of objects travelling at ultra-high speeds. Depending on the particular speed, and one's point of
       view, relativistic effects can cause the object to appear shorter, longer, brighter, darker, deformed and/or off-color.

CONTROLS
       To adjust the velocity, use the slider along the right edge of the main window. You can also type in a value, using the entry at the top right (press <Enter> once it is in). To change the units shown,
       press the button to the right of the entry, and it will cycle through a small list.

       The object travels in the positive-x direction, which can be visually checked by activating Objects -> Coordinate axes.

       Most interactive control is performed with the mouse. By holding down a particular button, and dragging the pointer around, various camera motions can be obtained:

          Left button:  Revolve camera around view target

          Left button + Shift key:  Revolve view target around camera

          Middle button:  Translate camera left, right, up or down

          Right button:  Dolly in or out

       The first and last motions are generally the most useful.  Should the camera become difficult to control at any point, it may be re-initialized by selecting Camera -> Reset View.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Print this help screen

       -s, --simple
              Use simplified interface

       -a, --advanced
              Use advanced interface (default)

       object 3D file to load on startup (.3DS or .LWO)

                                                                                                   April 2000                                                                                     LIGHTSPEED(1)
