LIGHTS(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            LIGHTS(1)

NAME
       lights - DNSSEC-Tools Rollover Overview GUI Display

SYNOPSIS
         lights [options]

DESCRIPTION
       lights gives a very simple overview of the rollover status of a set of
       zones.  The rollover status counts are given in a "traffic light"
       display.  In contrast, blinkenlights gives a detailed display of the
       roll status of a set of zones.  lights gives very little control over
       rollerd, the way blinkenlights does.  lights can halt rollerd's
       execution only.

       The rollover status is retrieved in one of two ways.  By default,
       rollerd is contacted via the rollctl command.  Alternately, if the -rrf
       option is given, then zone status is read directly from a rollrec file.
       The default method gets the status directly from rollerd and the user
       need not know the location of the relevant rollrec file.  However, that
       method will not get zone status until rollerd is available to respond
       to the information request.  Consequently, the alternate method allows
       lights to bypass communicating with rollerd and not having to wait for
       rollerd to be available.

       A window is created that has three colored sections - green, yellow,
       and red.  The green section displays a count of those zones that are in
       "normal" status; that is, they are not in rollover.  The yellow section
       displays a count of those zones that are in rollover.  The red section
       displays a count of those zones that are in need of attention.  A
       common cause for this last state is because a zone is in phase 5 of KSK
       rollover and is waiting for its parent zone to publish the child's new
       DS record.

       Clicking on the color rows in the main window will bring up a dialog
       box that lists the zones in that state.  This list will not
       automatically update as zones change rollover state.

OPTIONS
       lights supports the following options.

       -interval wait-time
           Interval between checks of zone rollover status  By default, wait-
           time is given in minutes.  This can be adjusted by specifying one
           of the following time-unit suffixes.

           * s - seconds

           * m - minutes

           * h - hours

           Examples:

           * -interval 24 - 24 minutes

           * -interval 24s - 24 seconds

           * -interval 24m - 24 minutes

           * -interval 24h - 24 hours

       -rrf rollrec-file
           A rollrec file to be read for zone status.

       -labels
           Labels will be given for each color field in the GUI.

       -verbose
           Give verbose output.

       -help
           Give a usage message and exit.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for lights and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

REQUIREMENTS
       lights is implemented in Perl/Tk, so both Perl and Perl/Tk must be
       installed on your system.

KNOWN ISSUES
       The following are known issues.  These will be resolved in the fullness
       of time.

       •   Resizing the window leaves the color blobs in their original size.
           This is an issue with the Tk widget used to display the color
           stripes.  Other display methods are being investigated...

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2010-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       blinkenlights(8), bubbles(8), rollerd(8), rollrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                         LIGHTS(1)
