LIGHTYEARS(6)                                                                                   Games Manual                                                                                  LIGHTYEARS(6)

NAME
       lightyears - single player real-time strategy game with steampunk sci-fi

SYNOPSIS
       lightyears [options...]

OPTIONS
       --window
              Start the game in windowed mode, regardless of the last saved state.

       --fullscreen
              Start the game in fullscreen mode, regardless of the last saved state.

       --no-sound
              Mute all sounds.

       --safe Restore default configuration (any existing configuration will be deleted).

DESCRIPTION
       lightyears is a strategy game with steampunk elements. You are the ruler of a new city on an alien planet and you have to provide it with energy to let it advance. To achieve this you have to con‐
       struct "Steam Makers" and connect them through pipes and nodes.

       Ensuring  a  stable  and plentiful steam supply will let you upgrade your city.  This will result in additional "work units" which will allow you to do a higher amount of simultaneous construction
       work. Other than constructing "Steam Makers", nodes and pipes, you can also upgrade those to increase their efficiency.

       To make your task more difficult there are atural phenomenons that may harm part of your network, in which case you will have to repair it in hurry before the city loses too  much  energy.  You'll
       also have to face enemy alien ships, of increasing power as the game advances, which will attempt to destroy your infraestructures.

IN-GAME KEYBOARD CONTROLS
       Build node: N
       Build pipe: P
       Destroy: D, backspace
       Open the menu: escape

SEE ALSO
       You will find additional documentation in /usr/share/doc/lightyears/html/.

AUTHOR
       lightyears was written by Jack Whitham <jack@jwhitham.org.uk> and this manual page by Siegfried-A. Gevatter <siegfried@gevatter.com>.

                                                                                               June 20, 2009                                                                                  LIGHTYEARS(6)
