LINCITY-NG(6)                                                                                   Games Manual                                                                                  LINCITY-NG(6)

NAME
       lincity-ng - City simulator game with polished graphics

SYNOPSIS
       lincity-ng [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the usage of lincity-ng

       lincity-ng  is  a   City Simulation Game. It is a polished and improved version of the old LinCity game: You are required to build and maintain a city. You must feed, house, provide jobs and goods
       for your residents. You can build a sustainable economy with the help of renewable energy and recycling, or you can go for broke and build rockets to escape from a pollution  ridden  and  resource
       starved planet, it's up to you. Due to the finite resources available in any one place, this is not a game that you can leave for long periods of time.

       This game is similar to the commercial simulation game with a similar name.

OPTIONS
       These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').  A summary of options is included below.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -v, --version
              Show version of program.

       -g, --gl
              Use the OpenGL display mode

       -s, --sdl
              Use the SDL display mode

       -w, --window
              Run lincity-ng in windowed mode

       -f, --fullscreen
              Run lincity-ng in fullscreen mode

       -m, --mute
              Turn off sound

       -S, --size
              specify screensize (eg. -S 1024x768)

UPGRADE from 1.x to 2.x
       A  new  format  for  saved  games  is  used  since  2.0,  but  old  games can be imported and automagically converted. Just copy $HOME/.lincity/*   (old location for lincity and lincity-ng 1.x) to
       $HOME/.lincity-ng/ (new location since 2.0).

          cp -a ~/.lincity/* ~/.lincity-ng/

       At the start of the game, one message will popup to remind you have some changes to do in your city.

AUTHOR
       lincity-ng was written by Wolfgang Becker, Matthias Braun, David Kamphausen, Corey Keasling, IJ Peters, Ingo Ruhnke, Jimmy Salmon, Greg Sharp and others. Please see the documentation for a list of
       all contributors.

       This manual page was written by Moritz Muehlenhoff, for the Debian project (but may be used by others). Updated by Lincity-NG team.

                                                                                               June 24, 2005                                                                                  LINCITY-NG(6)
