LINTIAN-BRUSH(5)                                                                            File Formats Manual                                                                            LINTIAN-BRUSH(5)

NAME
       debian/lintian-brush.conf - per-package configuration for lintian-brush

DESCRIPTION
       A lintian-brush per-package configuration file that contains of a series of single key/value pairs. The configuration file should be placed in the package at debian/lintian-brush.conf.

       The hash sign “#” is used as a comment character. Any text after the comment character to the end of the line is ignored.

VARIABLES
       The following variables are currently supported:

       compat-release = RELEASE

              compat-release  specifies  the  oldest release that the package aims to be compatible with. lintian-brush will not make any changes that require packages or features not present in this re‐
              lease.

              Supported values are Debian and Ubuntu code names as well as aliases ("testing", "experimental", "stable", "unstable"). Version numbers are currently not supported.

              The default compat release is "stable".

       allow-reformatting = True|False

              If allow-reformatting is enabled, lintian-brush will make changes to debian files in a way that does not necessarily preserve existing formatting.

              If disabled, lintian-brush will not run any fixers that can not preserve formatting.

       update-changelog = True|False

              The update-changelog setting determines whether new lines in the changelog will be added for the changes that lintian-brush has made to the package.

              By default, lintian-brush will automatically (using some basic heuristics, such as checking for the presence of a [dch] section in debian/gbp.conf) determine whether the changelog should be
              updated.

              You may want to set this to False if you are using "gbp dch" to generate your changelog entries.

SEE ALSO
       lintian-brush(1), lintian(1)

AUTHORS
       Jelmer Vernooij <jelmer@debian.org>

lintian-brush 0.1                                                                               October 2018                                                                               LINTIAN-BRUSH(5)
