firewire-phy-command(8)                                                                    linux-firewire-utils""                                                                   firewire-phy-command(8)

NAME
       firewire-phy-command - low-level FireWire bus and PHY configuration

SYNOPSIS
       firewire-phy-command [options] command [parameters]

DESCRIPTION
       firewire-phy-command is a utility to set low-level configuration parameters and to manage port power saving.

       In the following commands, numbers must be specified in decimal, or in hexadecimal with a "0x" prefix.

       node is either the device file (/dev/fw*) of the node that is to be accessed, or the node number.

       The following commands are available:

       firewire-phy-command config [root node] [gapcount gapcount]
              The root parameter specifies the node that is forced to become the next root node.

              The gapcount parameter specifies a timing parameter used to optimize performance.  This must be derived from the actual worst-case round-trip delay between any two nodes.

              At least one of root or gapcount must be specified.

              The configuration changes take effect after the next bus reset, which must be issued immediately after this command; see the reset command below.

       firewire-phy-command ping node
              Send a ping packet to node node, and print node's answer (its self ID) together with the round-trip time.

       firewire-phy-command read node [page port] register
              Read a PHY register on node node and print the register value.

              Registers 0 to 7 are global; registers 8 to 15 are paged and require both a page number and a port number.

       firewire-phy-command nop node port
       firewire-phy-command disable node port
       firewire-phy-command enable node port
       firewire-phy-command suspend node port
       firewire-phy-command resume node port
       firewire-phy-command clear node port
              Send a remote command packet to port port of node node, and print the new port status.

              nop    Do nothing, just return the status.  This can be used to read the port status, or to check whether a port exists.

              disable
                     Disable the port and its connected peer port.  This is the equivalent of breaking the connection between the port and the cable.

              enable Re-enable a disabled port.

              suspend
                     Suspend the connection between the port and its peer port, and recursively suspend all other active ports on the peer port's node.

              resume Resume the port and all other ports in the suspended domain.

              clear  Clear  the  port's  fault status bit(s).  If a port entered the suspended state in a faulted condition because its peer port did not suspend correctly, clearing the fault is required
                     after the resume to continue normal operation.

       firewire-phy-command resume
              Broadcast a resume packet to all ports on the bus.

       firewire-phy-command linkon node
              Send a link-on packet, which instructs node node to switch on, i.e., to come out of powersaving mode.

       firewire-phy-command reset
              Issue a bus reset.

OPTIONS
       -b, --bus=node
              If there are multiple FireWire buses, i.e., if the computer has multiple FireWire controllers, this option specifies on which bus the command is sent.  node must be the device file  of  the
              controller, or the controller's card number.

              This option is not needed if a command's node parameter specifies a device node, as that parameter already implies the bus to use.

       -h, --help
              Print a summary of the command-line options and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print the version number of firewire-phy-command on the standard output and exit.

NOTES
       This program needs to access all FireWire device files, which usually requires root privileges.

BUGS
       Report bugs to <"linux1394-devel@sourceforge.net">.
       "linux-firewire-utils" home page: <"https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/utils/ieee1394/linux-firewire-utils.git/">.

SEE ALSO
       lsfirewirephy(8), firewire-request(8)

                                                                                                 5 Jun 2011                                                                         firewire-phy-command(8)
