LIRCRCD(8)                   System Manager Manual                  LIRCRCD(8)

NAME
       lircrcd - Synchronize lircrc state among client applications.

SYNOPSIS
       lircrcd [options] config-file

DESCRIPTION
       lircrcd  reads  the given .lircrc config file and synchronises the mode
       that the LIRC clients such as irexec(1),  irxevent(1),  etc.,  are  in.
       Using lircrcd has to be explicitly enabled in the lircrc config file by
       adding the following line at the beginning of the file:

              lircrc_class default

       This must be done at the top-level file, not an included one. The  lir‐
       crc_class  string  (here "default") could actually be anything; clients
       using the same string in their lircrc will be synchronized.

OPTIONS
       -h --help
              Display help message.

       -v --version
              Display version.

       -p, --permission=mode
              The --permission option gives the file permission  of  the  Unix
              domain  socket  lircrcd  creates on startup in octal representa‐
              tion. Read the documentation for chmod for further  details.  If
              no  --permission  option is given when the socket is created the
              default is to give only the user owning the file read and  write
              permissions (0600 in octal representation).

       -o, --output=socket
              With  the --output option you can select the Unix domain socket,
              which lircrcd will create. The default is to create a socket  in
              VARRUNDIR (/var/run/lirc), see FILES.

SOCKET PROTOCOL
       lircrcd  syntactically uses the same protocol as lircd described in the
       lircd(8) manpage. It supports the following commands:

       IDENT ident
           Each program connecting to lircrcd  identifies  itself  using  this
           program.   ident  is  the  string that is used in the Prog =  token
           inside the .lircrc file.

       CODE code
           When the client receives the code string from lircd it will send it
           to  lircrcd and will receive back the applicable config string from
           the .lircrc config file. It should resend the  CODE  command  until
           nothing  is  returned  back  which means that nothing (more) should
           happen in response to code. This command  is  used  each  time  the
           lirc_code2char() function is called by a client.

       GETMODE
           lircrcd will return the current mode string.

       SETMODE mode
           lircrcd  will set the actual mode, reflecting a mode in the .lircrc
           file.

FILES
       lircrcd   creates   its   socket(s)   in   the   VARRUNDIR    directory
       (/var/run/lirc).   The  socket  basename  includes the user UID and the
       string from the lircrc_class option.

SEE ALSO
       The documentation for lirc  is  maintained  as  html  pages.  They  are
       located under html/ in the documentation directory.

lircrcd 0.10.0               Last change: Sep 2015                  LIRCRCD(8)
