LIVE-BUILD(7)                                                                               Debian Live Project                                                                               LIVE-BUILD(7)

NAME
       live-build - the Debian Live tool suite

SYNOPSIS
       lb {-h|--help|-u|--usage|-v|--version}

       lb COMMAND [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       live-build  is  a  set  of  scripts  to build live system images. The idea behind live-build is a tool suite that uses a configuration directory to completely automate and customize all aspects of
       building a Live image.

       The COMMAND is a name of a live-build command (see below).

       More documentation about how to use live-build is available in the individual manpages for each helper and in the manual at <https://live-team.pages.debian.net/live-manual/>.

OPTIONS
   Shared live-build options
       The following command line options are supported by all live-build programs.

       -h, --help
           display help and exit.

       -u, --usage
           show usage and exit.

       -v, --version
           output version information and exit.

   Common live-build options
       The following command line options are supported by most live-build programs. See the man page of each program for a complete explanation of what each option does.

       --breakpoints
           run with breakpoints.

       --color
           enable color use in messages.

       --debug
           show debug information.

       --force
           force helper execution, even if stage file exists.

       --no-color
           disable color use in messages.

       --quiet
           be quiet.

       --verbose
           be verbose.

LIVE-BUILD COMMANDS
       We divide live-build into high level ("porcelain") commands, secondary major build stage ("porcelain") commands, and low level ("plumbing") commands.

       Here is the complete list of all available live-build commands. See their man pages for additional documentation.

HIGH-LEVEL COMMANDS (PORCELAIN)
       We separate the porcelain commands into the main commands and some ancillary user utilities.

   Main porcelain commands
       lb config(1)
           creates configuration for live-build

       lb build(1)
           executes the build process (by executing all of the secondary level major build stages in sequence)

       lb clean(1)
           cleans up system build directories

   Ancillary Commands
       lb(1)
           generic live-build script execution wrapper

SECONDARY-LEVEL BUILD COMMANDS (PORCELAIN)
       The following are the commands that execute each major stage of the build process, in their necessary order of execution. Normally a user might just execute the higher level  lb  build(1)  command
       rather than use these individually.

       lb bootstrap(1)
           executes the first build stage, creating (bootstraping) a basic Debian root filesystem

       lb chroot(1)
           executes the second build stage, building the live OS filesystem

       lb installer(1)
           executes the third build stage, obtaining installer components (optional)

       lb binary(1)
           executes the fourth build stage, generating the binary (live) image

       lb source(1)
           executes the fifth build stage, generating a corresponding source image (optional)

LOW-LEVEL COMMANDS (PLUMBING) - BUILD STAGE COMPONENTS
       The actual work of live-build is implemented in the low-level commands, called plumbing. They are not supposed to be used by end users, who should stick with porcelains as they ensure that all the
       different plumbing commands are executed in the right order. However, if you intend to reuse live-build commands in your own scripts, then the plumbings might be of interest for you.

       Note  that  the interface (set of options and the semantics) to these low-level commands are meant to be a lot more stable than Porcelain level commands. The interface to Porcelain commands on the
       other hand are subject to change in order to improve the end user experience.

   Bootstrap stage specific commands
       lb bootstrap_cache(1)
           in save mode, saves to cache a copy of the generated bootstrap directory, and in restore mode, restores from cache a previously generated copy

       lb bootstrap_debootstrap(1)
           creates (bootstraps) a basic Debian root filesystem using debootstrap(8)

   Chroot stage specific commands
       Note: The following chroot_ prefixed commands are used in building the live OS filesystem. Another set of similarly prefixed files are listed separately (see further down).

       lb chroot_cache(1)
           in save mode, saves to cache a copy of the chroot directory, and in restore mode, restores from cache a previously generated copy

       lb chroot_firmware(1)
           compiles a list of firmware packages to be installed in the live OS root filesystem

       lb chroot_hacks(1)
           executes local hacks against the live OS root filesystem, if any are provided

       lb chroot_hooks(1)
           executes local hooks against the live OS root filesystem, if any are provided

       lb chroot_includes(1)
           copies a set of local files from the config directory into the live OS root filesystem, if any are provided

       lb chroot_install-packages(1)
           installs into the live OS root filesystem any packages listed in local package lists

       lb chroot_interactive(1)
           pauses the build process and starts an interactive shell from the live OS root filesystem, providing an oportunity for manual modifications or testing; note that this  is  (currently)  usually
           executed with several chroot prep modifications applied (see description of these further down)

       lb chroot_linux-image(1)
           compiles a list of kernel images to be installed in the live OS root filesystem

       lb chroot_package-lists(1)
           compiles a list of packages provided in the user´ local config to be installed in the live OS root filesystem

       lb chroot_preseed(1)
           installs pre-configured answers to certain install prompts into the live OS root filesystem

   Installer stage specific commands
       lb installer_debian-installer(1)
           obtains and sets up Debian installer (d-i) components

       lb installer_preseed(1)
           installs pre-configured answers to certain install prompts

   Binary stage specific commands
       lb binary_checksums(1)
           creates checksums (md5, sha1, and/or sha256) for live image content

       lb binary_chroot(1)
           duplicates  the chroot directory, to place a copy of what would be the completed live OS root filesystem to one side, allowing the original to continue to be used in executing certain parts of
           the remainder of the build process

       lb binary_disk(1)
           creates disk information files to be added to live image

       lb binary_grub_cfg(1)
           creates the config for grub-pc and grub-efi, and also enables loopback support (which depends upon it) in the live image

       lb binary_grub-efi(1)
           installs grub-efi (grub2 for EFI) into live image to provide image boot capability. It relies upon lb binary_grub_cfg to create the config.

       lb binary_grub-legacy(1)
           installs grub into live image to provide image boot capability

       lb binary_grub-pc(1)
           installs grub-pc (grub2 for BIOS) into live image to provide image boot capability. It relies upon lb binary_grub_cfg to create the config.

       lb binary_hdd(1)
           compiles the final live image into an HDD image file

       lb binary_hooks(1)
           executes local hooks against the live image, if any are provided

       lb binary_includes(1)
           copies a set of local files from the config directory into the live image, if any are provided

       lb binary_iso(1)
           compiles the final live image into an ISO file

       lb binary_linux-image(1)
           copies the linux-image into the live image

       lb binary_loadlin(1)
           bundles a copy of loadlin into the live image

       lb binary_manifest(1)
           creates manifest of packages installed into live OS filesystem, and list of packages to be excluded by a persistence mechanism installing the live OS to disk

       lb binary_memtest(1)
           bundles a copy of memtest into the live image

       lb binary_netboot(1)
           compiles the final live image into a netboot tar archive

       lb binary_onie(1)
           installs onie into the live image

       lb binary_package-lists(1)
           processes local lists of packages to obtain and bundle into image (from which they could later be installed if not already)

       lb binary_rootfs(1)
           wraps up the completed live OS root filesystem into a virtual file system image

       lb binary_syslinux(1)
           installs syslinux into live image to provide image boot capability

       lb binary_tar(1)
           compiles the final live image into a tar archive

       lb binary_win32-loader(1)
           bundles a copy of win32-loader into the live image and creates an autorun.inf file

       lb binary_zsync(1)
           builds zsync control files

   Source stage specific commands
       lb source_checksums(1)
           creates checksums (md5, sha1, and/or sha256) for source image content

       lb source_debian(1)
           downloads source packages for bundling into source image

       lb source_disk(1)
           creates disk information files to be added to source image

       lb source_hdd(1)
           compiles the final source image into an HDD image file

       lb source_hooks(1)
           executes local hooks against the source image, if any are provided

       lb source_iso(1)
           compiles the final source image into an ISO file

       lb source_live(1)
           copies live-build config into source

       lb source_tar(1)
           compiles the final source image into a tar archive

LOW-LEVEL COMMANDS (PLUMBING) - CHROOT PREP COMPONENTS
       The notes above under the section regarding build-stage specific low-level plumbing commands also apply here.

       The following chroot_ prefixed commands are used throughout the various primary stages of the build process to apply and remove modifications to a chroot root filesystem. Generally these are  used
       to  apply  modification  that  setup the chroot for use (execution of programs within it) during the build process, and later to remove those modification, unmounting things that were mounted, and
       making the chroot suitable for use as the root filesystem of the live OS to be bundled into the live image.

       Note that the lb chroot_prep(1) command can be used to run these components in bulk.

       lb chroot_prep(1)
           a helper to run the below components in bulk. The first parameter it takes is the execution mode - install or remove - to pass along. The second parameter is the set of helpers  to  run  (they
           can  be  space  or  comma separated; remember to quote if space separated). Following this one or more of the special parameters 'mode-archives-chroot', 'mode-archives-binary', 'mode-archives-
           source' and 'mode-apt-install-binary' can optionally be used, to select the 'pass' parameter for lb chroot_archives(1) in the case of the first three (required if  'archives'  is  one  of  the
           helpers  to be run), and to run lb chroot_apt(1) in 'install-binary' mode in the last case. Any remaining parameters (i.e. options like --force) are passed along to all scripts run. The second
           parameter can be simply 'all' in which case a default set of all components are used, or 'all-except-archives' which differs in skipping lb  chroot_archives(1).  Components  can  be  specified
           without their filename 'chroot_' prefix for brevity. In remove mode the list of components are run in reverse order, so no need to provide them in reverse order yourself.

       lb chroot_apt(1)
           manages apt configuration; in apply mode it applies configuration for use during build process, and in remove mode removes that configuration

       lb chroot_archives(1)
           manages apt archive source lists; in apply mode it applies source list configurations suitable for use of the chroot in the build process, and in remove mode replaces that with a configuration
           suitable for the final live OS

       lb chroot_debianchroot(1)
           manages a /etc/debian_chroot file

       lb chroot_devpts(1)
           manages mounting of /dev/pts

       lb chroot_dpkg(1)
           manages dpkg; in apply mode disabling things like the start-stop-daemon, and in remove mode enabling them again

       lb chroot_hostname(1)
           manages the hostname configuration

       lb chroot_hosts(1)
           manages the /etc/hosts file

       lb chroot_proc(1)
           manages mounting of /proc

       lb chroot_resolv(1)
           manages configuration of the /etc/resolv.conf file

       lb chroot_selinuxfs(1)
           manages mounting of /sys/fs/selinux

       lb chroot_sysfs(1)
           manages mounting of /sys

       lb chroot_sysv-rc(1)
           manages the /usr/sbin/policy-rc.d file

       lb chroot_tmpfs(1)
           manages configuration of dpkg to use a tmpfs filesystem

CONFIG FILES
       Many  live-build  commands make use of files in the config/ directory to control what they do. Besides the common config/common, which is used by all live-build commands, some additional files can
       be used to configure the behavior of specific live-build commands. These files are typically named config/stage (where "stage" of course, is replaced with the name of the stage  that  they  belong
       to).

       Note  that  live-build  will  respect  environment variables which are present in the context of the shell it is running. If variables can be read from config files, then they override environment
       variables, and if command line options are used, they override values from config files. If no value for a given variable can be found and thus is unset, live-build will automatically  set  it  to
       the default value.

       In  some rare cases, you may want to have different versions of these files for different architectures or distributions. If files named config/stage.arch and config/stage.dist exist, where "arch"
       is the same as the output of "dpkg --print-architecture" and "dist" is the same as the codename of the target distribution, then they will be used in preference to other, more general files.

       All config files are shell scripts which are sourced by a live-build program. That means they have to follow the normal shell syntax. You can also put comments in these files; lines beginning with
       "#" are ignored.

FILES
       /etc/live/build.conf

       /etc/live/build/*

SEE ALSO
       live-boot(7)

       live-config(7)

       This program is a part of live-build.

HOMEPAGE
       More information about live-build and the Debian Live project can be found on the homepage at <https://wiki.debian.org/DebianLive>.

BUGS
       Bugs can be reported by submitting a bug report for the live-build package in the Bug Tracking System at <http://bugs.debian.org/> or by writing a mail to the Debian Live mailing list at  <debian-
       live@lists.debian.org>.

AUTHOR
       live-build was originally written by Daniel Baumann <mail@daniel-baumann.ch>. Since 2016 development has been continued by the Debian Live team.

1:20250505+kali3                                                                                 2025-08-28                                                                                   LIVE-BUILD(7)
