LLDPCLI(8)                BSD System Manager's Manual               LLDPCLI(8)

NAME
     lldpcli, lldpctl — control LLDP daemon

SYNOPSIS
     lldpcli [-dv] [-u socket] [-f format] [-c file] [command ...]
     lldpctl [-dv] [-u socket] [-f format] [interfaces ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The lldpcli program controls lldpd(8) daemon.

     When no command is specified, lldpcli will start an interactive shell
     which can be used to input arbitrary commands as if they were specified
     on the command line. This interactive shell should provide completion and
     history support.

     The options are as follows:

     -d      Enable more debugging information. This flag can be repeated.

     -u socket
             Specify the Unix-domain socket used for communication with
             lldpd(8).

     -v      Show lldpcli version. When repeated, show more build information.

     -f format
             Choose the output format. Currently plain, xml, json, json0 and
             keyvalue formats are available. The default is plain.  json0 is
             more verbose than json but the structure of the JSON object is
             not affected by the number of interfaces or the number of neigh‐
             bors. It is therefore easier to parse.

     -c file
             Read the given configuration file. This option may be repeated
             several times. If a directory is provided, each file contained in
             it will be read  if ending by .conf.  Order is alphabetical.

     When invoked as lldpctl, lldpcli will display detailed information about
     each neighbors on the specified interfaces or on all interfaces if none
     are specified. This command is mostly kept for backward compatibility
     with older versions.

     The following commands are supported by lldpcli.  When there is no ambi‐
     guity, the keywords can be abbreviated. For example, show neighbors ports
     eth0 summary and sh neigh p eth0 sum are the same command.

       exit

             Quit lldpcli.

       help [...]

             Display general help or help about a command. Also, you can get
             help using the completion or by pressing the ?  key. However,
             completion and inline help may be unavailable if lldpcli was com‐
             piled without readline support but help command is always avail‐
             able.

       show neighbors [ports ethX [,...]] [details | summary] [hidden]

             Display information about each neighbor known by lldpd(8) daemon.
             With summary, only the name and the port description of each
             remote host will be displayed. On the other hand, with details,
             all available information will be displayed, giving a verbose
             view. When using hidden, also display remote ports hidden by the
             smart filter. When specifying one or several ports, the informa‐
             tion displayed is limited to the given list of ports.

       show interfaces [ports ethX [,...]] [details | summary] [hidden]

             Display information about each local interface known by lldpd(8)
             daemon. With summary, only the name and the port description of
             each local interface will be displayed. On the other hand, with
             details, all available information will be displayed, giving a
             verbose view. When using hidden, also display local ports hidden
             by the smart filter. When specifying one or several ports, the
             information displayed is limited to the given list of ports.

       show chassis [details | summary]

             Display information about local chassis. With summary, most
             details are skipped. On the other hand, with details, all avail‐
             able information will be displayed, giving a verbose view.

       watch [ports ethX [,...]] [details | summary] [hidden] [limit X]

             Watch for any neighbor changes and report them as soon as they
             happen. When specifying ports, the changes are only reported when
             happening on the given ports.  hidden, summary and details have
             the same meaning than previously described. If limit is speci‐
             fied, lldpcli will exit after receiving the specified number of
             events.

       show configuration

             Display global configuration of lldpd(8) daemon.

       show statistics [ports ethX [,...]] [summary]

             Report LLDP-related statistics, like the number of LLDPDU trans‐
             mitted, received, discarded or unrecognized. When specifying
             ports, only the statistics from the given port are reported. With
             summary the statistics of each port is summed.

       update

             Make lldpd(8) update its information and send new LLDP PDU on all
             interfaces.

       configure system hostname name

             Override system hostname with the provided value. By default, the
             system name is the FQDN found from the resolved value of uname
             -n.  As a special value, use "." (dot) to use the short hostname
             instead of a FQDN.

       unconfigure system hostname

             Do not override system hostname and restore the use of the node
             name.

       configure system description description

             Override chassis description with the provided value instead of
             using kernel name, node name, kernel version, build date and
             architecture.

       unconfigure system description

             Do not override chassis description and use a value computed from
             node name, kernel name, kernel version, build date and architec‐
             ture instead.

       configure system chassisid description

             Override chassis ID with the provided value instead of using MAC
             address from one interface or host name.

       unconfigure system chassisid

             Do not override chassis ID and use a value computed from one of
             the interface MAC address (or host name if none is found).

       configure system platform description

             Override platform description with the provided value instead of
             using kernel name. This value is currently only used for CDP.

       unconfigure system platform

             Do not override platform description and use the kernel name.
             This option undoes the previous one.

       configure system interface pattern pattern

             Specify which interface to listen and send LLDPDU to. Without
             this option, lldpd will use all available physical interfaces.
             This option can use wildcards. Several interfaces can be speci‐
             fied separated by commas.  It is also possible to blacklist an
             interface by suffixing it with an exclamation mark. It is possi‐
             ble to whitelist an interface by suffixing it with two exclama‐
             tion marks. A whitelisted interface beats a blacklisted inter‐
             faces which beats a simple matched interface. For example, with
             eth*,!eth1,!eth2 lldpd will only use interfaces starting by eth
             with the exception of eth1 and eth2.  While with *,!eth*,!!eth1
             lldpcli will use all interfaces, except interfaces starting by
             eth with the exception of eth1.  When an exact match is found, it
             will circumvent some tests. For example, if eth0.12 is specified,
             it will be accepted even if this is a VLAN interface.

       unconfigure system interface pattern

             Remove any previously configured interface pattern and use all
             physical interfaces. This option undoes the previous one.

       configure system interface permanent pattern

             Specify interfaces whose configuration is permanently kept by
             lldpd.  By default, lldpd disregard any data about interfaces
             when they are removed from the system (statistics, custom config‐
             uration). This option allows one to specify a pattern similar to
             the interface pattern. If an interface disappear but matches the
             pattern, its data is kept in memory and reused if the interface
             reappear at some point. For example, on Linux, one could use the
             pattern eth*,eno*,enp*, which should match fixed interfaces on
             most systems.

       unconfigure system interface permanent

             Remove any previously configured permanent interface pattern.
             Any interface removed from the system will be forgotten. This
             option undoes the previous one.

       configure system interface description

             Some OS allows the user to set a description for an interface.
             Setting this option will enable lldpd to override this descrip‐
             tion with the name of the peer neighbor if one is found or with
             the number of neighbors found.

       unconfigure system interface description

             Do not update interface description with the name of the peer
             neighbor. This option undoes the previous one.

       configure system interface promiscuous

             Enable promiscuous mode on managed interfaces.

             When the interface is not managed any more (or when quitting
             lldpd), the interface is left in promiscuous mode as it is diffi‐
             cult to know if someone else also put the interface in promiscu‐
             ous mode.

             This option is known to be useful when the remote switch is a
             Cisco 2960 and the local network card features VLAN hardware
             acceleration. In this case, you may not receive LLDP frames from
             the remote switch. The most plausible explanation for this is the
             frame is tagged with some VLAN (usually VLAN 1) and your network
             card is filtering VLAN. This is not the only available solution
             to work-around this problem. If you are concerned about perfor‐
             mance issues, you can also tag the VLAN 1 on each interface
             instead.

             Currently, this option has no effect on anything else than Linux.
             On other OS, either disable VLAN acceleration, tag VLAN 1 or
             enable promiscuous mode manually on the interface.

       unconfigure system interface promiscuous

             Do not set promiscuous mode on managed interfaces. This option
             does not disable promiscuous mode on interfaces already using
             this mode.

       configure system ip management pattern pattern

             Specify the management addresses of this system. As for inter‐
             faces (described above), this option can use wildcards and inver‐
             sions.  Without this option, the first IPv4 and the first IPv6
             are used. If an exact IP address is provided, it is used as a
             management address without any check. If only negative patterns
             are provided, only one IPv4 and one IPv6 addresses are chosen.
             Otherwise, many of them can be selected. If you want to blacklist
             IPv6 addresses, you can use !*:*.

       unconfigure system ip management pattern

             Unset any specific pattern for matching management addresses.
             This option undoes the previous one.

       configure system bond-slave-src-mac-type value

             Set the type of src mac in lldp frames sent on bond slaves

             Valid types are:
               real  Slave real mac
               zero  All zero mac
               fixed
                     An arbitrary fixed value (00:60:08:69:97:ef)
               local
                     Real mac with locally administered bit set. If the real
                     mac already has the locally administered bit set, fall‐
                     back to the fixed value.

             Default value for bond-slave-src-mac-type is local.  Some
             switches may complain when using one of the two other possible
             values (either because 00:00:00:00:00:00 is not a valid MAC or
             because the MAC address is flapping from one port to another).
             Using local might lead to a duplicate MAC address on the network
             (but this is quite unlikely).

       configure lldp agent-type nearest-bridge | nearest-non-tpmr-bridge |
       nearest-customer-bridge

             The destination MAC address used to send LLDPDU allows an agent
             to control the propagation of LLDPDUs. By default, the
             01:80:c2:00:00:0e MAC address is used and limit the propagation
             of the LLDPDU to the nearest bridge (nearest-bridge).  To
             instruct lldpd to use the 01:80:c2:00:00:03 MAC address instead,
             use nearest-nontpmr-bridge instead.  To use the 01:80:c2:00:00:00
             MAC address instead, use nearest-customer-bridge instead.

       configure lldp portidsubtype ifname | macaddress

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] lldp portidsubtype local value

             Force port ID subtype. By default, lldpd will use the MAC address
             as port identifier and the interface name as port description,
             unless the interface has an alias. In this case, the interface
             name will be used as port identifier and the description will be
             the interface alias. With this command, you can force the port
             identifier to be the interface name (with ifname), the MAC
             address (with macaddress) or a local value (with value).  In the
             latest case, the local value should be provided.

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] lldp portdescription description

             Force port description to the provided string.

       configure lldp tx-interval interval

             Change transmit delay to the specified value in seconds. The
             transmit delay is the delay between two transmissions of LLDP
             PDU. The default value is 30 seconds.

       configure lldp tx-hold hold

             Change transmit hold value to the specified value. This value is
             used to compute the TTL of transmitted packets which is the prod‐
             uct of this value and of the transmit delay. The default value is
             4 and therefore the default TTL is 120 seconds.

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] lldp status rx-and-tx | rx-only | tx-only
       | disabled

             Configure the administrative status of the given port. By
             default, all ports are configured to be in rx-and-tx mode. This
             means they can receive and transmit LLDP frames (as well as other
             protocols if needed). In rx-only mode, they won't emit any frames
             and in tx-only mode, they won't receive any frames. In disabled
             mode, no frame will be sent and any incoming frame will be dis‐
             carded. This setting does not override the operational mode of
             the main daemon. If it is configured in receive-only mode (with
             the -r flag), setting any transmit mode won't have any effect.

       configure lldp custom-tlv [add | replace] oui oui subtype subtype
       [oui-info content]

             Emit a custom TLV for OUI oui, with subtype subtype and option‐
             ally with the bytes specified in content.  Both oui and content
             should be a comma-separated list of bytes in hex format.  oui
             must be exactly 3-byte long.  If add is specified then the TLV
             will be added. This is the default action.  If replace is speci‐
             fied then all TLVs with the same oui and subtype will be
             replaced.

       unconfigure lldp custom-tlv [oui oui] [subtype subtype]

             When no oui is specified, remove all previously configured custom
             TLV.  When OUI oui and subtype subtype is specified, remove spe‐
             cific instances of custom TLV.

       configure med fast-start enable | tx-interval interval

             Configure LLDP-MED fast start mechanism. When a new LLDP-MED-
             enabled neighbor is detected, fast start allows lldpd to shorten
             the interval between two LLDPDU.  enable should enable LLDP-MED
             fast start while tx-interval specifies the interval between two
             LLDPDU in seconds. The default interval is 1 second. Once 4 LLD‐
             PDU have been sent, the fast start mechanism is disabled until a
             new neighbor is detected.

       unconfigure med fast-start

             Disable LLDP-MED fast start mechanism.

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] med location coordinate latitude latitude
       longitude longitude altitude altitude unit datum datum

             Advertise a coordinate based location on the given ports (or on
             all ports if no port is specified). The format of latitude is a
             decimal floating point number followed either by N or S.  The
             format of longitude is a decimal floating point number followed
             either by E or W.  altitude is a decimal floating point number
             followed either by m when expressed in meters or f when expressed
             in floors. A space is expected between the floating point number
             and the unit.  datum is one of those values:
                     ·   WGS84
                     ·   NAD83
                     ·   NAD83/MLLW

             A valid use of this command is:
                   configure ports eth0 med location coordinate latitude
                   48.85667N longitude 2.2014E altitude 117.47 m datum WGS84

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] med location address country country
       [type value [...]]

             Advertise a civic address on the given ports (or on all ports if
             no port is specified).  country is the two-letter code represent‐
             ing the country. The remaining arguments should be paired to form
             the address. The first member of each pair indicates the type of
             the second member which is a free-form text. Here is the list of
             valid types:
                     ·   language
                     ·   country-subdivision
                     ·   county
                     ·   city
                     ·   city-division
                     ·   block
                     ·   street
                     ·   direction
                     ·   trailing-street-suffix
                     ·   street-suffix
                     ·   number
                     ·   number-suffix
                     ·   landmark
                     ·   additional
                     ·   name
                     ·   zip
                     ·   building
                     ·   unit
                     ·   floor
                     ·   room
                     ·   place-type
                     ·   script

             A valid use of this command is:
                   configure ports eth1 med location address country US street
                   "Commercial Road" city "Roseville"

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] med location elin number

             Advertise the availability of an ELIN number. This is used for
             setting up emergency call. If the provided number is too small,
             it will be padded with 0. Here is an example of use:
                   configure ports eth2 med location elin 911

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] med policy application application
       [unknown] [tagged] [vlan vlan] [priority priority] [dscp dscp]

             Advertise a specific network policy for the given ports (or for
             all ports if no port was provided). Only the application type is
             mandatory.  application should be one of the following values:
                     ·   voice
                     ·   voice-signaling
                     ·   guest-voice
                     ·   guest-voice-signaling
                     ·   softphone-voice
                     ·   video-conferencing
                     ·   streaming-video
                     ·   video-signaling

             The unknown flag tells that the network policy for the specified
             application type is required by the device but is currently
             unknown. This is used by Endpoint Devices, not by Network Connec‐
             tivity Devices. If not specified, the network policy for the
             given application type is defined.

             When a VLAN is specified with vlan tells which 802.1q VLAN ID has
             to be advertised for the network policy. A valid value is between
             1 and 4094.  tagged tells the VLAN should be tagged for the spec‐
             ified application type.

             priority allows one to specify IEEE 802.1d / IEEE 802.1p Layer 2
             Priority, also known as Class of Service (CoS), to be used for
             the specified application type. This field is usually ignored if
             no VLAN is specified. The names match 802.1D-2004 standard (table
             G-2). Some more recent standards may use different labels. Only
             the numeric values should be relied upon. The accepted labels
             are:
                 1   background
                 0   best-effort
                 2   excellent-effort
                 3   critical-applications
                 4   video
                 5   voice
                 6   internetwork-control
                 7   network-control

             dscp represents the DSCP value to be advertised for the given
             network policy.  DiffServ/Differentiated Services Code Point
             (DSCP) value as defined in IETF RFC 2474 for the specified appli‐
             cation type. Value: 0 (default per RFC 2475) through 63. Note:
             The class selector DSCP values are backwards compatible for
             devices that only support the old IP precedence Type of Service
             (ToS) format. (See the RFCs for what these values mean)

             A valid use of this command is:
                   configure med policy application voice vlan 500 priority
                   voice dscp 46

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] med power pse | pd source source priority
       priority value value

             Advertise the LLDP-MED POE-MDI TLV for the given ports or for all
             interfaces if no port is provided.  One can act as a PD (power
             consumer) or a PSE (power provider). No check is done on the
             validity of the parameters while LLDP-MED requires some restric‐
             tions:

             ·   PD shall never request more power than physical 802.3af
                 class.

             ·   PD shall never draw more than the maximum power advertised by
                 PSE.

             ·   PSE shall not reduce power allocated to PD when this power is
                 in use.

             ·   PSE may request reduced power using conservation mode

             ·   Being PSE or PD is a global parameter, not a per-port parame‐
                 ter.  lldpcli does not enforce this: a port can be set as PD
                 or PSE. LLDP-MED also requires for a PSE to only have one
                 power source (primary or backup). Again, lldpcli does not
                 enforce this. Each port can have its own power source. The
                 same applies for PD and power priority. LLDP-MED MIB does not
                 allow this kind of representation.

             Valid types are:
               pse   Power Sourcing Entity (power provider)
               pd    Power Device (power consumer)

             Valid sources are:
               unknown  Unknown
               primary  For PSE, the power source is the primary power source.
               backup   For PSE, the power source is the backup power source
                        or a power conservation mode is asked (the PSE may be
                        running on UPS for example).
               pse      For PD, the power source is the PSE.
               local    For PD, the power source is a local source.
               both     For PD, the power source is both the PSE and a local
                        source.

             Valid priorities are:
               unknown    Unknown priority
               critical   Critical
               high       High
               low        Low

             value should be the total power in milliwatts required by the PD
             device or available by the PSE device.

             Here is an example of use:
                   configure med power pd source pse priority high value 5000

       configure [ports ethX [,...]] dot3 power pse | pd [supported] [enabled]
       [paircontrol] powerpairs powerpairs [class class] [type type source
       source priority priority requested requested allocated allocated]

             Advertise Dot3 POE-MDI TLV for the given port or for all ports if
             none was provided. One can act as a PD (power consumer) or a PSE
             (power provider). This configuration is distinct of the configu‐
             ration of the transmission of the LLDP-MED POE-MDI TLV but the
             user should ensure the coherency of those two configurations if
             they are used together.

             supported means that MDI power is supported on the given port
             while enabled means that MDI power is enabled.  paircontrol is
             used to indicate if pair selection can be controlled. Valid val‐
             ues for powerpairs are:
               signal  The signal pairs only are in use.
               spare   The spare pairs only are in use.

             When specified, class is a number between 0 and 4.

             The remaining parameters are in conformance with 802.3at and are
             optional.  type should be either 1 or 2, indicating which if the
             device conforms to 802.3at type 1 or 802.3at type 2. Values of
             source and priority are the same as for LLDP-MED POE-MDI TLV.
             requested and allocated are expressed in milliwats.

             Here are two valid uses of this command:
                   configure ports eth3 dot3 power pse supported enabled
                   paircontrol powerpairs spare class class-3
                   configure dot3 power pd supported enabled powerpairs spare
                   class class-3 type 1 source pse priority low requested
                   10000 allocated 15000

       pause

             Pause lldpd operations.  lldpd will not send any more frames or
             receive ones. This can be undone with resume command.

       resume

             Resume lldpd operations.  lldpd will start to send and receive
             frames. This command is issued internally after processing con‐
             figuration but can be used at any time if a manual pause command
             is issued.

FILES
     /run/lldpd/lldpd.socket    Unix-domain socket used for communication with
                                lldpd(8).

SEE ALSO
     lldpd(8)

AUTHORS
     The lldpcli program was written by Vincent Bernat <bernat@luffy.cx>.

BSD                              July 16, 2008                             BSD
