LLVM-EXTRACT(1)                                                                 LLVM                                                                 LLVM-EXTRACT(1)

NAME
       llvm-extract - extract a function from an LLVM module

SYNOPSIS
       llvm-extract [options] –func function-name [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       The  llvm-extract command takes the name of a function and extracts it from the specified LLVM bitcode file.  It is primarily used as a debugging tool to re‐
       duce test cases from larger programs that are triggering a bug.

       In addition to extracting the bitcode of the specified function, llvm-extract will also remove unreachable global variables, prototypes, and unused types.

       The llvm-extract command reads its input from standard input if filename is omitted or if filename is -.  The output is always written  to  standard  output,
       unless the -o option is specified (see below).

OPTIONS
       –alias alias-name
          Extract the alias named function-name from the LLVM bitcode.  May be specified multiple times to extract multiple alias at once.

       –ralias alias-regular-expr
          Extract  the alias matching alias-regular-expr from the LLVM bitcode.  All alias matching the regular expression will be extracted.  May be specified mul‐
          tiple times.

       –bb basic-block-specifier
          Extract basic blocks(s) specified in basic-block-specifier. May be specified multiple times. Each <function:bb[;bb]> specifier pair will  create  a  func‐
          tion. If multiple basic blocks are specified in one pair, the first block in the sequence should dominate the rest.

       –delete
          Delete specified Globals from Module.

       -f
          Enable  binary output on terminals.  Normally, llvm-extract will refuse to write raw bitcode output if the output stream is a terminal.  With this option,
          llvm-extract will write raw bitcode regardless of the output device.

       –func function-name
          Extract the function named function-name from the LLVM bitcode.  May be specified multiple times to extract multiple functions at once.

       –rfunc function-regular-expr
          Extract the function(s) matching function-regular-expr from the LLVM bitcode.  All functions matching the regular expression will be  extracted.   May  be
          specified multiple times.

       –glob global-name
          Extract the global variable named global-name from the LLVM bitcode.  May be specified multiple times to extract multiple global variables at once.

       –rglob glob-regular-expr
          Extract  the  global  variable(s)  matching  global-regular-expr  from the LLVM bitcode.  All global variables matching the regular expression will be ex‐
          tracted.  May be specified multiple times.

       –keep-const-init
          Preserve the values of constant globals.

       –recursive
          Recursively extract all called functions

       -help
          Print a summary of command line options.

       -o filename
          Specify the output filename.  If filename is “-” (the default), then llvm-extract sends its output to standard output.

       -S
          Write output in LLVM intermediate language (instead of bitcode).

EXIT STATUS
       If llvm-extract succeeds, it will exit with 0.  Otherwise, if an error occurs, it will exit with a non-zero value.

SEE ALSO
       bugpoint(1)

AUTHOR
       Maintained by the LLVM Team (https://llvm.org/).

COPYRIGHT
       2003-2022, LLVM Project

13                                                                           2022-07-22                                                              LLVM-EXTRACT(1)
