
thumbnailer-settings(5)                                                                     Linux User's Manual                                                                     thumbnailer-settings(5)

NAME
       thumbnailer-settings - Configuration settings for thumbnailer-service(1).

DESCRIPTION
       The thumbnailer-service program uses dconf(7) for its configuration.  Configuration values are read once only, on start-up of the service.

       The following settings are used:

       dash-ubuntu-com-key (string)
              The API key for the remote artwork service.

       full-size-cache-size (int)
              The size (in megabytes) of the image cache that stores original artwork.  The default is 50 MB.

       thumbnail-size-cache-size (int)
              The size (in megabytes) of the thumbnail cache that stores scaled thumbnails.  The default is 100 MB.

       thumbnail-size-cache-size (int)
              The size (in megabytes) of the failure cache that stores media keys for media without an image.  The default is 2 MB.

       max-thumbnail-size (int)
              Requests for thumbnails larger than this will automatically reduce the thumbnail to max-thumbnail-size (in pixels) in the larger dimension. Requests for thumbnails with size zero are inter‐
              preted as requests for max-thumbnail-size.  The default is 1920 pixels.

       retry-not-found-hours (int)
              If  artwork cannot be retrieved because the remote server authoritatively confirmed that no artwork exists for an artist or album, this parameter defines how long (in hours) the thumbnailer
              waits before trying to download the same image again.  The default is 168 hours (one week).

       retry-error-hours (int)
              If artwork cannot be retrieved from the remote server due to an unexpected error (such as the server not responding), the thumbnailer does not attempt to contact the server again  for  some
              period,  using  exponential  backoff  if  the failure persists. This parameter defines the maximum wait time (in hours) before trying to contact the server again.  The default is two hours.
              (The initial wait time is 2 * max-extraction-timeout.)

       max-downloads (int)
              Controls the maximum number of concurrent downloads for remote artwork.  The default value is 8.

       max-extractions (int)
              Controls the maximum number of concurrent image extractions from local video files.  The default value is zero, which sets the value according to the number of CPU cores.

       max-extraction-timeout (int)
              Sets the amount of time (in seconds) to wait for a remote image download or a thumbnail extraction before giving up.  The default is 10 seconds.

       max-backlog (int)
              Controls the number of DBus requests that will be sent before queueing the requests internally.  The default is 10.

       trace-client (bool)
              If true, thumbnail and cancel requests are logged. Log messages are written to the calling application's log via qdebug().  The default value is false.

       log-level (int)
              At the default setting (1), cache misses are logged, but no messages are written for cache hits.  At setting 2, cache hits are logged as well. At setting 0, most messages that are  part  of
              normal  operation are suppressed. Errors and other unusual operating conditions are always logged, regardless of the logging level.  The default value is 1.  The environment variable THUMB‐
              NAILER_LOG_LEVEL overrides this setting.

FILES
       /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/com.lomiri.Thumbnailer.gschema.xml

SEE ALSO
       thumbnailer-service(1), dconf(7), gsettings(1)

Version 3.0.5                                                                                     Jan 2025                                                                          thumbnailer-settings(5)
