LPE(1)                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                LPE(1)

NAME
       lpe - Lightweight programmer's editor

SYNOPSIS
       lpe [ --help | --version ]
       lpe [ -- ] file

DESCRIPTION
       This page needs to be translated into Bulgarian!!!

       Lpe is a minimalist, visual, real-time text editor designed to make editing code easier without alienating its user from the shell.  It includes abilities to
       search files for plain text and block cut and paste, along with standard editing capabilities.  It takes some inspiration from emacs(1) and pico(1).

   Options
       --help Prints a brief description of program usage and terminates.  This must be the first option to lpe, and all other options are ignored.

       --version
              Prints a message indication the program version and terminates.  This must be the first option to lpe, and all other options are ignored.

       --     Treat future arguments as file names, not options.  This allows lpe to be used to edit files starting with the - character.

NOTES
       As mentioned above, lpe is designed as a minimalist editor, meant to be small and robust and efficient, but not to provide  too  many  superfluous  features.
       For this reason, it should not be difficult to learn to use lpe, provided that one is willing to invest effort to learn a few basic keys.

   Command Keys
       Up or Alt-K
              Go to previous line of text

       Down or Alt-J
              Go to next line of text

       Left or Alt-H
              Move cursor left one column

       Right or Alt-L
              Move cursor right one column

       Home or Alt-0
              Move cursor to beginning of line

       End or Alt-$
              Move cursor to end of line

       PageUp or Alt-B
              Scroll one screen up

       PageDn or Alt-F
              Scroll one screen down

       Alt-A  Move cursor to beginning of buffer

       Alt-S  Move cursor to end of buffer

       Ctrl-S Search for a specified string in the file

       Ctrl-K Kill the current line

       Ctrl-Y or Ctrl-U
              Insert the most recent block of killed lines

       Ctrl-T Toggle between hard and soft tab characters

       Ctrl-O Open a new file within the editor

       Ctrl-W Write the buffer to disk

       Ctrl-Q Save to an alternate file

       Ctrl-E Forget modifications to the buffer

       Ctrl-X Write the buffer to disk and exit

       Ctrl-D Perform an internal debug command

       <interrupt>
              Exit without writing to disk

       Ctrl-Z Suspend the editor and escape to a prompt

              <interrupt>  refers  to  your  terminal's  interrupt key.  This is often Ctrl-C, but can vary between terminals.  Ctrl-Z, on the other hand, is fixed,
              regardless of the normal stop key for your terminal.

SEE ALSO
       emacs(1), pico(1)

AUTHOR
       Chris Smith, cd_smith@ou.edu

BUGS
       Lots of 'em -- see the BUGS file in the distribution for a partial list.  I am not planning on updating this man page often enough to keep up  with  the  bug
       list, so I won't even try to list bugs here.

                                                                          12 December 1998                                                                    LPE(1)
