LSDNSSEC(1)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          LSDNSSEC(1)

NAME
       lsdnssec - List DNSSEC components of zones from files or directories

SYNOPSIS
         lsdnssec [-d 1-9] [OPTIONS] [FILES OR DIRECTORIES...]

DESCRIPTION
       The lsdnssec program summarizes information about DNSSEC-related files.
       These files may be specified on the command line or found in
       directories that were given on the command line.  The -d flag controls
       the amount of detail in the lsdnssec output.

       lsdnssec displays the following information about each zone for which
       it collects information:

       keys
           Key information is shown about the keys currently in use.  A bar
           graph is included that shows the age of the key with respect to the
           configured expected key lifetime.

           This information is collected from any .krf files lsdnssec finds.

       rolling status
           If any zone keys are being rolled via rollerd, then the status of
           the rolling state is shown.  The time needed to reach the next
           state is also displayed.

           This information is collected from any .rollrec or .rrf files found
           by lsdnssec.

OPTIONS
       -z ZONENAME1[,ZONENAME2]
       --zone=ZONENAME1[,ZONENAME2]
           Only prints information about the named zone(s).

       -p NUMBER
       --phase=NUMBER
           Only prints information about zones currently being rolled by
           rollerd and where either a zsk or a ksk rollover is taking place
           and is in phase NUMBER.

           If the phase NUMBER is specified as 0, then any zone in any rolling
           phase will be printed (but not zones that aren't being rolled at
           all).

           This flag is especially useful to find all of your zones that are
           currently in KSK rolling phase 6, which requires operator
           intervention to propagate the new DS records into the parent zone.

       -r
       --roll-status
           Show only rolling information from the rollrec files.  By default
           both roll-state and key information is shown.

       -k
       --key-data
           Show only keying information from the krf files.  By default both
           roll-state and key information is shown.

       -K
       --key-gen-time
           Normally rollerd calculates the age of a key based on the last time
           a key was rolled.  However, it's also possible to calculate the age
           of a key based on the difference between the time of execution and
           when the key was created (which was typically before the rolling
           began).  The -K flag switches to this second mode of key age
           calculation (which will not match how rollerd actually performs).

       -M
       --monitor
           The -M flag gives an abbreviated version of lsdnssec output that is
           intended for use by monitoring systems.  It displays the zone name,
           the rollover phase, and the time remaining in that phase.  This
           option implicitly sets the -r flag on and sets the detail level to
           1.

       -d 1-9
       --detail 1-9
           Controls the amount of information shown in the output.  A level of
           9 shows everything; a level of 1 shows a minimal amount.  The
           default level is 5.

       --debug
           Turns on extra debugging information.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2009-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wes Hardaker <hardaker AT AT AT users.sourceforge.net>

SEE ALSO
       lskrf(1)

       zonesigner(8), rollerd(8)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                       LSDNSSEC(1)
