LSREALM(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           LSREALM(1)

NAME
       lsrealm - List the realms in a DNSSEC-Tools realm file

SYNOPSIS
         lsrealm [options] <realm-files>

DESCRIPTION
       This script lists the contents of the specified realm files.  All realm
       files are loaded before the output is displayed.  If any realms have
       duplicated names, whether within one file or across multiple files, the
       later realm will be the one whose data are displayed.

       The output displayed for each realm in a realm file depends on the
       selected records, the selected attributes, and the selected output
       format.  Each option in these option groups is described in detail in
       the next section.  The three base output formats are described here.

       The -terse option indicates that a minimal amount of output is desired;
       the -long option indicates that a great deal of output is desired.  The
       record-selection and attribute-selection options may be used in
       conjunction with -terse to display exactly the set of realm fields
       needed.

       The default output format is that used when neither -terse nor -long is
       given, and is a middle ground between terse and long output.

       The table below shows the fields displayed for each output format.

           realm field          default        terse        long
           -------------        -------        -----        ----
           realm name             yes           yes         yes
           state                  yes           no          yes
           config directory       no            no          yes
           realm directory        no            no          yes
           rollrec file           no            no          yes
           administrator          no            no          yes
           directory              no            no          yes
           display flag           no            no          yes
           manager                no            no          yes
           manager arguments      no            no          yes
           user                   no            no          yes

OPTIONS
       There are three types of options recognized by lsrealm:  record-
       selection options, attribute-selection options, and output-format
       options.  Each type is described in the subsections below.

   Record-selection Options
       These options select the records that will be displayed by lsrealm.  By
       default, all records will be displayed; selecting one or the other of
       these options will restrict the records shown.

       These options are mutually exclusive.

       -active
           List all active records in the realm file.

       -inactive
           List all inactive records in the realm file.

   Attribute-selection Options
       These options select the attributes of the records that will be
       displayed by lsrealm.

       -admin
           The record's administrator value is included in the output.  If an
           administrator value is not included in a realm, then the value
           "(defadmin)" will be given.

       -args
           The record's user-defined arguments for the realm's rollover
           manager.

       -configdir
           The record's configuration directory is included in the output.
           This value will be the filename only, unless the -fullpaths option
           is given.  In that case, the full pathname will be printed.

       -display
           The record's display flag, used by grandvizier is included in the
           output.

       -manager
           The record's manager field, indicating which rollover manager is
           used for the realm..  The default is rollerd, but individual
           installations may use other managers.

       -realmdir
           The record's realm directory is included in the output.  This value
           will be the filename only, unless the -fullpaths option is given.
           In that case, the full pathname will be printed.

       -rollrec
           The record's rollrec file is included in the output.  This value
           will be the filename only, unless the -fullpaths option is given.
           In that case, the full pathname will be printed.

       -state
           Include each realm record's state in the output.  The state will be
           either "active" or "inactive".  This field is part of the default
           output.

       -user
           The record's user field, which is the user the realm's manager will
           be executed with.  This field is not yet implemented.

   Output-format Options
       These options select the type of output that will be given by lsrealm.

       -count
           Only a count of matching realms in the realm file is given.

       -fullpaths
           Display pathname data as the full pathname given in the realm file.
           If this option is not specified, only the filename itself will be
           displayed.

       -headers
           Display explanatory column headers.

       -terse
           Terse output is given.  Only the record name and any other fields
           specifically selected are included in the output.

       -long
           Long output is given.  All record fields are included.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for lsrealm and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2012-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       dtrealms(8), grandvizier(8), realminit(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::realm.pm(3)

       file-realm(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                        LSREALM(1)
