
LUMINA-CONFIG(1)                                                                          BSD General Commands Manual                                                                          LUMINA-CONFIG(1)

NAME
     lumina-config — modifies different desktop settings.

SYNOPSIS
     lumina-config

DESCRIPTION
     Appearance, desktop defaults, interface configuration, system settings, and user settings are adjustable.  Different configuration options for each category are listed in the GUI configuration section
     below.

GUI CONFIGURABLES
     Each category contains different configurables.

     Appearance:

     Change the interface of fonts and colors.
     Adjust transparency levels and window effects.
     Change background image.
     Change window settings and appearances.

   Desktop Defaults:

   Change default applications.
   Change keyboard shortcuts.
   Automatically start applications or services.

 Interface Configuration:

 Change what icons or tools are embedded on the desktop.
 Change any floating panels and what they show.
 Change what options are shown on the desktop context menu.

System Settings:

Manage system applications
Change Fcitx configuration.
Setup monitors and screens.
Change mouse sensitivty and orientation.
Change screensaver properties.
Check and apply updates or change update settings.
Change user details and groups.
Lock the screen with XScreenSaver.
Stop XscreenSaver daemon.
Manage devices connected to the system.
View and modify the configuration of the local sound server.
Run or enable start on boot for various services.
View or stop a currently running process.
Blank the screen with (activate) XScreenSaver.
Start XScreenSaver daemon.

User Settings:

Change basic user settings such as time and date formats.
Change the default locale settings for this user.

FILES
     /usr/local/bin/lumina-config

AUTHORS
     Aaron St. John and Tim Moore ⟨aaron@ixsystems.com⟩

1.3.3                                                                                           November 6, 2017                                                                                          1.3.3
