gdbload(1)                                                              HP100LX Tools                                                              gdbload(1)

NAME
       gdbload - load ASCII formatted data into an HP 100LX database

SYNOPSIS
       gdbload [-an] database [ input ]

DESCRIPTION
       gdbload  loads  ASCII formatted data into an HP 100LX database.  database is the name of the 100LX database to modify.  input is the name of a file of
       ASCII data to load into the database.  If no input file is specified, the standard input is used.  The ASCII file format is one exported by many data‐
       base packages as well as by gdbdump(1).

   Options
       gdbload recognizes the following options:

              -a     Add the records from the ASCII file to the database, keeping the records already present in the database.  By default,  the  records  in
                     the ASCII file replace those already in the database.

              -n     Do  not  back  up the database file.  By default, the original, unmodified database file is left in a file with the same name and a .bak
                     extension.

   Input Format Description
       The input to this program is an ASCII text file which starts with a line containing field names.  This line indicates the order in which fields appear
       on subsequent lines.  Not all fields of the database need be specified; unspecified fields will be left blank in all added records.  Field  names  are
       not case distinct and ampersands (&) are ignored in comparing field names.

       This  first line is followed by one line for each record of the database.  Note that any of these lines may be split into multiple lines if needed, by
       placing a backslash (\) at the ends of lines which are continued.  Also note that string fields may span multiple  lines  provided  they  are  quoted.
       Apart  from  line splitting according to these rules, each "logical" line contains all of the fields whose names were listed on the first line, in the
       same order as on the first line.  The fields (and the field names, on the first line) are separated by commas.

       Exactly how each field should appear depends on its type.  Text fields, category fields, number fields, and note fields should have their text  quoted
       if it contains commas or newlines.  The following escape sequences are understood:

              \r     Carriage return (ASCII 13).

              \n     Line feed (ASCII 10).

              \nnn   nnn are octal digits representing a character.

              \xnn   nn are hexadecimal digits representing a character.

       Any  other  character following a backslash is treated as a standard character with no special meaning, i.e., backslash and quote marks can be escaped
       by preceding them with a backslash.

       Date fields should appear in the format YYYYMMDD; for example, August 15, 1993 should appear as 19930815.  Time fields  appear  in  the  format  HHMM,
       where HH is in the range 00-23.  Date and time fields may also be left blank, i.e., nothing between the commas.

       Radio buttons and check boxes are turned off if the field is empty or contains a 0; they are turned on otherwise.

       No other field types, including application-defined types, are accepted by gdbload.

       The output from gdbdump(1) matches this input format, unless the -n flag is given to gdbdump(1).

WARNINGS
       When  the  newly constructed database is first opened by the 100LX, it will (erroneously) be reported as being empty. This is because gdbload does not
       construct database indexes, and the 100LX expects the index for the current "subset" to be valid.  The situation is remedied by pressing  F6  and  se‐
       lecting any "subset" (even the current one!)  This will rebuild the index for that "subset", causing records to display normally.  The delay caused by
       the  rebuild  depends on the size of the database (among other things), and ranges from imperceptible for small databases up to several minutes.  This
       delay will occur whenever a new "subset" is selected for the first time.

       gdbload will not attempt to modify HP 100LX Appointment Book and World Time databases.

       gdbload will not allow you to specify data for application-defined fields of a database.

       This program cannot handle password-protected databases.  Attempts to load data into password-protected databases will have unpredictable results.

AUTHOR
       gdbload was written by Steven Roth, stever@cup.hp.com, and is being maintained by Arne Christensen, arc@pine.dk.  Contact the latter for bug  reports,
       enhancement requests, or to get a copy of the source code.

DISCLAIMER
       This program is released into the public domain and neither the author nor the maintainer place any restrictions on its use.  We make no warranties or
       guarantees  for  this  program and you use it at your own risk.  This program is supplied by us personally and not by Hewlett-Packard Co. or Pine Tree
       Systems, which incur no obligations pertaining to it.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Many thanks to Andy Gryc for publishing the details of the database file formats!

SEE ALSO
       gdbdump(1).

Steve Roth et.al.                                                       February 1996                                                              gdbload(1)
