LYNKEOS(1)                                                                                  GNUstep Manual Pages                                                                                 LYNKEOS(1)

NAME
       Lynkeos - an application for processing of astronomical images

SYNOPSIS
       Lynkeos [options] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       Lynkeos is a program dedicated to processing of astronomical (mainly planetary) images taken with a webcam through a telescope.  It can import images and movies in various formats.  The images are
       stacked and processed with different algorithms to improve the quality of the end result.

       Lynkeos is optimized for multi-processor and multi-core machines.

OPTIONS
       No options are supported apart from the global GNUstep --GNU-Debug option.  If supplied, file must be a Lynkeos Project file (Apple binary property list with .seq extension).

       Lynkeos is fully configurable from its GUI interface.  The only option which is not exposed to the user is for debugging inter-thread communication.  It can be set with the defaults(1) tool:

       defaults write net.sourceforge.lynkeos ThreadConnectionDebug n

       Where n should be a number representing the debug level: 1 for debug messages related to the queue and 2 for full debugging (more verbose).

BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       Because Lynkeos does all of its image processing in secondary threads, it only works with the default cairo GNUstep backend.  Certain functionality is disabled or does not work properly due to in‐
       complete GNUstep implementations of the Cocoa API or differences in behavior.

SEE ALSO
       Comprehensive online help:

       http://lynkeos.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php?title=Help:Contents

       Online tutorial:

       http://lynkeos.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php?title=Help:Tutorial

AUTHORS
       Lynkeos was written by Jean-Etienne Lamiaud.

       This manual page was written by Yavor Doganov <yavor@gnu.org>.

COPYING
       © 2018-2025 Debian GNUstep maintainers

       This manual page is distributed under the same license as the Lynkeos program.

GNUstep                                                                                          March 2025                                                                                      LYNKEOS(1)
