LYXCLIENT(1)                    lyxclient 2.3.6                   LYXCLIENT(1)

NAME
       lyxclient - send commands to a running LyX editor

SYNOPSIS
       lyxclient [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       When  LyX  starts, it creates a unique, per-process local socket in the
       temporary directory through which commands can be sent. That is, it can
       act like a server, accepting connections from clients. lyxclient can be
       used as such client. lyxclient will take care  of  all  connection  and
       communication  protocol details, leaving you (or your app) free to con‐
       centrate on what you want to send to LyX.

SERVER IDENTIFICATION OPTIONS
       lyxclient must first identify to which server (i.e. a running LyX) com‐
       mands  are  to  be  sent. The following options are used to specify the
       server.

       -p pid
             specify the pid of the running LyX  process  to  which  lyxclient
             should send commands.

       -a socket_address
             specify  explicitly  which  socket  special  file should be used.
             These special files are located inside lyx_tmpdir<lyx_pid><hash>,
             in the temporary directory. There is one per running LyX process.

       -t tmp_dir
             if  LyX  is  configured  to  use a temporary directory other than
             /tmp, you must inform lyxclient of this.

       If neither -a nor -p are invoked, lyxclient will search for sockets  in
       /tmp  (or tmp_dir if the -t option is used) and use the first socket to
       which it can connect.  This is safe if you are  running  only  one  LyX
       process at any one time.

COMMAND MODE OPTIONS
       lyxclient  can send commands to LyX from both the command-line and from
       standard input.  LyX commands documentation can be found  in  LyX  Help
       menu.

       -c command
             send  a  single command, print LyX information to standard output
             and exit. LYXCMD prefix is needed in the given command.

       -g file line
             this is  simply  a  wrapper  for  the  command  'command-sequence
             server-goto-file-row  file line; lyx-activate'. It is used by the
             PDF and DVI previewer to elicit inverse search and focus the  LyX
             window.

       If neither -c nor -g are used, lyxclient will regard any standard input
       as commands to be sent to LyX, printing  LyX's  responses  to  standard
       output.  Commands  are  separated  by newlines (the '\n' character). To
       finish communication and terminate the lyxclient process, send the com‐
       mand 'BYE:'.

MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
       -n name
             when starting communication, lyxclient sends an idenfifier string
             to LyX. By default, this string is "PPID>PID", where PPID is lyx‐
             client's  parent pid and pid is lyxclient's pid.  Use this option
             to override this default.

       -h    print the lyxclient version and summarize its usage.

ENVIRONMENT
       LYXSOCKET
              can be used to specify the socket  special  file  that  must  be
              used.   LyX  sets  this  variable.   It  is overridden by the -a
              option.

SEE ALSO
       lyx(1), xdvi(1), LFUNs.lyx.

AUTHORS
       João Luis M. Assirati <assirati@fma.if.usp.br> is the principal  author
       of lyxclient.

Version 2.3.6                     2020-11-27                      LYXCLIENT(1)
