Mono(macpack)                                                    Mono(macpack)

NAME
       macpack - Macintosh OS X Packager for managed gui assemblies

SYNOPSIS
       macpack [options] assembly

DESCRIPTION
       macpack  is a tool used to package managed assemblies (like System.Win‐
       dows.Forms or Cocoa#) that require gui availability for  deployment  on
       Mac OS X.

       macpack  will prepare a OS X compatible bundle from the provided assem‐
       bly and resources.  The bundle will include the specified  assembly  as
       well  as  any  of the provided resources (specified with the -resource:
       switch).

       Developers can specify the kind of application  to  produce  using  the
       -mode:  argument.   This controls how the environment in the Mono class
       libraries is setup.

OPTIONS
       -a assembly

       This option tells macpack where the managed assembly that you  want  to
       bundle  resides.  This option is also used to point to the shell script
       to launch in the case of a X11/Gtk# application.

       This is the same as just passing the assembly as an argument.

       -m [winforms,x11,console,cocoa] or -mode:[winforms,x11,console,cocoa]

       A value indicating the kind of  application:  WinForms  is  a  Winforms
       application running on Quartz;  X11 is an application that requires the
       X11 server to run;  console is a non-graphical application;   cocoa  is
       an application based on Cocoa#

       -n NAME or -appname:NAME

       This option specifies the application name of the emitted bundle.  This
       is what you will see in Finder.

       -o DIRECTORY or -output:DIRECTORY

       This option specifies the path to output the generated Application.

       -r RESOURCE or -resource:RESOURCE

       This option can be specified multiple times.  It will place a  copy  of
       each resource into the bundles resources directory.  Alternatively, you
       can use a comma separated list of resources.

AUTHOR
       Geoff Norton

WEB SITE
       Visit: http://www.mono-project.com for details

                                                                 Mono(macpack)
