MU MKDIR(1)                                                        General Commands Manual                                                        MU MKDIR(1)

NAME
       mu-mkdir - create a new Maildir

SYNOPSIS
       mu [COMMON-OPTIONS] mkdir [OPTIONS] DIR...

DESCRIPTION
       mu mkdir is the command for creating Maildirs as per maildir(5). A maildir is a a directory with subdirectories new, cur and tmp.

       The command does not use the mu database.

       If creation fails for any reason, no attempt is made to remove any parts that were created. This is for safety reasons.

MKDIR OPTIONS
   --mode mode
       Set the file access mode for the new maildir(s) as in chmod(1). The default is 0755.

COMMON OPTIONS
   -d, --debug
       Makes  mu  generate  extra  debug  information,  useful for debugging the program itself. Debug information goes to the standard logging location; see
       mu(1).

   -q, --quiet
       Causes mu not to output informational messages and progress information to standard output, but only to the log file. Error  messages  will  still  be
       sent to standard error. Note that mu index is much faster with --quiet, so it is recommended you use this option when using mu from scripts etc.

   --log-stderr
       Causes mu to not output log messages to standard error, in addition to sending them to the standard logging location.

   --nocolor
       Do not use ANSI colors. The environment variable NO_COLOR can be used as an alternative to --nocolor.

   -V, --version
       Prints mu version and copyright information.

   -h, --help
       Lists the various command line options.

EXAMPLE
              $ mu mkdir tom dick harry

       creates three maildirs, tom, dick and harry.

REPORTING BUGS
       Please report bugs at https://github.com/djcb/mu/issues.

AUTHOR
       Dirk-Jan C. Binnema <djcb@djcbsoftware.nl>

COPYRIGHT
       This manpage is part of mu 1.12.14.

       Copyright  ©  2008-2025  Dirk-Jan C. Binnema. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html. This is free software: you
       are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       maildir(5), chmod(1)

                                                                                                                                                  MU MKDIR(1)
