PACKAGE(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         PACKAGE(1)

NAME
       package - register package user via mailagent

SYNOPSIS
       package address system version patchlevel [ mailpatches | notifypatches ]

DESCRIPTION
       This  command is not intended to be run directly by a user, but may appear in any mail whose subject is set to Command. Such mail will be processed by
       the mailagent(1), which will extract all lines beginning with @SH, which may specify this command. The mailagent first sets environment variables that
       will be used by the command.

       Package is used to notify the author of a package about its users.  It is normally generated automatically by the MailAuthor.U unit when the user runs
       Configure.

       If the patchlevel specified is not the latest for that system and version, mail is immediately sent suggesting that they upgrade and remindng them how
       to request the latest patches.

       The final parameter, if included may be set to mailpatches to specify that the user would like to have future patches mailed to them, or notifypatches
       to specify that a mail notification of future patches should be sent, rather than the entire patch.

       The user's address and notification request are saved in the file users in the package's directory.

       Package performs an approximate address match in order to avoid duplicate entries.  Whenever this elimination occurs, a warning message is  issued  in
       the logfile.  Two addresses will be said equivalent if one of them has an added machine name or if they are really equal. Therefore, the following ad‐
       dresses are equivalent:

            ram@acri.fr
            ram@main.acri.fr

       whereas the following two are not equivalent, unfortunately:

            ram@acri.acri.fr
            ram@main.acri.fr

       When a user is asking to be left alone, it is important to let him know if the request failed, because he will be annoyed when the next set of patches
       is  issued and he still gets them despite his previous request. Therefore, if no approximate match occurs, a warning message is sent back, with a list
       of addresses that are close to his own e-mail address, but not equivalent. Fortunately, the following addresses are considered close:

            ram@acri.fr
            ram@somewhere.com
            raphael@main.acri.fr
            manfredi@acri.acri.fr

       because they either have the same login (important when someone changes company) or share the same domain or sub-domain part.

       In order to edit the users file, the edusers script should be used. For one thing, it will let you edit the users file from whatever package you  name
       in  the command line, but it will also properly lock the file so that the execution of package will stall for the duration of the manual edition (pro‐
       vided you have a strict locking policy defined in your ~/.mailagent configuration file).

FORWARDING
       Package supports command forwarding as described in the mailhelp(1) page.

FILES
       ~/.mailagent        configuration file for mailagent.
       System/users        list of users of that system.
                           This file consists of single line records, one for each registered user.  Each record consists of three tab-separated fields.

                           The first field indicates the level of updates requested by the user by a single letter as follows:
                           M      Mail future patches directly to the user when they are issued.
                           N      Notify the user of future patches.
                           U      The users chose to let the author know that they have tried the program, but does not wish to know about future updates.
                           L      The user is no longer interested in the program and wants to be left alone.

                           The second field is their last notified patch level, or a dash (-) if it is not known.

                           The third field is the user's Email address.
       Log/agentlog        mailagent's log file

AUTHORS
       Graham Stoney <greyham@research.canon.oz.au>
       Raphael Manfredi <Raphael_Manfredi@pobox.com> (minor enhancements)

SEE ALSO
       edusers(1), mailagent(1), metaconfig(1).

                                                                                                                                                   PACKAGE(1)
