MAILFILTER(1)                                                            User Manuals                                                           MAILFILTER(1)

NAME
       mailfilter - Filters e-mail, gets rid of spam

SYNOPSIS
       mailfilter [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       Mailfilter  is  a  very flexible utility to get rid of unwanted spam mails, before having to go through the trouble of downloading them into the local
       computer. It offers support for one or many POP accounts and is especially useful for dialup connections via modem, ISDN, etc.

       Mailfilter connects to any POP mail box and compares part of its content to a set of user defined filter rules. That way the  spam  gets  deleted  di‐
       rectly on the mail server.

       With Mailfilter you can define your own filters (rules) to determine which e-mails should be delivered and which are considered waste. Rules are Regu‐
       lar Expressions, so you can make use of familiar options from other mail delivery programs such as procmail(1) for example.

RETURN VALUE
       The  mailfilter  program  normally returns 0 but -1 if an error occurs.  However, if it has been invoked with the return-value command line switch, it
       gives back a positive integer in case there are messages on the POP server.  Empty POP accounts would then result in a return value of 0.   Using  the
       switch, mailfilter can be embedded into a shell script more easily.

CONFIGURATION
       The  behaviour of Mailfilter is controlled by command-line options and a configuration file. The program will not start without it. Example configura‐
       tions can be looked up in the mailfilterex(5) man page, in the INSTALL document or inside the doc/ directory of the Mailfilter distribution.

       By default Mailfilter tries to read $HOME/.mailfilterrc to get all its settings from. This is the place where all changes should be made, unless it is
       explicitly specified otherwise. A comprehensive list of all supported options and keywords can be found in the mailfilterrc(5) man page.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display help information

       -L, --logfile=FILE
              Specify logfile location

       -M, --mailfilterrc=FILE
              Specify rcfile location

       -r, --return-value
              Enable additional return values

       -s, --skip-ssl-verify
              Skip verification of SSL certificates (Do not use unless you know better!)

       -t, --test
              Simulate deletes

       -i, --ignore-time-stamps
              Ignore invalid Message-ID time stamps (Do not use unless you know better!)

       -v, --verbose=LEVEL
              Specify level of verbosity

       -V, --version
              Display version information

SEE ALSO
       mailfilterrc(5), mailfilterex(5), procmail(1), regex(7)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2000-2022 Andreas Bauer <baueran@gmail.com>

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Mailfilter                                                               January 2009                                                           MAILFILTER(1)
