Mono(MakeCert)                                                  Mono(MakeCert)

NAME
       MakeCert - Create X.509 certificates for test purposes

SYNOPSIS
       makecert [options] certificate

DESCRIPTION
       Create  an  X.509  certificate using the provided informations. This is
       useful for testing Authenticode signatures, SSL  and  S/MIME  technolo‐
       gies.

PARAMETERS
       -# num Specify the certificate serial number.

       -n dn  Specify the subject Distinguished Name (DN).

       -in dn Specify the issuer Distinguished Name (DN).

       -r     Create a self-signed, also called root, certificate.

       -iv pvkfile
              Specify  the private key file (.PVK) for the issuer. The private
              key in the specified file will be used to sign the new  certifi‐
              cate.

       -ic certfile
              Extract  the issuer's name from the specified certificate file -
              i.e. the subject name of the specified certificate  becomes  the
              issuer name of the new certificate.

       -in name
              Use the issuer's name from the specified parameter.

       -ik container
              Specify the key container name to be used for the issuer.

       -iky [signature | exchange | #]
              Specify  the  key  number  to be used in the provider (when used
              with -ik).

       -ip provider
              Specify the cryptographic provider to be used for the issuer.

       -ir [localmachine | currentuser]
              Specify the provider will search the user or  the  machine  keys
              containers for the issuer.

       -iy number
              Specify the provider type to be used for the issuer.

       -sv pkvfile
              Specify  the private key file (.PVK) for the subject. The public
              part of the key will be inserted into the  created  certificate.
              If  non-existant  the  specified file will be created with a new
              key pair (default to 1024 bits RSA key pair).

       -sk container
              Specify the key container name to be used for the subject.

       -sky [signature | exchange | #]
              Specify the key number to be used in  the  provider  (when  used
              with -sk).

       -sp provider
              Specify the cryptographic provider to be used for the subject.

       -sr [localmachine | currentuser]
              Specify  the  provider  will search the user or the machine keys
              containers for the subject.

       -sy number
              Specify the provider type to be used for the issuer.

       -a hash
              Select hash algorithm. Only MD5 and  SHA1  algorithms  are  sup‐
              ported.

       -b date
              The date since when the certificate is valid (notBefore).

       -e date
              The date until when the certificate is valid (notAfter).

       -m number
              Specify the certificate validity period in months. This is added
              to the notBefore validity date which can be set with -b or  will
              default to the current date/time.

       -cy [authority|end]
              Basic  constraints.  Select Authority or End-Entity certificate.
              Only Authority certificates can be used to sign  other  certifi‐
              cates  (-ic).  End-Entity can be used by clients (e.g. Authenti‐
              code, S/MIME) or servers (e.g. SSL).

       -h number
              Add a path length restriction to the certificate chain. This  is
              only  applicable  for certificates that have BasicConstraint set
              to Authority (-cy authority). This is used to limit the chain of
              certificates than can be issued under this authority.

       -alt filename
              Add  a  subjectAltName  extension  to the certificate. Each line
              from 'filename' will be added as a DNS entry of  the  extension.
              This  option  is  useful if you want to create a single SSL cer‐
              tificate to work on several hosts that do  not  share  a  common
              domain name (i.e. CN=*.domain.com would not work).

       -eku oid[,oid]
              Add some extended key usage OID to the certificate.

       -p12 pkcs12file password
              Create  a new PKCS#12 file containing both the certificates (the
              subject and possibly the issuer's)  and  the  private  key.  The
              PKCS#12  file  is  protected  with  the specified password. This
              option is mono exclusive.

       -?     Help (display this help message)

       -!     Extended help (for advanced options)

EXAMPLES
       To create a SSL test (i.e. non trusted) certificate is easy  once  your
       know  your  host's  name. The following command will create a test cer‐
       tificate for an SSL server:
            $ hostname
            pollux

            $ makecert -r -eku 1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.1 -n "CN=pollux" -sv pollux.pvk pollux.cer
            Success

       In particular in the above example, the parameters used to  build  this
       test certificate were:

       -r     Create a self-signed certificate (i.e. without an hierarchy).

       -eku 1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.1
              Optional (as sadly most client don't require it). This indicates
              that your certificate is intended  for  server-side  authentica‐
              tion.

       -n     Common  Name  (CN)  = Host name. This is verified the SSL client
              and must match the connected host (or else you'll get a  warning
              or error or *gasp* nothing).

       -sv private.key
              The  private  key file. The key (1024 bits RSA key pair) will be
              automatically generated if the specified file isn't present.

       pollux.cer
              The SSL certificate to be created for your host.

KNOWN RESTRICTIONS
       Compared to the Windows version some options aren't supported (-$,  -d,
       -l,  -nscp,  -is,  -sc, -ss). Also PVK files with passwords aren't sup‐
       ported.

AUTHOR
       Written by Sebastien Pouliot

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2003 Motus Technologies.  Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Novell.
       Released under BSD license.

MAILING LISTS
       Visit    http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list   for
       details.

WEB SITE
       Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details

SEE ALSO
       signcode(1)

                                                                Mono(MakeCert)
