makeskel(1)                                                                           FPC unit description file generator                                                                           makeskel(1)

NAME
       makeskel - generate description file for fpdoc.

SYNOPSIS
       makeskel  [--descr=filename]  [--disable-arguments]  [--disable-errors]  [--disable-function-results]  [--disable-private]  [--disable-protected]  [--disable-seealso] [--emit-class-separator] [--help]
       [--lang=language] [--output=filename] [--update] --package=name --input=cmdline

Description
       makeskel scans a Free Pascal unit source file and generates a skeleton description file for it. It generates nodes for all identifiers found in the interface section of the unit, although this  behav‐
       iour can be adjusted with some options. It can also update an existing XML file, and then emits only nodes for identifiers for which no node exists yet.

Usage
       You  can  invoke  makeskel with as the only required arguments the input and package arguments. It should at least contain the name of the unit file for which documentation should be generated and the
       name of the package to which the unit belongs. The output of makeskel will go to standard output by default.

Options
       makeskel has many options, most of them optional, defaults will be used in most cases.

       --descr=descfile
              This option must be used in conjunction with the update option. It specifies the name of a description file descfile which must be updated. Note that the file must contain  valid  XML,  or  the
              update will fail. This option can be specified more than once.

       --disable-arguments
              If this option is specified, makeskel will not emit nodes for the arguments of functions and procedures. By default, documentation nodes are emitted for functions and procedures as well.

       --disable-errors
              By  default,  each  documentation  node will contain a errors node as well (excep for identifiers where this has no use, such as function arguments). If this option is specified, no errors node
              will be generated.

       --disable-function-results
              By default, for functions, a result node will be generated, to describe the result of the function. If this option is specified, no function result node will be generated.

       --disable-private
              By default, documentation nodes are also generated for private fields or methods of a class. if this option is specified, the generation of nodes for private fields or methods is skipped.

       --disable-protected
              By default, documentation nodes are also generated for protected fields or methods of a class. if this option is specified, the generation of nodes for protected fields or methods is skipped.

       --emit-class-separator
              If this option is specified, a visible comment with the name of the class for which documentation nodes will follow, is inserted between the nodes of two classes, making navigation easier.

       --help Emit a short help text and exit.

       --input=cmd
              The input (source) file to process. Multiple input files can be specified.  The command may contain valid compiler options, currently the  -Fipath  (search  path)  and  -dmacro  (define  macro)
              options are recognized.

       --lang=language
              Sets  the  language  for  the  output  file.  This will mainly set the strings used for the headers in various parts of the documentation files (by default they're in english). Currently, valid
              options are

              de     German.

              fr     French.

              nl     Dutch.

       --output=filename
              This option tells makeskel where the output should go. If this option is not specified, the output is sent to standard output (the screen).

       --package=packagename
              This option is required. It specifies the name of the package. All nodes will be generated inside a node with name attribute packagename.

       --update
              Turns on update mode. In this mode, the output is a file which contains only the missing nodes to complete the documentation of the input files. The existing nodes must be  specified  with  the
              descr argument. Note that the output file may not be the same as the input (description) nodes; A separate file must be specified (or no file, in which case output goes to standard output.

SEE ALSO
              ppc386(1) latex(1) fpdoc(1)

Free Pascal                                                                                     11 November 2004                                                                                    makeskel(1)
