MANUSKRIPT(1)                                                                             General Commands Manual                                                                             MANUSKRIPT(1)

NAME
       Manuskript - open-source tool for writers

SYNOPSIS
       manuskript [filename.msk]

DESCRIPTION
       Manuskript is an open source tool for writers. It provides a rich environment to help writers create their first draft and then further refine and edit their masterpiece.

       Though many features are already working as expected, Manuskript is still in development, and in need of extensive testing. If you consider using it for serious work, do frequent backup!

FEATURES
       Writing modes
              Manukskript  offers two writing modes: one “fiction” mode with all the tools for fiction writers (summary, characters, plot, world/context, etc.), and one “simple” mode, with only the writ‐
              ing tab.

       Outliner
              You can organize your thoughts and snippets in a hierarchical manner. Organize them as you wish, reorganize them on the go.

       Customizable distraction-free mode
              Get rid of all distraction while writing or lock yourself until you’ve reached a certain goal.

       Novel assistant
              Use the snowflake method to grow your single genius idea in a coherent whole, with complex characters, intricate plots and detailed universe.

       Open and plain-text file format
              Depending on your configuration, everything is either stored zipped in one single file or as several small text files in one folder (to allow versioning and collaborative editing).

       Index Cards
              Use index cards to organise your thoughts: notes, scenes, chapters, etc.

       Frequency Analyzer
              The frequency analyzer helps you find out what words or sentences your using the most.

       Story line
              Get an overview of your work through different strands, of which texts are nodes. As of now, only Plots are displayed, but in the near future you might use it to track anything: characters,
              object, place, or any other element of your work.  As soon as you reference something in the notes / references field, it will appear in the story line.

       Inline help
              You can activate help texts in the program's help menu.

AUTHOR
       Manuskript was made by Curtis Gedak.  See: http://www.theologeek.ch/manuskript/

BUGS
       See: https://github.com/olivierkes/manuskript/issues

                                                                                                   0.7.0                                                                                      MANUSKRIPT(1)
