Manweb Reference Documentation(0)            Manweb Reference Documentation(0)

NAME
       manweb - browse netpbm (and other) documentation

SYNOPSIS
       manweb -help

       manweb [-config=configfile] [topic [ subtopic ... ] ]

EXAMPLES
       manweb
       This gets a master index of documentation.
       manweb netpbm
       This  gets  the  main  documentation  page for the Netpbm package, with
       hyperlinks to the rest of the documentation.
       manweb netpbm pngtopam
       This goes directly to the documentation page for the  Pngtopam  program
       in the Netpbm package.
       manweb pngtopam
       This also goes directly to the documentation page for the Pngtopam pro‐
       gram in the Netpbm package, if that's what would run in response  to  a
       pngtopam shell command (your PATH environment variable is involved).
       manweb 3 fopen
       This  gets  the  traditional  man page for the fopen() subroutine using
       man.
       manweb cp
       This gets the GNU Info manual for the cp program, using info.

DESCRIPTION
       manweb displays reference documentation via quick shell  commands.   It
       is a replacement for the well-known man.

Differences Between Man and Manweb
       manweb's advantages over man are:

       ·

                     You can access documentation that is on the worldwide web
              instead of
                     having locally installed copies.  This saves installation
              work and gets
                     you more current documentation.

       ·

                     Documentation can be in HTML, which is more widely known,
              more widely
                     useful, and more expressive than the  nroff/troff  format
              used by
                     man.

       ·

                     manweb puts your topics in a tree for multilevel documen‐
              tation.
                     man is intended for a single level of documentation.  For
                     example, you can have a man page for each shell  command,
              but not for
                     the subcommands of a shell command.  And you cannot prop‐
              erly have
                     man  pages  for  the  members  of   multiple   subroutine
              libraries.

       ·

                     Documentation can be hyperlinked.

       Web  servers  need not be involved -- the documentation can be in local
       files.  Graphics need not be involved -- the lynx browser works fine in
       the same kind of terminals in which man works.

       manweb  finds  the documentation you specify and calls a web browser of
       your choice to display it.   The  documentation  manweb  finds  can  be
       either an HTML file on your system, in which case, manweb gives a file:
       URL to your browser, or an explicit URL.  That explicit URL might be an
       http:  URL referring to an HTML file on a web server somewhere, or any‐
       thing else your browser understands.

       If manweb finds neither an HTML file nor a  URL,  but  your  parameters
       look  like  they could mean something to man, manweb calls man.  There‐
       fore, you can use a single command to access the vast  body  of  tradi‐
       tional  man  pages,  plus any newer manweb documentation.  You can make
       "man" a shell alias of "manweb".

       manweb finds Info documentation as well.  It looks for  the  topic  you
       specify  as  an Info topic after looking for HTML and URL documentation
       and before running man.  If manweb finds a corresponding Info topic, it
       runs the program info on it.  Info is the documentation system that the
       GNU project invented to, among other things, replace  traditional  Unix
       man  pages.   However, HTML and the Worldwide Web were invented shortly
       afterward, so Info fizzled.  But there is still a lot of  GNU  software
       that is documented as Info topics.

   How Manweb Finds Documentation
       manweb passes a URL to a web browser.  This section tells how your man‐
       web invocation parameters turn into that URL.

       manweb's search starts in the "web directory" directory.  That's either
       the  value  of the webdir keyword in your manweb configuration file, or
       the default /usr/man/web.

       Your invocation parameters form a "topic chain."  Going  from  left  to
       right,  the first parameter is the main topic, the 2nd is a subtopic of
       the main topic, and so on.

       Let's look at the simple case where you specify exactly  one  parameter
       --  a  main  topic.   We'll call it maintopic and look at 4 ways manweb
       might find it:

       ·

              If manweb finds a file named maintopic.html
                     in the web directory, the URL manweb passes to the
                     browser is just a file: URL that specifies that .html
                     file.

       ·

              If there's no .html file, but there is a file named
                     maintopic.url, the contents of the first line of
                     that .url file is what manweb passes to the browser.  It
                     doesn't interpret the contents at all.  If it's  garbage,
              the
                     browser chokes on it.

       ·

              If there's neither a .html nor a .url file, but there is a
                     directory named maintopic, manweb looks in the
                     directory for a file named index.html.  If there is one,
                     manweb passes a file: URL specifying that
                     index.html file to the browser.  If there's no
                     index.html, manweb uses a file: URL that
                     specifies the directory itself.

       ·

              If manweb doesn't find documentation in any of the
                     above  ways,  it searches your executable search path (as
              defined
                     by your PATH environment variable) for a program named
                     maintopic.  If it finds one, it looks in the directory
                     that contains the program for a file named doc.url.  If
                     it finds one, it appends maintopic.html to the
                     first line of the file and passes that  to  the  browser.
              Unless
                     the first line does not end with a slash -- in that
                     case, manweb passes the first line of the file unmodified
                     to the browser.

       It  gets a little more interesting when you have subtopics.  Looking at
       each of the 4 cases above:

       ·

                     Where maintopic.html exists, subtopics are invalid.
                     You get a warning message and the subtopics are ignored.

       ·

                     Where there's no .html file but maintopic.url exists,
                     manweb appends the subtopic chain to the URL it gets from
              the
                     .url  file  as  in the following example:  .url file con‐
              tains
                     http://acme.com/productxyz/ and subtopics are
                     create and
                     database.  The URL manweb passes to the browser is
                     http://acme.com/productxyz/create/database.html.

              manweb doesn't check that this kind of appendage makes
                     any sense for the URL in question, except that if the URL
              in the
                     .url file doesn't end with a slash (/), manweb
                     issues a warning and doesn't append anything (ignores the
              subtopics).

       ·

                     Where there's neither a .html file nor a .url  file,  but
              there's a
                     maintopic directory, manweb recurses into that
                     directory  and  begins a whole new search using the first
              subtopic
                     as the main topic  and  the  rest  of  the  subtopics  as
              subtopics of that.

       ·

                     When  there  are  subtopics,  the PATH thing doesn't make
              sense,
                     so manweb doesn't do it.

              If you give subtopics, the PATH thing described  above  for  one
              topic doesn't apply.

       If  you  give  no parameters at all, manweb generates a URL for the web
       directory itself as described above for subdirectories.

       The above is simplified by the assumption of a  single  web  directory.
       In  reality, the webdir keyword in the configuration file can specify a
       chain of web directories.  manweb searches each one in turn, doing  all
       the  kinds  of  searches  in each web directory before moving on to the
       next one.

   The Configuration File
       The default location of the  manweb  configuration  file  is  /etc/man‐
       web.conf.  But you can override this with the environment variable MAN‐
       WEB_CONF_FILE, and override that with the -config invocation option.

       Lines starting with "#" are comments and  are  ignored,  as  are  blank
       lines.

       All  other  lines  have the format keyword=value.  The keywords defined
       are:

       webdir

                     A colon-delimited sequence of directories to search for
                     documentation as described above.  If you
                     don't specify this, the default is /usr/man/web alone.

       browser

                     The file specification manweb of the web browser manweb
                     is to invoke
                     to display documentation (except when it uses man to dis‐
              play
                     a conventional man page).
                     If  the file specification does not include a slash, man‐
              web
                     searches for the file in the PATH search path.

              If you don't specify this, the default is the value of the
                     BROWSER environment variable, and if that is not set,
                     lynx.

              Example:
              # Configuration file for Manweb

              webdir=/usr/share/manweb
              browser=netscape

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/manweb.html

netpbm documentation                         Manweb Reference Documentation(0)
