MAPIVI(1)                                                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                           MAPIVI(1)

NAME
       Mapivi - Picture Viewer and Organizer
                Mapivi means Martin's Picture Viewer

DESCRIPTION
       JPEG picture viewer / image management system with meta info support written in Perl/Tk for UNIX, Mac OS X and Windows.

       I wrote mapivi just for me, because I needed a image viewer which is also able to display and edit meta infos of JPEG pictures, like EXIF, JPEG comments and IPTC/IIM infos.  As hobby photographer
       I am mostly interested in the EXIF infos (like timestamp, camera model, focal length, exposure time, aperture, etc.) and the possibility to add and edit IPTC infos and JPEG comments.  But I also
       want to rename pictures according to their internal date/time and to do lossless rotation, lossless cropping and other stuff.

       mapivi can be found here: http://mapivi.de.vu (link to the mapivi site) or if this won't work: http://herrmanns-stern.de (real site) http://sourceforge.net/projects/mapivi (download)

       I would be happy to receive some feedback (e.g. on which os mapivi works), bugfixes, patches or suggestions about mapivi.

       Copyright (c) 2002 - 2016  Martin Herrmann All rights reserved.

       Feel free to redistribute.  Enjoy!

USAGE
       mapivi [-i ] [file|folder]

       to display a certain picture use:

       mapivi picture.jpg

       mapivi will generate and display all pictures in the folder as thumbnails. The given picture will be displayed in original size or zoomed to fit the window (picture frame).

       to view a folder containing pictures use:

       mapivi ~/pics/

       mapivi will generate and display all pictures in the given folder as thumbnails.

       to start mapivi with the import wizard

       mapivi -i

KEYS
       mapivi is controlled by the following keys: see also menu Help->Keys (the list is generated from the source code and is always actual.)

       Space, Page-Down
           Show the next picture in folder

       BackSpace, Page-Up
           Show the previous picture in folder

       Escape
           Iconify Mapivi (Boss-Key :)

       Cursor-up, -down, -left, -right
           Scroll the picture, if it's bigger than the Canvas

       Shift-Cursor-up, -down, -left, -right
           Move to the border of the picture, if it's bigger than the Canvas

       q   Quit Mapivi

           For all other key bindings, see the menu Help->Keys

MOUSE
       Try the right mouse button in the thumbnail picture list for a popup menu to copy, move, rename, rotate or delete pictures, to open a new folder, to add or remove comments or to exit Mapivi.

       Use the buttons to add, edit or remove JPG comments, or to display all EXIF infos.

       If you hold the mouse over the buttons or labels a help message will pop up (or at least at most of them :).

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-03-15                                                                                       MAPIVI(1)
