MAPPER(1)             User Contributed Perl Documentation            MAPPER(1)

NAME
           mapper - Create graphical maps of DNS zone data

SYNOPSIS
           mapper [options] zonefile1 domainname1 ... zonefileN domainnameN

DESCRIPTION
       This application creates a graphical map of one or more zone files.
       The output gives a graphical representation of a DNS zone or zones.
       The output is written in the PNG format.  The result can be useful for
       getting a more intuitive view of a zone or set of zones.  It is
       extremely useful for visualizing DNSSEC deployment within a given zone
       as well as to help discover problem spots.

OPTIONS
       -h  Prints a help summary.

       -o OUTFILE.png
           Saves the results to a given filename.  If this option is not
           given, the map will be saved to map.png.

       -r  Lists resource records assigned to each node within the map.

       -t TYPE,TYPE...
           Adds the data portion of a resource record to the displayed node
           information.  Data types passed will be automatically converted to
           upper-case for ease of use.

           Example usage: -t A will add IPv4 addresses to all displayed nodes
           that have A records.

       -L  Adds a legend to the map.

       -l (neato|dot|twopi|circo|fdp)
           Selects a layout format.  The default is neato, which is circular
           in pattern.  See the documentation on the GraphViz package and the
           GraphViz Perl module for further details.

       --node-size=(none|small)
           If the map size is too large, it is possible to either greatly
           reduce the node size (and the text) using --node-size=small or
           eliminate the circles entirely, leaving only the arrows using
           --node-size=none.  This can make for better visual diagrams of very
           complex node sets, although all labeling is lost.

       -a  Allows overlapping of nodes.  This makes much tighter maps with the
           downside being that they are somewhat cluttered.  Maps of extremely
           large zones will be difficult to decipher if this option is not
           used.

       -e WEIGHT
           Assigns an edge weight to edges.  In theory, >1 means shorter and
           <1 means longer, although, it may not have any effect as
           implemented.  This should work better in the future.

       -f INTEGER
           Uses the INTEGER value for the font size to print node names with.
           The default value is 10.

       -w WARNTIME
           Specifies how far in advance expiration warnings are enabled for
           signed resource records.  The default is 7 days.  The warning time
           is measured in seconds.

       -i REGEX
           Ignores record types matching a REGEX regular expression.

       -s TYPE,TYPE...
           Specifies a list of record types that will not be analyzed or
           displayed in the map.  By default, this is set to NSEC and CNAME in
           order to reduce clutter.  Setting it to "" will display these
           results again.

       -T TYPE,TYPE...
           Restrict record types that will be processed to those of type TYPE.
           This is the converse of the -s option.  It is not meaningful to use
           both -s and -t in the same invocation.  They will both work at
           once, however, so if -T specifies a type which -s excludes, it will
           not be shown.

       -g  Attempts to cluster nodes around the domain name.  For "dot"
           layouts, this actually means drawing a box around the cluster.  For
           the other types, it makes very little difference, if any.

       -q  Prevents output of warnings or errors about records that have
           DNSSEC signatures that are near or beyond their signature
           lifetimes.

       --dump-styles
           Dumps the current style settings for both nodes and edges.

       --node-style=FORMATS
       --edge-style=FORMATS
           Allows specific style settings to be used when drawing nodes and
           edges.  Major format specifications are delimited by '/'s and pairs
           within that are delimited by ':'s.  The first token in a ':' list
           is expected to be the record name.

           For example, to make all A address records appear as a red box and
           all MX records to appear as a triangle use this specification:

             --node-style=A:shape=box:fillcolor=red/MX:shape=triangle

           Run mapper with --dump-styles to show its default settings and/or
           how you've modified it the options have been used.

EXAMPLE INVOCATIONS
       mapper -s cname,nsec -i dhcp -L zonefile zone.com
           Writes to the default file (map.png) of a zone.com zone stored in
           zonefile.  It excludes any hosts with a name containing dhcp and
           ignores any record of type CNAME or NSEC.  A legend is included in
           the output.

       mapper -s txt,hinfo,cname,nsec,a,aaaa,mx,rrsig -L zonefile zone.com
       zonefile2 sub.zone.com ...
           Removes a lot of records from the display in order to primarily
           display a map of a zone hierarchy.

       mapper -l dot -s txt,hinfo,cname,nsec,a,aaaa,mx,rrsig -L zonefile
       zone.com zonefile2 sub.zone.com ...
           As the previous example, but this command draws a more vertical
           tree-style graph of the zone.  This works well for fairly deep but
           narrow hierarchies.  Tree-style diagrams rarely look as nice for
           full zones.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2004-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wes Hardaker <hardaker@users.sourceforge.net>

SEE ALSO
       Net::DNS

       http://dnssec-tools.sourceforge.net

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                         MAPPER(1)
