shptree(1)                                                                                                                                         shptree(1)

NAME
       shptree - create a quadtree-based spatial index for a Shape data set

SYNOPSIS
       shptree [ shpfile [depth] [index_format] | -v]

DESCRIPTION
       shptree  creates a quadtree-based spatial index for a Shape data set. The default tree depth is calculated so that each tree node (quadtree cell) con‐
       tains 8 shapes. Do not use the default with point files, a value between 6 and 10 seems to work ok. Your millage may vary and you'll need to  do  some
       experimenting.

       This  utility  is  a  must  for  any  MapServer application that uses Shape data sets. shptree creates a spatial index of your Shape data set, using a
       quadtree method. This means that MapServer will use this index to quickly find the appropriate shapes to draw. It creates a file of the same  name  as
       your  Shape  data  set, with a .qix file extension. The quadtree method breaks the file into 4 quadrants, recursively until only a few shapes are con‐
       tained in each quadrant. This minimum number can be set with the depth parameter of the command.

OPTIONS
       shpfile
              The name of the .shp file to index.

       depth  (Optional) The maximum depth of the index to create, default is 0 meaning that shptree will calculate a reasonable default depth.

       index_format
              (Optional) One of:

              NL     LSB byte order, using new index format

              NM     MSB byte order, using new index format

       The following old format options are deprecated:

              N      Native byte order

              L      LSB (intel) byte order

              M      MSB byte order

       The default index_format on this system is: NL

       -v     Display mapserver version and build options.

NOTES
       Shape data sets are native to MapServer, and therefore do not require the .shp extension in the DATA path of the LAYER. In fact, in order for MapServ‐
       er to use the .qix extension you MUST NOT specify the extension, for example:

              LAYER
                ...
                DATA "us_states"    #MapServer will search for us_states.qix and will use it
                ...
              END

              LAYER
                ...
                DATA "us_states.shp" #MapServer will search for us_states.shp.qix and won't find it
                ...
              END

       Note: As of MapServer 5.2 the qix will be used even when the .shp extension is specified.

EXAMPLE
       shptree us_states.shp
         creating index of new  LSB format

       Result:
              A file named 'us_states.qix' is created in the same location. (note that you can use the shptreevis(1) utility  to  view  the  actual  quadtree
              quadrants that are used by MapServer in this qix file)

SEE ALSO
       shptreetst(1), shptreevis(1), sortshp(1)

       The shptree wiki page ⟨https://github.com/mapserver/mapserver/wiki/ShpTree⟩ may also contain information on this utility.

                                                                       26 January 2026                                                             shptree(1)
