MARIA-CSO(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              MARIA-CSO(1)

NAME
       maria-cso - shared library generator for maria

SYNOPSIS
       maria-cso directory library.so file.c...
       maria-cso directory library.so file.c

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the maria-cso command.

       maria-cso  is  a  shell script invoked by maria in order to compile generated C code into dynamically loadable shared object files.  The script invokes the C compiler and the linker, and it calcu‐
       lates checksums in order to avoid compiling unmodified modules.
       The directory argument specifies the location of the source files.  When the script is invoked with one file.c argument, it translates the file to the shared object library.so.
       When maria-cso is invoked with multiple file.c arguments, it computes a checksum of a file named multiset.h and of each argument.  When the header file multiset.h has been changed since the previ‐
       ous invocation of maria-cso, everything will be recompiled.  Otherwise only those file.c modules that have been modified will be recompiled.  The checksum files are multiset.sum and c.sum.

SEE ALSO
       maria(1), sh(1).

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       CC     Name of the C compiler

       CFLAGS Command-line switches to be passed to the C compiler

       DEFINES
              Preprocessor macro definitions to be passed to the C compiler

FILES
       /usr/share/maria/runtime/*.h
              Header files for the run-time library

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Marko Mäkelä <msmakela@tcs.hut.fi>.  The maria-cso script and the compilation option were designed and implemented by Marko Mäkelä.  Please see the  copyright  file
       in /usr/share/doc/maria for details.

                                                                                              August 10, 2001                                                                                  MARIA-CSO(1)
