mat2(1)                                                                                        User Commands                                                                                        mat2(1)

NAME
       mat2 - the metadata anonymisation toolkit 2

SYNOPSIS
       mat2 [-h] [-v] [-l] [-V] [-s | -L] [files [files ...]]

DESCRIPTION
       mat2 removes metadata from various fileformats. It supports a wide variety of file formats, audio, office, images, …

       Careful,  mat2  does  not  clean files in-place, instead, it will produce a file with the word "cleaned" between the filename and its extension, for example "filename.cleaned.png" for a file named
       "filename.png".

OPTIONS
   positional arguments:
       files  the files to process

   optional arguments:
       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit

       -v, --version
              show program's version number and exit

       -l, --list
              list all supported fileformats

       --check-dependencies
              check if mat2 has all the dependencies it needs

       -V, --verbose
              show more verbose status information

       --unknown-members policy
              how to handle unknown members of archive-style files (policy should be one of: abort, omit, keep)

       -s, --show
              list harmful metadata detectable by mat2 without removing them

       -L, --lightweight
              remove SOME metadata

       --no-sandbox
              disable bubblewrap's sandboxing

       --inplace
              clean in place, without backup

EXAMPLES
       To remove all the metadata from a PDF file:

              mat2 ./myfile.pdf

NOTES ABOUT METADATA
       While mat2 is doing its very best to display metadata when the --show flag is passed, it doesn't mean that a file is clean from any metadata if mat2 doesn't show any. There is no reliable  way  to
       detect every single possible metadata for complex file formats.

       This is why you shouldn't rely on metadata's presence to decide if your file must be cleaned or not.

       Moreover, mat2 goes to great lengths to make sure that as much metadata as possible are removed. This might sometimes result in a loss of quality of the processed files. For example, textual based
       pdf  file converted into image based one means that it'll be no longer possible to select text in them. If you're experiencing this, you might want to give the lightweight cleaning mode a try, but
       keep in mind by doing so, some metadata won't be cleaned.

BUGS
       While mat2 does its very best  to  remove  every  single  metadata,  it's  still  in  beta,  and  some  might  remain.  Should  you  encounter  some  issues,  check  the  bugtracker:  https://0xa‐
       cab.org/jvoisin/mat2/issues

       Please use accordingly and be careful.

AUTHOR
       This software was made by Julien (jvoisin) Voisin with the support of the Tails project.

COPYRIGHT
       This software is released on LGPLv3.

SEE ALSO
       exiftool(1p) pdf-redact-tools(1)

mat2 0.13.5                                                                                     January 2025                                                                                        mat2(1)
