MATE-PANEL(1)                                                      General Commands Manual                                                      MATE-PANEL(1)

NAME
       mate-panel - The Panel for the MATE Desktop Environment

SYNOPSIS
       mate-panel [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       The  mate-panel  program  provides the panels for the the MATE Desktop Environment. It is the area on your desktop from which you can run applications
       and applets, and perform other tasks. New applets may also be installed ,added to, or removed from the panels.

       By default, mate-panel typically creates a panel on the top of the screen with applets such as a Menu Bar, Notification Area, and Clock; While  creat‐
       ing  a second panel on the bottom of the screen with a Window List and a Workspace Switcher. Panels can be created, deleted, moved around the desktop,
       and to other monitors.

       This manual page documents the mate-panel command.

OPTIONS
       --replace
              Replace a currently running instance of mate-panel.

       --reset
              Reset the panel configuration to the default setting.

       --run-dialog
              Open the "Run Application" dialog, also accessible by pressing ALT+F2.

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use.

       -?, -h, --help
              Print standard command line options.

       --help-all
              Print all command line options.

       This program also accepts the standard GTK options.

BUGS
   Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at:
       http://github.com/mate-desktop/mate-panel/issues

AUTHORS
   This Man Page has been written for the MATE Desktop Environment by:
       Adam Erdman <hekel@archlinux.info> (2014)

SEE ALSO
   Mate Panel documentation can be found under "Help" by right-clicking on mate-panel.
       Further information may also be available at: http://wiki.mate-desktop.org/docs

       mate-panel-test-applets(1)

MATE Desktop Environment                                               4 February 2014                                                          MATE-PANEL(1)
