RMATH(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    RMATH(1)

NAME
       rmath - a computer algebra system with functions and readline
       matho - a computer algebra system with functions

SYNOPSIS
       rmath [ input_files ]
       matho [ input_files ]

DESCRIPTION
       Mathomatic is a general-purpose computer algebra system (CAS) that can symbolically solve, simplify, combine, and compare algebraic equations, perform standard, complex number, modular, and polynomial
       arithmetic, etc.  It does some calculus and handles all elementary algebra, except logarithms.  Plotting expressions with gnuplot is also supported.

       rmath and matho are shell scripts that allow you to use Mathomatic with input of functions like sin(x) and sqrt(x) automatically expanded to equivalent algebraic expressions by the m4 macro preproces‐
       sor.   A matching pair of parentheses is required around the parameters for all functions in m4 Mathomatic; m4 requires this.  rmath also runs the rlwrap readline wrapper utility if available, to pro‐
       vide readline input editing support similar to that provided by mathomatic(1).

       rmath and matho define and enable named math functions in Mathomatic.  Most functions enabled here should be real number, complex number, and symbolically capable.  One exception is the  abs(x)  func‐
       tion, which doesn't work with complex numbers, because it is defined in Mathomatic as (((x)^2)^.5).

       The following general functions are defined when using rmath or matho: sqrt(x), cbrt(x), exp(x), pow(x,y), abs(x), sgn(x), factorial(x), gamma(x), floor(x), ceil(x), int(x), and round(x).

       The following standard trigonometric functions are defined: sin(x), cos(x), tan(x), cot(x), sec(x), and csc(x).  sinc(x) is the normalized sinc function, defined as sin(pi*x)/(pi*x).

       The following standard hyperbolic trigonometric functions are defined: sinh(x), cosh(x), tanh(x), coth(x), sech(x), and csch(x).

       The following universal constants are defined: pi, e, i (the imaginary unit), euler (the Euler-Mascheroni constant), omega, and phi (the golden ratio).

GENERAL
       Text  files  may  be specified on the shell command line that will be automatically read in through the m4 preprocessor into Mathomatic.  After any files are read in, Mathomatic prompts for input from
       the console.

       Mathomatic is best run from within a terminal emulator.  It uses console line input and output for the user interface.  First you type in your mathematical equations in  standard  algebraic  notation,
       then  you  can  solve  them  by  typing in the variable name at the prompt, or perform operations on them with simple English commands.  Type "help" or "?" for the help command, "help examples" to get
       started.  If the command name is longer than 4 letters, you only need to type in the first 4 letters.  Most commands operate on the current equation by default.

       Complete documentation is available in HTML and PDF formats; see the local documentation directory or online at "http://mathomatic.org/math/doc/" for the latest Mathomatic documentation.

FILES
       ~/.mathomaticrc
              Optional startup file containing Mathomatic set command options.  It should be a text file with one or more set options per line.  For example, the line "no color" will make Mathomatic  default
              to non-color mode, which is useful if you aren't using a supported color device.

AUTHOR
       Mathomatic has been written by George Gesslein II (gesslein@mathomatic.org), with help from the Internet community.

REPORTING BUGS
       Please report any bugs to the author or on the Launchpad website: "https://launchpad.net/mathomatic".

SEE ALSO
       mathomatic(1), matho-primes(1), primorial(1), matho-mult(1), matho-sum(1), matho-pascal(1), matho-sumsq(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                       RMATH(1)
