MAUDE(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  MAUDE(1)

NAME
       Maude - A high-performance logical framework

SYNOPSIS
       maude [options] [files]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the Maude interpreter.  This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       Maude  is a high-performance reflective language and system supporting both equational and rewriting logic specification and programming for a wide range of applications. Maude has been influenced
       in important ways by the OBJ3 language, which can be regarded as an equational logic sublanguage. Besides supporting equational specification and programming, Maude also supports  rewriting  logic
       computation.

       Rewriting  logic  is  a logic of concurrent change that can naturally deal with state and with concurrent computations. It has good properties as a general semantic framework for giving executable
       semantics to a wide range of languages and models of concurrency. In particular, it supports very well concurrent object-oriented computation. The same reasons making rewriting logic a good seman‐
       tic framework make it also a good logical framework, that is, a metalogic in which many other logics can be naturally represented and executed.

       Maude supports in a systematic and efficient way logical reflection. This makes Maude remarkably extensible and powerful, supports an extensible algebra of module composition operations,  and  al‐
       lows  many  advanced  metaprogramming and metalanguage applications. Indeed, some of the most interesting applications of Maude are metalanguage applications, in which Maude is used to create exe‐
       cutable environments for different logics, theorem provers, languages, and models of computation.

       --help display help information

       --version
              Display version number

       -no-prelude
              Do not read in the standard prelude

       -no-banner
              Do not output banner on startup

       -no-advice
              No advisories on startup

       -no-mixfix
              Do not use mixfix notation for output

       -no-wrap
              Do not automatic line wrapping for output

       -ansi-color
              Use ANSI control sequences

       -no-ansi-color
              Do not use ANSI control sequences

       -tecla Use tecla command line editing

       -no-tecla
              Do not use tecla command line editing

       -batch Run in batch mode

       -interactive
              Run in interactive mode

       -random-seed=<int>
              Set seed for random number generator

       -xml-log=<filename>
              Set file in which to produce an xml log

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1997-2011 SRI International, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA.

       Copyright (c) 1997 - 2002, Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura,

       Copyright (c) 2000 - 2003, Richard J. Wagner

REPORTING BUGS
       Send bug reports to: maude-bugs@maude.cs.uiuc.edu

SEE ALSO
       Websites:

       http://maude.cs.uiuc.edu/
              Official Maude website

       Mailing lists:

       http://lists.cs.uiuc.edu/mailman/listinfo/maude-users
              A moderated list for the discussion of topics of general interest to all Maude users.

       http://lists.cs.uiuc.edu/mailman/listinfo/maude-help
              Help list for questions about using Maude.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Scott Christley <schristley@mac.com> based upon the Maude help text.

                                                                                               February 2011                                                                                       MAUDE(1)
