MComix3(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  MComix3(1)

NAME
       MComix3 - GTK Comic Book Viewer

SYNOPSIS
       mcomix3 [OPTION...] [PATH...]

DESCRIPTION
       MComix3  is  a  user-friendly,  customizable image viewer. It is specifically designed to handle comic books (both Western comics and manga) and supports a variety of container formats (including CBR,
       CBZ, CB7, CBT, LHA and PDF).

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display the help text and exit.

       -s, --slideshow
              Start the application in slideshow mode.

       -l, --library
              Show the library on startup.

       -v, --version
              Show the version number and exit.

       Viewing modes

       -f, --fullscreen
              Start the application in fullscreen mode.

       -m, --manga
              Start the application in manga mode.

       -d, --double-page
              Start the application in double page mode.

       Zoom modes

       -b, --zoom-best
              Start the application with zoom set to best fit mode.

       -w, --zoom-width
              Start the application with zoom set to fit width.

       -h, --zoom-height
              Start the application with zoom set to fit height.

       The zoom modes are mutually exclusive, and if more than one is specified, the first will be used.

ARGUMENTS
       PATH   The path to one or more files or directories to be opened.

DEPENDENCIES
   Required:
       Python 3.3 or later

       PyGObject 3.24 or later, with GTK+ 3 3.22 or later.

       PIL (Python Imaging Library) 1.1.5 or later. Alternatively, Pillow (a fork of PIL) can be used.

       Distribute or Setuptools.  Distribute supersedes Setuptools on most distributions.

   Recommended:
       unrar, rar or libunrar to extract RAR archives.

       p7zip to extract 7Z archives. Note that p7zip might be able to extract RAR archives as well, but this might require additional software (for example, p7zip-rar on Debian-like systems),  and  it  might
       fail to open certain RAR archives, especially newer ones.

       lha to extract LHA archives.

       mupdf for PDF support.

BUGS
       Please report any bugs to the MComix3 bug tracker at
       http://sourceforge.net/projects/mcomix3

CONTACT
       The MComix3 home page is
       http://mcomix3.sourceforge.net

                                                                                                  January 2016                                                                                       MComix3(1)
