md3serial(1)                                                                                       Emulators                                                                                       md3serial(1)

NAME
       md3serial - view or change serial number on MicroDesign discs.

SYNOPSIS
       md3serial [-serial SERIAL] [-format FORMAT] [-type TYPE] [-side SIDE] [-comp COMP] DISKIMAGE
DESCRIPTION
       Md3serial allows the serial number on program discs distributed by Creative Technology (or image files made from such discs) to be viewed or changed.

OPTIONS
       -serial SERIAL
              Write a new serial number to the disc (up to 7 characters). If this is not present the existing serial number remains unchanged.

       -type TYPE
              Determines which driver is to be used.

              auto    Select according to the disc image file. This is the default.

              dsk     Use the DSK (CPCEmu format) image driver.

              edsk    Use the extended version of the DSK format.

              floppy  Use the floppy driver.

              myz80   Use the hard disk (MYZ80 format) image driver.  (This format cannot be autodetected.)

              cfi     Use the CFI (DOS fdcopy format) image driver.  (This format cannot be autodetected.)

              raw     Use the raw driver.

       -comp COMP
              Select the compression method used on the source disc image file (has no effect when reading a floppy disc).

              auto    Detect from the first few bytes of the file. This is the default.

              sq      Huffman coded (SQ / USQ).

              gz      Gzipped (gzip / gunzip).

              bz2     Burrows-Wheeler compressed (bzip2 / bunzip2).

       -side SIDE
              Determines which side (0 or 1) of the disc (image) is to be identified.

LEGAL NOTES
       The authors of the MicroDesign family of programs have placed them in the public domain and explicitly given permission for the copy-protection system to be reverse-engineered.

AUTHOR
       John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.

Version 1.5.9                                                                                  17 September 2018                                                                                   md3serial(1)
