MDFinder(1)                                                            General Commands Manual                                                           MDFinder(1)

NAME
       MDFinder - GNUstep Finder application

SYNOPSIS
       MDFinder

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the MDFinder GNUstep application.

       MDFinder is a an application to search items already indexed by the GWMetadata desktop search and indexing system, a GNUstep implementation of MacOS X's pro‐
       prietary Spotlight (or Beagle/Tracker).  Searches can be saved and are automatically updated if the corresponding files change.   Indexing  is  done  in  the
       background and is switched off by default.  To enable it and configure the search path, use the dedicated module in the SystemPreferences(1) application.

       There are several accompanying programs which normally are not intended to be invoked directly by the user.  Some of them run as daemons and are launched au‐
       tomatically.  Here is a short description:

   gmds
       This daemon is responsible for maintaining the indexing database, located at $HOME/GNUstep/Library/gmds.

   mdextractor
       Runs in the background (if indexing is turned on) and extracts file contents, updating the database.

   mdfind
       See mdfind(1).

OPTIONS
       Like most GNUstep applications, MDFinder does not support any command-line options (except the standard GNUstep ones).

SEE ALSO
       mdfind(1), SystemPreferences(1), GWorkspace(1), GNUstep(7)

AUTHORS
       MDFinder and GWMetadata were written by Enrico Sersale.

       This manual page was added by Yavor Doganov <yavor@gnu.org> for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have one.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and  this  no‐
       tice are preserved.

                                                                            June 19, 2014                                                                MDFinder(1)
