MDM.SCREEN(1)                                                           User Commands                                                           MDM.SCREEN(1)

NAME
       mdm.screen - run a command under mdm-master

SYNOPSIS
       mdm.screen [-c iospec] [-n slaves] command

DESCRIPTION
       mdm.screen runs command under mdm-master so that mdm-run commands in command can run in parallel.

       This program is a part of the Middleman System (mdm).

OPTIONS
       The mdm.screen command has two optional options.

       -c iospec
              The iospec file (see below).

       -n slaves
              The number of mdm-slave process to start (default 6).

THE IOSPEC FILE
       mdm-master  uses  the  iospec file to decide whether two commands interfere with each other, and it only runs two commands at the same time if they do
       not interfere.

       Each line of the iospec file specifies the I/O behavior of a program, unless the line starts with a '#' character, in which case the line  is  treated
       as comments and ignored.  The format is as follows:

              program spec spec ...

       program names the program whose behavior you are specifying.  For each spec element, the first character indicates usage, and the remaining characters
       indicate resource.

       A  resource  that  starts with a '-' character represents the argument of the corresponding program option.  A resource that is an empty string repre‐
       sents a program argument.  A resource that is not empty and does not start with a '-' character represents the resource string itself.

       A usage is typically an upper-case character.  If two commands access the same resource with different usage, mdm-master will not run these  two  com‐
       mands  at the same time.  Furthermore, if a command access a resource with ´W´ usage, mdm-master will not run it with any command that access the same
       resource in any way (including 'W').  There is a special case: if usage is '0' and resource starts with a '-' character, it means  that  the  resource
       program option does not take any arguments.

       All programs has an implicit spec 'Rglobal', so if you mark a program as 'Wglobal', it will not run while any other command is running.

       Here is an example to help clarify matters.  Suppose we have the following iospec file:

              cc W-o 0-c R
              rm W

       Then these two commands can run at the same time:

              cc -o pa pa.o lib.o
              cc -o pb pb.o lib.o

       These two commands cannot run at the same time:

              cc -o pa.o -c pa.c
              cc -o pa pa.o lib.o

       And these two commands also cannot run at the same time:

              cc -o pa pa.o lib.o
              rm pa

EXIT STATUS
       The exit status of mdm.screen is 0.

EXAMPLE
       Here is what you do to decompress all files with .gz extension in the current directory tree.

              mdm.screen find . -iname '*.gz' -exec mdm-run gunzip {} \;

       Since we run find under mdm.screen and invoking gunzip under mdm-run, we specify that we wish to run the gunzip commands in parallel.

SEE ALSO
       mdm-run(1), mdm-sync(1), ncpus(1)

Linux                                                                     2009-03-06                                                            MDM.SCREEN(1)
