mdtool(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   mdtool(1)

NAME
       mdtool - MonoDevelop Application Runner

SYNOPSIS
       mdtool <applicationId> ...

       mdtool setup ...

       mdtool -q

DESCRIPTION
       mdtool is a tool that can execute head-less MonoDevelop applications, this can be used for example to do batch compilations without starting up the MonoDevelop GUI.

USAGE
       applicationId ...
              Runs the specified application.

       -q     Lists available applications.

Available Applications
       The list of applications returned by the option -q might be different depending on which add-ins are installed.

       gsetup Graphical add-in setup utility.

       build [options] [project-file]
              Project  build  tool.  Use this tool to build any solution supported by MonoDevelop (eg. .mds, .sln). If no solution/project is specified then it will pull the first solution it can find in the
              current directory.  You can use this option to build packages in a head-less or batch fashion.

              Options
                     -c , --configuration:CONFIGURATION Name of the solution configuration to build.

                     -t , --target:TARGET Name of the target: Clean or Build

                     -p , --project:PROJECT Name of the project to build.

       dbgen  Parser database generation tool.

       project-export
              Project conversion tool.

       IDE    The MonoDevelop IDE.

       generate-makefiles <solution-file> [--simple-makefiles] [-d:default-config]
              Makefile generator tool. This can be used to generate makefiles from any solution supported by MonoDevelop.

              Options
                     --simple-makefiles , -s Generates set of Makefiles with the most common targets, and a configuration script that does a basic check of package dependencies. Default is to generate  Make‐
                     file structure based on Autotools with the standard targets and configuration scripts.

                     -d:default-config Configuration that the Makefile will build by default. Other configurations can be selected via the '--config' or '--enable-*' option of the generated configure script.

       setup command [arg1, .., argn2]
              Runs the MonoDevelop add-in setup command.  You must specify a command to execute.  If none is provided a list of commands is displayed
              Add-in Commands
                     install  (i) [package-name|package-file] Installs an add-in or set of addins. The command argument is a list of files and/or package names. If a package name is provided the package will
                     be looked out in the registered repositories.  A specific add-in version can be specified by appending it to.  the package name using MonoDevelop.SourceEditor/0.9.1

                     uninstall (u) [package-name]
                            Uninstalls an add-in. The command argument is the name of the add-in to uninstall.

                     check-install (ci)
                            Checks if a package is installed. If it is not, it looks for the package in the registered repositories, and if found the package is downloaded and installed, including all needed
                            dependencies.

                     update (up)
                            Downloads and installs available updates for installed add-ins.

                     list (l)
                            Prints a list of all installed add-ins.

                     list-av (la)
                            Prints a list of add-ins available to install in the registered repositories.

                     list-update (lu)
                            Prints a list of available add-in updates in the registered repositories.
              Repository Commands

                     rep-add (ra) url1 [url2 [url2]]
                            Registers an add-in repository. Several URLs can be provided.

                     rep-remove (rr) url1 [url2 [url2]]
                            Unregisters an add-in repository. Several URLs can be provided.

                     rep-update (ru)
                            Updates the lists of addins available in all registered repositories.

                     rep-list (rl)
                            Shows a list of all registered repositories.
              Add-in Registry Commands:

                     reg-update (rgu)
                            Looks for changes in add-in directories and updates the registry.  New add-ins will be added and deleted add-ins will be removed.

                     reg-build (rgu)

                     info [filename|package-name]
                            Prints information about an add-in.
              Packaging Commands

                     rep-build (rb) path
                            Scans the provided directory and generates a set of index files with entries for all add-in packages found in the directory tree. The resulting file structure is an add-in reposi‐
                            tory that can be published in a web site or a shared directory.

                     pack (p) file-path
                            Creates an add-in package (.mpack file) which includes all files needed to deploy an add-in. The command parameter is the path to the add-in's configuration file.

                     help (h) [command]
                            Shows help for the given command
              Debug Commands:

                     dump-file
                            Prints the contents of a registry file for debugging.

SEE ALSO
       monodevelop(1), mono(1), mcs(1)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2007 Novell, Inc (http://www.novell.com)

MAILING LISTS
       Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/monodevelop-list for details.

WEB SITE
       Visit http://www.monodevelop.com for details

                                                                                                                                                                                                      mdtool(1)
