MEDIAWIKI2LATEX(1)                                                                             User Commands                                                                             MEDIAWIKI2LATEX(1)

NAME
       MediaWiki to LaTeX - compile MediaWiki pages via LaTeX to PDF

SYNOPSIS
       mediawiki2latex [OPTION] -o FILE -u URL

DESCRIPTION
       MediaWiki to LaTeX will fetch MediaWiki pages from a URL. It will fetch all its content recursively, i.e. subpages and pictures. Then the source code is converted to LaTeX, using the user template
       MAP  if  specified, or a default template otherwise.  The LaTeX output is stored in LATEXTREE if provided. Finally a PDF if generated from the LaTeX source code if an appropriate LaTeX compiler is
       found. Note that it will automatically run several times to make sure all references are resolved.  All steps can be controlled with command-line options.

OPTIONS
       -c, --copy=LATEXTREE
              Write all generated LaTeX files to the specified folder.

       -g, --vector
              Keep vector graphics in vector form.

       -h, --html
              Use mediaWiki generated HTML as input (default).

       -z, --zip
              Output LaTeX Source Archive.

       -b, --epub
              Output epub file. Only works if packages latex2rtf and calibre are installed additionally.

       -d, --odt
              Output odt file. Open Document Text (for wordprocessors). Only works if packages latex2rtf and libreoffice are installed additionally.

       -i, --internal
              Use internal template definitions.

       -x, --hex=CONFIG
              Take configuration data from hex encoded string given on the command line. This is only needed to avoid malicious shell injecion via the web form of the server

       -m, --mediawiki
              Use mediaWiki to expand the templates.

       -k, --bookmode
              Use book-namespace mode for expansion. That means: Follow all links but not recursively.

       -o, --output=FILE
              Specify the PDF output file.

       -p, --paper=SIZE
              Set the paper size. Possible values are A4, A5, B5, letter, legal, executive.

       -r, --resolution=DPI
              Set the maximum image reolution in dot-per-inch. The argument should be an integer.

       -s, --server=PORT
              Run as server. Listen on PORT

       -t, --templates=MAP
              Specify the user template map file. Usually called templates.user.

       -l, --headers=EADERSPATH
              The the path to the LaTeX headers, which should be used. May be omitted. Useful in combination -t.

       -u, --url=URL
              The input URI. It should point to a MediaWiki page.

       -?, -v, --version, --help
              Show help options together with version number.

TEMPLATES
       MediaWiki features a powerful template system which will control the appearance of specific parts in the text. This system can be used to our advantage to further control the appearance of the re‐
       sulting PDF. You can tell MediaWiki to LaTeX to use the host site template result directly in the PDF, or you can use a custom template of yours. See the $XDG_DATA_DIRS/mediawiki2latex/latex for a
       template example.

LATEX TREE
       All the downloaded files are kept into memory, so there will not be any MediaWiki files remaining on disk after the process. However, the generated LaTeX files -- the `LaTeX tree' --  need  to  be
       written on disk in order to produce the PDF. These files are written to /tmp/MediaWiki$$ by default. This folder will be removed when the program exits.

       However  you  may want to keep the generated LaTeX tree on disk for LaTeX customiwation and to fasten future builds. If you use the -c option to set the LaTeX tree folder, the program will not re‐
       move it on exit so you can continue to use it.

       The LaTeX tree is made of three folders:

       header A folder containing the LaTeX options, the special pages, the package loading, etc.

       images All the original picture files used in the article.

       main   The complete LaTeX version of the source document is stored in main.tex.

       To compile the PDF file yourself, simply run `xelatex' on the main.tex file. For instance:

              xelatex LaTeX-tree/main/main.tex

       You may need to run it several times to make sure all references are resolved.

AUTHORS
       MediaWiki to LaTeX was mainly developed by Dirk Hünniger <dirk.hunniger@googlemail.com>. Other contributors are listed in the AUTHORS file.

       This man page was written by Pierre Neidhardt <ambrevar@gmail.com>.

MediaWiki to LaTeX 8.31                                                                          2013-12-25                                                                              MEDIAWIKI2LATEX(1)
