memlockd(8)                                                                               System Manager's Manual                                                                               memlockd(8)

NAME
       memlockd - daemon to lock files in memory with mlock

SYNOPSIS
       memlockd [ -c config-file ] [ -d ] [ -f ] [ -u user ]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the memlockd command.

       It is used to lock system programs and config files in memory so that if a DOS attack is experienced then the chance of the sys-admin regaining control of the system in a reasonable amount of time
       (and therefore having a reasonable chance of discovering the cause of the problem) is significantly increased.

OPTIONS
       The  -c  option  is  used  to  specify  the  fully-qualified path name to a config file that lists the names of files to lock, if the config file is not specified then it will default to /etc/mem‐
       lockd.cfg. In any situation where a config file is used a directory can be used instead, for a directory every file ending in ".cfg" will be processed.

       The -d option specifies debugging mode, the program will not fork and will produce it's logging messages on stderr instead of via syslog.

       The -f option specifies foreground (non-daemon) mode, the program will not fork but will still log normally.

       The -u option specifies the name of a user to use for running ldd (for recursive operation).  Note that locking shared objects that are writable by non-root is not safe, but using a different  UID
       will reduce the risk.

       The  config  file will contain a number of fully qualified names of files to lock in RAM.  When locking shared objects and ELF binaries it is possible to prefix the file name with a + character to
       indicate that memlockd should recursively lock all shared objects that the program requires and all shared objects that those objects require. When a file not found error doesn't  matter  (EG  you
       want a single config file to have the file names for multiple architectures or systems) you can prefix the file name with a ?  character, in that case errors such as EPERM will still be logged.

       If a line in the config file starts with a % character it will be taken as the name of a config file or directory to process.  Currently only one level of recursion is accepted.

       SEE ALSO
              mlock(2), mmap(1).

AUTHOR
       memlockd was written by Russell Coker <russell@coker.com.au>

                                                                                                                                                                                                memlockd(8)
