METERBRIDGE(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            METERBRIDGE(1)

NAME
       meterbridge - meterbridge for Jack Audio Connection Kit

SYNOPSIS
       meterbridge [options] portname [portname] ...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the meterbridge program.

       This manual page was written for the Debian distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.

       meterbridge  shows  the  signal  values of the audio signals that flow through JACK ports. The possible representations include the classical VU meter, as well as PPM meter, Digital Peak meter and
       others.  See the OPTIONS section for more information.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       -r rev-level
              Use rev-level as the reverence level for 0db on the meter.

       -c columns
              number of columns that are used for displaying several meters.

       -n jackname
              Use jackname as identifier with the JACK system.

       -t type
              Use the one of the following meter types:
                   'vu'  - classic moving needle VU meter
                   'ppm' - PPM meter
                   'dpm' - Digital peak meter
                   'jf'  - 'Jellyfish' phase meter
                   'sco' - Oscilloscope meter

EXAMPLES
             test with
                meterbridge -t vu alsa_pcm:capture_1 alsa_pcm:capture_2

             if you want to see what your JACK system is outputting you can use:
                meterbridge -t ppm alsa_pcm:playback_1 alsa_pcm:playback_2

             if you want to start a bridge with unconnected 4 meters:
                meterbridge -t ppm x x x x
             (or any other invalid port names)

SEE ALSO
       jackd(1).

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Guenter Geiger <geiger@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                                               April 11, 2012                                                                                METERBRIDGE(1)
