MILLE(6)                         Games Manual                         MILLE(6)

NAME
       mille - play Mille Bornes

SYNOPSIS
       mille [ file ]

DESCRIPTION
       Mille  plays a two-handed game reminiscent of the Parker Brother's game
       of Mille Bornes with you.  The rules are described below.   If  a  file
       name  is  given  on  the  command  line, the game saved in that file is
       started.

       When a game is started up, the bottom of the score window will  contain
       a list of commands.  They are:

       P      Pick  a card from the deck.  This card is placed in the `P' slot
              in your hand.

       D      Discard a card from your hand.  To indicate which card, type the
              number of the card in the hand (or “P” for the just-picked card)
              followed by a RETURN or SPACE.  The RETURN or SPACE is  required
              to  allow  recovery from typos which can be very expensive, like
              discarding safeties.

       U      Use a card.  The card is again indicated by its number, followed
              by a RETURN or SPACE.

       O      Toggle  ordering the hand.  By default off, if turned on it will
              sort the cards in your hand appropriately.  This is  not  recom‐
              mended for the impatient on slow terminals.

       Q      Quit the game.  This will ask for confirmation, just to be sure.
              Hitting DELETE (or RUBOUT) is equivalent.

       S      Save the game in a file.  If the game was started from  a  file,
              you  will  be  given an opportunity to save it on the same file.
              If you don't wish to, or you did not start from a file, you will
              be  asked  for  the  file  name.  If you type a RETURN without a
              name, the save will be terminated and the game resumed.

       R      Redraw the screen from scratch.  The command  ^L  (control  `L')
              will also work.

       W      Toggle  window type.  This switches the score window between the
              startup window (with all the command names) and the  end-of-game
              window.   Using the end-of-game window saves time by eliminating
              the switch at the end of the game to show the final score.  Rec‐
              ommended for hackers and other miscreants.

       If  you  make  a  mistake, an error message will be printed on the last
       line of the score window, and a bell will beep.

       At the end of each hand or game, you will be asked if you wish to  play
       another.  If not, it will ask you if you want to save the game.  If you
       do, and the save is unsuccessful, play will be resumed as  if  you  had
       said  you wanted to play another hand/game.  This allows you to use the
       “S” command to reattempt the save.

AUTHOR
       Ken Arnold
       (The game itself is a product of Parker Brothers, Inc.)

SEE ALSO
       curses(3X), Screen Updating and Cursor Movement Optimization: A Library
       Package, Ken Arnold

CARDS
       Here  is  some useful information.  The number in parentheses after the
       card name is the number of that card in the deck:

       Hazard            Repair             Safety

       Out of Gas (2)    Gasoline (6)       Extra Tank (1)
       Flat Tire (2)     Spare Tire (6)     Puncture Proof (1)
       Accident (2)      Repairs (6)        Driving Ace (1)
       Stop (4)          Go (14)            Right of Way (1)
       Speed Limit (3)   End of Limit (6)

               25 - (10), 50 - (10), 75 - (10), 100 - (12), 200 - (4)

RULES
       Object: The point of this game is to get a total of 5000 points in sev‐
       eral  hands.   Each hand is a race to put down exactly 700 miles before
       your opponent does.  Beyond the points gained  by  putting  down  mile‐
       stones, there are several other ways of making points.

       Overview:  The game is played with a deck of 101 cards.  Distance cards
       represent a number of miles traveled.  They come  in  denominations  of
       25,  50, 75, 100, and 200.  When one is played, it adds that many miles
       to the player's trip so far this hand.  Hazard cards are used  to  pre‐
       vent  your opponent from putting down Distance cards.  They can only be
       played if your opponent has a Go card on top of the Battle  pile.   The
       cards are Out of Gas, Accident, Flat Tire, Speed Limit, and Stop.  Rem‐
       edy cards fix problems caused by Hazard cards played on you by your op‐
       ponent.  The cards are Gasoline, Repairs, Spare Tire, End of Limit, and
       Go.  Safety cards prevent your opponent from  putting  specific  Hazard
       cards  on  you  in  the first place.  They are Extra Tank, Driving Ace,
       Puncture Proof, and Right of Way, and there are only one of each in the
       deck.

       Board  Layout: The board is split into several areas.  From top to bot‐
       tom, they are: SAFETY AREA (unlabeled): This is where the safeties will
       be  placed as they are played.  HAND: These are the cards in your hand.
       BATTLE: This is the Battle pile.  All the Hazard and Remedy  Cards  are
       played  here,  except the Speed Limit and End of Limit cards.  Only the
       top card is displayed, as it is the only  effective  one.   SPEED:  The
       Speed  pile.  The Speed Limit and End of Limit cards are played here to
       control the speed at which the player is allowed  to  put  down  miles.
       MILEAGE: Miles are placed here.  The total of the numbers shown here is
       the distance traveled so far.

       Play: The first pick alternates between the  two  players.   Each  turn
       usually  starts  with  a  pick  from the deck.  The player then plays a
       card, or if this is not possible or desirable, discards one.  Normally,
       a  play  or  discard  of a single card constitutes a turn.  If the card
       played is a safety, however, the same player takes another turn immedi‐
       ately.

       This  repeats  until  one of the players reaches 700 points or the deck
       runs out.  If someone reaches 700, they have the option of going for an
       Extension,  which  means  that the play continues until someone reaches
       1000 miles.

       Hazard and Remedy Cards: Hazard Cards are  played  on  your  opponent's
       Battle  and Speed piles.  Remedy Cards are used for undoing the effects
       of your opponent's nastiness.

           Go (Green Light) must be the top card on your Battle pile  for  you
       to  play any mileage, unless you have played the Right of Way card (see
       below).
           Stop is played on your opponent's Go  card  to  prevent  them  from
       playing mileage until they play a Go card.
           Speed  Limit  is  played on your opponent's Speed pile.  Until they
       play an End of Limit they can only play 25 or 50 mile cards,  presuming
       their Go card allows them to do even that.
           End  of Limit is played on your Speed pile to nullify a Speed Limit
       played by your opponent.
           Out of Gas is played on your opponent's Go card.   They  must  then
       play  a Gasoline card, and then a Go card before they can play any more
       mileage.
           Flat Tire is played on your opponent's Go  card.   They  must  then
       play  a  Spare  Tire  card, and then a Go card before they can play any
       more mileage.
           Accident is played on your opponent's Go card.  They must then play
       a  Repairs  card,  and  then  a  Go  card before they can play any more
       mileage.

       Safety Cards: Safety cards prevent your opponent from playing the  cor‐
       responding Hazard cards on you for the rest of the hand.  It cancels an
       attack in progress, and always entitles the player to an extra turn.
           Right of Way prevents your opponent  from  playing  both  Stop  and
       Speed  Limit cards on you.  It also acts as a permanent Go card for the
       rest of the hand, so you can play mileage as long as  there  is  not  a
       Hazard  card on top of your Battle pile.  In this case only, your oppo‐
       nent can play Hazard cards directly on a Remedy card other  than  a  Go
       card.
           Extra  Tank When played, your opponent cannot play an Out of Gas on
       your Battle Pile.
           Puncture Proof When played, your opponent cannot play a  Flat  Tire
       on your Battle Pile.
           Driving  Ace  When played, your opponent cannot play an Accident on
       your Battle Pile.

       Distance Cards: Distance cards are played when you have a  Go  card  on
       your  Battle  pile,  or  a Right of Way in your Safety area and are not
       stopped by a Hazard Card.  They can be played in any  combination  that
       totals exactly 700 miles, except that you cannot play more than two 200
       mile cards in one hand.  A hand ends whenever one player  gets  exactly
       700  miles  or  the  deck runs out.  In that case, play continues until
       neither someone reaches 700, or neither player can  use  any  cards  in
       their  hand.  If the trip is completed after the deck runs out, this is
       called Delayed Action.

       Coup Fourre: This is a French fencing term for a counter-thrust move as
       part  of a parry to an opponent's attack.  In current French colloquial
       language it means a sneaky, underhanded blow.  In Mille Bornes,  it  is
       used  as  follows: If an opponent plays a Hazard card, and you have the
       corresponding Safety in your hand, you play it immediately, even before
       you  draw.   This  immediately removes the Hazard card from your Battle
       pile, and protects you from that card for the rest of the  game.   This
       gives you more points (see “Scoring” below).

       Scoring:  Scores  are  totaled  at the end of each hand, whether or not
       anyone completed the trip.  The terms used in the Score window have the
       following meanings:
           Milestones  Played: Each player scores as many miles as they played
       before the trip ended.
           Each Safety: 100 points for each safety in the Safety area.
           All 4 Safeties: 300 points if all four safeties are played.
           Each Coup Fourre: 300 points for each Coup Fourre accomplished.

       The following bonus scores can apply only to the winning player.
           Trip Completed: 400 points bonus for completing the trip to 700  or
       1000.
           Safe  Trip:  300 points bonus for completing the trip without using
       any 200 mile cards.
           Delayed Action: 300 points bonus for finishing after the  deck  was
       exhausted.
           Extension: 200 points bonus for completing a 1000 mile trip.
           Shut-Out:  500 points bonus for completing the trip before your op‐
       ponent played any mileage cards.

       Running totals are also kept for the current score for each player  for
       the  hand  (Hand  Total), the game (Overall Total), and number of games
       won (Games).

4th Berkeley Distribution        June 1, 1994                         MILLE(6)
