MIMEDEFANG.PL(8)                                                                            System Manager's Manual                                                                            MIMEDEFANG.PL(8)

NAME
       mimedefang.pl - Perl script to scan MIME messages.

SYNOPSIS
       mimedefang.pl [-f filter] dir

DESCRIPTION
       mimedefang.pl is a Perl script designed to work with mimedefang(8).  It takes a single argument which is a directory which should contain files laid out as described in mimedefang(8).

OPTIONS
       -f filter
              Specifies the name of the file containing the filter.  If this option is omitted, the default filter /etc/mail/mimedefang-filter is used.

OPERATION
       mimedefang.pl  evaluates  the  file /etc/mail/mimedefang-filter as a Perl fragment.  This file should define the filter procedure.  For each part of a MIME message, mimedefang.pl calls filter and dis‐
       poses of the part as instructed by the filter.  The various modes of disposition are described in mimedefang-filter(5).

TESTING FILTERS
       You are strongly recommended to test your filter before installing it in /etc/mail/mimedefang-filter.  To test the filter, save it in a file (e.g. test-filter) and run this command:

            mimedefang.pl -f test-filter -test

       This tests the filter for syntactic correctness.  If it passes, you can install it as a production filter.  (Note that the test tests only for correct Perl syntax; it doesn't  make  sure  your  filter
       does something sensible.)

MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
       There are a few other ways to invoke mimedefang.pl:

            mimedefang.pl -features

       prints a list of detected optional Perl modules.  The output looks something like this:

            SpamAssassin: yes

            mimedefang.pl -validate

       calls  the  function  filter_validate,  if  it is defined in your filter.  filter_validate should return an integer; this becomes the exit code.  If filter_validate does not exist, an error message is
       printed and mimedefang.pl exits with an exit code of 1.

AUTHOR
       mimedefang.pl was written by Dianne Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.  The mimedefang home page is http://www.mimedefang.org/.

SEE ALSO
       mimedefang(8), mimedefang-filter(5), mimedefang-protocol(7)

4th Berkeley Distribution                                                                       8 February 2005                                                                                MIMEDEFANG.PL(8)
