MIREDO-SERVER.CONF(5)                                                                     System Manager's Manual                                                                     MIREDO-SERVER.CONF(5)

NAME
       miredo-server.conf - configuration for miredo-server

SYNOPSIS
       miredo-server.conf

DESCRIPTON
       miredo-server.conf  is the configuration file for miredo-server.  Each configuration directive consists of one directive name, possibly followed by one or several spaces and a value for the direc‐
       tive.  White spaces, empty lines and lines starting with '#' are ignored.

       Directives are case-insensitive. A comprehensive list of the supported directives follows:

SERVER OPTIONS
       ServerBindAddress server_ip
              Specifies  the  primary  IPv4  address  of the Teredo server.  miredo-server will bind to UDP/IPv4 port 3544 on this address and waits for packets from Teredo clients. It will advertise the
              Teredo prefix which is defined with the Prefix directive.

              A Teredo server needs two subsequent IPv4 addresses. It will wait for UDP IPv4 packets on port 3544 on both addresses.  server_ip specifies the lowest of both IPv4 addresses, which is known
              as the primary IPv4 server address. The secondary IPv4 address should be server_ip + 1 and must also be assigned to the server.

       ServerBindAddress2 server_ip2
              It is possible to specify a secondary IPv4 server address manually.  However, Miredo clients will need manual configuration (with the ServerAddress2 directive in miredo.conf). Other  Teredo
              clients are believed not to support such setup.

       Prefix teredo_prefix
              This directive specifies the Teredo prefix which the Teredo relay and/or server will advertise.  teredo_prefix must be a valid IPv6 prefix.

              The  default  value  is  2001:0000::.   A 32-bits prefix is required to use this option. Since you do not have such big an IPv6 prefix YOU WILL NOT USE THIS OPTION.  Moreover, certain third
              party Teredo client implementations require the default prefix.

       InterfaceMTU mtu
              This directive overrides the value of the MTU that is advertised to Teredo clients. The default value is 1280 bytes and should not be changed if the default Teredo prefix is used.

              YOU MUST NOT USE THIS OPTION with the default prefix.  This would break interoperability with most Teredo relays.

       SyslogFacility facility
              Specify which syslog's facility is to be used by miredo-server for logging.  Possible values are: daemon (the default), local0, ... local7, kern and user (see syslog(2)).

SEE ALSO
       miredo-server(8)

AUTHOR
       Rémi Denis-Courmont <remi at remlab dot net>

       http://www.remlab.net/miredo/

miredo                                                                                         February 2008                                                                          MIREDO-SERVER.CONF(5)
