MIWM(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   MIWM(1)

NAME
       miwm - a minimal appearance, full-function window manager

SYNOPSIS
       miwm

DESCRIPTION
       MIWM is Ben Wise's MInimal Window Manager. It is pronounced 'my whim'.

       The goal of miwm is to be a fully functional window manager, while retaining a very spare (Zen or Spartan, as you please) appearance and command-set.

WARNING
       This man page is VERY MUCH under construction. It is not complete, and blatantly contains leftover pieces of the man page I used as a template. Do not rely on anything you find here.

COMMANDS
       The notation for describing commands is that Mouse-1-frame means 'button 1 click on frame', C-Mouse-3-root means 'control button 3 click on root',

       Mouse-1-frame
              Raise.

       Mouse-2-frame
              Move.  Mouse-2-root Select virtual workspace.

       Mouse-3-frame
              Hide.

              Filenames passed to
              miwm  can  be  directories  or deleted files.  If a directory that is not deleted is passed to miwm, then the deleted files or directories in it will be restored; if the recursive option is
              specified, then all deleted files or directories in any of its children will be restored as well.

       The shell wildcards * and ?, as well as shell brace notation using [ and ], are interpreted correctly by miwm.  It is possible to pass wildcards to the program without the wildcards  being  inter‐
       cepted  by  the  shell  by setting noglob (in csh) or by quoting the wildcards.  To delete a file that actually has a wildcard in its name, you must precede the quoted wildcard with a quoted back‐
       slash.

       If no files are specified on the command line, miwm goes into interactive mode.  In interactive mode, the user is prompted to enter files to be restored, one file per line.  Typing a carriage  re‐
       turn on an empty prompt line exits the program.

       Wildcards and quoting backslashes can be entered directly at the prompt without any shell interference (which is the main reason there is an interactive mode).

OPTIONS
       Miwm No command-line options.

KNOWN BUGS
       The code is too complicated.  No icon support.

SEE ALSO
       9wm(1), aewm(1)

AUTHOR
       Ben Paul Wise

RESTRICTIONS
       Copyright (c) 1998-2003 by Ben Paul Wise.  All rights reserved.  MIWM(1) specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.

Ben Paul Wise                                                                                   06 May 2003                                                                                         MIWM(1)
