MK-DEADLOCK-LOGGER(1)                                                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                 MK-DEADLOCK-LOGGER(1)

NAME
       mk-deadlock-logger - Extract and log MySQL deadlock information.

SYNOPSIS
       Usage: mk-deadlock-logger [OPTION...] SOURCE_DSN

       mk-deadlock-logger extracts and saves information about the most recent deadlock in a MySQL server.

       Print deadlocks on SOURCE_DSN:

          mk-deadlock-logger SOURCE_DSN

       Store deadlock information from SOURCE_DSN in test.deadlocks table on SOURCE_DSN (source and destination are the same host):

          mk-deadlock-logger SOURCE_DSN --dest D=test,t=deadlocks

       Store deadlock information from SOURCE_DSN in test.deadlocks table on DEST_DSN (source and destination are different hosts):

          mk-deadlock-logger SOURCE_DSN --dest DEST_DSN,D=test,t=deadlocks

       Daemonize and check for deadlocks on SOURCE_DSN every 30 seconds for 4 hours:

          mk-deadlock-logger SOURCE_DSN --dest D=test,t=deadlocks --daemonize --run-time 4h --interval 30s

RISKS
       The following section is included to inform users about the potential risks, whether known or unknown, of using this tool.  The two main categories of risks are those created by the nature of the tool
       (e.g. read-only tools vs. read-write tools) and those created by bugs.

       mk-deadlock-logger is a read-only tool unless you specify a "--dest" table.  In some cases polling SHOW INNODB STATUS too rapidly can cause extra load on the server.  If you're using it on a
       production server under very heavy load, you might want to set "--interval" to 30 seconds or more.

       At the time of this release, we know of no bugs that could cause serious harm to users.

       The authoritative source for updated information is always the online issue tracking system.  Issues that affect this tool will be marked as such.  You can see a list of such issues at the following
       URL: <http://www.maatkit.org/bugs/mk-deadlock-logger>.

       See also "BUGS" for more information on filing bugs and getting help.

DESCRIPTION
       mk-deadlock-logger extracts deadlock data from a MySQL server.  Currently only InnoDB deadlock information is available.  You can print the information to standard output, store it in a database
       table, or both.  If neither "--print" nor "--dest" are given, then the deadlock information is printed by default.  If only "--dest" is given, then the deadlock information is only stored.  If both
       options are given, then the deadlock information is printed and stored.

       The source host can be specified using one of two methods.  The first method is to use at least one of the standard connection-related command line options: "--defaults-file", "--password", "--host",
       "--port", "--socket" or "--user".  These options only apply to the source host; they cannot be used to specify the destination host.

       The second method to specify the source host, or the optional destination host using "--dest", is a DSN.  A DSN is a special syntax that can be either just a hostname (like "server.domain.com" or
       1.2.3.4), or a "key=value,key=value" string. Keys are a single letter:

         KEY MEANING
         === =======
         h   Connect to host
         P   Port number to use for connection
         S   Socket file to use for connection
         u   User for login if not current user
         p   Password to use when connecting
         F   Only read default options from the given file

       If you omit any values from the destination host DSN, they are filled in with values from the source host, so you don't need to specify them in both places.  "mk-deadlock-logger" reads all normal
       MySQL option files, such as ~/.my.cnf, so you may not need to specify username, password and other common options at all.

OUTPUT
       You can choose which columns are output and/or saved to "--dest" with the "--columns" argument.  The default columns are as follows:

       server
           The (source) server on which the deadlock occurred.  This might be useful if you're tracking deadlocks on many servers.

       ts  The date and time of the last detected deadlock.

       thread
           The MySQL thread number, which is the same as the connection ID in SHOW FULL PROCESSLIST.

       txn_id
           The InnoDB transaction ID, which InnoDB expresses as two unsigned integers.  I have multiplied them out to be one number.

       txn_time
           How long the transaction was active when the deadlock happened.

       user
           The connection's database username.

       hostname
           The connection's host.

       ip  The connection's IP address.  If you specify "--numeric-ip", this is converted to an unsigned integer.

       db  The database in which the deadlock occurred.

       tbl The table on which the deadlock occurred.

       idx The index on which the deadlock occurred.

       lock_type
           The lock type the transaction held on the lock that caused the deadlock.

       lock_mode
           The lock mode of the lock that caused the deadlock.

       wait_hold
           Whether the transaction was waiting for the lock or holding the lock.  Usually you will see the two waited-for locks.

       victim
           Whether the transaction was selected as the deadlock victim and rolled back.

       query
           The query that caused the deadlock.

INNODB CAVEATS AND DETAILS
       InnoDB's output is hard to parse and sometimes there's no way to do it right.

       Sometimes not all information (for example, username or IP address) is included in the deadlock information.  In this case there's nothing for the script to put in those columns.  It may also be the
       case that the deadlock output is so long (because there were a lot of locks) that the whole thing is truncated.

       Though there are usually two transactions involved in a deadlock, there are more locks than that; at a minimum, one more lock than transactions is necessary to create a cycle in the waits-for graph.
       mk-deadlock-logger prints the transactions (always two in the InnoDB output, even when there are more transactions in the waits-for graph than that) and fills in locks.  It prefers waited-for over
       held when choosing lock information to output, but you can figure out the rest with a moment's thought.  If you see one wait-for and one held lock, you're looking at the same lock, so of course you'd
       prefer to see both wait-for locks and get more information.  If the two waited-for locks are not on the same table, more than two transactions were involved in the deadlock.

OPTIONS
       This tool accepts additional command-line arguments.  Refer to the "SYNOPSIS" and usage information for details.

       --ask-pass
           Prompt for a password when connecting to MySQL.

       --charset
           short form: -A; type: string

           Default character set.  If the value is utf8, sets Perl's binmode on STDOUT to utf8, passes the mysql_enable_utf8 option to DBD::mysql, and runs SET NAMES UTF8 after connecting to MySQL.  Any
           other value sets binmode on STDOUT without the utf8 layer, and runs SET NAMES after connecting to MySQL.

       --clear-deadlocks
           type: string

           Use this table to create a small deadlock.  This usually has the effect of clearing out a huge deadlock, which otherwise consumes the entire output of "SHOW INNODB STATUS".  The table must not
           exist.  mk-deadlock-logger will create it with the following MAGIC_clear_deadlocks structure:

             CREATE TABLE test.deadlock_maker(a INT PRIMARY KEY) ENGINE=InnoDB;

           After creating the table and causing a small deadlock, the tool will drop the table again.

       --[no]collapse
           Collapse whitespace in queries to a single space.  This might make it easier to inspect on the command line or in a query.  By default, whitespace is collapsed when printing with "--print", but
           not modified when storing to "--dest".  (That is, the default is different for each action).

       --columns
           type: hash

           Output only this comma-separated list of columns.  See "OUTPUT" for more details on columns.

       --config
           type: Array

           Read this comma-separated list of config files; if specified, this must be the first option on the command line.

       --create-dest-table
           Create the table specified by "--dest".

           Normally the "--dest" table is expected to exist already.  This option causes mk-deadlock-logger to create the table automatically using the suggested table structure.

       --daemonize
           Fork to the background and detach from the shell.  POSIX operating systems only.

       --defaults-file
           short form: -F; type: string

           Only read mysql options from the given file.  You must give an absolute pathname.

       --dest
           type: DSN

           DSN for where to store deadlocks; specify at least a database (D) and table (t).

           Missing values are filled in with the same values from the source host, so you can usually omit most parts of this argument if you're storing deadlocks on the same server on which they happen.

           By default, whitespace in the query column is left intact; use "--[no]collapse" if you want whitespace collapsed.

           The following MAGIC_dest_table is suggested if you want to store all the information mk-deadlock-logger can extract about deadlocks:

            CREATE TABLE deadlocks (
              server char(20) NOT NULL,
              ts datetime NOT NULL,
              thread int unsigned NOT NULL,
              txn_id bigint unsigned NOT NULL,
              txn_time smallint unsigned NOT NULL,
              user char(16) NOT NULL,
              hostname char(20) NOT NULL,
              ip char(15) NOT NULL, -- alternatively, ip int unsigned NOT NULL
              db char(64) NOT NULL,
              tbl char(64) NOT NULL,
              idx char(64) NOT NULL,
              lock_type char(16) NOT NULL,
              lock_mode char(1) NOT NULL,
              wait_hold char(1) NOT NULL,
              victim tinyint unsigned NOT NULL,
              query text NOT NULL,
              PRIMARY KEY  (server,ts,thread)
            ) ENGINE=InnoDB

           If you use "--columns", you can omit whichever columns you don't want to store.

       --help
           Show help and exit.

       --host
           short form: -h; type: string

           Connect to host.

       --interval
           type: time

           How often to check for deadlocks.  If no "--run-time" is specified, mk-deadlock-logger runs forever, checking for deadlocks at every interval.  See also "--run-time".

       --log
           type: string

           Print all output to this file when daemonized.

       --numeric-ip
           Express IP addresses as integers.

       --password
           short form: -p; type: string

           Password to use when connecting.

       --pid
           type: string

           Create the given PID file when daemonized.  The file contains the process ID of the daemonized instance.  The PID file is removed when the daemonized instance exits.  The program checks for the
           existence of the PID file when starting; if it exists and the process with the matching PID exists, the program exits.

       --port
           short form: -P; type: int

           Port number to use for connection.

       --print
           Print results on standard output.  See "OUTPUT" for more.  By default, enables "--[no]collapse" unless you explicitly disable it.

           If "--interval" or "--run-time" is specified, only new deadlocks are printed at each interval.  A fingerprint for each deadlock is created using "--columns" server, ts and thread (even if those
           columns were not specified by "--columns") and if the current deadlock's fingerprint is different from the last deadlock's fingerprint, then it is printed.

       --run-time
           type: time

           How long to run before exiting.  By default mk-deadlock-logger runs once, checks for deadlocks, and exits.  If "--run-time" is specified but no "--interval" is specified, a default 1 second
           interval will be used.

       --set-vars
           type: string; default: wait_timeout=10000

           Set these MySQL variables.  Immediately after connecting to MySQL, this string will be appended to SET and executed.

       --socket
           short form: -S; type: string

           Socket file to use for connection.

       --tab
           Print tab-separated columns, instead of aligned.

       --user
           short form: -u; type: string

           User for login if not current user.

       --version
           Show version and exit.

DSN OPTIONS
       These DSN options are used to create a DSN.  Each option is given like "option=value".  The options are case-sensitive, so P and p are not the same option.  There cannot be whitespace before or after
       the "=" and if the value contains whitespace it must be quoted.  DSN options are comma-separated.  See the maatkit manpage for full details.

       •   A

           dsn: charset; copy: yes

           Default character set.

       •   D

           dsn: database; copy: yes

           Default database.

       •   F

           dsn: mysql_read_default_file; copy: yes

           Only read default options from the given file

       •   h

           dsn: host; copy: yes

           Connect to host.

       •   p

           dsn: password; copy: yes

           Password to use when connecting.

       •   P

           dsn: port; copy: yes

           Port number to use for connection.

       •   S

           dsn: mysql_socket; copy: yes

           Socket file to use for connection.

       •   t

           Table in which to store deadlock information.

       •   u

           dsn: user; copy: yes

           User for login if not current user.

DOWNLOADING
       You can download Maatkit from Google Code at <http://code.google.com/p/maatkit/>, or you can get any of the tools easily with a command like the following:

          wget http://www.maatkit.org/get/toolname
          or
          wget http://www.maatkit.org/trunk/toolname

       Where "toolname" can be replaced with the name (or fragment of a name) of any of the Maatkit tools.  Once downloaded, they're ready to run; no installation is needed.  The first URL gets the latest
       released version of the tool, and the second gets the latest trunk code from Subversion.

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variable "MKDEBUG" enables verbose debugging output in all of the Maatkit tools:

          MKDEBUG=1 mk-....

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
       You need Perl, DBI, DBD::mysql, and some core packages that ought to be installed in any reasonably new version of Perl.

BUGS
       For a list of known bugs see <http://www.maatkit.org/bugs/mk-deadlock-logger>.

       Please use Google Code Issues and Groups to report bugs or request support: <http://code.google.com/p/maatkit/>.  You can also join #maatkit on Freenode to discuss Maatkit.

       Please include the complete command-line used to reproduce the problem you are seeing, the version of all MySQL servers involved, the complete output of the tool when run with "--version", and if
       possible, debugging output produced by running with the "MKDEBUG=1" environment variable.

COPYRIGHT, LICENSE AND WARRANTY
       This program is copyright 2007-2011 Baron Schwartz.  Feedback and improvements are welcome.

       THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, version 2; OR the Perl Artistic
       License.  On UNIX and similar systems, you can issue `man perlgpl' or `man perlartistic' to read these licenses.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.

AUTHOR
       Baron Schwartz

ABOUT MAATKIT
       This tool is part of Maatkit, a toolkit for power users of MySQL.  Maatkit was created by Baron Schwartz; Baron and Daniel Nichter are the primary code contributors.  Both are employed by Percona.
       Financial support for Maatkit development is primarily provided by Percona and its clients.

VERSION
       This manual page documents Ver 1.0.21 Distrib 7540 $Revision: 7477 $.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-22                                                                             MK-DEADLOCK-LOGGER(1)
