MK-PROFILE-COMPACT(1)                                                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                 MK-PROFILE-COMPACT(1)

NAME
       mk-profile-compact - Compact the output from mk-query-profiler.

SYNOPSIS
       Usage: mk-profile-compact [OPTION...] [FILE...]

       mk-profile-compact aligns query profiler results side by side for easy comparison.  With no FILE, or when FILE is -, read from standard input.

       To view queries 2, 4 and 6 side by side:

          mk-profile-compact --queries 2,4,6 profile-results.txt

       To view summaries from two runs side by side:

          mk-profile-compact --mode SUMMARY results-1.txt results-2.txt

RISKS
       The following section is included to inform users about the potential risks, whether known or unknown, of using this tool.  The two main categories of risks are those created by the nature of the tool
       (e.g. read-only tools vs. read-write tools) and those created by bugs.

       mk-profile-compact is read-only and very low-risk.

       At the time of this release, we know of no bugs that could cause serious harm to users.

       The authoritative source for updated information is always the online issue tracking system.  Issues that affect this tool will be marked as such.  You can see a list of such issues at the following
       URL: <http://www.maatkit.org/bugs/mk-profile-compact>.

       See also "BUGS" for more information on filing bugs and getting help.

DESCRIPTION
       mk-profile-compact slices and aligns the output from mk-query-profiler so you can compare profile results side by side easily.  It prints the first profile result intact, but each subsequent result is
       trimmed to be as narrow as possible, then aligned next to the first.

       You can also use this to examine only some profile results.  For example, if you have a set of queries to get a table into a known state, and then a query you want to profile, you can ignore the setup
       queries.  This is typically easy to do with a command-line option like "--queries" 4,8,12,16,20 to view every 4th query.

       If the first profile it sees is labeled QUERY X, it will only look at QUERY profiles from then on.  The same holds for SUMMARY profiles.  This is because there are different numbers of lines in QUERY
       and SUMMARY profiles.  You can specify which kind of profile result you want to process.  See mk-query-profiler for the full list of types.

OPTIONS
       This tool accepts additional command-line arguments.  Refer to the "SYNOPSIS" and usage information for details.

       --config
           type: Array

           Read this comma-separated list of config files; if specified, this must be the first option on the command line.

       --headers
           type: int; default: 2000

           Reprint headers every N queries.

       --help
           Show help and exit.

       --mode
           type: string

           What type of reports (EXTERNAL, QUERY, SUMMARY) to process.

       --queries
           type: hash

           Process only this comma-separated list of queries.

       --version
           Show version and exit.

DOWNLOADING
       You can download Maatkit from Google Code at <http://code.google.com/p/maatkit/>, or you can get any of the tools easily with a command like the following:

          wget http://www.maatkit.org/get/toolname
          or
          wget http://www.maatkit.org/trunk/toolname

       Where "toolname" can be replaced with the name (or fragment of a name) of any of the Maatkit tools.  Once downloaded, they're ready to run; no installation is needed.  The first URL gets the latest
       released version of the tool, and the second gets the latest trunk code from Subversion.

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variable "MKDEBUG" enables verbose debugging output in all of the Maatkit tools:

          MKDEBUG=1 mk-....

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
       You need Perl and some core packages that ought to be installed in any reasonably new version of Perl.

BUGS
       For a list of known bugs see <http://www.maatkit.org/bugs/mk-profile-compact>.

       Please use Google Code Issues and Groups to report bugs or request support: <http://code.google.com/p/maatkit/>.  You can also join #maatkit on Freenode to discuss Maatkit.

       Please include the complete command-line used to reproduce the problem you are seeing, the version of all MySQL servers involved, the complete output of the tool when run with "--version", and if
       possible, debugging output produced by running with the "MKDEBUG=1" environment variable.

COPYRIGHT, LICENSE AND WARRANTY
       This program is copyright 2007-2011 Baron Schwartz.  Feedback and improvements are welcome.

       THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, version 2; OR the Perl Artistic
       License.  On UNIX and similar systems, you can issue `man perlgpl' or `man perlartistic' to read these licenses.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.

SEE ALSO
       See also mk-query-profiler.

AUTHOR
       Baron Schwartz

ABOUT MAATKIT
       This tool is part of Maatkit, a toolkit for power users of MySQL.  Maatkit was created by Baron Schwartz; Baron and Daniel Nichter are the primary code contributors.  Both are employed by Percona.
       Financial support for Maatkit development is primarily provided by Percona and its clients.

VERSION
       This manual page documents Ver 1.1.22 Distrib 7540 $Revision: 7477 $.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-22                                                                             MK-PROFILE-COMPACT(1)
