MKCERT(1)                                                                                      User Commands                                                                                      MKCERT(1)

NAME
       mkcert - zero-config tool to make locally trusted certificates

DESCRIPTION
       Usage of mkcert:

              $ mkcert -install

              Install the local CA in the system trust store.

              $ mkcert example.org

              Generate "example.org.pem" and "example.org-key.pem".

              $ mkcert example.com myapp.dev localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1

              Generate "example.com+4.pem" and "example.com+4-key.pem".

              $ mkcert "*.example.it"

              Generate "_wildcard.example.it.pem" and "_wildcard.example.it-key.pem".

              $ mkcert -uninstall

              Uninstall the local CA (but do not delete it).

       Advanced options:

       -cert-file FILE, -key-file FILE, -p12-file FILE

              Customize the output paths.

       -client

              Generate a certificate for client authentication.

       -ecdsa

              Generate a certificate with an ECDSA key.

       -pkcs12

              Generate a ".p12" PKCS #12 file, also know as a ".pfx" file, containing certificate and key for legacy applications.

       -csr CSR

              Generate a certificate based on the supplied CSR. Conflicts with all other flags and arguments except -install and -cert-file.

       -CAROOT

              Print the CA certificate and key storage location.

              $CAROOT (environment variable)

              Set the CA certificate and key storage location. (This allows maintaining multiple local CAs in parallel.)

              $TRUST_STORES (environment variable)

              A comma-separated list of trust stores to install the local root CA into. Options are: "system", "java" and "nss" (includes Firefox). Autodetected by default.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for mkcert is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and mkcert programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info mkcert

       should give you access to the complete manual.

mkcert                                                                                         November 2021                                                                                      MKCERT(1)
