mkfs.gfs2(8)                System Manager's Manual               mkfs.gfs2(8)

NAME
       mkfs.gfs2 - create a gfs2 filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       mkfs.gfs2 [options] device [block-count]

DESCRIPTION
       mkfs.gfs2 is used to create a gfs2 file system.

OPTIONS
       The  default  values of the following options have been chosen for best
       results.  In most cases, there should be no need  to  choose  different
       values.  The exceptions to this are the number of journals (-j) and the
       lock table (-t), as these options will be specific to your cluster.

       -b bytes
              Set the filesystem block size to bytes which must be a power  of
              two.  The  minimum  block  size is 512 and the block size cannot
              exceed the machine's memory page size, which on  most  architec‐
              tures is 4096 bytes.  The default block size is 4096 bytes.

       -c megabytes
              Initial size of each journal's quota change file. The default is
              1MB.

       -D     Enable debugging output.

       -h     Print out a help message describing the available options,  then
              exit.

       -J megabytes
              The  size  of  each journal. The minimum size is 8 megabytes and
              the maximum is 1024. If this is not specified, a value based  on
              a sensible proportion of the file system will be chosen.

       -j journals
              The  number  of  journals for mkfs.gfs2 to create.  At least one
              journal is  required  for  each  machine  that  will  mount  the
              filesystem  concurrently.  If this option is not specified, only
              one journal will be created. This number may be used as an indi‐
              cator of the number of nodes in the cluster in order to optimize
              the layout of the filesystem. As such, it is best  to  set  this
              option  with  the maximum number of mounters in mind than to add
              more journals later.

       -K     Do not attempt to discard the  block  device  contents.  Issuing
              discards  to  the  device  allows  some  solid state devices and
              sparse or thin-provisioned  storage  devices  to  optimise  free
              space.  Other  devices may emulate this behaviour by zeroing the
              device contents, which can be a slow process.

       -O     Override. This option prevents mkfs.gfs2 from asking for confir‐
              mation before writing the filesystem.

       -o     Specify  extended  options. Multiple options can be separated by
              commas. Valid extended options are:

                 help   Display an extended options help summary, then exit.

                 sunit=bytes
                        This is used to specify the stripe  unit  for  a  RAID
                        device or striped logical volume.  This option ensures
                        that resource groups will be stripe unit  aligned  and
                        overrides  the  stripe  unit value obtained by probing
                        the device. This value must be a multiple of the  file
                        system  block  size  and  must  be  specified with the
                        swidth option.

                 swidth=bytes
                        This is used to specify the stripe width  for  a  RAID
                        device or striped logical volume.  This option ensures
                        that resource groups will be stripe aligned and  over‐
                        rides  the  stripe width value obtained by probing the
                        device. This value must be a  multiple  of  the  sunit
                        option and must also be specified with it.

                 align=[0|1]
                        Disable  or  enable  the alignment of resource groups.
                        The default behaviour is to align resource  groups  to
                        the  stripe width and stripe unit values obtained from
                        probing the device or specified with  the  swidth  and
                        sunit extended options.

       -p protocol
              Specify  the locking protocol to use when no locking protocol is
              specified at mount time. Valid locking protocols are:

                 lock_dlm
                        This is the default. It enables DLM-based locking  for
                        use in shared storage configurations.

                 lock_nolock
                        This enables single-node locking

       -q     Quiet mode. Do not print anything.

       -r megabytes
              mkfs.gfs2  will  try  to make resource groups approximately this
              large.  The minimum resource group size is 32 MB and the maximum
              is  2048  MB.   A large resource group size may increase perfor‐
              mance on very large file systems.  If not  specified,  mkfs.gfs2
              will choose the resource group size based on the size and align‐
              ment characteristics of the target device.

       -t clustername:lockspace
              The "lock table" pair used to uniquely identify this  filesystem
              in  a cluster.  The cluster name segment (maximum 32 characters)
              must match the name given to your cluster in its  configuration;
              only members of this cluster are permitted to use this file sys‐
              tem.  The lockspace segment (maximum 30 characters) is a  unique
              file  system  name  used  to  distinguish this gfs2 file system.
              Valid clusternames and lockspaces may only contain  alphanumeric
              characters, hyphens (-) and underscores (_).

       -V     Print program version information, then exit.

       block-count
              Use  block-count  as the size of the filesystem instead of using
              the whole device.  block-count  is  specified  as  a  number  of
              filesystem blocks.

EXAMPLE
              # mkfs.gfs2 -t mycluster:mygfs2 -p lock_dlm -j 2 /dev/vg0/lv_gfs2

              This will create a gfs2 filesystem on the block device /dev/vg0/lv_gfs2.  It
              will belong to a cluster named "mycluster" and use the "mygfs2" lock space.  It
              will use DLM for locking and create journals for a two-node cluster.

              # mkfs.gfs2 -t mycluster:mygfs2 -p lock_nolock -j 3 /dev/vg0/lv_gfs2

              This will create a filesystem on the block device /dev/vg0/lv_gfs2.  It
              will belong to a cluster named "mycluster" and use the "mygfs2" lockspace, but
              it will have no cluster locking by default as lock_nolock is used.  It will
              have journals for a three-node cluster.

SEE ALSO
       gfs2(5), gfs2_jadd(8), gfs2_grow(8)

                                                                  mkfs.gfs2(8)
