mkmupfnt(1)                 General Commands Manual                mkmupfnt(1)

NAME
       mkmupfnt - create fontfile for overriding Mup fonts

SYNOPSIS
       mkmupfnt PostScript_font_name Mup_font_name outfile [file]

DESCRIPTION
       The  mkmupfnt  program creates an outfile that can be used with the Mup
       "fontfile" statement to override a Mup font.

       The PostScript_font_name is the name of the font you want Mup  to  use.
       This would be something that could be given as a name to the PostScript
       findfont procedure.

       The Mup_font_name is the name of the Mup font  you  want  to  override,
       either  an  abbreviated  name, like "PR" or a full name, like "palatino
       rom".

       The outfile is the file that will  be  generated,  which  will  contain
       character  size  and  other  information,  to use with Mup's "fontfile"
       statement.

       The final optional file argument is the name of a  file  that  contains
       PostScript  to be placed at the end of the Mup PostScript prolog.  This
       might be useful if you have  a  font  whose  implementation  PostScript
       could not find on its own. For example, if you've written your own font
       implementation, you could put it in the given file.  The actual charac‐
       ters  produced  by  the  font  need not be similar to those in the font
       being replaced; they could be in some other alphabet, or  hieroglyphics
       or whatever you wish. However, see the CAVEATS section for limitations.

       An  an  example,  suppose you want Mup to use the Helvetica-Narrow font
       rather than the plain Helvetica font. You could use:
            mkmupfnt Helvetica-Narrow HR helvnarr
       to generate a Mup fontfile, then in your Mup program put:
            fontfile "helvnarr"
       Then anything that would normally be printed in Helvetica will come out
       in Helvetica-Narrow instead.

FILE FORMAT
       Mup  requires  a fontfile to be in a fairly rigid format.  This section
       describes the format of the file that is  produced  by  mkmupfnt.   The
       file  can  contain comment lines, which have a '#' in column 1.  Other‐
       wise the format is:
          Mup font name: Mup_font_name
          PostScript font name: PostScript_font_name
          Size data:
          32   width   height   ascent
          33   width   height   ascent
               ... similar lines for ASCII codes 34-126.
               Dimension are given in 1/1000ths of an inch for a 12-point character.
               All codes must be specified, and they must be in order.
          PostScript:
               Zero or more lines of PostScript that will be copied
               exactly as is to the end of the Mup PostScript prolog.

FILES
       mkmupfnt.ps    PostScript program that extracts font size information

SEE ALSO
       gs(1), mup(1).
       Mup — Music Publisher User's Guide

CAVEATS
       You must have ghostscript (gs or gs386.exe) in your PATH and it must be
       built to include the "bit" device.

       Mup  uses  certain  fonts  for certain things, such as time signatures,
       octave marks, endings, tuplet numbers, etc.  (The  fonts  used  include
       all the Times fonts and New Century bold, plus Helvetica roman and Hel‐
       vetica bold for tablature.)  If your override one of the fonts used for
       those  things, they will come out in your new font. On the one hand, if
       you don't like Mup's choices, this provides you a way to get your  own.
       On  the  other  hand, if you want to change most, but not all uses of a
       particular font, it may not be possible to do that.

       Only the ASCII characters 32-126 can be overridden. The non‐ASCII char‐
       acters can not be overridden.

       Mup  only  allows width values up to 1/2 inch for a 12‐point character.
       This program does not enforce that limitation.

       This program has been tested with various Ghostscript  fonts,  but  may
       not work on just any arbitrary PostScript font.

Arkkra Enterprises             November 22, 2012                   mkmupfnt(1)
