MKPASSWD-EXPECT(1)                                                                          General Commands Manual                                                                          MKPASSWD-EXPECT(1)

NAME
       mkpasswd-expect - generate new password, optionally apply it to a user

SYNOPSIS
       mkpasswd-expect [ args ] [ user ]

INTRODUCTION
       mkpasswd-expect generates passwords and can apply them automatically to users.  mkpasswd-expect is based on the code from Chapter 23 of the O'Reilly book "Exploring Expect".

USAGE
       With no arguments, mkpasswd-expect returns a new password.

            mkpasswd-expect

       With a user name, mkpasswd-expect assigns a new password to the user.

            mkpasswd-expect don

       The passwords are randomly generated according to the flags below.

FLAGS
       The -l flag defines the length of the password.  The default is 9.  The following example creates a 20 character password.

            mkpasswd-expect -l 20

       The -d flag defines the number of digits that must be in the password.  The default is 2.  The following example creates a password with 3 digits.

            mkpasswd-expect -d 3

       The -c flag defines the minimum number of lowercase alphabetic characters that must be in the password.  The default is 2.

       The -C flag defines the number of uppercase alphabetic characters that must be in the password.  The default is 2.

       The -s flag defines the number of special characters that must be in the password.  The default is 1.

       The -p flag names a program to set the password.  By default, /etc/yppasswd is used if present, otherwise /bin/passwd is used.

       The -2 flag causes characters to be chosen so that they alternate between right and left hands (qwerty-style), making it harder for anyone watching passwords being entered.  This can also make it eas‐
       ier for a password-guessing program.

       The -v flag causes the password-setting interaction to be visible.  By default, it is suppressed.

EXAMPLE
       The following example creates a 15-character password that contains 3 digits and 5 uppercase characters.

            mkpasswd-expect -l 15 -d 3 -C 5

SEE ALSO
       "Exploring Expect: A Tcl-Based Toolkit for Automating Interactive Programs" by Don Libes, O'Reilly and Associates, January 1995.

AUTHOR
       Don Libes, National Institute of Standards and Technology

       mkpasswd-expect is in the public domain.  NIST and I would appreciate credit if this program or parts of it are used.

                                                                                                 22 August 1994                                                                              MKPASSWD-EXPECT(1)
