MKVINFO(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                       MKVINFO(1)

NAME
       mkvinfo - Print information about elements in Matroska(TM) files

SYNOPSIS
       mkvinfo [options] {source-filename}

DESCRIPTION
       This program lists all elements contained in a Matroska(TM). The output can be limited to a list of tracks in the file including information about the codecs used.

       -a, --all
           By default mkvinfo(1) stops when it encounters the first cluster. Additionally it doesn't show certain often occurring elements. With this option mkvinfo(1) will continue processing regardless of
           the verbosity level and show all elements.

       -c, --checksums
           Calculates and display the Adler-32 checksum for each frame. Useful for debugging only.

       -o, --continue
           By default mkvinfo(1) stops when it encounters the first cluster. With this option mkvinfo(1) will continue processing regardless of the verbosity level.

       -p, --hex-positions
           Show the positions of all elements in hexadecimal regardless of the verbosity level.

       -P, --positions
           Show the positions of all elements in decimal regardless of the verbosity level.

       -s, --summary
           Only show a terse summary of what mkvinfo(1) finds and not each element.

       -t, --track-info
           Show statistics for each track in verbose mode. Also sets verbosity to 1 if it was at level 0 before.

       -x, --hexdump
           Show the first 16 bytes of each frame as a hex dump.

       -X, --full-hexdump
           Show all bytes of each frame as a hex dump.

       -z, --size
           Show the size of each element including its header.

       --command-line-charset character-set
           Sets the character set to convert strings given on the command line from. It defaults to the character set given by system's current locale.

       --output-charset character-set
           Sets the character set to which strings are converted that are to be output. It defaults to the character set given by system's current locale.

       -r, --redirect-output file-name
           Writes all messages to the file file-name instead of to the console. While this can be done easily with output redirection there are cases in which this option is needed: when the terminal
           reinterprets the output before writing it to a file. The character set set with --output-charset is honored.

       --ui-language code
           Forces the translations for the language code to be used (e.g. 'de_DE' for the German translations). Entering 'list' as the code will cause the program to output a list of available translations.

       --abort-on-warnings
           Tells the program to abort after the first warning is emitted. The program's exit code will be 1.

       --debug topic
           Turn on debugging for a specific feature. This option is only useful for developers.

       --engage feature
           Turn on experimental features. A list of available features can be requested with mkvinfo --engage list. These features are not meant to be used in normal situations.

       --gui-mode
           Turns on GUI mode. In this mode specially-formatted lines may be output that can tell a controlling GUI what's happening. These messages follow the format '#GUI#message'. The message may be
           followed by key/value pairs as in '#GUI#message#key1=value1#key2=value2...'. Neither the messages nor the keys are ever translated and always output in English.

       -v, --verbose
           Be more verbose. See the section about verbosity levels for a description which information will be output at which level.

       -h, --help
           Show usage information and exit.

       -V, --version
           Show version information and exit.

       @options-file.json
           Reads additional command line arguments from the file options-file. For a full explanation on the supported formats for such files see the section called "Option files" in the mkvmerge(1) man
           page.

VERBOSITY LEVELS
       The -v option can be used to increase mkvinfo(1)'s verbosity level and print more information about the current file.

       At level 0 mkvinfo(1) will print only the track headers it finds and their types.  mkvinfo(1) will exit as soon as the headers are parsed completely (more technical: as soon as the first cluster is
       encountered). In this level the seek head entries and the cues will not be displayed -- even if they're located in front of the track information.

       At level 1 mkvinfo(1) will also print all Matroska(TM) elements encountered for the complete file but the seek head entries and the cue entries. If the summary mode is enabled then mkvinfo(1) will
       output the frame position as well.

       The same effect can be achieved with the option --continue.

       At level 2 mkvinfo(1) will also print the seek head entries, the cue entries and the file position at which each Matroska(TM) element can be found at.

       The same effect can be achieved with the options --all --positions.

       At level 3 and above mkvinfo(1) will print some information that is not directly connected to a Matroska(TM) element. All other elements only print stuff about the elements that were just found. Level
       3 adds meta information to ease debugging (read: it's intended for developers only). All lines written by level 3 are enclosed in square brackets to make filtering them out easy.

TEXT FILES AND CHARACTER SET CONVERSIONS
       For an in-depth discussion about how all tools in the MKVToolNix suite handle character set conversions, input/output encoding, command line encoding and console encoding please see the
       identically-named section in the mkvmerge(1) man page.

EXIT CODES
       mkvinfo(1) exits with one of three exit codes:

       •   0 -- This exit code means that the run has completed successfully.

       •   1 -- In this case mkvinfo(1) has output at least one warning, but the run did continue. A warning is prefixed with the text 'Warning:'.

       •   2 -- This exit code is used after an error occurred.  mkvinfo(1) aborts right after outputting the error message. Error messages range from wrong command line arguments over read/write errors to
           broken files.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       mkvinfo(1) uses the default variables that determine the system's locale (e.g.  LANG and the LC_* family). Additional variables:

       MKVINFO_DEBUG, MKVTOOLNIX_DEBUG and its short form MTX_DEBUG
           The content is treated as if it had been passed via the --debug option.

       MKVINFO_ENGAGE, MKVTOOLNIX_ENGAGE and its short form MTX_ENGAGE
           The content is treated as if it had been passed via the --engage option.

SEE ALSO
       mkvmerge(1), mkvextract(1), mkvpropedit(1), mkvtoolnix-gui(1)

WWW
       The latest version can always be found at the MKVToolNix homepage[1].

AUTHOR
       Moritz Bunkus <moritz@bunkus.org>
           Developer

NOTES
        1. the MKVToolNix homepage
           https://mkvtoolnix.download/

MKVToolNix 63.0.0                                                                                  2021-11-14                                                                                        MKVINFO(1)
