MOLOTOV(1)                                                                                     User Commands                                                                                     MOLOTOV(1)

NAME
       molotov - Create a bootable media from a Windows iso image.

DESCRIPTION
       Molotov  is  a  command  line utility designed to create a bootable USB drive using a Windows ISO image. To use Molotov, you'll need a flash drive with sufficient storage space and a Windows image
       which can be obtained by downloading it from Microsoft's website.

       - You need to have root access in order to perform the USB drive creation.

       - Bear in mind that ALL data in your device will be deleted!

SYNOPSIS
              molotov -i <iso-image> -d <block-device> [OPTIONS]

EXAMPLE
              molotov -i Win10_22H2_BrazilianPortuguese_x64v1.iso -d /dev/sdc -v -u

OPTIONS
       This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (--). A summary of options is included below.

       -i, --iso-image FILE
              Iso image to be used in the media creation

       -d, --device DEVICE
              Device where the image must be burnt, it must be a block device

       -h, --help
              Display the help message

       -v, --verbose
              Turn on verbose output

       -V, --version
              Print molotov's version and exit

       -u, --uefi
              Make an uefi-bootable media (default is legacy)

       Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional for any corresponding short options.

EXIT VALUES
       0      Success!

       1      Some crucial internal function exited with the status 1, such as mkfs.ntfs or fdisk

       2      Some crucial internal function exited with the status 2, such as mkfs.ntfs or fdisk

       64     Unknown parameter

       65     Missing required arguments, it happens when the user omits either the -i or -d flag

       66     Iso image not found, when the user passes as argument a non-existent ISO image

       67     Block device not found, when the user passes as argument a non-existent device

       68     Indicates insufficient permissions to perform the requested operation.

              Commonly occurs when attempting to write to a device that requires administrative privileges (root access).

              Common causes:

              - The current user does not have write access to the target device

              - Device ownership is limited to root

              - The user is not root

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <https://codeberg.org/cizordj/molotov>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © Cézar Augusto de Campos

       License: GPL-3+

Molotov 1.3                                                                                      March 2024                                                                                      MOLOTOV(1)
