mon(8)                                                                               Parallel Service Monitoring Daemon                                                                              mon(8)

NAME
       mon - monitor services for availability, sending alarms upon failures.

SYNOPSIS
       mon [-dfhlMSv] [-a dir] [-A authfile] [-b dir] [-B dir] [-c config] [-D dir] [-i secs] [-k num] [-l [statetype]] [-L dir] [-m num] [-p num] [-P pidfile] [-r delay] [-s dir]

DESCRIPTION
       mon  is a general-purpose scheduler for monitoring service availability and triggering alerts upon detecting failures.  mon was designed to be open in the sense that it supports arbitrary monitor‐
       ing facilities and alert methods via a common interface, which are easily implemented through programs (in C, Perl, shell, etc.), SNMP traps, and special Mon (UDP packet) traps.

OPTIONS
       -a dir Path to alert scripts. Default is /usr/local/lib/mon/alert.d:alert.d.  Multiple alert paths may be specified by separating them with a colon.  Non-absolute paths are taken to be relative to
              the base directory (/usr/lib/mon by default).

       -b dir Base directory for mon. scriptdir, alertdir, and statedir are all relative to this directory unless specified from /.  Default is /usr/lib/mon.

       -B dir Configuration file base directory. All config files are located here, including mon.cf, monusers.cf, and auth.cf.

       -A authfile
              Authentication configuration file. By default this is /etc/mon/auth.cf if the /etc/mon directory exists, or /usr/lib/mon/auth.cf otherwise.

       -c file
              Read configuration from file.  This defaults to IR /etc/mon/mon.cf " if the " /etc/mon directory exists, otherwise to /etc/mon.cf.

       -d     Enable debugging mode.

       -D dir Path to state directory.  Default is the first of /var/state/mon, /var/lib/mon, and /usr/lib/mon/state.d which exists.

       -f     Fork and run as a daemon process. This is the preferred way to run mon.

       -i secs
              Sleep interval, in seconds. Defaults to 1. This shouldn't need to be adjusted for any reason.

       -k num Set log history to a maximum of num entries. Defaults to 100.

       -l statetype
              Load state from the last saved state file. The supported saved state types are disabled for disabled watches, services, and hosts, opstatus for failure/alert/ack status of all services, and
              all for both.  If no statetype is provided, disabled is assumed.

       -L dir Sets the log dir. See also logdir in the configuration file.  The default is /var/log/mon if that directory exists, otherwise log.d in the base directory.

       -M     Pre-process the configuration file with the macro expansion package m4.

       -m num Set the throttle for the maximum number of processes to num.

       -p num Make server listen on port num.  This defaults to 2583.

       -S     Start with the scheduler stopped.

       -P pidfile
              Store the server's pid in pidfile, the default is the first of /run/mon/mon.pid, /run/mon.pid, and /etc/mon.pid whose directory exists.  An empty value tells mon not to use a pid file.

       -r delay
              Sets the number of seconds used to randomize the startup delay before each service is scheduled. Refer to the global randstart variable in the configuration file.

       -s dir Path to monitor scripts. Default is /usr/local/lib/mon/mon.d:mon.d.  Multiple alert paths may be specified by separating them with a colon.  Non-absolute paths are taken to be  relative  to
              the base directory (/usr/lib/mon by default).

       -v     Print version information.

       -h     Print help information.

DEFINITIONS
       monitor
              A program which tests for a certain condition, returns either true or false, and optionally produces output to be passed back to the scheduler.  Common monitors detect host reachability via
              ICMP echo messages, or connection to TCP services.

       period A period in time as interpreted by the Time::Period module.

       alert  A  program  which sends a message when invoked by the scheduler.  The scheduler calls upon an alert when it detects a failure from a monitor.  An alert program accepts a set of command-line
              arguments from the scheduler, in addition to data via standard input.

       hostgroup
              A single host or list of hosts, specified as names or IP addresses.

       service
              A collection of parameters used to deal with monitoring a particular resource which is provided by a group. Services are usually modeled after things such as an SMTP server, ICMP echo capa‐
              bility, server disk space availability, or SNMP events.

       view   A collection of hostgroups, used to filter mon output for client display.  i.e. a 'network-services' view might be defined so your network staff can see just the hostgroups which matter  to
              them, without having to see all hostgroups defined in Mon.

       watch  A collection of services which apply to a particular group.

OPERATION
       When  the mon scheduler starts, it reads a configuration file to determine the services it needs to monitor. The configuration file defaults to /etc/mon.cf, and can be specified using the -c para‐
       meter. If the -M option is specified, then the configuration file is pre-processed with m4.  If the configuration file ends with .m4, the file is also processed by m4 automatically.

       The scheduler enters a loop which handles client connections, monitor invocations, and failure alerts. Each service has a timer, specified in the configuration file as the interval variable, which
       tells the scheduler how frequently to invoke a monitor process.  The scheduler may be temporarily stopped. While it is stopped, client access still functions, but it just doesn't schedule  things.
       This  is  useful  in conjunction while resetting the server, because you can do this: save the hosts and services which are disabled, reset the server with the scheduler stopped, re-disabled those
       hosts and services, then start the scheduler. It also allows making atomic changes across several client connections.  See the moncmd man page for more information.

MONITOR PROGRAMS
       Monitor processes are invoked with the arguments specified in the configuration file, appended by the hosts from the applicable host group. For example, if the watch group is "servers", which con‐
       tain the hostnames "smtp", "nntp", and "ns", and the monitor line reads as follows,
       monitor fping.monitor -t 4000 -r 2
       then the exectuable "fping.monitor" will be executed with these parameters:
       MONITOR_DIR/fping.monitor -t 4000 -r 2 smtp nntp ns

       MONITOR_DIR is actually a search path, by default /usr/local/lib/mon/mon.d then /usr/lib/mon/mon.d, but it can be overridden by the -s option or in the configuration file.  If  all  hosts  in  the
       hostgroup  have  been  disabled, then a warning is sent to syslog and the monitor is not run. This behavior may be overridden with the "allow_empty_group" option in the service definition.  If the
       final argument to the "monitor" line is ";;" (it must be preceded by whitespace), then the host list will not be appended to the parameter list.

       In addition to environment variables defined by the user in the service definition, mon passes certain variables to monitor process.

       MON_LAST_SUMMARY
              The first line of the output from the last time the monitor exited.  This is not the summary of the current monitor run, but the previous one.  This may be used by an alert script  to  pro‐
              vide historical context in an alert.

       MON_LAST_OUTPUT
              The entire output of the monitor from the last time it exited.  This is not the output of the current monitor run, but the previous one.  This may be used by an alert script to provide his‐
              torical context in an alert.

       MON_LAST_FAILURE
              The time(2) of the last failure for this service.

       MON_FIRST_FAILURE
              The time(2) of the first time this service failed.

       MON_LAST_SUCCESS
              The time(2) of the last time this service passed.

       MON_DESCRIPTION
              The description of this service, as defined in the configuration file using the description tag.

       MON_DEPEND_STATUS
              The depend status, "o" if dependency failure, "1" otherwise.

       MON_LOGDIR
              The directory log files should be placed, as indicated by the logdir global configuration variable.

       MON_STATEDIR
              The directory where state files should be kept, as indicated by the statedir global configuration variable.

       MON_CFBASEDIR
              The directory where configuration files should be kept, as indicated by the cfbasedir global configuration variable.

       "fping.monitor"  should  return  an  exit status of 0 if it completed successfully (found no problems), or nonzero if a problem was detected. The first line of output from the monitor script has a
       special meaning: it is used as a brief summary of the exact failure which was detected, and is passed to the alert program. All remaining output is also passed to the alert program, but it has  no
       required interpretation.

       If  a monitor for a particular service is still running, and the time comes for mon to run another monitor for that service, it will not start another monitor. For example, if the interval is 10s,
       and the monitor does not finish running within 10 seconds, then mon will wait until the first monitor exits before running another one.

ALERT DECISION LOGIC
       Upon a non-zero or zero exit status, the associated alert or upalert program (respectively) is started, pending the following conditions: If an alert for a specific service  is  disabled,  do  not
       send  an  alert.  If dep_behavior is set to 'a', or alertdepend is set, and a parent dependency is failing, then suppress the alert.  If the alert has previously been acknowledged, do not send the
       alert, unless it is an upalert.  If an alert is not within the specified period, record the failure via syslog(3) and do not send an alert.  If the failure does not fall within a  defined  period,
       do not send an alert.  No upalerts are sent without corresponding down alerts, unless no_comp_alerts is defined in the period section. An upalert will only be sent if the previous state is a fail‐
       ure.  If an alert was already sent within the last alertevery interval, do not send another alert, unless the summary output from the current monitor program differs from the last monitor process.
       Otherwise,  send an alert using each alert program listed for that period. The observe_detail argument to alertevery affects this behavior by observing the changes in the detail part of the output
       in addition to the summary line.  If a monitor has successive failures and the summary output changes in each of them, alertevery will not suppress multiple consecutive alerts.  The  reasoning  is
       that if the summary output changes, then a significant event occurred and the user should be alerted.  The "strict" argument to alertevery will suppress both comparing the output from the previous
       monitor  run to the current and prevent a successful return value of the monitor from resetting the alertevery timer. For example, "alertevery 24h strict" will only send out an alert once every 24
       hours, regardless of whether the monitor output changes, or if the service stops and then starts failing.

ALERT PROGRAMS
       Alert programs are found in the path supplied with the -a parameter, or in the /usr/local/lib/mon/alert.d and directories if not specified.  They are invoked with the following command-line  para‐
       meters:

       -g group
              Host group name from the configuration file.

       -h hosts
              The expanded version of the host group, space delimited, but contained in one shell "word".

       -l alertevery
              The number of seconds until the next alarm will be sent.

       -O     This option  is  supplied  to an alert only if the alert is being generated as a result of an expected traap timing out

       -s service
              Service tag from the configuration file.

       -t time
              The time (in time(2) format) of when this failure condition was detected.

       -T     This option is supplied to an alert only if the alert was triggered by a trap

       -u     This option is supplied to an alert only if it is being called as an upalert.

       The remaining arguments are supplied from the trailing parameters in the configuration file, after the "alert" service parameter.

       As with monitor programs, alert programs are invoked with environment variables defined by the user in the service definition, in addition to the following which are explicitly set by the server:

       MON_ALERTTYPE
              Has one of the following values: "failure", "up", "startup", "trap", or "traptimeout", and signifies the type of alert which was triggered.

       MON_DESCRIPTION
              The description of this service, as defined in the configuration file using the description tag.

       MON_FIRST_FAILURE
              The time(2) of the first time this service failed.

       MON_GROUP
              The watch group which triggered this alarm

       MON_LAST_FAILURE
              The time(2) of the last failure for this service.

       MON_LAST_OUTPUT
              The entire output of the monitor from the last time it exited.

       MON_LAST_SUCCESS
              The time(2) of the last time this service passed.

       MON_LAST_SUMMARY
              The first line of the output from the last time the monitor exited.

       MON_LOGDIR
              The directory log files should be placed, as indicated by the logdir global configuration variable.

       MON_OPSTATUS
              The operational status of the service.

       MON_RETVAL
              The exit value of the failed monitor program, or return value as accepted from a trap.

       MON_STATEDIR
              The directory where state files should be kept, as indicated by the statedir global configuration variable.

       MON_SERVICE
              The service heading which generated this alert

       MON_TRAP_INTENDED
              This  is  only  set when an unknown mon trap is received and caught by the default/defaut watch/service. This contains colon separated entries of the trap's intended watch group and service
              name.

       MON_CFBASEDIR
              The directory where configuration files should be kept, as indicated by the cfbasedir global configuration variable.

       The first line from standard input must be used as a brief summary of the problem, normally supplied as the subject line of an email, or text sent to an alphanumeric pager. Interpretation  of  all
       subsequent  lines  read  from  stdin  is left up to the alerting program. The usual parameters are a list of recipients to deliver the notification to.  The interpretation of the recipients is not
       specified, and is up to the alert program.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       The configuration file consists of zero or more global variable definitions, zero or more hostgroup definitions, and one or more watch definitions. Each watch definition may have one or more  ser‐
       vice definitions. A watch definition is terminated by a blank line, another definition, or the end of the file. A line beginning with optional leading whitespace and a pound ("#") is regarded as a
       comment, and is ignored.

       Lines  are parsed as they are read. Long lines may be continued by ending them with a backslash ("\").  If a line is continued, then the backslash, the trailing whitespace after the backslash, and
       the leading whitespace of the following line are removed. The end result is assembled into a single line.

       Typically the configuration file has the following layout:

       1. Global variable definitions

       2. Hostgroup definitions

       3. Watch definitions

       See the "etc/example.cf" file which comes for the distribution for an example.

   Global Variables
       The following variables may be set to override compiled-in defaults. Command-line options will have a higher precedence than these definitions.

       alertdir = dir
              dir is the full path to the alert scripts. This is the value set by the -a command-line parameter.

              Multiple alert paths may be specified by separating them with a colon.  Non-absolute paths are taken to be relative to the base directory (/usr/lib/mon by default).

              When the configuration file is read, all alerts referenced from the configuration will be looked up in each of these paths, and the full path to the first instance of  the  alert  found  is
              stored in a hash. This hash is only generated upon startup or after a "reset" command, so newly added alert scripts will not be recognized until a "reset" is performed.

       authfile = file
              file is the path to the authentication file. If the path does not begin with a "/", it will be relative to cfbasedir.

       basedir = dir
              dir is the full path for the state, log, monitor, and alert directories.

       authtype = type [type...]
              type  is  the  type of authentication to use. A space-separated list of types may be specified, and they will be checked the order they are listed. As soon as a successful authentication is
              performed, the user is considered authenticated by mon for the duration of the session and no more authentication checks are performed.

              If type is getpwnam, then the standard Unix passwd file authentication method will be used (calls getpwnam(3) on the user and compares the crypt(3)ed version of the password  with  what  it
              gets from getpwnam). This will not work if shadow passwords are enabled on the system.

              If type is userfile, then usernames and hashed passwords are read from userfile, which is defined via the userfile configuration variable.

              If  type  is  pam,  then PAM (pluggable authentication modules) will be used for authentication.  The service specified by the pamservice global will be used. If no global is given, the PAM
              passwd service will be used.

              If type is trustlocal, then if the client connection comes from locahost, the username passed from the client will be trusted, and the password will be ignored.  This can be used  when  you
              want the client to handle the authentication for you.  I.e. a CGI script using one of the many apache authentication methods.

       cfbasedir = dir
              dir is the full path where all the config files can be found (monusers.cf, auth.cf, etc.).

       cltimeout = secs
              Sets  the client inactivity timeout to secs.  This is meant to help thwart denial of service attacks or recover from crashed clients.  secs is interpreted as a "1h/1m/1s" string, where "1m"
              = 60 seconds.

       dep_behavior = {a|m|hm}
              dep_behavior controls whether the dependency expression suppresses one of: the running of alerts, the running of monitors, or the passing of individual hosts to  the  monitors.   Read  more
              about the behavior in the "Service Definitions" section below.

              This is a global setting which controls the default settings for the service-specified variable.

       dep_memory = timeval
              If set, dep_memory will cause dependencies to continue to prevent alerts/monitoring for a period of time after the service returns to a normal state.  This can be used to prevent over-eager
              alerting when a machine is rebooting, for example.  See the explanation of interval in the "Service Definitions" section for a description of timeval.

              This is a global setting which controls the default settings for the service-specified variable.

       dep_recur_limit = depth
              Limit  dependency recursion level to depth.  If dependency recursion (dependencies which depend on other dependencies) tries to go beyond depth, then the recursion is aborted and a messages
              is logged to syslog.  The default limit is 10.

       dtlogfile = file
              file is a file which will be used to record the downtime log. Whenever a service fails for some amount of time and then stop failing, this event is written to the log. If this parameter  is
              not set, no logging is done. The format of the file is as follows (# is a comment and may be ignored):

              timenoticed group service firstfail downtime interval summary.

              timenoticed is the time(2) the service came back up.

              group service is the group and service which failed.

              firstfail is the time(2) when the service began to fail.

              downtime is the number of seconds the service failed.

              interval is the frequency (in seconds) that the service is polled.

              summary is the summary line from when the service was failing.

       dtlogging = yes/no

              Turns downtime logging on or off. The default is off.

       historicfile = file
              If this variable is set, then alerts are logged to file, and upon startup, some (or all) of the past history is read into memory.

       histlength = num
              num is the the maximum number of events to be retained in history list. The default is 100.  This value may also be set by the -k command-line parameter.

       logdir = dir
              dir is the full path to the log directory.  mon uses this directory to save various logs, including the downtime log. If this path does not begin with a "/", it will be relative to basedir.

       maxprocs = num
              Throttles  the  number  of  concurrently  forked processes to num.  The intent is to provide a safety net for the unlikely situation when the server tries to take on too many tasks at once.
              Note that this situation has only been reported to happen when trying to use a garbled configuration file! You don't want to use a garbled configuration file now, do you?

       mondir = dir
              dir is the full path to the monitor scripts. This value may also be set by the -s command-line parameter. If this path does not begin with a "/", it will be relative to basedir.

              Multiple alert paths may be specified by separating them with a colon. All paths must be absolute.

              When the configuration file is read, all monitors referenced from the configuration will be looked up in each of these paths, and the full path to the first instance of the monitor found is
              stored in a hash. This hash is only generated upon startup or after a "reset" command, so newly added monitor scripts will not be recognized until a "reset" is performed.

       monremote = program

              If set, this external program will be called by Mon when various client requests are processed.  This can be used to propagate those changes from one Mon server to another, if you have mul‐
              tiple monitoring machines.  An example script, monremote.pl is available in the clients directory.

       monerrfile = filename
              By default, when mon daemonizes itself, it connects stdout and stderr to /dev/null. If monerrfile is set to a file, then stdout and stderr will be appended to that file. In all cases  stdin
              is  connected  to  /dev/null.  If mon is told to run in the foreground and to not daemonize, then none of this applies, since stdin/stdout/stderr stay connected to whatever they were at the
              time of invocation.

       pamservice = service
              The PAM service used for authentication. This is applicable only if "pam" is specified as a parameter to the authtype setting. If this global is not defined, it defaults to passwd.

       pidfile = path
              path is the file the sever will store its pid in.  This value may also be set by the -P command-line parameter.

       randstart = interval
              When the server starts, normally all services will not be scheduled until the interval defined in the respective service section.  This can cause long delays before the  first  check  of  a
              service,  and  possibly a high load on the server if multiple things are scheduled at the same intervals.  This option is used to randomize the scheduling of the first test for all services
              during the startup period, and immediately after the reset command.  If randstart is defined, the scheduled run time of all services of all watch groups will be a random number between zero
              and randstart seconds.

       serverbind = addr

       serverport = port
              port is the TCP port number that the server should bind to. This value may also be set by the -p command-line parameter. Normally this port is looked up via  getservbyname(3),  and  it  de‐
              faults to 2583.

       startupalerts_on_reset = {yes|no}

              If set to "yes", startupalerts will be invoked when the reset client command is executed. The default is "no".

       statedir = dir
              dir is the full path to the state directory.  mon uses this directory to save various state information.

       syslog_facility = facility
              Specifies the syslog facility used for logging.  daemon is the default.

   Hostgroup Entries
       Hostgroup  entries  begin  with the keyword hostgroup, and are followed by a hostgroup tag and one or more hostnames or IP addresses, separated by whitespace. The hostgroup tag must be composed of
       alphanumeric characters, a dash ("-"), a period ("."), or an underscore ("_"). Non-blank lines following the first hostgroup line are interpreted as more hostnames.  The hostgroup definition  ends
       with a blank line. For example:

              hostgroup servers nameserver smtpserver nntpserver
                      nfsserver httpserver smbserver

              hostgroup router_group cisco7000 agsplus

   View Entries
       View  entries begin with the keyword view, and are followed by a view tag and the names of one or more hostgroups.  The view tag must be composed of alphanumeric characters, a dash ("-"), a period
       ("."), or an underscore ("_"). Non-blank lines following the first view line are interpreted as more hostgroup names.  The view definition ends with a blank line. For example:

              view servers dns-servers web-servers file-servers
                   mail-servers

              view network-services routers switches vpn-servers

   Watch Group Entries
       Watch entries begin with a line that starts with the keyword watch, followed by whitespace and a single word which normally refers to a pre-defined hostgroup. If the second word is not  recognized
       as a hostgroup tag, a new hostgroup is created whose tag is that word, and that word is its only member.

       Watch entries consist of one or more service definitions.

       A watch group is terminated by a blank line, the end of the file, or by a subsequent definition, "watch", "hostgroup", or otherwise.

       There  may  be  a special watch group entry called "default". If a default watch group is defined with a service entry named "default", then this definition will be used in handling traps received
       for an unrecognized watch and service.

   Service Definitions
       service servicename
              A service definition begins with they keyword service followed by a word which is the tag for this service.  This word must be unique among all services defined for the same watch group.

              The components of a service are an interval, monitor, and one or more time period definitions, as defined below.

              If a service name of "default" is defined within a watch group called "dafault" (see above), then the default/default definition will be used for handling unknown mon traps.

              The following configuration parameters are valid only following a service definition:

        alertdepend, monitordepend, hostdepend "dependexpression"
              These keywords allow you to specify multiple dependency expressions of different types.  Each one corresponds to the different dep_behavior settings listed above.  They  will  be  evaluated
              independently in the different contexts as listed above.  If depend is present, it takes precedence over the matching keyword, depending on the dep_behavior setting.

       allow_empty_group
              The  allow_empty_group option will allow a monitor to be invoked even when the hostgroup for that watch is empty because of disabled hosts. The default behavior is not to invoke the monitor
              when all hosts in a hostgroup have been disabled.

       depend dependexpression
              The depend keyword is used to specify a dependency expression, which evaluates to either true of false, in the boolean sense.  Dependencies are actual Perl expressions, and  must  obey  all
              syntactical rules. The expressions are evaluated in their own package space so as to not accidentally have some unwanted side-effect.  If a syntax error is found when evaluating the expres‐
              sion, it is logged via syslog.

              Before  evaluation,  the  following  substitutions  on the expression occur: phrases which look like "group:service" are substituted with the value of the current operational status of that
              specified service. These opstatus substitutions are computed recursively, so if service A depends upon service B, and service B depends upon service C, then service A depends  upon  service
              C.  Successful  operational  statuses (which evaluate to "1") are "STAT_OK", "STAT_COLDSTART", "STAT_WARMSTART", and "STAT_UNKNOWN".  The word "SELF" (in all caps) can be used for the group
              (e.g. "SELF:service"), and is an abbreviation for the current watch group.

              This feature can be used to control alerts for services which are dependent on other services, e.g. an SMTP test which is dependent upon the machine being ping-reachable.

       dep_behavior {a|m|hm}
              The evaluation of the dependency graphs specified via the depend keyword can control the suppression of alert or monitor invocations, or the suppression of individual hosts  passed  to  the
              monitor.

              Alert  suppression.   If this option is set to "a", then the dependency expression will be evaluated after the monitor for the service exits or after a trap is received.  An alert will only
              be sent if the evaluation succeeds, meaning that none of the nodes in the dependency graph indicate failure.

              Monitor suppression.  If it is set to "m", then the dependency expression will be evaulated before the monitor for the service is about to run.  If the evaulation succeeds, then the monitor
              will be run. Otherwise, the monitor will not be run and the status of the service will remain the same.

              Host suppression.  If it is set to "hm" then Mon will extract the list of "parent" services from the dependency expression.  (In fact the expression can be just a list  of  services.)  Then
              when  the monitor for the service is about to be run, for each host in the current hostgroup Mon will search all the parent services which are currently failing and look for the hostname in
              the current summary output.  If the hostname is found, this host will be excluded from this run of the monitor.  This can be used to e.g. allow an SMTP test on a group of hosts to still  be
              run  even when a single host is not ping-reachable.  If all the rest of the hosts are working fine, the service will be in an OK state, but if another host fails the SMTP test Mon can still
              alert about that host even though the parent dependency was failing.  The dependency expression will not be used recursively in this case.

       dep_memory timeval
              If set, dep_memory will cause dependencies to continue to prevent alerts/monitoring for a period of time after the service returns to a normal state.  This can be used to prevent over-eager
              alerting when a machine is rebooting, for example.  See the explanation of interval in the "Service Definitions" section for a description of timeval.

       description descriptiontext
              The text following description is queried by client programs, passed to alerts and monitors via an environment variable. It should contain a brief description of the service,  suitable  for
              inclusion in an email or on a web page.

       exclude_hosts host [host...]
              Any hosts listed after exclude_hosts will be excluded from the service check.

       exclude_period periodspec
              Do not run a scheduled monitor during the time identified by periodspec.

       failure_interval timeval
              Adjusts the polling interval to timeval when the service check is failing. Resets the interval to the original when the service succeeds.

       interval timeval
              The  keyword interval followed by a time value specifies the frequency that a monitor script will be triggered.  Time values are defined as "30s", "5m", "1h", or "1d", meaning 30 seconds, 5
              minutes, 1 hour, or 1 day. The numeric portion may be a fraction, such as "1.5h" or an hour and a half. This format of a time specification will be referred to as timeval.

       monitor monitor-name [arg...]
              The keyword monitor followed by a script name and arguments specifies the monitor to run when the timer expires. Shell-like quoting conventions are followed when specifying the arguments to
              send to the monitor script.  The script is invoked from the directory given with the -s argument, and all following words are supplied as arguments to the monitor program, followed  by  the
              list  of  hosts  in  the group referred to by the current watch group.  If the monitor line ends with ";;" as a separate word, the host groups are not appended to the argument list when the
              program is invoked.

       randskew timeval
              Rather than schedule the monitor script to run at the start of each interval, randomly adjust the interval specified by the interval parameter by plus-or-minus randskew .  The skew value is
              specified as the interval parameter: "30s", "5m", etc...  For example if interval is 1m, and randskew is "5s", then mon will schedule the monitor script some time between every  55  seconds
              and 65 seconds.  The intent is to help distribute the load on the server when many services are scheduled at the same intervals.

       redistribute alert [arg...]
              A  service may have one redistribute option, which is a special form of an an alert definition.  This alert will be called on every service status update, even sequential success status up‐
              dates.  This can be used to integrate Mon with another monitoring system, or to link together multiple Mon servers via an alert script that generates Mon traps.  See  the  "ALERT  PROGRAMS"
              section above for a list of the parameters mon will pass automatically to alert programs.

       unack_summary
              Remove  the  "acknowledged"  state  from a service if the summary component of the failure message changes.  In most common usage the summary is the list of hosts that are failing, so addi‐
              tional hosts failing would remove an ack.

       traptimeout timeval
              This keyword takes the same time specification argument as interval, and makes the service expect a trap from an external source at least that often, else a failure will be registered. This
              is used for a heartbeat-style service.

       trapduration timeval
              If a trap is received, the status of the service the trap was delivered to will normally remain constant. If trapduration is specified, the status of the service will remain  in  a  failure
              state for the duration specified by timeval, and then it will be reset to "success".

       VARIABLE=value
              Environment  variables may be defined for each service, which will be included in the environment of monitors and alerts. Variables must be specified in all capital letters, must begin with
              an alphabetical character or an underscore, and there must be no spaces to the left of the equal sign.

   Period Definitions
       Periods are used to define the conditions which should allow alerts to be delivered.

       period [label:] periodspec
              A period groups one or more alarms and variables which control how often an alert happens when there is a failure.  The period definition has two forms. The first takes an argument which is
              a period specification from Patrick Ryan's Time::Period Perl 5 module. Refer to "perldoc Time::Period" for more information.

              The second form requires a label followed by a period specification, as defined above. The label is a tag consisting of an alphabetic character or underscore followed by zero  or  more  al‐
              phanumerics  or  underscores  and  ending  with a colon. This form allows multiple periods with the same period definition. One use is to have a period definition which has no alertafter or
              alertevery parameters for a particular time period, and another for the same time period with a different set of alerts that does contain those parameters.

              Period definitions, in either the first or second form, must be unique within each service definition. For example, if you need to define two periods both for "wd {Sun-Sat}",  then  one  or
              both of the period definitions must specify a label such as "period t1: wd {Sun-Sat}" and "period t2: wd {Sun-Sat}".

       alert alert [arg...]
              A  period  may  contain multiple alerts, which are triggered upon failure of the service. An alert is specified with the alert keyword, followed by an optional exit parameter, and arguments
              which are interpreted the same as the monitor definition, but without the ";;" exception. The exit parameter takes the form of exit=x or exit=x-y and has the effect that the alert  is  only
              called if the exit status of the monitor script falls within the range of the exit parameter. If, for example, the alert line is alert exit=10-20 mail.alert mis then mail-alert will only be
              invoked  with mis as its arguments if the monitor program's exit value is between 10 and 20. This feature allows you to trigger different alerts at different severity levels (like when free
              disk space goes from 8% to 3%).

              See the ALERT PROGRAMS section above for a list of the pramaeters mon will pass automatically to alert programs.

       alertafter num

       alertafter num timeval

       alertafter timeval
              The alertafter keyword (within a period section) has three forms: only with the "num" argument, or with the "num timeval" arguments, or only with the "timeval" argument.  In the first form,
              an alert will only be invoked after "num" consecutive failures.

              In the second form, the arguments are a positive integer followed by an interval, as described by the interval variable above.  If these parameters are specified, then the alerts  for  that
              period  will only be called after that many failures happen within that interval. For example, if alertafter is given the arguments "3 30m", then the alert will be called if 3 failures hap‐
              pen within 30 minutes.

              In the third form, the argument is an interval, as described by the interval variable above.  Alerts for that period will only be called if the service has been in a failure state for  more
              than the length of time desribed by the interval, regardless of the number of failures noticed within that interval.

       alertevery timeval [observe_detail | strict]
              The  alertevery  keyword (within a period definition) takes the same type of argument as the interval variable, and limits the number of times an alert is sent when the service continues to
              fail.  For example, if the interval is "1h", then only the alerts in the period section will only be triggered once every hour. If the alertevery keyword is omitted in a  period  entry,  an
              alert  will be sent out every time a failure is detected. By default, if the summary output of two successive failures changes, then the alertevery interval is overridden, and an alert will
              be sent.  If the string "observe_detail" is the last argument, then both the summary and detail output lines will be considered when comparing the output of  successive  failures.   If  the
              string  "strict"  is  the last argument, then the output of the monitor or the state change of the service will have no effect on when alerts are sent. That is, "alertevery 24h strict" will
              send only one alert every 24 hours, no matter what.  Please refer to the ALERT DECISION LOGIC section for a detailed explanation of how alerts are suppressed.

       no_comp_alerts

              If this option is specified, then upalerts will be called whenever the service state changes from failure to success, rather than only after a corresponding "down" alert.

       numalerts num

              This variable tells the server to call no more than num alerts during a failure. The alert counter is kept on a per-period basis, and is reset upon each success.

       startupalert alert [arg...]
              A startupalert is only called when the mon server starts execution, or when a "reset" command was issued to the server, depending on the setting of the startupalerts_on_reset  global.   Un‐
              like other alerts, startupalerts are not called following the exit of a monitor, i.e. they are called in their own right, therefore the "exit=" argument is not applicable to startupalert.

       upalert alert [arg...]
              An  upalert is the compliment of an alert.  An upalert is called when a services makes the state transition from failure to success, if a corresponding "down" alert was previously sent. The
              upalert script is called supplying the same parameters as the alert script, with the addition of the -u parameter which is simply used to let an alert script know that it is being called as
              an upalert. Multiple upalerts may be specified for each period definition.  Set the per-period no_comp_alerts option to send an upalert regardless if whether  or  not  a  "down"  alert  was
              sent.

       upalertafter timeval
              The  upalertafter  parameter  is  specified as a string that follows the syntax of the interval parameter ("30s", "1m", etc.), and controls the triggering of an upalert.  If a service comes
              back up after being down for a time greater than or equal to the value of this option, an upalert will be called. Use this option to prevent upalerts to be called because of "blips"  (brief
              outages).

AUTHENTICATION CONFIGURATION FILE
       The  file  specified by the authfile variable in the configuration file (or passed via the -A parameter) will be loaded upon startup.  This file defines restrictions upon which client commands may
       be executed by which users. It is a text file which consists of comments, command definitions, and trap authentication parameters.  A comment line begins with optional whitespace followed by pound
       sign. Blank lines are ignored.

       The file is separated into a command section and a trap section. Sections are specified by a single line containing one of the following statements:

                      command section

       or

                      trap section

       Lines following one of the above statements apply to that section until either the end of the file or another section begins.

       A command definition consists of a command, followed by a colon, followed by a comma-separated list of users who may execute the command.  The default is that no users may execute any commands un‐
       less they are explicitly allowed in this configuration file. For clarity, a user can be denied by prefixing the user name with "!". If the word "AUTH_ANY" is used for a username, then any  authen‐
       ticated user will be allowed to execute the command. If the word "all" is used for a username, then that command may be executed by any user, authenticated or not.

       The trap section allows configuration of which users may send traps from which hosts. The syntax is a source host (name or ip address), whitespace, a username, whitespace, and a plaintext password
       for that user. If the source host is "*", then allow traps from any host. If the username is "*", then accept traps without regard for the username or password. If no hosts or users are specified,
       then no traps will be accepted.

       An example configuration file:

              command section
              list:           all
              reset:          root,admin
              loadstate:              root
              savestate:              root

              trap section
              127.0.0.1       root    r@@tp4sswrd

       This means that all clients are able to perform the list command, "root" is able to perform "reset", "loadstate", "savestate", and "admin" is able to execute the "reset" command.

CLIENT-SERVER INTERFACE
       The  server  listens on TCP port 2583, which may be overridden using the -p port option. Commands are a single line each, terminated by a newline.  The server can handle any number of simultaneous
       client connections.

CLIENT INTERFACE COMMANDS
       See manual page for moncmd.

MON TRAPPING
       Mon has the facility to receive special "mon traps" from any local or remote machine. Currently, the only available method for sending mon traps are through the Mon::Client perl interface,  though
       the UDP packet format is defined well enough to permit the writing of traps in other languages.

       Traps are handled similarly to monitors: a trap sends an operational status, summary line, and description text, and mon generates an alert or upalert as necessary.

       Traps  can  be  caught by any watch/service group set up in the mon configuration file, however it is suggested that you configure watch/service groups specifically for the traps you expect to re‐
       ceive. When defining a special watch/service group for traps, do not include a "monitor" directive (as no monitor need be invoked). Since a monitor is not being invoked, it is  not  necessary  for
       the watch definition to have a hostgroup which contains real host names.  Just make up a useful name, and mon will automatically create the watch group for you.

       Here is a simple config file example:

              watch trap-service
                   service host1-disks
                        description TRAP: for host1 disk status
                        period wd {Sun-Sat}
                             alert mail.alert someone@your.org
                             upalert mail.alert -u someone@your.org

       Since  mon  listens on a UDP port for any trap, a default facility is available for handling traps to unknown groups or services.  To enable this facility, you must include a "default" watch group
       with a "default" service entry containing the specifics of alarms.  If a default/default watch group and service are not configured, then unknown traps get logged via syslog, and no alarm is sent.
       NOTE: The default/default facility is a single entity as far as accounting and alarming go. Alarm programs which are not aware of this fact may send confusing information when a failure trap comes
       from one machine, followed by a success (ok) trap from a different machine. See the alarm environment variable MON_TRAP_INTENDED above for a possible way around  this.  It  is  intended  that  de‐
       fault/default  be  used as a facility to catch unknown traps, and should not be relied upon to catch all traps in a production environment. If you are lazy and only want to use default/default for
       catching all traps, it would be best to disable upalerts, and use the MON_TRAP_INTENDED environment variable in alert scripts to make the alerts more meaningful to you.

       Here is an example default facility:

              watch default
                   service default
                        description Default trap service
                        period wd {Sun-Sat}
                             alert mail.alert someone@your.org
                             upalert mail.alert -u someone@your.org

EXAMPLES
       The mon distribution comes with an example configuration called example.cf.  Refer to that file for more information.

SEE ALSO
       moncmd(1), Time::Period(3pm), Mon::Client(3pm)

HISTORY
       mon was written because I couldn't find anything out there that did just what I needed, and nothing was worth modifying to add the features I wanted. It doesn't have a cool name, and that  bothers
       me because I couldn't think of one.

BUGS
       Report bugs to the email address below.

AUTHOR
       Jim Trocki <trockij@arctic.org>

Linux                                                                                   $Date: 2007/06/25 13:10:07 $                                                                                 mon(8)
