monop(1)                    General Commands Manual                   monop(1)

NAME
       monop, monop2 - Mono Class Outline Viewer

SYNOPSIS
       monop [-r:assembly] [--search] class

OPTIONS
       -r:assembly
              Specifies the assembly to use for looking up the type

       -a     Renders all of the types in the specified assembly.

       --search, -s, -k
              Searches  through  all  known  assemblies  for  types containing
              `class'.

       --refs Prints a list of the  referenced  assemblies  for  an  assembly.
              Requires an assembly to be specified with -r:assembly.

       --filter-obsolete, -f
              Do not show obsolete types and members.

       --declared-only, -d
              Only show members declared in the type.

       --private, -p
              Show private members.

       --runtime-version
              Print runtime version.

       -xa    Sets  the  lookup  path to the Xamarin.Android directory.   This
              will load both the mscorlib from there, and search assemblies in
              that directory.

       -xi    Sets  the  lookup  path  to the Xamarin.iOS directory. This will
              load both the mscorlib from there, and search assemblies in that
              directory.

DESCRIPTION
       Monop is a tool that allows you to view the outline of a class. You can
       see the signature of each member of the class.   Use monop  to  explore
       1.0 assemblies, use monop2 to explore 2.0 assemblies.

       The tool takes one option, the class to view. You must specify the full
       name of the class, including namespace.

       For generic classes, you must specify the generic arguments, for  exam‐
       ple:
       monop2 'System.Collections.Generic.List`1'
       The  above  is the string representation for the List<T> in System.Col‐
       lections.Generic

       If you are unsure of the full name  of  the  class,  you  can  use  the
       `--search' option to search through all known assemblies.

MAILING LISTS
       Visit    http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list   for
       details.

WEB SITE
       Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details

                                                                      monop(1)
