MP3ROASTER(1)                                                                       User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                       MP3ROASTER(1)

NAME
       mp3roaster - A Perl hack for burning audio CDs out of MP3/OGG/FLAC/WAVs

SYNOPSIS
       mp3roaster [OPTION]... "MP3/OGG/FLAC/WAV files"

DESCRIPTION
       mp3roaster A Perl hack for burning audio CDs out of MP3, OGG VORBIS and FLAC files.  The main highlights of this application are an easy to use command line syntax and automatic volume leveling
       support for best audio CD quality.

ENVIRONMENT
       MP3Roaster should run on all Unix like operating systems which have Perl and wodim installed. It has been developed on Debian GNU/Linux.

OPTIONS
       All options have been imported, now we should add specific descriptions for each option.

       -D, --dev
           CDR device to use

       -s, --speed
           Burn speed

       -d, --dummy
           Burn with laser off

       -a, --dao
           Burn in disk-at-once (DAO) mode for gapless recording

       -b, --burnfree
           Turn on Buffer Underrun Free writing

       -t, --temp
           Temporary directory

       -m, --mp3dec
           MP3 decoder to use

       -l, --lowercase
           Convert filenames to lowercase

       -S, --spaces
           Replace spaces with underscores

       -B, --brackets
           Replace brackets with underscores

       -q, --quotes
           Replace quotes with underscores

       -Q, --questions
           Replace questionmarks with underscores

       -n, --normalize
           Normalize WAV files before burning

       -N, --no-normalize
           Don't normalize WAV files, even if --normalize is specified (either as a command line argument or in the configuratino file)

       -y, --no-confirm
           Don't prompt for confirmation.

       -w, --wodim-opts
           Specify options to pass to Wodim for CD recording

       -v, --verbose
           Enable verbose output

       -h, --help
           Show the help screen

       -V, --version
           Show version and infos

RETURN VALUE
       mp3roaster returns 0 on success, 1 on error.

DIAGNOSTICS
       This has to be written yet.

EXAMPLES
       Once correctly configured MP3Roaster is very easy to use, just launch it from the command line with a bunch of compressed audio files, here is a short example:

           % mp3roaster "Root Dance.mp3" Free\ Software.flac bar.ogg Decoded.wav

       This will burn Root\ Dance.mp3, Free\ Software.flac bar.ogg and Decoded.wav on your audio CD preserving the song order as specified on the command line.

       Here is another example showing the usage of command line options like the dummy option:

           % mp3roaster -d "Root Dance.mp3" Free\ Software.flac bar.ogg Decoded.wav

           This will do the same job as above but with the laser of your
           CD writer turned off, so no data will be really written.

       You see MP3Roaster is really easy to use, this was one of my main goals while I've written the code: Keep it simple ;)

FILES
       MP3Roaster can be configured through a system wide and a personal configuration file. When you run MP3Roaster it will first check for your personal configuration file in your home directory, if no
       one is found it will fall-back to the system wide configuration files placed in /etc.

       By default MP3Roaster installs the configuration files in /etc/mp3roaster, but there are other possible file locations for the configuration file:

           . System wide configuration in /etc

               . /etc/mp3roaster/mp3roasterrc      (DEFAULT)
               . /etc/mp3roasterrc

           . Personal configuration in your home

               . ~/.mp3roaster/mp3roasterrc
               . ~/.mp3roasterrc

       So if you want to have personal MP3Roaster configuration file just copy the system wide configuration file to your home directory and edit it.

CAVEHEATS
       None actually.

BUGS
       There may be some minor troubles regarding file names, feel free to report any bugs you may encounter (In fact you shouldn't).

NOTES
       There are currrently no special notes.

SEE ALSO
       wodim.

AUTHOR
       Ivo Marino <eim@users.sourceforge.net>
       Lorenzo Taylor <lorenzo1@users.sourceforge.net>

HISTORY
       Take a look at the ChangeLog for now.

perl v5.38.2                                                                                     2024-03-28                                                                                   MP3ROASTER(1)
