MPB(1)                                                            MIT Photonic-Bands Package                                                           MPB(1)

NAME
       mpb-split - compute eigenmodes with MPB using multiple processes

SYNOPSIS
       mpb-split NUM-SPLIT [DEFINITION]... [CTLFILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       mpb-split is a parallelizing front-end to MIT Photonic Bands (MPB).  For a computation with several k points, it splits the list of k points over mul‐
       tiple  processes.   Of  course, this will only benefit you on a system where different processes will run on different processors, such as an SMP or a
       cluster with automatic process migration (e.g. MOSIX). mpb-split is actually a trivial shell script, though, so you can easily modify it if  you  need
       to use a special command to launch processes on other processors/machines.

       MIT  Photonic  Bands  (MPB)  is  a free program to compute the band structures (dispersion relations) and electromagnetic modes of periodic dielectric
       structures, and is applicable both to photonic crystals (photonic band-gap materials) and a wide range of other optical problems.

       More information on MPB, including a detailed manual, can be found online at the MPB home page: http://ab-initio.mit.edu/mpb/

       A typical invocation of mpb-split looks like:

           mpb-split num-split foo.ctl >& foo.out

       This causes mpb-split to process the control file foo.ctl, divide the k points into num-split equal chunks, run each list in a separate  process  with
       MPB,  and  redirect  the  output  (in order) to foo.out.  (One typically redirects output to a file, as the output is verbose and contains a number of
       comma-delimited datasets that one can extract by grepping.)

       Overall, the behavior and arguments are the same as for mpb except that the first argument must be the integer num-split.

       What mpb-split technically does is to set the MPB variable k-split-num to num-split and k-split-index to the index (starting with 0) of the chunk  for
       each process. If you want, you can use these variables to divide the problem in some other way and then reset them to 1 and 0, respectively.

BUGS
       Send bug reports to S. G. Johnson, stevenj@alum.mit.edu.

AUTHORS
       Written by Steven G. Johnson.  Copyright (c) 1999-2012 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

SEE ALSO
       mpb(1), mpb-data(1)

MPB                                                                     March 13, 2002                                                                 MPB(1)
