
MPIEXEC(1)                                                                                        LAM COMMANDS                                                                                       MPIEXEC(1)

NAME
       mpiexec - Run MPI programs on LAM nodes.

SYNOPSIS
       mpiexec [global_args] local_args1 [: local_args2 [...]]

       mpiexec [global_args] -configfile filename

OPTIONS
       Global arguments apply to all commands that will be launched by mpiexec.  They come at the beginning of the command line.

       -boot     Boot the LAM run-time environment before running the MPI program.  If -machinefile is not specified, use the default boot schema.  When the MPI processes finish, the LAM run-time environment
                 will be shut down.

       -boot-args args
                 Pass arguments to the back-end lamboot command when booting the LAM run-time environment.  Implies -boot.

       -d        Enable lots of debugging output.  Implies -v.

       -machinefile hostfile
                 Enable "one shot" MPI executions; boot the LAM run-time environment with the boot schema specified by hostfile (see bhost(5)), run the MPI program,  and  then  shut  down  the  LAM  run-time
                 environment.  Implies -boot.

       -prefix lam/install/path
                 Use the LAM installation specified in /lam/install/path/.  Not compatible with LAM/MPI versions prior to 7.1.

       -ssi key value
                 Set the SSI parameter key to the value value.

       -tv       Launch the MPI processes under the TotalView debugger.

       -v        Be verbose

       One  or  more  sets  of  local  arguments  must  be specified (or a config file; see below).  Local arguments essentially include everything allowed in an appschema(5) as well as the following options
       specified by the MPI-2 standard (note that the options listed below must be specified before appschema arguments):

       -n numprocs
                 Number of copies of the process to start.

       -host hostname
                 Specify the hostname to start the MPI process on.  The hostname must be resolvable by the lamnodes command after the LAM run-time environment is booted (see lamnodes(1)).

       -arch architecture
                 Specify the architecture to start the MPI process on.  mpiexec essentially uses the provided architecture as a pattern match against the output  of  the  GNU  config.guess  utility  on  each
                 machine in the LAM run-time environment.  Any subset will match.  See EXAMPLES, below.

       -wdir directory
                 Set the working directory of the executable.

       -soft     Not yet supported.

       -path     Not yet supported.

       -file     Not yet supported.

       other_arguments
                 When  mpiexec  first  encounters  an  argument that it doesn't recognize (such as an appschema(5) argument, or the MPI executable name), the remainder of the arguments will be passed back to
                 mpirun to actually start the process.  As such, all of mpiexec's arguments that are described above must come before appschema arguments and/or  the  MPI  executable  name.   Similarly,  all
                 arguments after the MPI executable name will be transparently passed as command line argument to the MPI process and will be will be effectively ignored by mpirun.

DESCRIPTION
       mpiexec  is  loosely  defined  in  the Miscellany chapter of the MPI-2 standard (see http://www.mpi-forum.org/).  It is meant to be a portable mechanism for starting MPI processes.  The MPI-2 standard
       recommends several command line options, but does not mandate any.  LAM's mpiexec currently supports several of these options, but not all.

       LAM's mpiexec is actually a perl script that is a wrapper around several underlying LAM commands, most notably lamboot, mpirun, and lamhalt.  As such, the functionality provided by mpiexec can  always
       be performed manually.  Unless otherwise specified in arguments that are passed back to mpirun, mpiexec will use the per-CPU scheduling as described in mpirun(1) (i.e., the "cX" and "C" notation).

       mpiexec  can  either  use  an  already-existing  LAM universe (i.e., a booted LAM run-time environment), similar to mpirun, or can be used for "one-shot" MPI executions where it boots the LAM run-time
       environment, runs the MPI executable(s), and then shuts down the LAM run-time environment.

       mpiexec can also be used to launch MPMD MPI jobs from the command line.  mpirun also supports launching MPMD MPI jobs, but the user must make a text file appschema(5) first.

       Perhaps one of mpiexec's most useful features is the command-line ability to launch different executables on different architectures using the -arch  flag  (see  EXAMPLES,  below).   Essentially,  the
       string  argument  that is given to -arch is used as a pattern match against the output of the GNU config.guess utility on each node.  If the user-provided architecture string matches any subset of the
       output of config.guess, it is ruled a match.  Wildcards are not possible.  The GNU config.guess utility is available both in the LAM/MPI source code distribution (in the config  subdirectory)  and  at
       ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/config/config.guess.

       Some sample outputs from config.guess include:

       sparc-sun-solaris2.8
                 Solaris 2.8 running on a SPARC platform.

       i686-pc-linux-gnu
                 Linux running on an i686 architecture.

       mips-sgi-irix6.5
                 IRIX 6.5 running on an SGI/MIPS architecture.

       You might want to run the laminfo command on your available platforms to see what string config.guess reported.  See laminfo(1) for more details (e.g., the -arch flag to laminfo).

   Configfile option
       It  is  possible  to specify any set of local parameters in a configuration file rather than on the command line using the -configfile option.  This option is typically used when the number of command
       line options is too large for some shells, or when automated processes generate the command line arguments and it is simply more convenient to put them in a file for later processing by mpiexec.

       The config file can contain both comments and one or more sets of local arguments.  Lines beginning with "#" are considered comments and are ignored.  Other lines are considered  to  be  one  or  more
       groups of local arguments.  Each group must be separated by either a newline or a colon (":").  For example:

         # Sample mpiexec config file
         # Launch foo on two nodes
         -host node1.example.com foo : -host node2.example.com foo
         # Launch two copies of bar on a third node
         -host node3.example.com -np 2 bar

ERRORS
       In the event of an error, mpiexec will do its best to shut everything down and return to the state before it was executed.  For example, if mpiexec was used to boot a LAM run-time environment, mpiexec
       will do its best to take down whatever successfully booted of the run-time environment (to include invoking lamhalt and/or lamwipe).

EXAMPLES
       The following are some examples of how to use mpiexec.  Note that all examples assume the CPU-based scheduling (which does NOT map to physical CPUs) as described in mpirun(1).

       mpiexec -n 4 my_mpi_program
                 Launch 4 copies of my_mpi_program in an already-existing LAM universe.

       mpiexec -n 4 my_mpi_program arg1 arg2
                 Similar to the previous example, but pass "arg1" and "arg2" as command line arguments to each copy of my_mpi_program.

       mpiexec -ssi rpi gm -n 4 my_mpi_program
                 Similar to the previous example, but pass "-ssi rpi gm" back to mpirun to tell the MPI processes to use the Myrinet (gm) RPI for MPI message passing.

       mpiexec -n 4 program1 : -n 4 program2
                 Launch 4 copies of program1 and 4 copies of program2 in an already-existing LAM universe.  All 8 resulting processes will share a common MPI_COMM_WORLD.

       mpiexec -machinefile hostfile -n 4 my_mpi_program
                 Boot the LAM run-time environment with the nodes listed in the hostfile, run 4 copies of my_mpi_program in the resulting LAM universe, and then shut down the LAM universe.

       mpiexec -machinefile hostfile my_mpi_program
                 Similar to above, but run my_mpi_program on all available CPUs in the LAM universe.

       mpiexec -arch solaris2.8 sol_program : -arch linux linux_program
                 Run as many copies of sol_program as there are CPUs on Solaris machines in the current LAM universe, and as many copies of linux_program as there are CPUs on linux machines  in  the  current
                 LAM universe.  All resulting processes will share a common MPI_COMM_WORLD.

       mpiexec -arch solaris2.8 sol2.8_prog : -arch solaris2.9 sol2.9_program
                 Similar to the above example, except distinguish between Solaris 2.8 and 2.9 (since they may have different shared libraries, etc.).

SEE ALSO
       appschema(5), bhost(5), lamboot(1), lamexec(1), mpirun(1)

LAM 7.1.4                                                                                          July, 2007                                                                                        MPIEXEC(1)
