
MPITASK(1)                                                                                        LAM COMMANDS                                                                                       MPITASK(1)

NAME
       mpitask - Monitor MPI processes under LAM.

SYNOPSIS
       mpitask [-cdh] [-gps] [nodes] [processes]

OPTIONS
       -c      Print communicator descriptions.  See "Communicators".

       -d      Print datatype descriptions.  See "Datatypes".

       -gps    Print process information in GPS format.

       -h      Print useful information on this command.

       The -c and -d options are mutually exclusive.

DESCRIPTION
       The mpitask command displays information on processes which are using MPI.  One line is printed for each reported MPI process.  With no processes or nodes explicitly specified on the command line, all
       MPI processes on all nodes are reported.

       % mpitask

       TASK (G/L)    FUNCTION   PEER|ROOT   TAG   COMM    COUNT   DATATYPE
       0/0 trivial   Ssend      1/1         123   WORLD   64      INT
       1/1 trivial   Recv       0/0         456   WORLD   64      INT

       For each process mpitask normally prints the following information:

       TASK      an identification of the process - If the process is currently communicating, a `/' followed by the process's rank within the current communicator is also displayed.  The executable name, if
                 available, is also displayed.  See "MPI Process Identification".

       FUNCTION  an abbreviated form of the function name if the process is blocked inside an MPI function - Otherwise one of the following execution states is printed:

                 running   free to run on the underlying OS

                 paused    blocked on lam_kpause(2)

                 stopped   stopped by the LAM signal, LAM_SIGARREST - See doom(1).

                 blocked   blocked in a LAM function - In general this should be a transitory state.  Further information on a LAM process's state can be obtained with state(1).

       PEER|ROOT the source or destination of a point-to-point communication or the root process of certain collective communications, followed by a '/' and the process's rank within the current communicator
                 -

       TAG       the message tag, if any, which was specified as a parameter to the current MPI function

       COMM      the communicator ID, if any, which was specified as a parameter to the current MPI function - Communicators used in collective calls are displayed with a * suffix.   Further  information  on
                 the communicator may be obtained with the -c option.

       COUNT     the element count, if any, which was specified as a parameter to the current MPI function

       DATATYPE  the  element  datatype,  if any, which was specified as a parameter to the current MPI function - For intrinsic datatypes, a shortened version of the datatype name is displayed.  For derived
                 datatypes, a datatype label is displayed.  Further information on the datatype may be obtained with the -d option.

   MPI Process Identification
       By default, MPI processes are identified by their rank in MPI_COMM_WORLD.  We refer to this rank more concisely as the "global" rank (G).  The rank within the currently employed  communicator  is  re‐
       ferred to as the "local" rank (L).

       Since  processes  may  be  dynamically  spawned (see MPIL_Spawn(2)) and since multiple concurrent MPI applications are allowed, it is possible for multiple MPI_COMM_WORLD communicators to coexist.  In
       these situations, the global rank is no longer globally unique and the identification is ambiguous.  Thus, LAM provides an alternate way of identifying MPI processes, the GPS (Global Positioning  Sys‐
       tem).   A  process's  GPS  consists of the nodeid the process is running on and the process's LAM index on that node.  It is displayed in mpitask as the pair nnode,iindex.  If the -gps option is given
       then the GPS is substituted for the global rank (G).

   Communicators
       If the -c option is given then information is no longer displayed in the horizontal format described above.  Instead for each selected process currently using a communicator, the information from  the
       TASK  column, described above, is given followed by an expanded description of the communicator.  This description includes the size of the communicator group(s) and the global identifiers of all mem‐
       bers of the group(s).

   Datatypes
       If the -d option is given then information is no longer displayed in the horizontal format described above.  Instead for each selected process currently using a communicator, the information from  the
       TASK column, described above, is given followed by the datatype's type map.

EXAMPLES
       mpitask
           Display the status of all MPI processes on all nodes.

       mpitask -c n0 i9
           Display the communicator (if any) of process index 9 on node 0.

DIAGNOSTICS
       If no MPI processes are found, only the title line is displayed.

BUGS
       Sometimes  processes  may  be  shown as blocked inside a non-blocking MPI function.  This occurs when the process is blocked inside the MPI function on some internal LAM event.  Such states are highly
       transitory.

SEE ALSO
       doom(1), libmpi(3), mpirun(1), mpimsg(1), state(1), MPIL_Comm_id(2), MPIL_Type_id(2)

LAM 7.1.4                                                                                          July, 2007                                                                                        MPITASK(1)
