MPOLY(6)                       BSD Games Manual                       MPOLY(6)

NAME
     mpoly — Monopoly game

SYNOPSIS
     mpoly [file]

DESCRIPTION
     mpoly is reminiscent of the Parker Brother's game Monopoly, and monitors
     a game between 1 to 9 users.  It is assumed that the rules of Monopoly
     are known.  The game follows the standard rules, with the exception that,
     if a property goes up for auction and there are only two solvent players,
     no auction is held and the property remains unowned.  mpoly The game, in
     effect, lends the player money, so it is possible to buy something which
     you cannot afford.  However, as soon as a person goes into debt, he must
     “fix the problem”, i.e., make himself solvent, before play can continue.
     If this is not possible, the player's property reverts to his debtee, ei‐
     ther a player or the bank.  A player can resign at any time to any person
     or the bank, which puts the property back on the board, unowned.

     Any time that the response to a question is a string, e.g., a name, place
     or person, you can type ‘?’ to get a list of valid answers.  It is not
     possible to input a negative number, nor is it ever necessary.

     A Summary of Commands:

     quit  quit game: This allows you to quit the game.  It asks you if you're
           sure.

     print
           print board: This prints out the current board.  The columns have
           the following meanings (column headings are the same for the where,
           own holdings, and holdings commands):

           Name    The first ten characters of the name of the square.
           Own     The number of the owner of the property.
           Price   The cost of the property (if any).
           Mg      This field has a ‘*’ in it if the property is mortgaged.
           #       If the property is a Utility or Railroad, this is the num‐
                   ber of such owned by the owner.  If the property is land,
                   this is the number of houses on it.
           Rent    Current rent on the property.  If it is not owned, there is
                   no rent.

     where
           where players are: Tells you where all the players are.  A ‘*’ in‐
           dicates the current player.

     own holdings
           List your own holdings, i.e., money, get-out-of-jail-free cards,
           and property.

     holdings
           holdings list: Look at anyone's holdings.  It will ask you whose
           holdings you wish to look at.  When you are finished, type ‘done’.

     mortgage
           mortgage property: Sets up a list of mortgageable property, and
           asks which you wish to mortgage.

     unmortgage
           unmortgage property: Unmortgage mortgaged property.

     buy   buy houses: Sets up a list of monopolies on which you can buy
           houses.  If there is more than one, it asks you which you want to
           buy for.  It then asks you how many for each piece of property,
           giving the current amount in parentheses after the property name.
           If you build in an unbalanced manner (a disparity of more than one
           house within the same monopoly), it asks you to re-input things.

     sell  sell houses: Sets up a list of monopolies from which you can sell
           houses.  It operates in an analogous manner to buy.

     card  card for jail: Use a get-out-of-jail-free card to get out of jail.
           If you're not in jail, or you don't have one, it tells you so.

     pay   pay for jail: Pay $50 to get out of jail, from whence you are put
           on Just Visiting.  Difficult to do if you're not there.

     trade
           This allows you to trade with another player.  It asks you whom you
           wish to trade with, and then asks you what each wishes to give up.
           You can get a summary at the end, and, in all cases, it asks for
           confirmation of the trade before doing it.

     resign
           Resign to another player or the bank.  If you resign to the bank,
           all property reverts to its virgin state, and get-out-of-jail-free
           cards revert to the deck.

     save  save game: Save the current game in a file for later play.  You can
           continue play after saving, either by adding the file in which you
           saved the game after the mpoly command, or by using the restore
           command (see below).  It will ask you which file you wish to save
           it in, and, if the file exists, confirm that you wish to overwrite
           it.

     restore
           restore game: Read in a previously saved game from a file.  It
           leaves the file intact.

     roll  Roll the dice and move forward to your new location.  If you simply
           hit the ⟨RETURN⟩ key instead of a command, it is the same as typing
           roll.

AUTHOR
     Ken Arnold

FILES
     /usr/share/bsd-games//monop-cards.pck  Chance and Community Chest cards

BUGS
     No command can be given an argument instead of a response to a query.

BSD                             March 25, 1993                             BSD
