mprof-report(1)             General Commands Manual            mprof-report(1)

NAME
       mprof-report - report generator for Mono's log profiler

SYNOPSIS
       mprof-report [option]... file.mlpd

DESCRIPTION
       mprof-report  is the report generator for Mono's log profiler. It reads
       the MLPD log files produced by the log profiler and generates a  report
       based  on  the  options passed to it. The output is based on individual
       reports which can be turned on or off.  By  default,  all  reports  are
       generated in summary form (i.e., non-verbose output).

       mprof-report  can  read  both  normal  and gzip(1)-compressed log files
       transparently.

       For information about how to use the log profiler with a  program,  see
       the mono-profilers(1) page, under the LOG PROFILER section.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       --help Displays usage instructions.

       --out=file
              Write the report output to file instead of standard output.

       --traces
              Show backtraces in reports when available.

       --maxframes=num
              Limit backtraces to num frames.

       --reports=reports
              Generate  only  the  specified reports. reports is a comma-sepa‐
              rated list of reports. See the REPORTS section.

       --method-sort=mode
              Sort methods according to mode, which can be one of:

              total (default)
                     Sort by the total amount of time spent in  a  method  and
                     its callees.

              self   Sort  by  the  amount  of time spent only within a method
                     itself.

              calls  Sort by the total amount of calls made to a method.

       --alloc-sort=mode
              Sort allocations according to mode, which can be one of:

              bytes (default)
                     Sort by the amount of heap bytes occupied  by  all  allo‐
                     cated objects of a type.

              count  Sort by the total amount of allocations of a type.

       --counters-sort=mode
              Sort  counters  according  to mode. This alters how the counters
              report is presented. It can be one of:

              time (default)
                     Present a list of samples,  each  containing  a  list  of
                     counter name-value pairs.

              category
                     Present  a  list of counter names, each containing a list
                     of sampled values.

              This option has no effect unless --verbose is passed.

       --track=objects
              Track what happens to the specified objects. objects is a comma-
              separated list of object addresses.

       --find=spec
              Find  and track what happens to objects matching spec, which can
              have one of these forms:

              S:minimum_size
                     Look for objects that are at least minimum_size bytes  in
                     size.

              T:name_fragment
                     Look for objects whose type name contain name_fragment.

              Both an S and T spec can be given by passing the option twice.

       --thread=tid
              Consider only events from the thread with ID tid.

       --time=span
              Consider  only events occurring in the specified time span. span
              must be of the form from-to where from and to are seconds  since
              the program started.

       --verbose
              Print verbose output.

       --debug
              Print extremely detailed debug output. Most users should not use
              this option.

REPORTS
       The following reports are available:

       header Program startup and profiler version  and  operational  informa‐
              tion.

       jit    JIT compiler statistics.

       gc     Garbage collection and handle statistics.

       sample Flat statistical sampling profile.

       alloc  Per-class GC allocation statistics and backtraces.

       call   Method call statistics and backtraces.

       metadata
              Loaded images and assemblies.

       exception
              Exception statistics and backtraces.

       monitor
              Monitor lock statistics and backtraces.

       thread Managed thread names.

       domain Loaded application domains.

       context
              Loaded remoting contexts.

       heapshot
              Heap snapshot information.

       counters
              Performance counter samples.

SEE ALSO
       mono(1), mono-profilers(1)

                                                               mprof-report(1)
