
mswatch(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  mswatch(1)

NAME
       mswatch - watch mailstores for changes and initiate mailbox syncs

SYNOPSIS
       mswatch [options ...]

DESCRIPTION
       mswatch is a command line program that makes keeping two mailboxes synchronized faster and more efficient than periodically synchronizing the two mailboxes.

       mswatch  watches  mailboxes to know when to initiate mailbox syncs.  Using mswatch, your mail synchronization program can be called on demand instead of through polling, resulting in prompter mail de‐
       livery and lower bandwidth usage and server load.

OPTIONS
       -c file, --config=file
              Read configuration from file.  By default, the configuration is read from ~/.mswatchrc.

       -d, --dry
              Watch mailstores for changes but do not initiate syncs.

       -q, --quiet
              Do not print success status messages.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -?, --help
              Display a summary of command line options.

SIGNALS
       SIGUSR1
              Print names of mailboxes with pending syncs.

       SIGINT and SIGTERM
              Gracefully exit.

CONFIGURATION
       The configuration file is mandatory; mswatch will not run without it.  Text starting with a hash mark (#) through the end of the current line are comments and are ignored. Spaces and tabs delimit.

       base_delay time
              Default: 10 seconds
              Minimum time after first queued mailbox change to synchronization.

       inter_delay time
              Default: 60 seconds
              Minimum time between two synchronizations or failed attempts (this is the default inter_delay setting for mailboxes).

       inter_delay time mailboxes ...
              Default: inter_delay
              Minimum time between two synchronizations or failed attempts for the list mailboxes.

       max_delay time
              Default: 600 seconds
              Maximum waiting time between failed attempts.

       poll_period time
              Default: 86400 seconds (1 day)
              Period at which to poll all mailboxes. This option is for use with sync programs that can error without returning a failed status---it ensures that the mailboxes are at  least  this  fresh.  To
              disable polling, set the period to 0.

       ignore mailboxes ...
              Optional
              Do  not  initiate explicit synchronizations for these mailboxes. mswatch will ignore changes made to these mailboxes while it is running, but will still synchronize them at start when all mail‐
              boxes are synchronized.

       sync program arguments ...
              Required
              Program and arguments to run to synchronize mail stores. Mailbox names are appended to arguments ... when program is run.

       mailbox_prefix prefix separator
              Optional
              Prefix these strings to mailbox names passed to sync; useful when using mbsync for sync, as the mbsync channel.  If present, prefix is always prefixed to mailbox names.   When  synchronizing  a
              particular mailbox, separator is inserted between prefix and the mailbox name (separator is not inserted when synchronizing all mailboxes).
              Examples:
              Given prefix = "mydomain" and separator = ":" and that the mailbox "INBOX" is to be synchronized, "mydomain:INBOX" is passed to sync.
              Given prefix = "mydomain" and separator = ":" and that all mailboxes are to be synchronized, "mydomain" is passed to sync.

       store name { watch program arguments ... }
              Required (two stores)
              A  mailstore  to  watch.  Call it name when reporting status information to the user. watch sets the program and arguments to run the mailstore watcher. watch_maildirs(1) is a Maildir mailstore
              watcher.

FILES
       ~/.mswatchrc
              Default configuration file

SEE ALSO
       inputkill(1), watch_maildirs(1), socketwatch(1), mbsync(1),

       mswatch website: http://mswatch.sf.net/

AUTHOR
       Written by Chris Frost <chris@frostnet.net>.

                                                                                                                                                                                                     mswatch(1)
