MTREE(8)                                                                                   System Manager's Manual                                                                                 MTREE(8)

NAME
       mtree — map a directory hierarchy

SYNOPSIS
       mtree [-cCdDelLMPruUWx] [-i | -m] [-f spec] [-p path] [-k keywords] [-K keywords] [-R keywords] [-E tags] [-I tags] [-N dbdir] [-s seed] [-X exclude-file]

DESCRIPTION
       The mtree utility compares the file hierarchy rooted in the current directory against a specification read from the standard input.  Messages are written to the standard output for any files whose
       characteristics do not match the specification, or which are missing from either the file hierarchy or the specification.

       The options are as follows:

       -c    Print a specification for the file hierarchy to the standard output.

       -d    Ignore everything except directory type files.

       -C    Print  (‘dump’)  the  specification as provided by -f spec in a format that's easier to parse with various tools.  The full path name is always printed as the first field, and -k, -K, and -R
             can be used to control which other keywords are printed, and -E and -I can be used to control which files are printed.

       -D    As per -C, except that the path name is always printed as the last field instead of the first.

       -E tags
             Add the comma separated tags to the “exclusion” list.  Non-directories with tags which are in the exclusion list are not printed with -D.

       -e    Don't complain about files that are in the file hierarchy, but not in the specification.

       -f spec
             Read the specification from file, instead of from the standard input.

       -I tags
             Add the comma separated tags to the “inclusion” list.  Non-directories with tags which are in the inclusion list are printed with -D.  If no inclusion list is provided,  the  default  is  to
             display all files.

       -i    If specified, set the schg and/or sappnd flags.

       -K keywords
             Add the specified (whitespace or comma separated) keywords to the current set of keywords.  If ‘all’ is specified, add all of the other keywords.

       -k keywords
             Use  the  type keyword plus the specified (whitespace or comma separated) keywords instead of the current set of keywords.  If ‘all’ is specified, use all of the other keywords.  If the type
             keyword is not desired, suppress it with -R type.

       -l    Do “loose” permissions checks, in which more stringent permissions will match less stringent ones. For example, a file marked mode 0444 will pass a check for mode 0644.  “Loose” checks apply
             only to read, write and execute permissions -- in particular, if other bits like the sticky bit or suid/sgid bits are set either in the specification or the file, exact checking will be per‐
             formed. This flag may not be set at the same time as the -u or -U flags.

       -L    Follow all symbolic links in the file hierarchy.

       -m    If the schg and/or sappnd flags are specified, reset these flags. Note that this is only possible with securelevel less than 1 (i.e. in single user mode or while the system is running in in‐
             secure mode). See init(8) for information on security levels.

       -M    Permit merging of specification entries with different types, with the last entry take precedence.

       -N dbdir
             Use the user database text file master.passwd and group database text file group from dbdir, rather than using the results from the system's getpwnam(3) and getgrnam(3) (and related) library
             calls.

       -p path
             Use the file hierarchy rooted in path, instead of the current directory.

       -P    Don't follow symbolic links in the file hierarchy, instead consider the symbolic link itself in any comparisons.  This is the default.

       -r    Remove any files in the file hierarchy that are not described in the specification.

       -R keywords
             Remove the specified (whitespace or comma separated) keywords from the current set of keywords.  If ‘all’ is specified, remove all of the other keywords.

       -s seed
             Display a single checksum to the standard error output that represents all of the files for which the keyword cksum was specified.  The checksum is seeded with the specified value.

       -u    Modify the owner, group, permissions, and flags of existing files, the device type of devices, and symbolic link targets, to match the specification.  Create any missing directories, devices
             or symbolic links.  User, group, and permissions must all be specified for missing directories to be created.  Note that unless the -i option is given, the schg and sappnd flags will not  be
             set,  even if specified. If -m is given, these flags will be reset.  Exit with a status of 0 on success, 2 if the file hierarchy did not match the specification, and 1 if any other error oc‐
             curred.

       -U    Same as -u except that a mismatch is not considered to be an error if it was corrected.

       -W    Don't attempt to set various file attributes such as the ownership, mode, flags, or time when creating new directories or changing existing entries.  This option will  be  most  useful  when
             used in conjunction with -u or -U.

       -x    Don't descend below mount points in the file hierarchy.

       -X exclude-file
             The  specified file contains fnmatch(3) patterns matching files to be excluded from the specification, one to a line.  If the pattern contains a ‘/’ character, it will be matched against en‐
             tire pathnames (relative to the starting directory); otherwise, it will be matched against basenames only.  Comments are permitted in the exclude-list file.

       Specifications are mostly composed of “keywords”, i.e. strings that that specify values relating to files.  No keywords have default values, and if a keyword has no value set, no checks  based  on
       it are performed.

       Currently supported keywords are as follows:

       cksum   The checksum of the file using the default algorithm specified by the cksum(1) utility.

       device  The device number to use for block or char file types.  The argument must be one of the following forms:

               format,major,minor
                     A device with major and minor fields, for an operating system specified with format.  See below for valid formats.

               format,major,unit,subunit
                     A device with major, unit, and subunit fields, for an operating system specified with format.  (Currently this is only supported by the bsdos format.)

               number
                     Opaque number (as stored on the file system).

               The following values for format are recognized: native, 386bsd, 4bsd, bsdos, freebsd, hpux, isc, linux, netbsd, osf1, sco, solaris, sunos, svr3, svr4, and ultrix.

               See mknod(8) for more details.

       flags   The  file flags as a symbolic name.  See chflags(1) for information on these names.  If no flags are to be set the string ‘none’ may be used to override the current default.  Note that the
               schg and sappnd flags are treated specially (see the -i and -m options).

       ignore  Ignore any file hierarchy below this file.

       gid     The file group as a numeric value.

       gname   The file group as a symbolic name.

       link    The file the symbolic link is expected to reference.

       md5     The MD5 cryptographic message digest of the file.

       md5digest
               Synonym for md5.

       mode    The current file's permissions as a numeric (octal) or symbolic value.

       nlink   The number of hard links the file is expected to have.

       optional
               The file is optional; don't complain about the file if it's not in the file hierarchy.

       rmd160  The RMD-160 cryptographic message digest of the file.

       rmd160digest
               Synonym for rmd160.

       sha1    The SHA-1 cryptographic message digest of the file.

       sha1digest
               Synonym for sha1.

       sha256  The 256-bits SHA-2 cryptographic message digest of the file.

       sha256digest
               Synonym for sha256.

       sha384  The 384-bits SHA-2 cryptographic message digest of the file.

       sha384digest
               Synonym for sha384.

       sha512  The 512-bits SHA-2 cryptographic message digest of the file.

       sha512digest
               Synonym for sha512.

       size    The size, in bytes, of the file.

       tags    Comma delimited tags to be matched with -E and -I.  These may be specified without leading or trailing commas, but will be stored internally with them.

       time    The last modification time of the file.

       type    The type of the file; may be set to any one of the following:

               block   block special device
               char    character special device
               dir     directory
               fifo    fifo
               file    regular file
               link    symbolic link
               socket  socket

       uid     The file owner as a numeric value.

       uname   The file owner as a symbolic name.

       The default set of keywords are flags, gid, link, mode, nlink, size, time, type, and uid.

       There are four types of lines in a specification:

       1.   Set global values for a keyword.  This consists of the string ‘/set’ followed by whitespace, followed by sets of keyword/value pairs, separated by whitespace.  Keyword/value pairs consist  of
            a keyword, followed by an equals sign (‘=’), followed by a value, without whitespace characters.  Once a keyword has been set, its value remains unchanged until either reset or unset.

       2.   Unset  global values for a keyword.  This consists of the string ‘/unset’, followed by whitespace, followed by one or more keywords, separated by whitespace.  If ‘all’ is specified, unset all
            of the keywords.

       3.   A file specification, consisting of a path name, followed by whitespace, followed by zero or more whitespace separated keyword/value pairs.

            The path name may be preceded by whitespace characters.  The path name may contain any of the standard path name matching characters (‘[’, ‘]’, ‘?’ or ‘*’), in which case files in the hierar‐
            chy will be associated with the first pattern that they match.  mtree uses strsvis(3) (in VIS_CSTYLE format) to encode path names containing non-printable  characters.  Whitespace  characters
            are encoded as ‘\s’ (space), ‘\t’ (tab), and ‘\n’ (new line).  ‘#’ characters in path names are escaped by a preceding backslash ‘\’ to distinguish them from comments.

            Each  of the keyword/value pairs consist of a keyword, followed by an equals sign (‘=’), followed by the keyword's value, without whitespace characters.  These values override, without chang‐
            ing, the global value of the corresponding keyword.

            The first path name entry listed must be a directory named ‘.’, as this ensures that intermixing full and relative path names will work consistently and correctly.  Multiple entries for a di‐
            rectory named ‘.’ are permitted; the settings for the last such entry override those of the existing entry.

            A path name that contains a slash (‘/’) that is not the first character will be treated as a full path (relative to the root of the tree).  All parent directories referenced in the path  name
            must  exist.  The current directory path used by relative path names will be updated appropriately.  Multiple entries for the same full path are permitted if the types are the same (unless -M
            is given, and then the types may differ); in this case the settings for the last entry take precedence.

            A path name that does not contain a slash will be treated as a relative path.  Specifying a directory will cause subsequent files to be searched for in that directory hierarchy.

       4.   A line containing only the string ‘..’ which causes the current directory path (used by relative paths) to ascend one level.

       Empty lines and lines whose first non-whitespace character is a hash mark (‘#’) are ignored.

       The mtree utility exits with a status of 0 on success, 1 if any error occurred, and 2 if the file hierarchy did not match the specification.

FILES
       /etc/mtree  system specification directory

EXAMPLES
       To detect system binaries that have been “trojan horsed”, it is recommended that mtree be run on the file systems, and a copy of the results stored on a different machine, or,  at  least,  in  en‐
       crypted  form.   The  seed  for  the  -s option should not be an obvious value and the final checksum should not be stored on-line under any circumstances!  Then, periodically, mtree should be run
       against the on-line specifications and the final checksum compared with the previous value.  While it is possible for the bad guys to change the on-line specifications to conform to their modified
       binaries, it shouldn't be possible for them to make it produce the same final checksum value.  If the final checksum value changes, the off-line copies of the specification can be used  to  detect
       which of the binaries have actually been modified.

       The -d and -u options can be used in combination to create directory hierarchies for distributions and other such things.

SEE ALSO
       chflags(1), chgrp(1), chmod(1), cksum(1), stat(2), fnmatch(3), fts(3), strsvis(3), chown(8), mknod(8)

HISTORY
       The  mtree  utility  appeared  in  4.3BSD-Reno.   The  optional  keyword  appeared  in NetBSD 1.2.  The -U flag appeared in NetBSD 1.3.  The flags and md5 keywords, and -i and -m flags appeared in
       NetBSD 1.4.  The device, rmd160, sha1, tags, and all keywords, -D, -E, -I, -l, -L, -N, -P, -R, -W, and -X flags, and support for full paths appeared in NetBSD 1.6.  The sha256, sha384, and  sha512
       keywords appeared in NetBSD 3.0.

Debian                                                                                       September 12, 2006                                                                                    MTREE(8)
