MULTISPEECH(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            MULTISPEECH(1)

NAME
       multispeech - Multilingual speech server

SYNOPSIS
       multispeech [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Multispeech  was  primarily  designed  as a multilingual speech server for emacspeak, but it can be useful in some other circumstances as well, when multilingual speech feedback is needed.  Multi‐
       speech produces audible speech, sounds and tone signals according to the commands passed by it's client. It utilizes third party speech synthesis software to perform actual TTS transformation.

       All aspects of multispeech behaviour are highly customizable via configuration files /etc/multispeech.conf and ~/.multispeechrc. See the multispeech.conf(5) man page for  syntax  information.  The
       user  settings  provided by ~/.multispeechrc always take precedence over the system-wide ones from /etc/multispeech.conf. And all these settings in turn can be overridden by an extra configuration
       file specified via the command line. Some configuration options are mandatory, so at least one of these files must exist.

       In case of errors or other important situations multispeech sends messages to syslog using facility user.

OPTIONS
       Multispeech accepts the following options:

       -c, --config file
              Read configuration from specified file.

       -v, --verbose
              Print diagnostic messages on stderr. All diagnostic is logged via syslog and nothing is output on stderr or stdout by default.

       -d, --debug
              Allow some extra diagnostic info to be logged.

       -l, --list-devices
              Print list of all available audio output devices and exit.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options and exit.

       -V, --version
              Show program version and exit.

FILES
       /etc/multispeech.conf
              provides system-wide configuration.

       ~/.multispeechrc
              provides user configuration.

SEE ALSO
       espeak(1), freephone(1), mbrola(1), multispeech.conf(5), ru_tts(1), syslog.conf(5).

AUTHOR
       Igor B. Poretsky <poretsky@mlbox.ru>.

                                                                                              January 6, 2009                                                                                MULTISPEECH(1)
