mumble-server-user-wrapper(1)                                                             General Commands Manual                                                             mumble-server-user-wrapper(1)

NAME
       mumble-server-user-wrapper - User wrapper for mumble-server.

SYNOPSIS
       mumble-server-user-wrapper [options]

DESCRIPTION
       mumble-server  is  the  server  component of Mumble, a low-latency, high quality VoIP application. mumble-server-wrapper is a wrapper script to make it easier for normal users to set up their own,
       private Mumble server.

OPTIONS
       -d "directory"
              Set directory to use. By default, the wrapper script uses $HOME/murmur

       -s     Check if mumble-server process is running.

       -k     Terminate running mumble-server process.

       -i     Initialize only, do not start the server.

       -p "password"
              Specify password for the SuperUser account and exit. SuperUser is the mumble equivalent of root, a special user which bypasses all access restrictions.

NOTES
       To create your own private server, you first want to run

              mumble-server-user-wrapper -i

       Then edit ~/murmur/murmur.ini to set the various configuration settings. The most important is probably the port; unless you're the only mumble-server process running on this server,  you'll  need
       to change it.

       When you're happy with your settings, you need to set the password for SuperUser, which is your administrator account.

              mumble-server-user-wrapper -p <password>

       Once this is done, simply run

              mumble-server-user-wrapper

       to start the server.

SEE ALSO
       mumble-server(1).

AUTHORS
       mumble and mumble-server were written by The Mumble Developers.

                                                                                              2015 December 27                                                                mumble-server-user-wrapper(1)
