mup(1)                      General Commands Manual                     mup(1)

NAME
       mup - music publisher

SYNOPSIS
       mup  [-cN] [-C] [-dN] [-D MACRO[=macro_def]] [-e errfile] [-E] [-f out‐
       file] [-F] [-l] [-m midifile] [-M] [-o pagelist] [-pN]  [-q]  [-v]  [-x
       N[,M] [file...]

DESCRIPTION
       Mup  is  a  program  for producing printed music.  There is an optional
       companion program called Mupmate that provides a  more  graphical  user
       interface  on  top  of  Mup, but this manual page describes the command
       line interface.  The Mup User's Guide should be consulted  for  details
       of the format of the input file.  Options include:

       -c N   Combine  consecutive  measures  of all rests or spaces into mul‐
              tirests (multiple measures of rest printed as a single  measure,
              with  the  number  of measures of rest printed above the staff).
              Any time there are N or more measures  in  a  row  that  consist
              entirely  of  rests  or  spaces, they will be replaced by a mul‐
              tirest. The combining of measures stops when there is a  visible
              staff  that  contains  notes,  lyrics, or other musical symbols,
              when there are parameter changes on a visible staff or in  score
              context,  or  when there is a bar line other than an ordinary or
              invisible bar.  This option is most likely  to  be  useful  when
              printing  a  subset of staffs, where the particular staff(s) you
              are printing have long periods of rests.  (See the -s option.)

       -C     This option is only used in connection with the -E  option.   It
              specifies  that  comments  are  to be passed through rather than
              deleted.

       -d N   Print debugging information. N is a bitmap.

           1      parse phase information

           2      high level parse phase tracing

           4      low level parse phase tracing

           8      reserved

           16     high level placement phase tracing

           32     low level placement phase tracing

           64     reserved

           128    contents of the main internal list

           256    high level print phase tracing

           512    low level print phase tracing

              N can be specified in decimal, octal (by using a leading  zero),
              or  hex  (by  using a leading 0x).  This information is intended
              for debugging of Mup itself and thus is not likely to be of  use
              to the average user.

       -D MACRO[=macro_def]
              Define  the  macro  MACRO.  The macro name must consist of upper
              case letters, digits, and underscores, beginning with  an  upper
              case  letter.  The  macro_def is optional, and gives the text of
              the macro. If it contains any white space or other special char‐
              acters, it must be quoted (if quoting is supported by your oper‐
              ating system or shell).

       -e errfile
              Place error messages into errfile instead of writing them to the
              standard error output stream.

       -E     Rather  than  produce  PostScript  or  MIDI  output, just expand
              macros and includes, and write the result to the standard output
              stream.  Comments in the input are deleted, unless the -C option
              is also specified.

       -f outfile
              Place the output into outfile instead of writing it to the stan‐
              dard output.

       -F     This  is  like the -f option, except the name of the output file
              is derived from the name of the Mup input file. If the  name  of
              the  Mup  input  file  ends  with a ".mup" suffix, the generated
              PostScript output file will end with a ".ps" suffix instead.  If
              the  name  of  the Mup input file ends with a ".MUP" suffix, the
              PostScript file will end with  a  ".PS"  suffix.   Otherwise,  a
              ".ps"  suffix  will be appended to the end of the Mup input file
              name. If multiple input files are listed, the last is used.   If
              none are specified (input is read from standard input), the name
              "stdin.ps" will be used for the output file.

       -l     Print the Mup license and exit.

       -m midifile
              Instead of generating PostScript output, generate standard  MIDI
              (Musical  Instrument  Digital  Interface)  output, and put it in
              midifile.  This option also causes the macro  "MIDI"  to  become
              defined.

       -M     This  is like the -m option, except the name of the MIDI file is
              derived from the name of the Mup input file. If the name of  the
              Mup  input  file  ends  with a ".mup" suffix, the generated MIDI
              file will end with a ".mid" suffix instead. If the name  of  the
              Mup input file ends with a ".MUP" suffix, the MIDI file will end
              with a ".MID"  suffix.   Otherwise,  a  ".mid"  suffix  will  be
              appended  to  the  end  of  the Mup input file name. If multiple
              input files are listed, the last is used.  If none are specified
              (input  is  read from standard input), the name "stdin.mid" will
              be used for the MIDI file.

       -o pagelist
              Print only the pages given in pagelist. The pagelist  can  be  a
              comma‐separated  list of numbers or ranges, where a range is two
              numbers separated by a dash. For  example,  -o1,7-9,12-14  would
              print pages 1, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, and 14. Pages will be printed in
              the order given.  They need not be in order, and a  page  number
              may  be  included more than once.  Alternately, the pagelist can
              be the special keyword "odd" or "even" which will cause all  odd
              or  even numbered pages to be printed. This may be useful if you
              have a printer that only makes single‐sided copies, but you wish
              to  print  Mup output double‐sided. You could print odd‐numbered
              pages, then turn the paper over and feed the pages through again
              for the even‐numbered pages.

       -pN    Start  numbering  pages  at N instead of at 1.  If -o and -p are
              used together, the page numbers given in the -opagelist must  be
              the  printed page numbers. For example, if you use -p10 and want
              to print just the second page, you would need to specify -o11.

       -q     Quiet mode. Omit  printing  the  version  number  and  Copyright
              notice on startup.

       -sstafflist
              Only  print  the staffs that are included in stafflist. This can
              be a comma‐separated list of staff numbers or  ranges,  such  as
              "1,5"  or  "1-3,7-8"  To further restrict to a single voice on a
              staff, add vN where N is the voice number (1, 2,  or  3),  after
              the staff, as in "2v1,5v2" You can't specify a list or range for
              voices; if you only want to make two out of three  voices  visi‐
              ble,  you  have  to specify them separately, like "1v2,1v3".  No
              spaces are allowed in the list.

       -v     Print the Mup version number and exit. This manual page  is  for
              version 6.7.

       -xM,N  Extract  measures  M  through  N of the song. This allows you to
              print or play a part of a song. The comma and second  value  are
              optional;  if  not specified, the default is to go to the end of
              the piece.  Positive values specify the number of measures  from
              the  beginning  of the piece, while negative values are relative
              to the end, with -1 referring to the last measure of  the  song.
              So  -x1,-1  means  the  entire  song, if the song doesn't have a
              pickup measure.  If the song has a pickup measure, that is spec‐
              ified  by 0.  So for a song with a pickup, -x0,-1 would mean the
              entire song, and -x0,0 would mean just the pickup  measure.   As
              other  examples,  -x-1,-1  means  just  the final measure of the
              song, -x2 means starting after the  first  full  measure,  -x3,4
              means  only  measures  3  and 4, and -x6,6 means just measure 6.
              The starting measure is not allowed to be inside an  ending.   A
              common  use for this option might be to generate a MIDI file for
              just a few measures. For example, if you were  trying  to  tweak
              tempo  values for a ritard in the last 2 measures of a song, you
              could use -x-2 to listen to just those measures.

       The options, if any, can be followed by one or more files in  Mup  for‐
       mat.   If  no  files are specified, standard input is read.  If several
       files are  listed,  they  are  effectively  concatenated  together  and
       treated  as  one  big file. Since there are some things (such as header
       and footer) that are only allowed to occur once, if  you  have  several
       independent  pieces,  mup  should be called on each individually rather
       than trying to print them all with one command.  If  a  specified  file
       does  not  exist,  and its name does not already end with .mup or .MUP,
       then Mup will append .mup to the specified name  and  attempt  to  open
       that.

       On  most systems, the environment variable MUPPATH can be set to a list
       of paths in which to look for 'include' files.  The components are sep‐
       arated  by a colon on Unix or Linux systems, and by a semicolon on sys‐
       tems with DOS‐like file naming conventions.

       For more debugging, in addition to the -d option,  if  the  environment
       variable  MUP_BB  is  set to "bcfghnsu" or any subset of those letters,
       the generated output will include "bounding boxes" for the  things  Mup
       internally  calls  bars  (b),  chords  (c),  feeds  (f),  grpsyls  (g),
       header/footer and top/bottom (h), notes (n), staffs (s), and stuff (u).
       While  this  is  intended  for use in debugging Mup itself, it may also
       help you understand why Mup places things the way  it  does,  since  in
       general,  Mup  only  allows bounding boxes to overlap according to spe‐
       cific rules. If viewed with a color PostScript  viewer  (not  mupdisp),
       these boxes will be in color.

SEE ALSO
       gs(1), mkmupfnt(1), mupdisp(1), mupmate(1), mupprnt(1).
       Mup — Music Publisher User's Guide

Arkkra Enterprises             January 21, 2019                         mup(1)
