MUPDF(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  MUPDF(1)

NAME
       mupdf - MuPDF is a lightweight PDF viewer written in portable C

SYNOPSIS
       mupdf [options] file[page_number]

DESCRIPTION
       MuPDF is a document viewer that can show PDF, XPS, EPUB, XHTML, CBZ, and various image formats such as PNG, JPEG, GIF, and TIFF.

OPTIONS
       A description of each of the supported options is included below.

       -p password
              Uses the given password to open an encrypted PDF file.  The password is tried both as user and owner password.

       -r resolution
              Changes the initial zoom level, specified as the resolution in dpi.  The default value is 72.

       -A bits
              Changes the anti-aliasing quality, specified as a number of bits between 0 (off) and 8 (best).  The default value is 8.

       -C RRGGBB
              Sets the full-page tint using hexadecimal color syntax.  The default value is FFFAF0.

       -W width
              Page width in points for EPUB layout.

       -H height
              Page height in points for EPUB layout.

       -S size
              Font size in points for EPUB layout.

       -U CSS-file
              User style sheet for EPUB layout.

MOUSE BEHAVIOR
       Left mouse button click
              A left click on a hyper link follows the link.  In presentation mode advances to the next page.

       Right mouse button click
              In presentation mode goes back to the previous page.

       Left mouse button drag
              Pan the page.  Panning beyond the bottom or top edge will go to the next or previous page.

       Right mouse button drag
              Select  text  in  an  area.   On  X11, the selected text can be pasted in another application with a middle click.  Press Ctrl+C to copy the selected text to the clipboard.  On Windows, the
              selected text will automatically be copied to the clipboard.

       Scroll wheel
              Pan page up or down.  Does not change page when reaching the bottom or top edge.

       Shift + Scroll wheel
              Pan page left or right.

       Control + Scroll wheel
              Zoom in or out.

KEY BINDINGS
       Page navigation:

       . pgdn space
              Go to the next page.

       , pgup b
              Go to the previous page.

       123g   Go to page 123.

       g, G   Go to the first or last page.

       m      Mark current page for snap back.  Up to 256 pages can be marked.

       t      Pop back to the latest mark.

       [0–9]m Save the current page number in the numbered register.

       [0–9]t Go to the page saved in the numbered register.

       Zooming and rotating:

       +, -   Zoom in or out.

       W, H   Zoom page to exactly fit width/height of window.

       Z      Zoom page to fit either to width or height of window.

       z      Reset zoom level.

       [, ]   Rotate page left (counter-clockwise) or right (clockwise).

       w      Shrinkwrap window to fit the page.

       f      Toggles fullscreen mode.

       Panning:

       h, left, j, k, l, right
              Pan page left, down, up, or right.

       Searching:

       /, ?   Search for text forwards or backwards.

       n, N   Find the next/previous search result.

       Miscellaneous:

       <, >   Increase/decrease EPUB/XHTML font size.

       r      Reload file.

       p      Toggle presentation mode.

       P      Displays the current page number temporarily.

       c      Toggle between color and grayscale rendering.

       C      Toggle full-page color tinting.

       I      Toggle between normal and inverted color rendering.

       E      Toggle ICC color mode.

       e      Toggle spot color mode.

       A      Set bit of anti-aliasing to use. The default is 8.  0 means no anti-aliasing, 9 means no anti-aliasing, centre-of-pixel rule, 10 means no anti-aliasing, any-part-of-a-pixel rule.

       P      Show page number and total number of pages.

       S      Save updated document file.

       q      Quit.

SIGNALS
       SIGHUP Sending a SIGHUP signal to the mupdf process will also cause the viewed file to be reloaded automatically, for use in e.g. build scripts.

ENVIRONMENT
       BROWSER
              When mupdf opens a link it first uses BROWSER to browse the link and falls back to "xdg-open" if BROWSER is not defined.

SEE ALSO
       mutool(1).

AUTHOR
       MuPDF is Copyright 2006–2021 Artifex Software, Inc.

                                                                                                Jan 12, 2021                                                                                       MUPDF(1)
