mupmate(1)                  General Commands Manual                 mupmate(1)

NAME
       mupmate - user interface for Mup music publisher

SYNOPSIS
       mupmate [file]

DESCRIPTION
       You  can create a Mup file using any ordinary text editor.  On Windows,
       Notepad is a typical choice; on Linux, editors like vim and  emacs  are
       commonly  used. But if you prefer to be able to edit, display, and play
       from a single integrated and more graphical interface, a helper program
       called  "mupmate"  is  provided. Mupmate is currently supported on Win‐
       dows, Apple Mac OS-X, and Linux.  However, since  the  source  code  is
       available,  and  it is based on the cross‐platform FLTK toolkit, it can
       probably be made to run on any system supported by FLTK fairly  easily.
       If  you prefer to use the Mup program directly rather than via mupmate,
       you can.  The Mupmate program just helps lead you through some  of  the
       steps.

       Once  you  have installed Mup and Mupmate on Windows, double clicking a
       .mup file in Windows explorer will run Mupmate on that file.   Or,  you
       can run Mupmate by going to the Start menu, and choosing Programs, then
       Arkkra, and then Mupmate.  If you would like an icon  on  the  desktop,
       you  can  create one by right clicking the Mupmate choice in the Arkkra
       menu, choosing "copy", right clicking somewhere  on  the  desktop,  and
       choosing "paste."

       On Linux, you can just type the mupmate command, optionally followed by
       the name of a Mup input file.  Or you can add mupmate to your  favorite
       window manager's menus.

       On  Mac  OS-X,  you can double‐click on the MupMate.app in Finder.  You
       should also be able to double‐click any file with a .mup suffix,  which
       should then run Mupmate on that file.  For setting paths in the Prefer‐
       ences, several "magic" variables are set automatically, if you have not
       already  set  them  to  something else.  $APPL is set to the top of the
       application  directory  hierarchy.   $RSRC  is   effectively   set   to
       $APPL/MupMate.app/Contents/Resources.  $HOME is set to your home direc‐
       tory.  $SUPP is set to your applications support folder (which is typi‐
       cally  $HOME/Library/Application  Support).  $DOCS is set to your docu‐
       ment folder (which is typically $HOME/Documents).

       Mupmate provides five top level menus: File,  Edit,  Run,  Config,  and
       Help.  The File menu provides commands for opening new files and saving
       the file you are working on, as well as exit the program. The Edit menu
       provides  the kinds of things you would expect in a editor: commands to
       find a pattern, or find and replace; to select text; to copy, cut,  and
       paste; to go to a specific line; and to undo the previous operation, if
       you make a mistake or change you mind.  The Run menu lets you set  run‐
       time  options,  and  then  run the Mup program on your input in various
       ways. You can either just generate a PostScript or MIDI file,  or  dis‐
       play the PostScript or play the MIDI.  The Config menu lets you specify
       what application program you want to use to view PostScript  files  and
       which you want to use to play MIDI files, and well as specify locations
       for other Mup files. Mupmate will try to find reasonable  default  val‐
       ues,  but  you may want to check that they are what you want, and tweak
       them if they aren't.  For paths, you can include environment  variables
       to  be  expanded,  by  giving  their name preceded by a dollar sign.  A
       tilde by itself will be expanded to  your  home  directory,  whereas  a
       tilde  followed  by  the name of a user will be expanded to that user's
       home directory.  The Help menu lets you browse the  Mup  User's  Guide,
       view  some startup hints, view the Mup license, or see the current ver‐
       sion number of Mup and Mupmate.

SEE ALSO
       gs(1), mup(1).
       Mup — Music Publisher User's Guide

CAVEATS
       Mupmate is currently only supported on  Microsoft  Windows,  Apple  Mac
       OS-X, and Linux or similar.

       Mupmate  does  not  directly provide a print facility. Almost any Post‐
       Script viewer already provides this ability, so you can  simply  select
       "Display"  from  the  Run menu and use the viewer's print capabilities.
       Alternately you can use the "Write PostScript File" from the  Run  menu
       and then print the resulting file.

Arkkra Enterprises             November 22, 2012                    mupmate(1)
