murmurd(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  murmurd(1)

NAME
       murmurd - VoIP server.

SYNOPSIS
       murmurd [-ini inifile] [-fg] [-v]
       murmurd -supw password [serverid]
       murmurd -readsupw [serverid]
       murmurd -disablesu [serverid]
       murmurd -limits
       murmurd -wipessl
       murmurd -wipelogs
       murmurd -version|--version
       murmurd -h|-help|--help

DESCRIPTION
       Murmur is the server component of Mumble, a low-latency, high quality VoIP application.

OPTIONS
       -h, -help, --help
              Show a summary of the options.

       -ini inifile
              Specify which ini file to use. Without this option, murmur will search for a murmur.ini file and will fall back to builtin defaults if one isn't found.

       -fg    Run in the foreground (do not fork).

       -v     Verbose mode, slightly more information is logged.

       -supw password [serverid]
              This sets the SuperUser password for a server. SuperUser is a special account (similar to root) which bypasses all access controls. This command may be used while the server is running. Option‐
              ally takes a serverid representing the virtual server to set the password for.

       -readsupw [serverid]
              Reads SuperUser password from stdin. Optionally takes a serverid representing the virtual server to set the password for.

       -disablesu [serverid]
              Disables the SuperUser account. Optionally takes a serverid representing the virtual server to disable the SuperUser account on.

              Disabling the SuperUser account makes it impossible to log in as SuperUser until a new password is set. You can set a new SuperUser password with the -supw parameter.

       -limits
              Tests and shows how many file descriptors and threads can be created. The purpose of this option is to test how many clients Murmur can handle. Murmur will exit after this test.

       -wipessl
              Remove SSL certificates from database.

       -wipelogs
              Remove all log entries from database.

       -version, --version
              Show version information.

SIGNALS
       SIGHUP Perform a log rotation.  This causes murmurd to re-open its log file.

       SIGUSR1
              Gracefully reload the TLS settings specified in murmur.ini without interrupting service.

              When this signal is received, Murmur will apply the new TLS settings (certificate, private key, and Diffie-Hellman parameters) to all virtual servers that use the TLS settings from murmur.ini.

              Virtual servers that have overridden the settings from murmur.ini will not be affected by this signal. Those servers can be updated using the updateCertificate RPC call.

SEE ALSO
       mumble(1), murmur-user-wrapper(1).

AUTHORS
       mumble and murmurd were written by The Mumble Developers.

                                                                                                   2016 May 9                                                                                        murmurd(1)
