mussort(1)                                                                                                                                                                                       mussort(1)

NAME
       mussort - A simple music file sorting program

SYNOPSIS
       mussort [OPTIONS] dir1 dir2 ..

DESCRIPTION
       This is a simple tool that sorts a music collection.

       It recursively searches a directory for MP3, OGG Vorbis and FLAC files, processing them one by one. It then reads the information from the file and puts them into a newly sorted directory tree, in
       the form base_directory/ARTIST/ALBUM/FILENAME.  The files are renamed to CDn-TRACKNUMBER-ARTIST-TRACKNAME.EXT. TRACKNUMBER is omitted if it isn't found, and CDn is only included if it detects
       multiple discs.

       If you use --compilation then the sorting will differ for those albums that are detected to be compilation albums, those will be sorted as base_directory/ALBUM/FILENAME instead. mussort will
       remove directories that end up empty after sorting.

       By default mussort will cache file information in ~/.mussort-cache, which speeds up subsequent invocations significantly

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Display a short help screen and exit

       --version
           Display version information and exit

       -k, --keepdupes
           When  mussort  reaches  two files with identical names, it will keep both, naming the one it finds last with a number at the end (ie.  TRACKNUMBER-ARTIST-TRACKNAME-DUPENUMBER.EXT). This is the
           default.  Use --largest and --noremove to alter this behaviour.

       -l, --largest
           When mussort reaches two files with identical names, it will remove (delete) the smallest file and leave the largest in place.

       -n, --noremove
           When mussort reaches two files with identical names it will ignore one of the files (the last one it sees) and not sort it.

       -i, --insensitive
           Makes mussort do case-insensitive searches for directory names. This is useful when the case in the name of an artist differs  and  makes  mussort  place  all  the  music  correctly  into  one
           directory. This might be a bit slower than normal operation, but not much. When using this option there is a chance that directory names will differ slightly between different collections (see
           also --consistent).

           You can combine this option with --compilation if you want to.  You can not combine --insensitive with --consistent.

       -s, --consistent
           Makes mussort generate consistent directory names. This is useful to ensure that two collections on different machines have the exact same directory layout, so that they can be rsynced easily.
           It  avoids  directory  names  that  are  identical  except  for  the  casing,  and  is also consistent between runs, and across different machines. Unlike -i, the performance penalty is almost
           nonexistent.

           You can combine this option with --compilation if you want to. Note that --compilation changes the directory layout, so a collection sorted without --compilation  but  with  --consistent  will
           differ from a collection sorted with both --compilation and --consistent.  You can not combine --consistent with --insensitive.

       -a, --allowspecial
           This forces mussort to not strip special characters from file and directory names.

       -c, --compilation
           Enables  compilation detection. In this mode mussort will go through all files without moving them first, sorting them in an internal data structure, then it will attempt to detect compilation
           albums and re-sort members of the compilation albums before  finally  moving  files  on-disk.  Compilation  albums  are  placed  into  a  directory  tree  matching  ALBUM/FILENAME  instead  of
           ARTIST/ALBUM/FILENAME.

           Note that this mode is a bit slower than normal mode, and it will take a bit longer before any actual changes are done. This is because it needs to search through all files before it can start
           to rename them.

       --silentskip
           Makes mussort not output messages about files that it skips (those that are skipped are generally badly tagged, or not tagged at all).

       -v, --verbose
           Increases the verbosity of mussort. Supply twice to further increase verbosity.

           If  supplied  once,  extra information about what mussort is doing, such as which directory is being processed, will be output (this can be useful in --compilation mode, as --compilation won't
           output anything until after all files have been read).

           If supplied twice, it will also output information about which file is currently being read.

       --quiet
           Suppresses all status messages (and the terminal title). Errors will still get printed.

       --dry-run
           Just output what would be done, without actually doing it.

       --no-cache
           Disables caching of file information. By default mussort will cache file information (such as tags) between runs as that significantly improves speed in susequent invocations.  If  you  supply
           this, mussort will neither write nor read any cache.

           Usually  there  is  very  little  gain in using this, collections as large as 13 000+ music files only have a cache file of ~3.2MB. If you want to get back a little of the space the cache file
           takes, see --cleancache.

       --refresh-cache
           This will enable caching in a 'write-only' mode. That is it will write new information to the cache, but it will not use existing information. This can be used as an  alternative  to  deleting
           the entire cache when you have different directories that you sort, and only want to re-sort (refresh) one of them.

       --cleancache
           This  cleans up the cache. It will go through all entries in the cache and remove dangling references, expired data and incomplete data. Incomplete data is added when mussort finds a file that
           has invlalid/empty tags. Those files are still added to the cache so that mussort does not have to re-evaluate them each time, but their entries contain no valid data.

           This can be useful in a few cases:

           - If you have deleted or mvoed a large amount of music files that mussort has previously sorted
           - If you want to save a tiny bit of HD space
           - If you want mussort to re-read information from files that previously contained invalid data

           mussort will automatically re-evaluate any expired cache data during runtime, so you are never required to run --cleancache.

       --cleantree
           When this parameter is in effect, mussort will attempt to clean up the directory tree by removing all empty directories that it hits (in addition to performing its usual  sorting).  Note  that
           this has a rather significant performance impact because mussort needs to do a lot of extra readdir() operations, and should only be done if you notice a lot of empty directories in your music
           tree and want them cleaned up.

           Normally mussort will automatically clean directories that are empty as a result of sorting, but this option will make it check all directories it finds.

DEPENDENCIES
       mussort  can  use several libraries and utilities to retrieve tag information.  It requires only one for each format, however if multiple methods are available mussort will try each in turn if one
       of them fails.

       It needs:

       For MP3: id3v2 (best), id3info from id3lib, or Audio::File
       For Vorbis: Ogg::Vorbis::Header::PurePerl (best), ogginfo from vorbis-tools, or Audio::File
       For FLAC: Audio::File (best) or metaflac

FILES
       ~/.mussort-cache
           The mussort file information cache. Not created if --no-cache is supplied.  You can safely remove this file any time if you want to (see also --cleancache).

BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       If you find a bug, please report it at <http://random.zerodogg.org/mussort/bugs>.

INCOMPATIBILITIES
       None known.

AUTHOR
       mussort is written by Eskild Hustvedt <eskild -at- zerodogg d.ot org>

LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) Eskild Hustvedt 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

mussort 0.4                                                                                      2025-02-11                                                                                      mussort(1)
