myproxy-admin-change-pass(8)        MyProxy       myproxy-admin-change-pass(8)

NAME
       myproxy-admin-change-pass - change credential passphrase

SYNOPSIS
       myproxy-admin-change-pass [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  myproxy-admin-change-pass  command  changes the passphrase used to
       encrypt a credential in the  MyProxy  repository.   The  command  first
       prompts  for  the  current  passphrase for the credential, then prompts
       twice for the new passphrase.  If an empty  passphrase  is  given,  the
       credential  will not be encrypted.  It accesses the repository directly
       and must be run on the machine where the myproxy-server(8) is installed
       from the account that owns the repository.

OPTIONS
       -h     Displays command usage text and exits.

       -u     Displays command usage text and exits.

       -s dir Specifies the location of the credential storage directory.  The
              directory must be  accessible  only  by  the  user  running  the
              myproxy-server   process   for   security   reasons.    Default:
              /var/lib/myproxy or /var/myproxy or $GLOBUS_LOCATION/var/myproxy

       -l username
              Specifies the MyProxy account under which the credential  should
              be stored.

       -k name
              Specifies the credential name.

       -S, --stdin_pass
              By  default,  the command prompts for a passphrase and reads the
              passphrase from the active tty.  When running the  command  non-
              interactively,  there may be no associated tty.  Specifying this
              option tells the command to read passphrases from standard input
              without prompts or confirmation.

EXIT STATUS
       0 on success, >0 on error

AUTHORS
       See http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/about for the list of MyProxy
       authors.

SEE ALSO
       myproxy-change-pass-phrase(1),   myproxy-destroy(1),   myproxy-info(1),
       myproxy-init(1),    myproxy-logon(1),   myproxy-retrieve(1),   myproxy-
       store(1), myproxy-server.config(5), myproxy-admin-adduser(8),  myproxy-
       admin-load-credential(8), myproxy-admin-query(8), myproxy-server(8)

MyProxy                            2009-12-1      myproxy-admin-change-pass(8)
