myproxy-admin-load-credential(8)                                                                  MyProxy                                                                  myproxy-admin-load-credential(8)

NAME
       myproxy-admin-load-credential - directly load repository

SYNOPSIS
       myproxy-admin-load-credential [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  myproxy-admin-load-credential command stores a credential directly in the local MyProxy repository.  It must be run from the account that owns the repository.  Many of the options are similar
       to myproxy-init(1).  However, unlike myproxy-init, myproxy-admin-load-credential does not create a proxy from the source credential but instead directly loads a copy of the source credential  into
       the  repository.   The  pass phrase of the source credential is unchanged.  Use myproxy-admin-change-pass(8) to change the pass phrase after the credential is stored if desired.  Proxy credentials
       with default lifetime of 12 hours can then be retrieved by myproxy-logon(1) using the MyProxy passphrase.  The command's behavior is controlled by the following options.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Displays command usage text and exits.

       -u, --usage
              Displays command usage text and exits.

       -v, --verbose
              Enables verbose debugging output to the terminal.

       -V, --version
              Displays version information and exits.

       -s dir, --storage dir
              Specifies the location of the credential storage directory.  The directory must be accessible  only  by  the  user  running  the  myproxy-server  process  for  security  reasons.   Default:
              /var/lib/myproxy or /var/myproxy or $GLOBUS_LOCATION/var/myproxy

       -c filename, --certfile filename
              Specifies the filename of the source certificate.  This is a required parameter.

       -y filename, --keyfile filename
              Specifies  the filename of the source private key.  This is a required parameter.  If the private key is encrypted, MyProxy clients will be required to give the encryption passphrase to ac‐
              cess the key.  When used with -R or -Z, it is common for the private key to not be encrypted, so MyProxy clients can access the credentials using only certificate-based  authentication  and
              authorization.

       -l username, --username username
              Specifies the MyProxy account under which the credential should be stored.  By default, the command uses the value of the LOGNAME environment variable.  Use this option to specify a differ‐
              ent account username on the MyProxy server.  The MyProxy username need not correspond to a real Unix username.

       -t hours, --proxy_lifetime hours
              Specifies the maximum lifetime of credentials retrieved from the myproxy-server(8) using the stored credential.  Default: 12 hours

       -d, --dn_as_username
              Use the certificate subject (DN) as the username.

       -a, --allow_anonymous_retrievers
              Allow  credentials to be retrieved with just pass phrase authentication.  By default, only entities with credentials that match the myproxy-server.config(5) default retriever policy may re‐
              trieve credentials.  This option allows entities without existing credentials to retrieve a credential using pass phrase authentication by including "anonymous" in the set  of  allowed  re‐
              trievers.  The myproxy-server.config(5) server-wide policy must also allow "anonymous" clients for this option to have an effect.

       -A, --allow_anonymous_renewers
              Allow  credentials  to  be  renewed  by any client.  Any client with a valid credential with a subject name that matches the stored credential may retrieve a new credential from the MyProxy
              repository if this option is given.  Since this effectively defeats the purpose of proxy credential lifetimes, it is not recommended.  It is included only for sake of completeness.

       -r name, --retrievable_by name
              Allow the specified entity to retrieve credentials.  See -x and -X options for controlling name matching behavior.

       -E name, --retrieve_key name
              Allow the specified entity to retrieve end-entity credentials.  See -x and -X options for controlling name matching behavior.

       -R name, --renewable_by name
              Allow the specified entity to renew credentials.  See -x and -X options for controlling name matching behavior.

       -Z name, --retrievable_by_cert name
              Allow the specified entity to retrieve credentials without a passphrase.  See -x and -X options for controlling name matching behavior.

       -x, --regex_dn_match
              Specifies that names used with following options -r, -E, -R, and -Z will be matched against the full certificate subject distinguished name (DN) according to REGULAR EXPRESSIONS in myproxy-
              server.config(5).

       -X, --match_cn_only
              Specifies that names used with following options -r, -E, -R, and -Z will be matched against the certificate subject common name (CN) according to REGULAR EXPRESSIONS in  myproxy-server.con‐
              fig(5).  For example, if an argument of -r "Jim Basney" is specified, then the resulting policy will be "*/CN=Jim Basney".  This is the default behavior.

       -k name, --credname name
              Specifies the credential name.

       -K description, --creddesc description
              Specifies credential description.

EXIT STATUS
       0 on success, >0 on error

AUTHORS
       See http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/about for the list of MyProxy authors.

SEE ALSO
       myproxy-change-pass-phrase(1),  myproxy-destroy(1),  myproxy-info(1),  myproxy-init(1), myproxy-logon(1), myproxy-retrieve(1), myproxy-store(1), myproxy-server.config(5), myproxy-admin-adduser(8),
       myproxy-admin-change-pass(8), myproxy-admin-query(8), myproxy-server(8)

MyProxy                                                                                          2011-09-05                                                                myproxy-admin-load-credential(8)
