myproxy-admin-adduser(8)            MyProxy           myproxy-admin-adduser(8)

NAME
       myproxy-admin-adduser - add a user or service credential

SYNOPSIS
       myproxy-admin-adduser [ options ]

       myproxy-admin-addservice [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  myproxy-admin-adduser and myproxy-admin-addservice commands create
       a new credential for a user or service and load  it  into  the  MyProxy
       repository.   They  are  perl(1)  scripts that run grid-cert-request (a
       standard Grid Community Toolkit program)  and  grid-ca-sign  (from  the
       Globus  Simple  CA  package)  to  create  the  credential  and then run
       myproxy-admin-load-credential(8)  to  load  the  credential  into   the
       MyProxy repository.

       The  command prompts for the common name to be included in the new cer‐
       tificate (if the -c argument is not specified), the  Globus  Simple  CA
       key  password for signing the certificate, the MyProxy username (if the
       -l or -d arguments are not specified), and the MyProxy  passphrase  for
       the  credential.  Most of the command-line options for this command are
       passed directly to the myproxy-admin-load-credential(8) command.

       The grid-ca-sign program is not provided in the  MyProxy  distribution.
       It must be installed separately, from the Globus Simple CA package.

OPTIONS
       -h     Displays command usage text and exits.

       -u     Displays command usage text and exits.

       -v     Enables verbose debugging output to the terminal.

       -c cn  Specifies  the  Common Name for the new credential (for example:
              "Jim Basney").

       -s dir Specifies the location of the credential storage directory.  The
              directory  must  be  accessible  only  by  the  user running the
              myproxy-server   process   for   security   reasons.    Default:
              /var/lib/myproxy or /var/myproxy or $GLOBUS_LOCATION/var/myproxy

       -l username
              Specifies  the MyProxy account under which the credential should
              be stored.

       -t hours
              Specifies the maximum lifetime of credentials retrieved from the
              myproxy-server(8)  using  the  stored  credential.   Default: 12
              hours

       -p CA-password
              Specifies the password for the CA's private key using the format
              documented in the PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS section of openssl(1).

       -n     Disables  passphrase  authentication  for the stored credential.
              If specified, the command will not prompt for a passphrase,  the
              credential  will not be encrypted by a passphrase in the reposi‐
              tory,  and  the  credential  will  not  be   retrievable   using
              passphrase authentication with myproxy-logon(1).  This option is
              used for storing renewable credentials and is implied by -R.

       -d     Use the certificate subject (DN) as the username.

       -a     Allow credentials to be retrieved with just pass phrase  authen‐
              tication.  By default, only entities with credentials that match
              the  myproxy-server.config(5)  default  retriever   policy   may
              retrieve  credentials.   This  option  allows  entities  without
              existing credentials to retrieve a credential using pass  phrase
              authentication  by  including  "anonymous" in the set of allowed
              retrievers.   The  myproxy-server.config(5)  server-wide  policy
              must  also  allow "anonymous" clients for this option to have an
              effect.

       -A     Allow credentials to be renewed by any client.  Any client  with
              a  valid  credential with a subject name that matches the stored
              credential may retrieve a new credential from the MyProxy repos‐
              itory  if  this option is given.  Since this effectively defeats
              the purpose of proxy credential  lifetimes,  it  is  not  recom‐
              mended.  It is included only for sake of completeness.

       -r name
              Allow  the  specified entity to retrieve credentials. See -x and
              -X options for controlling name matching behavior.

       -R name
              Allow the specified entity to renew credentials. See -x  and  -X
              options  for  controlling  name  matching behavior.  This option
              implies -n since passphrase authentication is not used for  cre‐
              dential renewal.

       -Z name, --retrievable_by_cert name
              Allow  the  specified  entity  to retrieve credentials without a
              passphrase. See -x and -X options for controlling name  matching
              behavior.  This option implies -n.

       -x     Specifies  that names used with following options -r, -R, and -Z
              will be matched against the  full  certificate  subject  distin‐
              guished  name  (DN) according to REGULAR EXPRESSIONS in myproxy-
              server.config(5).

       -X     Specifies that names used with following options -r, -R, and  -Z
              will be matched against the certificate subject common name (CN)
              according to REGULAR  EXPRESSIONS  in  myproxy-server.config(5).
              For  example,  if  an  argument of -r "Jim Basney" is specified,
              then the resulting policy will be "*/CN=Jim  Basney".   This  is
              the default behavior.

       -k name
              Specifies the credential name.

       -K description
              Specifies credential description.

EXIT STATUS
       0 on success, >0 on error

AUTHORS
       See http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/about for the list of MyProxy
       authors.

SEE ALSO
       myproxy-change-pass-phrase(1),   myproxy-destroy(1),   myproxy-info(1),
       myproxy-init(1),    myproxy-logon(1),   myproxy-retrieve(1),   myproxy-
       store(1),    myproxy-server.config(5),    myproxy-admin-change-pass(8),
       myproxy-admin-load-credential(8),    myproxy-admin-query(8),   myproxy-
       server(8)

MyProxy                           2011-09-05          myproxy-admin-adduser(8)
