
NCARGF77(1NCARG)                                                                                 NCAR GRAPHICS                                                                                 NCARGF77(1NCARG)

NAME
       ncargf77 - Command for compiling Fortran code that uses the NCAR Graphics low-level utilities

SYNOPSIS
       ncargf77 [-ngmath] [-smooth] [-quick] [-super] [-agupwrtx] [-ncarbd] [-ngmathbd] [-ictrans] [-noX11] ...

DESCRIPTION
       ncargf77  is  a  script  that invokes the FORTRAN 77 compiler/linker with the proper NCAR Graphics LLU (low-level utility) libraries.  Arguments presented above are associated with NCAR Graphics.  All
       other arguments and options are identical to the f77 command on your particular machine; arguments that include quoted strings may have to be enclosed in single quotes.

       NOTE: ncargf77 cannot be used to compile NCAR Graphics Fortran programs that call the HLUs (high-level utilities).  You must use nhlf77 instead.  See the nhlf77 man page for more information.

       In order to run ncargf77, you must have your NCARG_ROOT environment variable set to the directory pathname where the NCAR Graphics libraries, binaries, and include files were installed.   If  you  are
       not  sure  what NCARG_ROOT should be set to, please check with your system administrator or the site representative for NCAR Graphics.  If the NCAR Graphics libraries, binaries, and include files were
       not installed under one root directory, then you will need to set the environment variables NCARG_LIB, NCARG_BIN, and NCARG_INCLUDE instead.  Please see "man ncargintro" for more information.

       Note that, on some systems, if you supply your own binary libraries in addition to the ones automatically referenced by ncargf77, all the libraries must have been created in a similar fashion.

       OPTIONS

       -ngmath
              Links in the NCAR Graphics ngmath library.

       -smooth
              Link in the "smooth" objects.

       -quick Link in the "quick" objects.

       -super Link in the "super" objects.

       -agupwrtx
              Link in the "agupwrtx" library.

       -ictrans
              When ncargf77 is invoked with the this option, the resulting executable will, upon invocation, send its metafile output to the translator ictrans. The environment variable GRAPHCAP must be  set
              to a valid graphics output device whenever the executable is executed.

       -ncarbd
              Use  this option for compilers that appear to be having trouble initializing blockdata variables. It will cause a small subroutine to be linked in that helps force the loading of blockdata ini‐
              tialization routines.

       -ngmathbd
              Just like with the -ncarbd option, use this option for compilers that appear to be having trouble initializing Ngmath-related blockdata variables. It will cause a small subroutine to be  linked
              in that helps force the loading of Ngmath blockdata initialization routines.

              Note: this option doesn't need to be specified separately if you are already including the -ncarbd  and -ngmath options.

       -noX11 Do not link in the X library when linking the code.

              By default, ncargf77 will load the X11 library when linking your Fortran program.  This is because the GKS library now has an X11 driver.  If you try running ncargf77 and the compiler complains
              that it cannot find the library for X11, then try running ncargf77 -L/xxx/yyy/zzz program.f where /xxx/yyy/zzz is the path leading to your X11 library.  If you do not have the X11  library,  or
              else you just don't want it to be loaded, you can use the -noX11 option.

SEE ALSO
       Online: ictrans(1NCARG), gcaps(1NCARG), ncargcc(1NCARG), nhlcc(1NCARG), nhlf77(1NCARG), ncargintro(5NCARG)

       Hardcopy: NCAR Graphics Fundamentals, UNIX Version

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1987-2002
       University Corporation for Atmospheric Research
       The use of this Software is governed by a License Agreement.

NCAR                                                                                               March 1993                                                                                  NCARGF77(1NCARG)
