mbox(5)                                                                                         User Manuals                                                                                        mbox(5)

NAME
       mbox - Format for mail message storage.

DESCRIPTION
       This  document describes the format traditionally used by Unix hosts to store mail messages locally.  mbox files typically reside in the system's mail spool, under various names in users' Mail di‐
       rectories, and under the name mbox in users' home directories.

       An mbox is a text file containing an arbitrary number of e-mail messages.  Each message consists of a postmark, followed by an e-mail message formatted according to RFC822, RFC2822.  The file for‐
       mat is line-oriented.  Lines are separated by line feed characters (ASCII 10).

       A postmark line consists of the four characters "From", followed by a space character, followed by the message's envelope sender address, followed by whitespace, and  followed  by  a  time  stamp.
       This line is often called From_ line.

       The  sender  address  is  expected to be addr-spec as defined in RFC2822 3.4.1.  The date is expected to be date-time as output by asctime(3).  For compatibility reasons with legacy software, two-
       digit years greater than or equal to 70 should be interpreted as the years 1970+, while two-digit years less than 70 should be interpreted as the years 2000-2069.  Software reading files  in  this
       format should also be prepared to accept non-numeric timezone information such as "CET DST" for Central European Time, daylight saving time.

       Example:

        >From example@example.com Fri Jun 23 02:56:55 2000

       In  order  to  avoid  misinterpretation  of lines in message bodies which begin with the four characters "From", followed by a space character, the mail delivery agent must quote any occurrence of
       "From " at the start of a body line.

       There are two different quoting schemes, the first (MBOXO) only quotes plain "From " lines in the body by prepending a '>' to the line; the second (MBOXRD) also quotes already quoted "From " lines
       by prepending a '>' (i.e. ">From ", ">>From ", ...).  The later has the advantage that lines like

        >From the command line you can use the '-p' option

       aren't dequoted wrongly as a MBOXRD-MDA would turn the line into

        >>From the command line you can use the '-p' option

       before storing it.  Besides MBOXO and MBOXRD there is also MBOXCL which is MBOXO with a "Content-Length:" field with the number of bytes in the message body; some MUAs (like neomutt(1))  do  auto‐
       matically transform MBOXO mailboxes into MBOXCL ones when ever they write them back as MBOXCL can be read by any MBOXO-MUA without any problems.

       If  the modification-time (usually determined via stat(2)) of a nonempty mbox file is greater than the access-time the file has new mail.  Many MUAs place a Status: header in each message to indi‐
       cate which messages have already been read.

LOCKING
       Since mbox files are frequently accessed by multiple programs in parallel, mbox files should generally not be accessed without locking.

       Three different locking mechanisms (and combinations thereof) are in general use:

       •      fcntl(2) locking is mostly used on recent, POSIX-compliant systems.  Use of this locking method is, in particular, advisable if mbox files are  accessed  through  the  Network  File  System
              (NFS), since it seems the only way to reliably invalidate NFS clients' caches.

       •      flock(2) locking is mostly used on BSD-based systems.

       If multiple methods are combined, implementers should make sure to use the non-blocking variants of the fcntl(2) and flock(2) system calls in order to avoid deadlocks.

       If multiple methods are combined, an mbox file must not be considered to have been successfully locked before all individual locks were obtained.  When one of the individual locking methods fails,
       an application should release all locks it acquired successfully, and restart the entire locking procedure from the beginning, after a suitable delay.

       The  locking  mechanism used on a particular system is a matter of local policy, and should be consistently used by all applications installed on the system which access mbox files.  Failure to do
       so may result in loss of e-mail data, and in corrupted mbox files.

FILES
       /var/spool/mail/$LOGNAME
              $LOGNAME's incoming mail folder.

       $HOME/mbox
              user's archived mail messages, in his $HOME directory.

       $HOME/Mail/
              A directory in user's $HOME directory which is commonly used to hold mbox format folders.

SEE ALSO
       neomutt(1), fcntl(2), flock(2), link(2), stat(2), asctime(3), maildir(5), mmdf(5), RFC822, RFC976, RFC2822

AUTHOR
       Thomas Roessler <roessler@does-not-exist.org>, Urs Janssen <urs@tin.org>

HISTORY
       The mbox format occurred in Version 6 AT&T Unix.
       A variant of this format was documented in RFC976.

Unix                                                                                             2002-02-19                                                                                         mbox(5)
