TCPSPRAY(1)                                                        General Commands Manual                                                        TCPSPRAY(1)

NAME
       tcpspray - print average throughput for a tcp connection

SYNOPSIS
       tcpspray [ -v ] [ -e ] [ -h ] [ -b blksize ] [ -n nblks ]
            [ -f filename ] hostname

DESCRIPTION
       tcpspray sends data to either the discard or echo TCP service on the specified host and prints the average throughput.

OPTIONS
       -v             Prints  a  dot  for each block sent. Will also print a backspace for each block received in echo mode.  Note: the I/O required for this
                      option will affect the throughput rates.

       -e             Use the TCP echo service instead of discard (the default) and print throughput rates for both transmission and reception.

       -h             Print a usage description.

       -b blksize     Sets the size of a block (the internal buffer) in bytes.  Defaults to 1024.

       -n nblks       Sets the number of blocks to transfer.  Defaults to 100.

       -f filename    Copy the contents of the specified file into the internal buffer (sized by -b option).  The buffer is zeroed by default.  If  the  file
                      is  larger than the buffer, only the first blksize bytes will be used.  If the file is smaller than the buffer, the remaining bytes are
                      zeroed.

                      This option is useful in determining the relationship of the data transferred to throughput.  E.g., if data compression is used on  any
                      of  the  intermediate  links comprising the TCP connection, preloading the buffer with a text file will produce greater throughput than
                      with a file that has already been compressed.

       -d delay       Sets the time in microseconds to wait between successive buffer transmissions.  The default is no delay.

SEE ALSO
       ping(8), spray(8)

AUTHOR
       Greg Christy (gmc@quotron.com)

                                                                       23 October 1991                                                            TCPSPRAY(1)
