PFM Format Description(5)                                                File Formats Manual                                               PFM Format Description(5)

NAME
       PFM - PFM graphic image file format

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes the PFM graphic image file format as understood by the Netpbm converters pamtopfm(1) and pfmtopam(1).

       There are multiple similar formats known as PFM in the world, none of them authoritatively documented.  The format described here is one that Bryan Henderson
       deduced from a program he found somewhere that dealt with a "PFM" format.

       The PFM format is inspired by the Netpbm formats, and you will see lots of similarity.  It is not, however, an official Netpbm format.  Its goal is not  con‐
       sistent with those of Netpbm formats.

The format
       A PFM image is a stream of bytes.  The stream consists of a header followed immediately by a raster.  These two components are described below.  There are no
       delimeters before or after the sections as described.

   PFM header
       The PFM header is 3 consecutive "lines" of ASCII text.  After each line is a white space character.  That character is typically a newline  character,  hence
       the term "line," but doesn't have to be.

       pamtopfm uses a newline in the PFM it generates.

       Identifier Line

       The identifier line contains the characters "PF" or "Pf".  PF means it's a color PFM.  Pf means it's a grayscale PFM.

       Dimensions Line

       The  dimensions  line contains two positive decimal integers, separated by a blank.  The first is the width of the image; the second is the height.  Both are
       in pixels.

       Scale Factor / Endianness

       The Scale Factor / Endianness line is a queer line that jams endianness information into an otherwise sane description of a scale.  The line  consists  of  a
       nonzero  decimal  number,  not  necessarily an integer.  If the number is negative, that means the PFM raster is little endian.  Otherwise, it is big endian.
       The absolute value of the number is the scale factor for the image.

       The scale factor tells the units of the samples in the raster.  You use somehow it along with some separately understood unit information to  turn  a  sample
       value into something meaningful, such as watts per square meter.

   PFM raster
       The  raster  is a sequence of pixels, packed one after another, with no delimiters of any kind.  They are grouped by row, with the pixels in each row ordered
       left to right and the rows ordered bottom to top.

       Each pixel consists of 1 or 3 samples, packed one after another, with no delimiters of any kind.  1 sample for a grayscale PFM and 3 for a color PFM (see the
       Identifier Line of the PFM header).

       Each  sample  consists of 4 consecutive bytes.  The bytes represent a 32 bit string, in either big endian or little endian format, as determined by the Scale
       Factor / Endianness line of the PFM header.  That string is an IEEE 32 bit floating point number code.  Since that's the same format that most CPUs and  com‐
       piler use, you can usually just make a program use the bytes directly as a floating point number, after taking care of the endianness variation.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pfm.html

netpbm documentation                                                        19 April 2012                                                  PFM Format Description(5)
