NETRIKRC(5)                                                                                 File Formats Manual                                                                                 NETRIKRC(5)

NAME
       netrikrc - netrik configuration file

DESCRIPTION
       Netrik(1) will read the file ~/.netrikrc (i.e. the file .netrikrc in your home directory), if present, to get default settings.

       The  file  structure  is  very simple: All options that can be given as command line arguments to netrik can also be listed in this file. Just put all options you wish (including the leading "--")
       here, one on a line.

       As every option also has an inverted version (usually --no-foo instead of --foo, but there are a few excepions), You still can override the defaults from this file by command line options.

       You can also specify a URL in the config file, simply putting it on a line without any options. It will serve as a home page: It will be loaded when no other file is given upon netrik  invocation,
       and ignored otherwise.

OPTIONS
       Note: netrik is still in early development state; options are subject to changes.

       --force-colors
              Force  usage of netrik's default text colors (white on black for normal text), even if the terminal has other defaults. Without this option, netrik tries to adopt to the terminal's default.
              (Thus keeping the light background of most xterms.)

       --no-term-width
              When using the pager, this causes a page that contains extremely long words to be rendered wider than the screen, instead of breaking the word. Note however that side scrolling isn't imple‐
              mented yet -- you won't be able to see the end of the line when using this option... In dump mode, this option causes usage of the default width of 80 columns instead of what  the  terminal
              definition says. (Words are always broken in dump mode.)

       --fussy-html
              Abort  on any HTML syntax errors or warnings encountered. A short error description is printed. (This description may not be terribly useful at times...) This mode is primarily intended for
              HTML debugging. (Note however that netrik may oversee some errors; but most are reported.)

       --clean-html
              Do not abort on HTML syntax errors. Error descriptions are printed for every syntax error (or warning), but netrik tries to parse the page anyhow.  Workarounds are  used  for  some  typical
              syntax  errors  (e.g. unescaped '<' or '&' characters); other errors are ignored. After the whole page is loaded, if some error(s) were found, a warning message is printed (according to the
              severity of the worst encountered bug), and the pager starts after a keypress.

       --valid-html
              This mode is identical to --clean-html, except that netrik doesn't pause after loading completes, if only warnings were generated but no real errors were encountered. (i.e. constructs  that
              are discouraged in the standard, but strictly speaking are valid.)

       --broken-html (default)
              This  mode  is  identical  to --valid-html, except that netrik also doesn't pause if only simple errors with known workaround were encountered, which probably won't disturb layouting. Usage
              should be avoided if possible. (The file syntax_error.txt or syntax_error.html in the documentation directory (see SEE ALSO below) explains why.)

       --ignore-broken
              In this mode no warning is showm for any syntax errors, even if they might cause heavily broken layouting. Don't use!

       --debug
              Before displaying (or dumping) the page, some intermediate layouting stages are shown. (This output is described in the README.) Try it -- it's quite interesting to watch netrik work :-) It
              can be also useful to find HTML errors in a page, as it dumps the page while loading/parsing it.
              (This option is not available if compiled with --disable-debug to ./configure)

       --warn-unknown
              Issue a warning when encountering an unknown HTML element or attribute. This is probably only useful for debugging purposes, as there are quite a  lot  of  (legal)  HTML  facilities  netrik
              doesn't know.

       --dump Just dump the file given as argument to the screen and quit, instead of starting the pager. (The page is layouted correctly.)
              You may want to give the --bw option also (see below), which will ensure the dump is plain text without any control sequences.

       --no-proxy
              Ignore the "http_proxy" and "HTTP_PROXY" environment variables with --builtin-http. (No effect on wget! See below.)

       --no-builtin-http
              Use  wget(1) to retrieve pages from a HTTP server, instead of the builtin HTTP handling code. Note that HTTP redirects in most cases cause relative links in the page to be broken when using
              wget. The builtin HTTP code seems to work good now; using wget shouldn't be necessary. (FTP pages however are always loaded via wget.)

       --no-anchor-offset
              When jumping to an anchor (following a link with a fragment identifier), the page will be scrolled (if possible) so that the anchor will stand just below the  screen  top.  (In  the  second
              line, which is the first line in which links can be activated.) By default, the anchor is at about 1/5 of the screen height below the top.

       --cursor-keys
              Use the arrow keys to move the cursor, instead of the lynx-like navigation used by default. (This is useful for blind users, as it allows using the "flash cursor" keys found on braille dis‐
              plays.)

       --xterm
              Assume the terminal has xterm-like attribute handling. (i.e. needs a workaround to display a bright background color.)
              This  setting  is  used automatically if the terminal type ($TERM environment variable) contains the string "xterm", so you only need to set it manually if you have some other terminal that
              also needs that workaround.
              Note that this workaround works *only* on xterm (and maybe some other terminals), but not on linux console, so you can't just set it categorically!

       --console
              Assume the terminal doesn't need and understand the xterm workaround for bright background colors. (See above.)

       --dark-background
              Use the color definitions from colors-dark.c (formerly colors.alt.c). A black background will be used (even if the terminal uses a bright background by default!), and a  set  of  foreground
              colors which look very nice on black backgound. (But would be unusable on bright background.)
              This is the default now.

       --bright-background
              Use  color  definitions from colors-bright.c (formerly colors.default.c). The terminal's default colors will be used for background and normal text, and an alternative color scheme suitable
              for bright background will be used for other text types.
              Use this if you have a terminal with bright background (like most xterms), and also want to stick to that in netrik.
              Note that this can be used on a terminal with dark background as well; some colors are somewhat hard to read, however.

       --no-force-colors
              Use terminal's default colors even with --dark-background, instead of forcing usage of netrik's default text colors (white on black for normal text).  This is useful if you use the  default
              (dark) colors and your terminal has a black background anyways -- forcing the default colors is only a waste of time in this situation.

       --bw   Start  up  in b/w mode. Useful to avoid the warning about missing color capabilities if you really have a terminal not capable of switching text colors. Also useful together with --dump op‐
              tion.

       --color
              Undo --bw option.

EXAMPLES
       The following config file:

              --broken-html
              --no-anchor-offset
              file:///usr/local/share/doc/netrik/index.html

       means:

       --broken-html: Do not to stop on smaller HTML errors. (Use --valid-html or --clean-html on the command line to override that for a single netrik invocation).

       --no-anchor-offset: When going to an anchor, scroll the page so that the anchor will appear at the screen top, instead of 1/5 of the screen hight below the top. (Use --anchor-offset to override.)

       file:///usr/local/share/doc/netrik/index.html: When no other file name/URL is specified on the command line, open the netrik documentation overview. (If netrik was installed from a Debian  or  RPM
       package, use file:///usr/share/doc/netrik/index.html instead.)

VERSION
       This manual page documents the config file for netrik 1.16.1.

AUTHOR
       Netrik  was  created  and is maintained by Olaf D. Buddenhagen AKA antrik (<antrik@users.sf.net>), with major contributions from Patrice Neff, Sören Schulze, and others. (For a full listing of all
       contributors see AUTHORS in the doc directory, see below.)

       This man page was created by antrik.

SEE ALSO
       netrik(1)

                                                                                              April 19th, 2004                                                                                  NETRIKRC(5)
