SEXP-CONV(1)                                                             Nettle tools                                                            SEXP-CONV(1)

NAME
       nettle-hash - compute message digests

SYNOPSIS
       nettle-hash -a ALGORITHM [OPTIONS] [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page documents briefly the nettle-hash command.  This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution because the original
       program does not have a manual page.  Instead, it has documentation in the GNU Info format; see below.

       nettle-hash is a program that computes various message digests.  The output is different from the familiar md5sum and sha*sum family. For  each  file,
       the  file  name  and a colon is printed first, unless input is read from standard input, in which case nothing is printed. Then the hash is printed in
       chunks of 64 bits (16 hexadecimal digits) followed by the name of the algorithm. In raw (binary) mode, the hash is not split in chunks and is not fol‐
       lowed by a newline.

OPTIONS
       This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').  A summary of  options  is  included  below.
       For a complete description, see the Info files.

       -a, --algorithm=algorithm
              Compute hash using algorithm.

       -l, --length=length
              Truncate digests at length octets. It is an error to specify a length greater than the normal length of the selected digest.

       --raw  Produce raw binary output.

       --list List supported hash algorithms.

       --help Show summary of options.

       -V, --version
              Show version of program.

SEE ALSO
       md5sum(1), sha1sum(1), etc.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was originally written by Magnus Holmgren <holmgren@debian.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

nettle 2.2                                                                July 2011                                                              SEXP-CONV(1)
