ND-CONFIGUREREPO(1)                                                                            User Commands                                                                            ND-CONFIGUREREPO(1)

NAME
       nd-configurerepo - configure APT to use NeuroDebian repository

SYNOPSIS
       nd-configurerepo [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Enables NeuroDebian repository for the current Debian or Ubuntu release.

OPTIONS

       -r, --release=RELEASE

              Name of the Debian/Ubuntu release to be used. If not specified, it is deduced from the 'apt-cache policy' output, by taking repository of Debian or Ubuntu origin with highest priority.

       --print-releases

              Print a list of releases present in NeuroDebian repository.

       --print-release

              Print the release deduced from the output of apt-cache policy.

       -f, --flavor=full|libre

              Which flavor of the repository should be enabled:

       libre  Only 'main' component, containing only DFSG-compliant content.

       full   Includes 'main', 'contrib', and 'non-free'.

              If not specified -- deduced from the output of apt-cache policy.

       --print-flavor

              Print the flavor deduced from the output of apt-cache policy.

       -c, --components=c1,c2,c3

              Comma separated list of components to enable among:

       software
              primary software repository

       data   data packages

       devel  "overlay" of development versions (like Debians' "experimental").  Not sufficient on its own and available only from the main site

              If not specified -- "software,data"

       -m, --mirror=NAME|URL

              Which mirror to use. Could be a mirror code-name (as specified in /etc/neurodebian/neurodebian.cfg), or a URL.

       --print-mirrors

              Return a list (with abbreviation) of known NeuroDebian mirrors.

       --overwrite,

              If apt file already present, it would not be overridden (by default).  Use this option to overwrite.

       --suffix=SUFFIX

              Which suffix to add to the apt file, in case you are trying to enable multiple repositories

       --sources, --no-sources

              Either to enable deb-src lines. If none specified -- would be enabled if sources for a core package (apt) are available.

       -n, --dry-run

              Do not perform any changes -- generated configurations and commands will simply be printed to stdout

       --install

              If found absent, all necessary tools (wget, netselect) if available will be apt-get installed

       -v, --verbose

              Enable additional progress messages. Could be used multiple times

       -q, --quiet

              Make operation quiet -- only error messages would be output

       -h, --help

              Print short description, usage summary and option list.

       --version

              Print version information and exit.

       Exit status:

              non-0 exit status in case of error.  Error exit code would depend on which command has failed.

EXAMPLES
              nd-configurerepo

              Enable software and data components from the optimal (according to netselect) mirror.  Some information about progress will be printed

              nd-configurerepo -q --suffix=-devel -c devel

              Quietly enable -devel repository for the current release, and place apt configuration into /etc/apt/sources.list.d/neurodebian.sources-devel.list

              nd-configurerepo -q --suffix=-de-sid-full -c software,data,devel -m jp

              Force sid distribution, all the components, from the Japan mirror

AUTHOR
       Written by Yaroslav Halchenko for the NeuroDebian project.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2014-2023 Yaroslav Halchenko <debian@onerussian.com>

       Licensed under GNU Public License version 3 or later.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

nd-configurerepo 0.1                                                                            August 2025                                                                             ND-CONFIGUREREPO(1)
