NFCTOOL(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  NFCTOOL(1)

NAME
       nfctool - a NFC toolbox

SYNOPSIS
       nfctool [OPTIONS...]

DESCRIPTION
       The nfctool application performs various operations on NFC devices, such as:

       • list connected devices

       • put device in polling mode

       • get and set parameters for the local LLC

       • send service name lookup request to the remote LLC.

       • dump LLCP link traffic

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Print nfctool's available options and exit.

       -v, --version
           Print nfctool's version and exit.

       -l, --list
           List attached NFC devices. It also prints information such as remote tags or devices, supported protocols, RF mode, and LLC link parameters.

       -d, --device=NFCDEV
           Specify a nfc device (i.e. nfc0). This is mandatory for all operations except -l.

       -p, --poll[=MODE]
           Start  poll  on  the  device specified with -d. MODE must be one of Initiator, Target, or Both and it defaults to Initiator when unspecified. Passing MODE as i, t, or b for respectively Initiator,
           Target, or Both is also accepted.

       -s, --set-param=PARAM=VAL[,PARAM=VAL[,...]]
           Set LLC link parameters. PARAM must be at least one of:

           lto=0..255 - Link TimeOut
               Specify the maximum time interval between the last received LLC PDU from the remote to the local LLC and the first subsequent LLC PDU transmission from the local to the remote LLC.  The  value
               is expressed in multiples of 10 milliseconds and is encoded as a 8-bit unsigned integer.

               The LTO parameter must be set before the LLC Link is established.

           rw=0..15 - Receive Window size
               Specify  the maximum number of I PDUs the local LLC will accept before acknowledging them. A RW size of zero indicates that the local LLC will not accept I PDUs on that data link connection. A
               RW size of one indicates that the local LLC will acknowledge every I PDU before accepting additional I PDUs. It is encoded as a 4-bit unsigned integer.

               The RW parameter can be set after the LLC Link is established. The new value will apply for subsequent connections.

           miux=0..2047 - Maximum Information Unit Extension
               Specify the number of octets by which a LLC PDU information field may exceed the default maximum size of 128 octets. In other words, MIU = MIUX + 128. It is encoded as an 11-bit unsigned inte‐
               ger.

               The MIUX parameter can be set after the LLC Link is established. The new value will apply for subsequent connections.

       -k, --snl=URN
           Send a Service Name Lookup request for URN (i.e. urn:nfc:sn:snep) to the remote LLC. Obviously, the LLC link must be up before the request is sent.

           The remote should reply by returning the service access point (SAP) number or zero if it doesn't support the requested service.

           Note: If used with -p, nfctool will wait for the LLC link to be up before sending the SNL request.

       -n, --sniff
           Start LLCP sniffing on the device specified with -d option.

           SNIFFER SPECIFIC OPTIONS
               The folowing options only apply with -n.

               -a, --snapshot-len=SNAPLEN
                   Capture SNAPLEN bytes from each packet. Default snapshot length is 1024 bytes.

               -y, --dump-symm
                   Dump SYMM packets to stdout. this will generate a LOT of output.

                   Note: The -y option concerns console output only. SYMM packets are always dumped to the pcap file when specified by -f (See below).

               -t, --show-timestamp[=MODE]
                   Show  packet timestamps. Setting MODE as delta means the time since the first captured frame. absolute means elapsed time since the Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC). MODE defaults to
                   delta when unspecified.

               -f, --pcap-file=FILENAME
                   Specify a filename to save dumped traffic in pcap format. The generated file can be  opened  with  Wireshark  (http://www.wireshark.org/)  using  the  wireshark-nfc  plug-in  available  at
                   http://code.google.com/p/wireshark-nfc/

SEE ALSO
       neard (8)

       neard.conf (5)

       Linux NFC project page at https://01.org/linux-nfc/

                                                                                                 February 2013                                                                                       NFCTOOL(1)
