NFSLOGSUM(8L)                                                                                                                                                                                     NFSLOGSUM(8L)

NAME
       nfslogsum - summarize nfswatch log file

SYNOPSIS
       nfslogsum [ -n ] [ -v ] [ logfile ]

DESCRIPTION
       nfslogsum summarizes log files produced by the nfswatch program.  By default the log file nfswatch.log is summarized; an alternate log file can be specified on the command line.

       Each  nfswatch log file may contain one or more log sessions, each indicated by a header which is printed when logging is turned on.  For each log session, nfslogsum tallies up the interval packet to‐
       tals and prints out a one-page summary of the log session.  Total packets and percentages are tabulated for each category and displayed.

       The -n option tells nfslogsum to read only the first n entries in the log file.  This is useful for summarizing log files in cumulative ``chunks''.

       If the -v option is given, nfslogsum will produce a ``verbose'' summary of the log file.  In addition to the summary information printed as described above, a summary of how many  calls  to  each  NFS
       procedure  were  made on each file system and individual file will be printed.  This summary information is divided into three sections of six columns each.  The columns are headed by the names of the
       NFS procedures; these are described briefly below:

       NULLPROC
              Do nothing.  This procedure is provided to allow server response testing and timing.

       GETATTR
              Get file attributes (type, mode, number of links, owner's uid, owner's gid, size, access, modification and change times, etc.).  This procedure is used by the stat(2) system call,  as  well  as
              several others.

       SETATTR
              Set file attributes  (mode, owner's uid, owner's gid, size in bytes, access and modification times).  This procedure is used by system calls such as chmod(2), chown(2), truncate(2), and so on.

       GETROOT
              Get file system root.  This procedure is obsolete, and has been replaced by a MOUNT Protocol procedure.

       LOOKUP Look up file name.  This procedure is used to obtain an initial file handle for use in current and future requests on that file, and is used by many different system calls.

       READLINK
              Read from symbolic link.  This procedure is used by the readlink system call, and by the kernel.

       READ   Read data from file.  This procedure is used by the read(2) system call.

       WCACHE Write to cache.  Unused in the current NFS protocol revision.

       WRITE  Write data to file.  This procedure is used by the write(2) system call.

       CREATE Create file.  This procedure is used by the creat(2) and open(2) system calls.

       REMOVE Remove file.  This procedure is used by the unlink(2) system call.

       RENAME Rename file.  This procedure is used by the rename system call.

       LINK   Create link to file.  This procedure is used by the link(2) system call.

       SYMLINK
              Create symbolic link to file.  This procedure is used by the symlink(2) system call.

       MKDIR  Create directory.  This procedure is used by the mkdir(2) system call.

       RMDIR  Remove directory.  This procedure is used by the rmdir(2) system call.

       READDIR
              Read entries from directory.  Generally only one READDIR call is needed per directory, since a variable number of entries can be returned.

       STATFS Get file system attributes (transfer size, block size, blocks in use, blocks free).  This procedure is used by the statfs(2) system call.

SEE ALSO
       nfswatch(8L)

BUGS
       nfslogsum is exteremely sensitive to the format of the log file produced by nfswatch.  The log file should not be edited or changed before feeding it to nfslogsum.

AUTHOR
       David A. Curry
       Purdue University
       Engineering Computer Network
       1285 Electrical Engineering Building
       West Lafayette, IN 47907-1285
       davy@ecn.purdue.edu

Purdue/DEC                                                                                        January 1993                                                                                    NFSLOGSUM(8L)
