NFSWATCH(8)                                                        System Manager's Manual                                                        NFSWATCH(8)

NAME
       nfswatch - monitor an NFS server

SYNOPSIS
       nfswatch [ -dst dsthost ] [ -src srchost ] [ -server serverhost ] [ -all ] [ -dev device ] [ -allif ] [ -f filelist ] [ -lf logfile ] [ -sf snapfile ]
       [ -map mapfile ] [ -T maxtime ] [ -t timeout ] [ -fs ] [ -if ] [ -auth ] [ -procs ] [ -procs3 ] [ -clients ] [ -usage ] [ -l ] [ -bg ]

DESCRIPTION
       nfswatch monitors all incoming network traffic to an NFS file server and divides it into several categories.  The number and percentage of packets re‐
       ceived  in  each category is displayed on the screen in a continuously updated display.  The screen is updated every ten seconds by default; this time
       period is called an interval.

       On Irix: You must be the super-user to invoke nfswatch or it must be installed setuid to ``root.''  On SunOS 4.x and SunOS 5.x (Solaris 2.x): You must
       be the super-user to invoke nfswatch or it must be installed setuid to ``root.''  On System V Release 4: You must be the super-user to invoke nfswatch
       or it must be installed setuid to ``root.''  On Ultrix or DEC OSF/1: Any user can invoke nfswatch once the super-user has enabled promiscuous-mode op‐
       eration using pfconfig(8).  (For example, "pfconfig +p +c -a".)  On Linux: You must be the super-user to invoke nfswatch or it must be  installed  se‐
       tuid to ``root.''

       By  default,  nfswatch monitors all packets destined for the current host.  An alternate destination host to watch for may be specified using the -dst
       argument.  If a source host is specified with the -src argument, then only packets arriving at the destination host which were sent by the source host
       are monitored.  Traffic between a specific server and its clients may be watched by specifying the name of the server with the -server  argument.   If
       the  -all  argument is given, then all NFS traffic on the network is monitored.  It is usually desirable to specify the -all option whenever using the
       -server option.

       The nfswatch screen is divided into three parts.  The first part, at the top of the screen, is made up of three lines.  The first  line  displays  the
       name  of  the host being monitored, the current date and time, and the time elapsed since the start of monitoring.  The second line displays the total
       number of packets received during the most recent interval, and the third line displays the total number of packets received since monitoring started.
       These two lines display three numbers each: the total number of packets on the network, the total number of packets received by the  destination  host
       (possibly  subject  to  being  only from the specified source host), and the number of packets dropped by the monitoring interface due to buffer space
       limitations.  Dropped packets are not included in the packet monitoring totals.

       The second part of the screen divides the received packets into 16 categories.  Each category is displayed with three numbers: the number  of  packets
       received  this  interval, the percentage this represents of all packets received by the host during this interval, and the total number of packets re‐
       ceived since monitoring started.  The packet categories are not mutually exclusive; some packets may be counted in more than one category  (for  exam‐
       ple, NFS packets are also UDP packets).  The categories in this section and their meanings are:

       NFS3 Read
              NFS v3 requests which primarily result in a file system read being performed (read file, read directory, etc.).

       NFS3 Write
              NFS v3 requests which primarily result in a file system write being performed (write file, rename file, create file, delete file, etc.).

       NFS Read
              NFS requests which primarily result in a file system read being performed (read file, read directory, etc.).

       NFS Write
              NFS requests which primarily result in a file system write being performed (write file, rename file, create file, delete file, etc.).

       NFS Mount
              NFS mount requests.

       YP/NIS/NIS+
              Sun NIS (Yellow Pages) and NIS+ requests.

       RPC Authorization
              All  RPC  reply  packets fall into this category, because RPC replies do not contain the protocol number, and thus cannot be classified as any‐
              thing else.  (If the -all argument is given, then you will see all the RPC replies on the network in this category.)

       Other RPC Packets
              All RPC requests which do not fall into one of the above categories.

       TCP Packets
              Packets sent using the Transmission Control Protocol.

       UDP Packets
              Packets sent using the User Datagram Protocol.

       ICMP Packets
              Packets sent using the Internet Control Message Protocol.

       Routing Control
              Routing Information Protocol (RIP) packets.

       Address Resolution
              Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) packets.  These packets are not counted on System V Release 4 systems (except for SunOS 5.x), due to  limita‐
              tions of the dlpi(7) interface.

       Reverse Addr Resol
              Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP) packets.  These packets are not counted on System V Release 4 systems (except for SunOS 5.x), due to
              limitations of the dlpi(7) interface.

       Ethernet/FDDI Bdcst
              Ethernet  (or  FDDI)  broadcast packets.  These packets are destined for and received by all hosts on the local network.  These packets are not
              counted on System V Release 4 systems (except for SunOS 5.x), due to limitations of the dlpi(7) interface.

       Other Packets
              A catch-all for any packets not counted in any of the above categories.

       The third part of the display shows the mounted file systems exported by the file server for mounting through NFS.  If nfswatch is monitoring the same
       host it is being run on, these file systems are listed by path name.  Otherwise, the program attempts to decode the server's major  and  minor  device
       numbers for the file system, and displays them in parentheses.  (If the -all argument is given, the name of the server is also shown.)  With each file
       system,  three  numbers are displayed: the number of NFS requests for this file system received during the interval, the percentage this represents of
       all NFS requests received by the host, and the total number of NFS requests for this file system received since monitoring started.  Up to  1024  file
       systems will be monitored by nfswatch and recorded in the log file, but only as many as will fit (2 * (LINES - 16)) will be displayed on the screen.

       If  the  -map  mapfile option is specified, nfswatch will read pairs of file system device specifications (as described above) and the proper names of
       the file systems from mapfile.  Each line should contain a string representing what nfswatch would normally print, and then  separated  from  that  by
       whitespace, the name that is preferred.  For example,

                                                                     myhost(7,24)     /homedirs

       If  the  -f filelist option is specified, a list of file names (one per line) is read from filelist, and the traffic to these individual files is also
       monitored.  The files must reside in file systems exported by the file server.  When this option is specified, the third section of  the  screen  will
       display  counters for these files, instead of for the mounted file systems.  Up to 1024 individual files will be monitored by nfswatch and recorded in
       the log file, but only as many as will fit (2 * (LINES - 16)) will be displayed on the screen.

       If the -procs or -procs3 option is specified, then instead of showing per-file or per-file system statistics, nfswatch shows the frequency of each NFS
       procedure (RPC call) (or as many as will fit on the screen).  For each procedure, some timing statistics are also displayed; these include the  number
       of completed operations (request and response seen) during the interval, the average response time during the interval (in milliseconds), the standard
       deviation from the average during the interval, and the maximum response time over all time.

       If  the  -clients  option  is specified, then instead of showing per-file or per-file system statistics, nfswatch shows the operation rate of each NFS
       client of the specified server(s) (or as many as will fit on the screen).

       It should be noted here that only NFS requests, made by client machines, are counted in the NFS packet monitoring area.  The NFS traffic generated  by
       the server in response to these requests is not counted.

       If  the -auth option is specified, then the display will show packet counts divided up by user name (or user id, if the login name is not in the local
       password file).  This information is decoded from the AUTH_UNIX authentication part of each RPC packet.  nfswatch only decodes  AUTH_UNIX  authentica‐
       tors, the other types of authentication (e.g., AUTH_DES) are lumped into a single bucket for each authentication type.

LOGFILE
       When  logging  is  on, nfswatch writes one entry to the log file each interval.  The information printed to the log file is easily readable, and basi‐
       cally contains a copy of all information on the screen.  Additionally, any NFS traffic to file systems or individual files which was  not  printed  on
       the  screen  (due to space limitations) is printed in the log file.  Finally, in the log file, the NFS traffic to file systems and individual files is
       further broken down into counts of how many times each specific NFS procedure was called.

       The information in the nfswatch log file can be summarized easily using the nfslogsum(8) program.

COMMANDS
       nfswatch also allows several commands to be entered at its prompt during execution.  The prompt is displayed on the last line of the screen.  For most
       commands, feedback describing the effect of the command is printed on the same line as the prompt.  The commands are:

       ^L     Clear and redraw the screen.

       a      Switches the display to show statistics on individual users.

       c      Switches the display to show statistics on NFS client hosts instead of per-file or per-filesystem information.

       f      Toggle the display of mounted file systems and the display of individual files in the NFS packet monitoring area.  This command is  only  mean‐
              ingful  if  the  -f filelist option was specified on the command line.  (If the display is showing NFS procedures or clients, then this command
              switches the display to show file systems.)

       p      Switches the display to show statistics on NFS procedures instead of per-file or per-filesystem information.

       P      Switches the display to show statistics on NFS v3 procedures instead of per-file or per-filesystem information.

       l      Toggle the logging feature.  If logging is off it is (re)started; if logging is on, it is turned off.

       n      Toggle display of host names or host numbers in client mode.  By default, client mode displays host names.  However, this may not be sufficient
              for determining the names of unknown remote hosts, since domain names are not displayed.  This command tells nfswatch to display  host  numbers
              instead, enabling each host to be uniquely identified.

       s      Take  a  ``snapshot''  of the current screen and save it to a file.  This is useful to record occasional copies of the data when the logfile is
              not needed.

       u      Toggle the sort key for the display of mounted file systems in the NFS packet monitoring area.  By default, these are  sorted  by  file  system
              name, but they can also be sorted in declining order of percent usage.

       -      Decrease the cycle time (interval length) by ten seconds.  This will take effect after the next screen update.

       +      Increase the cycle time (interval length) by ten seconds.  This will take effect after the next screen update.

       <      Decrease the cycle time (interval length) by one second.  This will take effect after the next screen update.

       >      Increase the cycle time (interval length) by one second.  This will take effect after the next screen update.

       ]      Scroll  forward  through  the bottom part of the display, if there are files/file systems/clients/procedures not being displayed due to lack of
              space.

       [      Scroll back.

       q      Exit nfswatch.  Using the interrupt key will also cause nfswatch to exit.

       Typing any other character will cause a help screen to be displayed.

OPTIONS
       nfswatch can usually be run without arguments and will obtain useful results.  However, for those occasions when the defaults are not good enough, the
       following options are provided:

       -dst dsthost
              Monitor packets destined for dsthost instead of the local host.

       -src srchost
              Restrict packets being counted to those sent by srchost.

       -server serverhost
              Restrict packets being counted to those sent to or from serverhost.

       -all   Monitor packets to and from all NFS servers on the local network.

       -dev device
              On non-DEC systems: Use network interface device device to read packets from.  By default, nfswatch will use the system's default  network  de‐
              vice for an Internet datagram.  On Ultrix or DEC OSF/1: device specifies the packet filter interface from which to read packets.  You can spec‐
              ify  interfaces  either by their actual names (such as ln0) or by their generic packet filter interface names (pfN, for N a small integer).  By
              default, pf0 (the first configured interface that supports the packet filter) is used.

       -allif Read packets from all configured network interfaces, instead of a single device.  On Irix: The first five (0-4) of each of  the  following  de‐
              vices  are  checked:  ec,  et, fxp, enp, and epg.  If configured, they will be monitored.  On SunOS: The first five le (0-4) devices, the first
              five ie (0-4) devices, and the first five fddi (0-4) devices are checked, and if configured, will be monitored.  On System  V  Release  4:  The
              first  five  emd  (0-4) devices are checked, and if configured, will be monitored.  On Ultrix and DEC OSF/1: The first ten pf devices (0-9) are
              checked, and if configured, will be monitored.

       -f filelist
              Read a list of file names (one per line) from filelist and monitor the NFS traffic to these files in addition to the normal monitoring  of  ex‐
              ported file systems.

       -lf logfile
              When logging, write information to the file logfile.  The default is nfswatch.log.

       -sf snapfile
              Write snapshots to the file snapfile.  The default is nfswatch.snap.

       -map mapfile
              Read  a  list  of  device names and file system names (one pair per line) from mapfile and translate from one to the other when displaying file
              system names.

       -T maxtime
              Terminate execution after running for maxtime seconds.  This is primarily for use with the -bg option.

       -t timeout
              Set the cycle time (interval length) to timeout seconds.  The default is 10.  The cycle time may also be adjusted from the command prompt.

       -fs    Display the file system NFS monitoring data instead of the individual file data.  This option is only meaningful if the -f filelist option  was
              specified.  The display may also be controlled from the command prompt.

       -if    Display  the individual file NFS monitoring data instead of the file system data.  This option is only meaningful if the -f filelist option was
              specified.  The display may also be controlled from the command prompt.

       -auth  Display statistics on authentication packets (individual users).

       -procs Display statistics on NFS procedures (RPC calls) instead of per-file or per-filesystem data.

       -procs3
              Display statistics on NFS v3 procedures (RPC calls) instead of per-file or per-filesystem data.

       -client
              Display statistics on NFS client operation rates instead of per-file or per-filesystem data.

       -usage Set file system, procedure, or client display to be sorted in declining order of percent usage.  By default, the display is  sorted  alphabeti‐
              cally.  This may also be toggled from the command prompt.

       -l     Turn logging on at startup time.  Logging is turned off by default, but may be enabled from the command prompt.

       -bg    Start  as  a  daemon,  running  in  the  background.  No screen updates will be performed; all data will be written to the log file only.  When
              started with this option, nfswatch will print the process id of the daemon process.  To terminate nfswatch, send the process a SIGTERM  signal,
              or use the -T option to set the maximum execution time.

BUGS
       To  monitor  NFS  traffic to files and file systems, nfswatch must extract information from the NFS file handle.  The file handle is a server-specific
       item, and its contents vary from vendor to vendor and operating system to operating system.  Unfortunately, there is no server-independent way to  ex‐
       tract information from a file handle.  nfswatch uses a set of heuristics to parse the file handle format used by many popular NFS servers, but in some
       cases  there is no way to disambiguate the file handle format, and the program may get the wrong answer.  It should, however, get the right answer for
       file handles generated by the host it is running on.

       nfswatch uses the Snoop (snoop(7)) network monitoring protocol under Irix 4.x, the Network Interface Tap (nit(4))  under  SunOS  4.x,  the  Data  Link
       Provider  Interface  (dlpi(7)) under SunOS 5.x (Solaris 2.x) and System V Release 4, the Packet Filter {(packetfilter(4)) under Ultrix (4.0 or later);
       (packetfilter(7)) under DEC OSF/1 (V1.3 or later)}, and the packet interface (packet(7)) under Linux.  To run on other systems, code will have  to  be
       written to read packets from the network in promiscuous mode.

       On  Ultrix systems, FDDI is only supported under appropriately patched versions of Ultrix 4.2 (the kernel modules net_common.o and pfilt.o must be re‐
       placed; contact your Customer Support Center).  Native FDDI support is standard in Ultrix 4.3 and later systems.

SEE ALSO
       etherfind(8c), dlpi(7), nit(4), nfslogsum(8), packetfilter(4/7), snoop(1m), snoop(7), packet(7)

AUTHORS
       David A. Curry
       Purdue University
       Engineering Computer Network
       1285 Electrical Engineering Building
       West Lafayette, IN 47907-1285
       davy@ecn.purdue.edu

       Jeffrey C. Mogul
       Digital Equipment Corporation
       Western Research Laboratory
       250 University Avenue
       Palo Alto, CA 94301
       mogul@wrl.dec.com

       Christian Iseli
       Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research
       UNIL - BEP
       Lausanne, CH-1015
       Christian.Iseli@licr.org

Lausanne/LICR                                                          25 February 2005                                                           NFSWATCH(8)
