
NHLCC(1NCARG)                                                                                    NCAR GRAPHICS                                                                                    NHLCC(1NCARG)

NAME
       nhlcc - Command for compiling C code that uses the NCAR Graphics high-level utilities.

SYNOPSIS
       nhlcc [-ngmath] [-ncarbd] [-ngmathbd] [-netcdf] [-hdf] ...

DESCRIPTION
       nhlcc  is  a script that invokes the C compiler/linker with the proper NCAR Graphics LLU (low-level utility) and HLU (high-level utility) libraries.  Arguments presented above are associated with NCAR
       Graphics.  All other arguments and options are identical to the cc command on your particular machine; arguments that include quoted strings may have to be enclosed in single quotes.

       If you don't want to use nhlcc, you can just type it on the command line to see what gets included in the link line, and then you can add this information to your own Makefile or script.  It is impor‐
       tant to note that you must define the macro NeedFuncProto in order for function prototyping to work correctly.

       In  order  to run nhlcc, you must have your NCARG_ROOT environment variable set to the directory pathname where the NCAR Graphics libraries, binaries, and include files were installed.  If you are not
       sure what NCARG_ROOT should be set to, please check with your system administrator or the site representative for NCAR Graphics.  If the NCAR Graphics libraries, binaries, and include files  were  not
       installed under one root directory, then you will need to set the environment variables NCARG_LIB, NCARG_BIN, and NCARG_INCLUDE instead.  Please see "man ncargintro" for more information.

       Note that, on some systems, if you supply your own binary libraries in addition to the ones automatically referenced by nhlcc, all the libraries must have been created in a similar fashion.

       OPTIONS

       -ngmath
              Links in the NCAR Graphics ngmath library.

       -ncarbd
              Use  this option for compilers that appear to be having trouble initializing blockdata variables. It will cause a small subroutine to be linked in that helps force the loading of blockdata ini‐
              tialization routines.

       -ngmathbd
              Just like with the -ncarbd option, use this option for compilers that appear to be having trouble initializing Ngmath-related blockdata variables. It will cause a small subroutine to be  linked
              in that helps force the loading of Ngmath blockdata initialization routines.

              Note: this option doesn't need to be specified separately if you are already including the -ncarbd  and -ngmath options.

       -netcdf
              Links in the netCDF library.  This library is not part of NCAR Graphics, so check with your system administrator if you need it installed.  You can obtain a copy of it by doing an anonymous ftp
              to unidata.ucar.edu.

       -hdf   Links in the HDF library.  This library is not part of NCAR Graphics, so check with your system administrator if you need it installed.  You can obtain a copy of it by doing an anonymous ftp to
              ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu.

SEE ALSO
       Online: nhlf77(1NCARG), ncargf77(1NCARG), ncargcc(1NCARG), ncargintro(5NCARG)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1987-2000
       University Corporation for Atmospheric Research
       The use of this Software is governed by a License Agreement.

NCAR                                                                                               April 1995                                                                                     NHLCC(1NCARG)
