Nikwi(6)                                                                                           Deluxe                                                                                          Nikwi(6)

NAME
       Nikwi_Deluxe - platform game where the goal is to collect candies

SYNOPSIS
       nikwi [--fullscreen]

DESCRIPTION
       You  play  as  a  9 year old boy in a game about his absolute dream: a world made of candies! Your role is to guide Nikwi through all the 30 levels, eat all the candies in each level and avoid the
       monsters and the hazards that each level has. Nikwi has a talent on jumping high - although his falls are not as good as he would like - and this is his only armor against the monsters  which  try
       to turn his dream into a nightmare.

       Every six levels, the theme changes and the gameplay is altered a bit. Every two levels or so, new monsters appear - monsters which require different approaches to be taken in order to avoid them.

USAGE
       The game contains two main screens, the menu and the game:

   The menu
       The  menu is the screen in which you enter when the game starts. It contains three options: New Game, Credits and Quit. You can use the arrows keys up and down to select a menu option (two bobbing
       candies appear at the left and at the right of the selected option) and the Enter key to activate the selected option. The options act as follows:

         New game - This option begins a new game. If you already have a game in the process and you went to the menu by pressing ESC (see the Controls part of this manual below),  the  current  game  is
       ended and a new game begins from the first level.
         Credits - It shows a screen with information about the game's developers.
         Quit - It immediately quits the game. The shareware version will show some teaser  screenshots of the full version before quitting.

   The game
       This is where all the fun takes place. In the game screen you see your character, Nikwi, the monsters, the hazards, the candies and the setting itself. For information about controlling Nikwi, see
       below.

       Some screens -like the Credits screen- wait from the user to press a key in order to dissappear and others -like the logo screen at the beginning on the game- to wait for a few seconds.

   Controls
       You control Nikwi using the keyboard. The keys are presented in the table below:

         Arrow left/right - Make Nikwi walk to the left or the right direction. If Nikwi is in the air, he turn to that direction.

         Arrow up - Make Nikwi jump. Nikwi needs to be on ground in order to jump, but he can also air-jump: if he leaves the ground without jumping (by falling), he can jump in the middle air. Mastering
       air jumping will help the player to complete the game faster.

         F6  -  Restart  level. If you get stuck in a level or you think you can't go back, use F6 to restart the level. There are unlimited times you can play a level, so don't feel bad if you restart a
       level.

         F10 - Quick quit. If, for any reason, you want to exit the game as quickly as possible, press F10 and your wish will become true: the game will exit instantly, like if nothing has happened. Note
       that the shareware version will pop a message reminding you to obtain the full version.

         ESC - Pauses the game and goes back to the menu.

OPTIONS
       These command line options are available:

         --fullscreen
              You can use fullscreen mode by running the game as "nikwi --fullscreen"

REQUIREMENTS
       Nikwi requires at least a Pentium 3 or later CPU to work (it may work with older CPUs, but the use of older CPUs than Pentium 3 is not recommended and definitelly not supported) running  at  least
       at 600MHz. It also requires a graphics card that can support 640x480 with 16bits of color (most cards that are available for Pentium 3 support this mode). Lastly, it requires at least 32MB of sys‐
       tem RAM memory.

       For  smooth  gameplay,  a  CPU  running  at 2GHz and a video card with 2D acceleration and 16MB of video ram is recommended. In order to take advantage of the 2D acceleration, Nikwi must be run in
       fullscreen mode.

       Nikwi requires Windows 2000, Windows XP or newer or Linux with kernel 2.6 or newer. It may work on other operating systems, but we cannot provide support for them.

       For Linux users: Nikwi requires the latest version of SDL (has been tested and compiled with SDL 1.2.9). Most Linux distributions include SDL, but if yours doesn't -or if the version  included  is
       very old- visit http://www.libsdl.org/ to obtain it.

       Note: the game may or may not run in order and weaker systems than those mentioned above. In any case, the use in such systems is discouraged and not supported.

AUTHOR
       Nikwi was written by Kostas "Bad Sector" Michalopoulos <badsector@slashstone.com>.

       This manual page was written for Debian by Miriam Ruiz <little_miry@yahoo.es>.

SEE ALSO
       Nikwi Deluxe Manual ⟨file:///usr/share/doc/nikwi/manual/index.html⟩

       Nikwi Deluxe Homepage ⟨http://badsector.github.io/nikwi/Nikwi_Deluxe/⟩

Nikwi                                                                                         13 December 2012                                                                                     Nikwi(6)
