SYNC-CONTENT(1)                                                         User Commands                                                         SYNC-CONTENT(1)

NAME
       sync-content - synchronize directory, file, and symlink structure

SYNOPSIS
       sync-content [-h] from to

DESCRIPTION
       The sync-content command synchronizes the file, directory, and symbolic link structure from the source path from to the destination path to.  Only en‐
       tries that differ between the source and destination are updated.  Entries that are identical are skipped to minimize unnecessary work.

       The operation is one-way: changes flow from from to to.  No deletions or modifications are performed in the source.

OPTIONS
       -h     Display a help message summarizing usage, arguments, and options, then exit.

FEATURES
       Efficient synchronization
              Only changed or missing entries are copied, reducing I/O and runtime.

       Structure preservation
              Directories, regular files, and symbolic links are replicated exactly.

       Non-destructive
              Existing matching files in the destination are left untouched.

ARGUMENTS
       from   The source directory whose contents will be synchronized.

       to     The target directory that will receive updated or missing entries.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful completion.

       non-zero
              An error occurred during synchronization.

EXAMPLES
       Synchronize the contents of ./src into ./backup:

              sync-content ./src ./backup

NOTES
       sync-content  is  a  lightweight JavaScript implementation inspired by rsync(1), providing a simplified one-way synchronization mechanism suitable for
       development workflows and tooling environments.

       It is used internally by tshy(1) a javascript enhanced builder to replicate directory structures and ensure consistent project layouts.

       The command does not remove files or directories that exist in the destination but not in the source.

SEE ALSO
       rsync(1), cp(1), find(1), tshy(1)

AUTHOR
       Written by Bastien Roucariès from Isaac Z. Schlueter documentation

sync-content                                                            December 2025                                                         SYNC-CONTENT(1)
