monitor(7)                                                                                   NorduGrid Toolkit                                                                                   monitor(7)

NAME
       monitor - Real-time NorduGrid monitoring tool

DESCRIPTION
       LDAP Grid Monitor is a set of PHP and Java scripts, providing a Web interface to the NorduGrid Information System. Should be working for any similar LDAP based service.

REQUIREMENTS
       LDAP library
              e.g., http://www.openldap.org

       GD library
              http://www.boutell.com/gd

       PHP4 library
              http://www.php.net, must be compiled with LDAP and GD extensions

       HTTP server
              must be compiled with PHP4

       Globus MDS
              http://www.globus.org/mds, or a similar LDAP based service

       Virtual Organisation
              Is optional

INSTALLATION
       Copy all the files in a folder, accessible by the HTTP server.

       Modify settings.inc according to your MDS structure and liking.

       Run the whole stuff by loading loadmon.php into your favorite browser.

FILES
       loadmon.php
              To monitor several servers at once, add hosts and DNs to the $arrhost and, correspondingly, $arrbdn arrays in loadmon.php

       isattr.inc cnvname.inc cnvalias.inc
              Making output more human-readable: modify isattr.inc, cnvname.inc, cnvalias.inc.  Otherwise, these files are not needed.

       blacklist.inc
              To prevent sites from being polled, modify array entries in blacklist.inc.  Otherwise, the file is not needed.

       vo-users.php
              Not needed when working without a Virtual Organisation. In such a case, remove the corresponding link from loadmon.php .

       jobstat.php
              When working without the NorduGrid Information System: to make sure that the job status is defined properly, edit jobstat.php (look for adjustment instructions in the code).

AUTHOR
       Oxana Smirnova <oxana dot smirnova at quark dot lu dot se>

SEE ALSO
       ngsub(1), ngstat(1), ngdel(1), ngget(1), ngsync(1), ngcopy(1), ngremove(1)

NorduGrid 7.1.1                                                                                  2003-03-03                                                                                      monitor(7)
