NRPARMS(8)               Linux System Managers Manual               NRPARMS(8)

NAME
       nrparms - Configure the NET/ROM interface.

SYNOPSIS
       nrparms  -nodes  node  +|-  ident  quality  count port neighbour [digi‐
       call...]

       nrparms -routes port nodecall [digicall...] +|- quality

       nrparms -version

DESCRIPTION
       This program is used to manipulate the routing tables  of  the  NET/ROM
       network  layer,  or  to  get  and set many of the network and transport
       layer parameters for the NET/ROM protocol. The program has three  basic
       modes of operation, node setting, neighbour setting and general parame‐
       ter setting. The syntax for the node and  neighbour  setting  is  taken
       from  the  original  NET/ROM manual and is therefore not very UNIXy but
       should be familiar to those familiar with NET/ROMs or TheNet.

       To set up a new route to a NET/ROM node in the routing tables you  must
       use the nodes option. All of the parameters are needed to add the node.
       It is probably best to illustrate with an example:

            nrparms -nodes GB7BPQ + NMCLUS 120 6 vhf G8ROU-3

       This creates a new route to a distant node with the callsign GB7BPQ and
       the alias NMCLUS, it has a quality of 120 (out of 255) and has an obso‐
       lescence count of six and packets for that node should be sent  on  the
       AX.25  port  named vhf to my immediate neighbour G8ROU-3. The callsigns
       of the node and the neighbour may be the same. For example  to  set  up
       the node G8ROU-3 which is also my immediate neighbour, I would use:

            nrparms -nodes G8ROU-3 + MATLCK 200 6 vhf G8ROU-3

       If  the  ident of the remote node is not known, it is possible to add a
       node with a blank ident. To do this an ident of '*' must be entered  on
       the command line. Because of the command line expansion that shells do,
       the * must be escaped by enclosing it in quotes.

       It is also possible to remove a route to a distant node with  the  same
       command except that the + is replaced by a -. The other parameters must
       also be present. If the node has not other routes then the node will be
       deleted, and the neighbour node that the connections go via may also be
       deleted if no other node route uses it, and it is not a  locked  neigh‐
       bour entry.

       When  setting up a new node, a new neighbour entry may also be created.
       This will have a default value. For that neighbour to be meaningful  in
       the  automatic routing process, it must have a more reasonable entry in
       the neighbours list. To do this the routes option of the  command  must
       be used.  An example:

            nrparms -routes ax0 G8ROU-3 + 120

       This  will  create  (or  update) the neighbour entry for G8ROU-3 with a
       quality of 120 and it will be locked, it will not create a  node  entry
       for  the neighbour. This quality will be used by the netromd(8) program
       when calculating route qualities via this neighbour.  Normally  once  a
       neighbour  has zero node routes going via it, it will be deleted. Lock‐
       ing a neighbour prevents the  deletion  from  occurring.  To  unlock  a
       neighbour  entry, the same command is used but with the + replaced by a
       -.

FILES
       /etc/ax25/axports
       /etc/ax25/nrports

SEE ALSO
       call(1), netrom(4), nrports(5), axparms(8), netromd(8), nrparms(8).

AUTHOR
       Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>

Linux                           25 January 1997                     NRPARMS(8)
