nsca-ng(8)                    The NSCA-ng Manual                    nsca-ng(8)

NAME
       nsca-ng - monitoring command acceptor

SYNOPSIS
       nsca-ng [-FSs] [-b listen] [-C file] [-c file] [-l level] [-P file]

       nsca-ng -h | -V

DESCRIPTION
       The nsca-ng server makes the Nagios command file accessible from remote
       systems.  This allows for submitting passive check results,  downtimes,
       and many other commands to Nagios (or compatible monitoring solutions).
       The communication with clients is TLS encrypted and authenticated using
       pre-shared  keys  (as  per RFC 4279).  The nsca-ng server supports per-
       client passwords and fine-grained authorization control.

       The server process rereads its configuration file when  it  receives  a
       hangup  signal (SIGHUP) by executing itself with the name and arguments
       it was started with.

       When compiled with systemd(1) support, the nsca-ng server  auto-detects
       whether it was socket activated.  If so, it behaves as if the -F option
       was specified, while it ignores the -b option and the listen setting in
       the  nsca-ng.cfg(5)  file.   The  nsca-ng  server supports systemd(1)'s
       notify process startup type as well as the WatchdogSec feature (see the
       systemd.service(5) manual).

OPTIONS
       -b listen
              Bind  to the specified listen address or host name.  The default
              setting is “*”, which tells nsca-ng to listen on  all  available
              interfaces.   A  colon  (“:”) followed by a service name or port
              number may be appended in order to  override  the  default  port
              (5668) used by nsca-ng.  If this option is specified, the listen
              setting in the nsca-ng.cfg(5) file is ignored.

       -C file
              Submit monitoring commands into the specified file.  This should
              be  the  named  pipe (FIFO) that Nagios checks for external com‐
              mands to process.  By default,  nsca-ng  submits  commands  into
              /var/nagios/rw/nagios.cmd.   This  option  takes precedence over
              the command_file setting in the nsca-ng.cfg(5) file.

       -c file
              Read the configuration from the specified file instead of  using
              the default configuration file /etc/nsca-ng.cfg.  If a directory
              is specified instead of a file, the configuration will  be  read
              from  all files with a .cfg or .conf extension in this directory
              and all subdirectories.  Symbolic links are followed.

       -F     Don't detach from the controlling terminal, and write  all  mes‐
              sages  to  the  standard  error  output (unless the -s option is
              specified).

       -h     Print usage information to the standard output and exit.

       -l level
              Use the specified log level, which  must  be  an  integer  value
              between 0 and 5 inclusive.  A value of 0 tells nsca-ng to gener‐
              ate only fatal error messages, 1 adds non-fatal error  messages,
              2  adds warnings, 3 additionally spits out every submitted moni‐
              toring command (plus startup and shutdown notices), 4 also  logs
              each  message sent or received at the protocol level, and 5 gen‐
              erates additional debug output.  The default log level is 3.  If
              this   option   is  specified,  the  log_level  setting  in  the
              nsca-ng.cfg(5) file is ignored.

       -P file
              During startup, try to create and lock the  specified  file  and
              write the process ID of the nsca-ng daemon into it.  Bail out if
              another process holds a lock on the file.  By default,  no  such
              PID  file  is  written.   This  option takes precedence over the
              pid_file setting in the nsca-ng.cfg(5) file.

       -S     Write all messages to the standard error output  and  (with  the
              exception  of  startup  messages)  to  the  system logger.  This
              option may only be specified together with the -F option.

       -s     Send all messages to the system logger, except for startup  mes‐
              sages.   This  is the default behaviour (unless the -F option is
              specified).

       -V     Print version information to the standard output and exit.

FILES
       /etc/nsca-ng.cfg
              The nsca-ng.cfg(5) configuration file.

SEE ALSO
       nsca-ng.cfg(5), send_nsca(8), send_nsca.cfg(5)

       http://www.nagios.org/developerinfo/externalcommands/

AUTHOR
       Holger Weiss <holger@weiss.in-berlin.de>

Version 1.6                     March 19, 2019                      nsca-ng(8)
