nsd-checkconf(8)                   nsd 4.3.8                  nsd-checkconf(8)

NAME
       nsd-checkconf - NSD configuration file checker.

SYNOPSIS
       nsd-checkconf [-v] [-f] [-h] [-o option] [-z zonename] [-p pattern] [-s
       keyname] [-t tlsauthname] configfile

DESCRIPTION
       nsd-checkconf reads a configuration file. It  prints  parse  errors  to
       standard  error,  and  performs  additional checks on the contents. The
       configfile format is described in nsd.conf(5).

       The utility of this program is to check a config file for errors before
       using  it in nsd(8). This program can also be used for shell scripts to
       access the nsd config file, using the -o and -z options.

OPTIONS
       -v     After reading print the options to standard output in configfile
              format.  Without  this  option, only success or parse errors are
              reported.

       -f     Print full pathname when used with files, like with -o  pidfile.
              This  includes  the  chroot in the way it is applied to the pid‐
              file.

       -h     Print usage help information and exit.

       -o option
              Return only this option from the config file. This option can be
              used  in  conjunction  with the -z and the -p option, or without
              them to query the server:  section.   The  special  value  zones
              prints  out  a list of configured zones.  The special value pat‐
              terns prints out a list of configured patterns.

              This option can be used to parse the config file from the shell.
              If the -z option is given, but the -o option is not given, noth‐
              ing is printed.

       -s keyname
              Prints the key secret (base64 blob) configured for this  key  in
              the  config  file.  Used  to help shell scripts parse the config
              file.

       -t tls-auth
              Prints the authentication domain name configured for  this  tls-
              auth clause in the config file. Used to help shell scripts parse
              the config file.

       -p pattern
              Return the option specified with -o for the given pattern name.

       -z zonename
              Return the option specified with -o for zone 'zonename'.

              If this option is not given, the server section  of  the  config
              file is used.

              The  -o,  -s  and -z option print configfile options to standard
              output.

FILES
       /etc/nsd/nsd.conf
              default NSD configuration file

SEE ALSO
       nsd(8), nsd.conf(5), nsd-control(8)

AUTHORS
       NSD was written by NLnet Labs and RIPE NCC joint team. Please see CRED‐
       ITS file in the distribution for further details.

NLnet Labs                       Oct 12, 2021                 nsd-checkconf(8)
