NTPWAIT(8)                                                                                           NTPsec                                                                                          NTPWAIT(8)

NAME
       ntpwait - wait for ntpd to stabilize the system clock

SYNOPSIS
       ntpwait [-vV] [-n number] [-s secs]

DESCRIPTION
       The ntpwait program blocks until ntpd is in synchronized state. This can be useful at boot time, to delay the boot sequence until after "ntpd -g" has set the time.

       ntpwait will send at most number queries to ntpd(8), sleeping for secs seconds after each status return that says ntpd(8) has not yet produced a synchronized and stable system clock.

       ntpwait will do this quietly, unless the -v flag is provided.

OPTIONS
       -n number, --tries=number
           Number of times to check ntpd. This option takes an integer number as its argument. The default number for this option is: 100.

           The maximum number of times we will check ntpd to see if it has been able to synchronize and stabilize the system clock.

       -s secs-between-tries, --sleep=secs-between-tries
           How long to sleep between tries. This option takes an integer number as its argument. The default secs-between-tries for this option is: 6.

           We will sleep for secs-between-tries after each query of ntpd that returns "the time is not yet stable".

       -v, --verbose
           Be verbose.

           By default, ntpwait is silent. With this option, ntpwait will provide status information, including time to synchronization in seconds.

       -V, --version
           Print the version string and exit.

BUGS
       If you are running Python at a version older than 3.3, the report on time to synchronization may be thrown off by NTP clock stepping.

EXIT STATUS
       One of the following exit values will be returned:

       0
           Successful program execution.

       1
           The operation failed or the command syntax was not valid.

       2
           Operation was interrupted by signal.

NTPsec                                                                                             2021-07-22                                                                                        NTPWAIT(8)
