POWERMAN-PDU(8)                                                                                  NUT Manual                                                                                 POWERMAN-PDU(8)

NAME
       powerman-pdu - Driver for Powerman PDU

SYNOPSIS
       powerman-pdu -h

       powerman-pdu -a PDU_NAME [OPTIONS]

           Note

           This man page only documents the hardware-specific features of the powerman-pdu driver. For information about the core driver, see nutupsdrv(8).

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       This driver supports a wide range of PDUs through the Powerman project.

       This includes various models from APC, Baytech, Cyclades, but also support IPMI and various blade management modules from HP, IBM and Sun.

EXTRA ARGUMENTS
       This driver doesn’t support any optional settings.

INSTALLATION
       This driver may be not built by default. You can build it by installing prerequisites and using configure --with-powerman=yes.

UPS COMMANDS
       The following instant commands (see upscmd(8)) are available for each outlet of the PDU, with X standing for the outlet number:

       outlet.X.load.on
           Power on the outlet.

       outlet.X.load.off
           Power off the outlet.

       outlet.X.load.cycle
           Cycle the outlet (power off then power on, possibly with a delay).

IMPLEMENTATION
       The hostname of the Powerman server is specified using the "port" value in ups.conf, i.e.:

           [pdu]
                   driver = powerman-pdu
                   port = host.example.com:port

       The port used to reach powermand is optional if the default port is used.

KNOWN ISSUES
       In the current NUT version as of this writing (2.4.1), ups.status is still exposed, with the value "WAIT". Some other values from the ups collection are also exposed.

   Using host names for UPS NMC
       An UPS network management card may be assigned a fixed/static IP address or a dynamic one (e.g. by DHCP) in your network. Due to this, you may want or have to use a dynamic naming service to
       access the UPS. Note that this may become a problem specifically during large outages and shutdowns, when your DHCP/DNS server might already go down while the driver needs to resolve the name
       involved (especially during late-shutdown hooks, when a new instance of the driver program might start just to tell the UPS to power off or to power-cycle).

       It may be wise to ensure your OS name service client can cache the UPS name sufficiently long, or to use fixed IP addressing (and an entry in /etc/hosts for good measure, so you only have one spot
       to eventually re-configure this).

AUTHOR
       Arnaud Quette <arnaud.quette@gmail.com>

SEE ALSO
   The core driver:
       nutupsdrv(8)

   Internet resources:
       •   The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: https://www.networkupstools.org/historic/v2.8.4/

       •   The PowerMan home page: https://github.com/chaos/powerman

Network UPS Tools 2.8.4                                                                          10/17/2025                                                                                 POWERMAN-PDU(8)
