
NVTV(1x)                                                                                         User Commands                                                                                         NVTV(1x)

NAME
       nvtv — GUI to control TV output hardware settings

DESCRIPTION
       nvtv  is  a small utility to control the output modes of TV-OUT encoders on many Nvidia-based video cards, as well as on the Voodoo3 video card. Use this with care, you may damage your hardware with a
       wrong set of options! You can find more detailed descritiptions of each option in the file /usr/share/doc/nvtv/USAGE.gz .

OPTIONS
       -h --help
              Print help message

       --display hst:#
              X server to contact

       -m --tv-off
              TV off, switch to monitor

       -t --tv-on
              TV on

       -b --tv-bars
              Color bars

       -p --print
              Calculate and print register values

       -F --fetch
              Fetch current mode (use only for printing)

       -l --list
              List available modes on stdout. Must be combined with -T if hardware is not accessible. Can be combined with -S. Fields are separated by tabs, and contain TV system, resolution, size,  overscan
              compenstation percentage, and aspect in that order.

       -r --resolution x,y
              Select resolution (screen size in pixels)

       -o --overscan x,y
              Select overscan compensation percentage (as float)

       -s --size #
              Select size (for predefined modes)

       -S --system
              NTSC,NTSC-J,PAL,PAL-60,PAL-NC,PAL-M,PAL-M60,PAL-X,SECAM

              Select the TV system. PAL-X is a pseudo-PAL system with slightly different subcarrier frequencies.

       -C --connector
              AUTO, COMPOSITE, SVIDEO, BOTH, CONVERT

              Select the video connecter. CONVERT compensates for cheap SVideo to composite converter cables that don't merge both lines. FBAS and SVHS are still recognized for compatibility reasons.

       -T --chip <encoder type> or <bus>:<addr>
              Select the encoder chip by I2C bus and address, or by type (BROOKTREE, CONEXANT, NVIDIA, CHRONTEL1,C HRONTEL2, PHILIPS1, PHILIPS2).  CHRONTEL and PHILIPS default to CHRONTEL1 and PHILIPS1.

       -A --card-addr <bus>:<slot>.<func>
              Graphics card pci address (hexadecimal), as given by lspci.

       -W --win-id id
              Select window by numerical id

       -w --win-name name
              Select window by name

       -c --center
              Center selected window

       -X --switch-mode
              Switch X mode

       -1     Use first head

       -2     Use second head (if available)

       -q --query
              Query status of display (monitor, TV, flatpanel)

       -P --probe
              Probe and print system information

       -N --nvdev
              Enable usage of /dev/nv* devices

       -g --gui
              Always use gui

       -n --no-root
              (only for debugging)

       -d --debug
              (only for debugging)

       --set name:val
              Specify the setting name with value val (see below).

SETTINGS
       A  complete  list  of  all available settings can be obtained with the option -h. The values may be adjusted according to the capabilities of the TV encoder chip, and not all encoders support all set‐
       tings. Also, equal values may have different effects for different encoder chips.

       Settings include

       Contrast
              from -100 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       Saturation
              from -100 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       Brightness#
              from -50 (percent) to 50 (percent). This setting and the two following settings change the TV signal directly and should be used carefully.  Extreme values may degrade  the  signal  up  to  the
              point where it cannot be properly displayed anymore.

       Contrast#
              from -50 (percent) to 50 (percent).

       Saturation#
              from -50 (percent) to 50 (percent).

       Phase  from -60 (degrees) to 60 (degrees).

       Hue    from -60 (degrees) to 60 (degrees).

       Flicker
              Flicker filter, from 0 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       AdaptFlicker
              Adaptive flicker filter, from 0 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       LumaBandwidth
              Bandwidth filter for the luminance channel, from 0 (percent) to 100 (percent).  Larger bandwidth gives more horizontal detail, but is also more sensitive to noise.

       ChromaBandwidth
              Bandwidth filter for the chrominance channel, from 0 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       Sharpness
              Sharpness (or text enhancement) filter, from 0 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       CrossColor
              Cross color reduction filter, from 0 (percent) to 100 (percent).

       Dualview
              Flag to dislay the image both on the monitor and the TV. Not supported for all modes.

       Monochrome
              Flag to display TV image in monochrome.

       Non-Interlaced
              Flag to display TV image in non-interlaced mode. Reduces vertical detail, but decreases flicker.

       Macrovision
              Flag to enable macrovision.

       FreeCarrier
              Flag to let the color carrier generator run free.

       Colorfix
              Flag to fix the color format for Philips encoder chips.

       AdjustCursor
              Flag to adjust cursor when in shared view dualhead mode.

       ViewportCursor (flag)
              Flag to adjust the TV viewport by cursor when in shared view dualhead mode.

       ViewportMonitor (flag)
              Flag to adjust the TV viewport by the monitor viewport when in shared view dualhead mode.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for nvtv is located in /usr/share/doc/nvtv/ directory.

AUTHORS
       Dirk Thierbach
       dthierbach@gmx.de

       Eduard Bloch, for the the Debian system.
       blade@debian.org

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the BSD License.

User Commands                                                                                      March 2002                                                                                          NVTV(1x)
