NYINDEX(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  NYINDEX(1)

NAME
       nyindex - tool to print index of specialized-format patches

SYNOPSIS
       nyindex pam options [ print ] [ .go ]

DESCRIPTION
       nyindex is a tool in the Nypatchy suite of programs for working with Patchy Master Files (PAM files); see nypatchy(1).  Specifically, it can output a table of contents and/or index for these files.

USAGE
       The parameter pam is the name of the PAM file (a default extension of ".car" is assumed), print is the output file to write to (the default is standard output if omitted), and options is a sequence of
       single-character flags.

       The command should be ended with ".go" unless one wants to enter the Nypatchy interactive shell.

OPTIONS
       Note that options should be given as a single string of characters with no space separation and no use of the - character (except that it can be used in place of the options field if  no  options  are
       desired).  Alphabetic options are not case-sensitive.

       B      Print bare table of contents without comments.

       H      Print help information only.

       P      Patch names only in the table of contents.

       Q      Quick: suppress the table of contents.

       X      Suppress the index of patch, deck, and sequence names.

       Y      Suppress the index of deck and sequence names.

       Z      Suppress the index of sequence names.

       n      For n a number from 0 to 4 inclusive, assume 58, 62, 74, 84, or 98 lines per page in the output.  (The default is 110 lines per page.)  For n a number greater than or equal to 20, use that spe‐
              cific number of lines per page.

       +      Inhibit the initial page-eject.

SEE ALSO
       fcasplit(1), nycheck(1), nydiff(1), nylist(1), nymerge(1), nypatchy(1), nyshell(1), nysynopt(1), nytidy(1), yexpand(1)

       The reference manual for the Nypatchy suite of programs is available in compressed PostScript format at the following URL:
       http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/psdir/p5refman.ps.gz

       Running the command "nyindex help .no" also gives some brief help on usage.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Kevin McCarty <kmccarty@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  It is licensed under the GNU General  Public  License,  version  2  or
       later (at your choice).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) Kevin B. McCarty, 2008.

                                                                                                  Mar 12, 2008                                                                                       NYINDEX(1)
