NYSYNOPT(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 NYSYNOPT(1)

NAME
       nysynopt - tool to list contents of specialized-format patches

SYNOPSIS
       nysynopt pam options cradle [ print ] [ .go ]

DESCRIPTION
       nysynopt is a tool in the Nypatchy suite of programs for working with Patchy Master Files (PAM files); see nypatchy(1).  Like nylist, it can print a listing (including line numbers) of the contents of
       these files.  However, it permits fine-tuning of the output through the use of a cradle file whose syntax is a subset of the nypatchy instruction set.  It also expands sequences inline.

USAGE
       The parameter pam is the name of the PAM file (a default extension of ".car" is assumed), print is the output file to write to (the default is standard output if omitted), and options is a sequence of
       single-character  flags.  cradle is the set of instructions for nysynopt.  If cradle is not given (or is replaced with "-"), standard input is assumed.  This argument may also be replaced by the three
       characters "EOF" to indicate that there is no cradle.

       The command should be ended with ".go" unless one wants to enter the Nypatchy interactive shell.

OPTIONS
       Note that options should be given as a single string of characters with no space separation and no use of the - character (except that it can be used in place of the options field if  no  options  are
       desired).  Alphabetic options are not case-sensitive.

       E      Page ejects forced in the PAM file with +SEQ,QEJECT are honored (only if the S option is also given).

       H      Print help information only.

       I      Line numbers for individual PAM files should each start at zero.

       M      Missing sequences should be signalled.

       S      Start each new deck on a new page.

       X      Do not signal actions.

       Y      Do not expand sequences called by +CDE.

       Z      Do not expand sequences called by +SEQ.

       n      For n a number from 0 to 4 inclusive, assume 58, 62, 74, 84, or 98 lines per page in the output.  (The default is 110 lines per page.)  For n a number greater than or equal to 20, use that spe‐
              cific number of lines per page.

       +      Inhibit the initial page-eject.

SEE ALSO
       fcasplit(1), nycheck(1), nydiff(1), nyindex(1), nylist(1), nymerge(1), nypatchy(1), nyshell(1), nytidy(1), yexpand(1)

       The reference manual for the Nypatchy suite of programs is available in compressed PostScript format at the following URL:
       http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/psdir/p5refman.ps.gz

       Running the command "nysynopt help .no" also gives some brief help on usage.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Kevin McCarty <kmccarty@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  It is licensed under the GNU General  Public  License,  version  2  or
       later (at your choice).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) Kevin B. McCarty, 2008.

                                                                                                  Mar 12, 2008                                                                                      NYSYNOPT(1)
