OAKLISP(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                OAKLISP(1)

NAME
       oaklisp - An implementation of the Oaklisp object-oriented Scheme dialect

SYNOPSIS
       oaklisp [ emulator-options ... [ -- oaklisp-options ... ]]

DESCRIPTION
       Oaklisp  is  an  object-oriented  dialect  of  Scheme.   This  implementation is quite portable, compiling to a virtual machine which is emulated by a C program.  Nevertheless, reasonable speed is
       achieved through a variety of sophisticated techniques.

OPTIONS
       Options are all long, and it makes no difference if you start them with one or two dashes (`-').  All options can be abbreviated to a unique prefix.  There are two sorts of options: for the  byte‐
       code emulator, and for the Oaklisp world.  You must use a -- to separate them.

   EMULATOR OPTIONS
       --help Show summary of emulator options and exit

       --version
              Print version of emulator and exit

       --world file
              file is world to load

       --dump file
              dump world to file upon exit

       --d file
              synonym for --dump

       --dump-base b
              0=ascii, 2=binary; default=2

       --predump-gc b
              0=no, 1=yes; default=1

       --size-heap n
              n is in kilo-refs, default 128

       --size-val-stk n
              value stack buffer, n is in refs

       --size-cxt-stk n
              context stack buffer, n is in refs

       --size-seg-max n
              maximum flushed segment len, n is in refs

       --trace-gc v
              0=quiet, 3=very detailed; default=0

       --verbose-gc v
              synonym for --trace-gc

       --trace-traps

       --trace-files
              trace filesystem operations

   UNOPTIMIZED EMULATOR OPTIONS
       --trace-segs
              trace stack segment writes/reads

       --trace-valcon
              print entire value stack at each instr

       --trace-cxtcon
              print entire context stack at each instr

       --trace-stks
              print the size of the stacks at each instr

       --trace-instructions
              trace each bytecode executed

       --trace-methods
              trace each method lookup

       --trace-mcache
              trace method cache

   OAKLISP OPTIONS
       --help Show summary of Oaklisp options

       --eval expr
              Evaluate Oaklisp expression, which is one arg so be sure to quote for shell.

       --load file
              Load a file.

       --compile file
              Compile file.oak yielding file.oa

       --locale x
              Switch to locale x, eg system-locale (default), compiler-locale, scheme-locale (for RnRS compatibility).

       --exit Exit upon processing this option.

EXAMPLES
       This will compile the file myfile.oak in the scheme locale and then leave the user in a read-eval-print loop in the scheme locale.

       oaklisp -- --locale scheme-locale --compile myfile

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variable OAKWORLD will override the default compiled into the executable, but itself can be overridden on the command line.

FILES
       /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/oaklisp/oakworld.bin holds the world image.  It is portable between machines of the same endianity.  The location can vary depending upon installation-time decisions.

BUGS
       Floating  point  numbers are not implemented.  Rationals can be used to make up for this lack because rationals can be told to print in floating point format and floating point format input can be
       made to read as rational numbers.  (There are a couple floating point implementations, but they are not merged into the distributed release.)

       In contrast to the error handling system, which is Industrial Strength, the debugger is virtually nonexistent.

       There is no foreign function interface for loading and calling C routines from a running Oaklisp.  (Again, there are a couple implementations of foreign function interfaces which  are  not  merged
       in.)

       The memory format does not support uninterpreted "blobs".

       Porting the system to 64-bit machines has not been done, and would be quite difficult.

       POSIX threads in the emulator never got quite finished.

       Bug reports and enhancements can be filed on the github issue tracker ⟨https://github.com/barak/oaklisp⟩.

REFERENCES
       The programs are documented more fully in the language and implementation manuals lang.pdf and lim.pdf, along with OaklispSummary.pdf, whose source is included with the distribution, and installed
       in /usr/share/doc/oaklisp/.

       The Oaklisp home page is old location ⟨http://barak.pearlmutter.net/oaklisp/⟩ to github ⟨https://github.com/barak/oaklisp⟩.

       The Implementation of Oaklisp is a chapter in Topics in Advanced Language Implementation edited by Peter Lee, pp 189-215, MIT Press, 1991.

       Oaklisp: an Object-Oriented Dialect of Scheme appears in the journal Lisp and Symbolic Computation 1(1):39-51, published by Klewer Associates, May 1988.

       Oaklisp: an Object-Oriented Scheme with First Class Types appeared in proceedings of the ACM conference OOPSLA-86, pp30-37, published as a special issue of SIGPLAN Notices.

       Garbage collection with pointers to single cells, an article on the Oaklisp garbage collector, appeared in Communications of the ACM, 39(12):202-206 (online edition), December 1996.

       The Revised^n Report on Scheme is a useful piece of documentation, and is widely available online.

DISTRIBUTION
       The  Oaklisp copyright belongs to its authors.  It is distributed under the GNU General Public License, a copy of which is included in the source distribution in the file COPYING.  For further in‐
       formation or to make alternate arrangements please contact the authors, who are surprisingly reasonable people.

AUTHOR
       Oaklisp was originally designed, implemented, and documented by Barak A. Pearlmutter and Kevin J. Lang.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 OAKLISP(1)
