oc-inject(1)                                                                                                                                                                                       oc-inject(1)

NAME
       oc-inject - Copy and run an executable into an OpenShift container

SYNOPSIS
       oc-inject pod-ID [-c container-ID] executable
       oc-inject pod-ID [-c container-ID] -- executable args...

DESCRIPTION
       Copy an executable into an OpenShift container and run the executable.

       oc-inject is a tool for last-resort troubleshooting of a running container, when a required debugging tool is not present in the container image.

       oc-inject collects an executable from the local system together with the minimal dependencies (shared libraries and ld.so loader binary) required to run it, then copies the executable and dependencies
       into an OpenShift container by invoking oc cp.  oc-inject then runs the executable by invoking oc exec.  This can be used to install and run basic debugging tools such as  gdbserver  and  strace  into
       running containers that would otherwise lack debugging facilities.

EXAMPLES
       The following command installs strace from the local machine into the first container in pod myapp-zrblm and invokes it to trace all syscalls made by the process with PID 414:

              $ oc-inject -it myapp-zrblm -- strace -p 414

       The following commands install the gdbserver executable from the local machine into the first container in pod myapp-zrblm and request a backtrace of all threads in the process with PID 23:

              $ gdb
              (gdb) target extended-remote | ./oc-inject -i myapp-zrblm -- gdbserver --multi -
              (gdb) attach 23
              (gdb) thread apply all bt

OPTIONS
       -c container-ID, --container container-ID
              Name of target container in the pod.  If omitted, the first container in the pod will be chosen.

       --custom-loader custom-loader
              Use a custom loader binary instead of ld.so.

       -h, --help
              Show a help message and exit.

       -i, --stdin
              For interactive programs: pass stdin to the container.

       --java Treat executable as a JDK tool: copy and load additional Java libraries.

       -n, --dry-run
              Output the oc commands that would be used to copy and run the executable, but do not execute them.

       --oc-command oc
              Use a custom command instead of oc to access the container.  For example, use --oc-command=kubectl to access a Kubernetes container.

       -s, --static
              Treat executable as a static binary: do not copy any dependencies.

       -t, --tty
              For interactive programs: treat stdin passed to the container as a TTY.

       -T custom-tmpdir, --custom-tmpdir custom-tmpdir
              Use a custom temporary directory for collecting the executable and dependencies.

       -v, --verbose
              Output the oc commands used to copy and run the executable.

BUGS
       See GitHub Issues: <https://github.com/serhei/oc-inject/issues>

AUTHORS
       Serhei Makarov <smakarov@redhat.com>

WWW
       https://github.com/serhei/oc-inject

SEE ALSO
       oc(1), oc-exec(1), kubectl(1), ldd(1), ld.so(8)

version 0.7.9                                                                                                                                                                                      oc-inject(1)
