OCAML(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  OCAML(1)

NAME
       ocaml - The OCaml interactive toplevel

SYNOPSIS
       ocaml [ options ] [ object-files ] [ script-file ]

DESCRIPTION
       The ocaml(1) command is the toplevel system for OCaml, that permits interactive use of the OCaml system through a read-eval-print loop. In this mode, the system repeatedly reads OCaml phrases from
       standard input, then typechecks, compiles and evaluates them, then prints the inferred type and result value, if any.  End-of-file on standard input terminates ocaml(1).

       Input to the toplevel can span several lines. It begins after the # (sharp) prompt printed by the system and is terminated by ;; (a double-semicolon) followed by optional white space and an end of
       line.  The toplevel input consists in one or several toplevel phrases.

       If one or more object-files (ending in .cmo or .cma) are given on the command line, they are loaded silently before starting the toplevel.

       If a script-file is given, phrases are read silently from the file, errors printed on standard error.  ocaml(1) exits after the execution of the last phrase.

OPTIONS
       The following command-line options are recognized by ocaml(1).

       -absname
              Show absolute filenames in error messages.

       -no-absname
              Do not try to show absolute filenames in error messages.

       -I directory
              Add the given directory to the list of directories searched for source and compiled files. By default, the current directory is searched first, then the standard library directory. Directo‐
              ries added with -I are searched after the current directory, in the order in which they were given on the command line, but before the standard library directory.

              If  the given directory starts with +, it is taken relative to the standard library directory. For instance, -I +compiler-libs adds the subdirectory compiler-libs of the standard library to
              the search path.

              Directories can also be added to the search path once the toplevel is running with the #directory directive.

       -init file
              Load the given file instead of the default initialization file.  See the "Initialization file" section below.

       -labels
              Labels are not ignored in types, labels may be used in applications, and labelled parameters can be given in any order.  This is the default.

       -no-app-funct
              Deactivates the applicative behaviour of functors. With this option, each functor application generates new types in its result and applying the same functor  twice  to  the  same  argument
              yields two incompatible structures.

       -noassert
              Do not compile assertion checks.  Note that the special form assert false is always compiled because it is typed specially.

       -noinit
              Do not load any initialization file.  See the "Initialization file" section below.

       -nolabels
              Ignore non-optional labels in types. Labels cannot be used in applications, and parameter order becomes strict.

       -noprompt
              Do not display any prompt when waiting for input.

       -nopromptcont
              Do not display the secondary prompt when waiting for continuation lines in multi-line inputs.  This should be used e.g. when running ocaml(1) in an emacs(1) window.

       -nostdlib
              Do not include the standard library directory in the list of directories searched for source and compiled files.

       -open module
              Opens  the given module before starting the toplevel. If several -open options are given, they are processed in order, just as if the statements open! module1;; ... open! moduleN;; were in‐
              put.

       -ppx command
              After parsing, pipe the abstract syntax tree through the preprocessor command.  The module Ast_mapper(3) implements the external interface of a preprocessor.

       -principal
              Check information path during type-checking, to make sure that all types are derived in a principal way.  When using labelled arguments and/or polymorphic methods, this flag is required  to
              ensure  future versions of the compiler will be able to infer types correctly, even if internal algorithms change.  All programs accepted in -principal mode are also accepted in the default
              mode with equivalent types, but different binary signatures, and this may slow down type checking; yet it is a good idea to use it once before publishing source code.

       -no-principal
              Do not check principality of type inference.  This is the default.

       -rectypes
              Allow arbitrary recursive types during type-checking.  By default, only recursive types where the recursion goes through an object type are supported.

       -no-rectypes
              Do no allow arbitrary recursive types during type-checking.  This is the default.

       -safe-string
              Enforce the separation between types string and bytes, thereby making strings read-only. This is the default.

       -safer-matching
              Do not use type information to optimize pattern-matching.  This allows to detect match failures even if a pattern-matching was wrongly assumed to be exhaustive. This only impacts  GADT  and
              polymorphic variant compilation.

       -short-paths
              When a type is visible under several module-paths, use the shortest one when printing the type's name in inferred interfaces and error and warning messages.

       -stdin Read the standard input as a script file rather than starting an interactive session.

       -strict-sequence
              Force the left-hand part of each sequence to have type unit.

       -no-strict-sequence
              Left-hand part of a sequence need not have type unit.  This is the default.

       -unboxed-types
              When a type is unboxable (i.e. a record with a single argument or a concrete datatype with a single constructor of one argument) it will be unboxed unless annotated with [@@ocaml.boxed].

       -no-unboxed-types
              When a type is unboxable  it will be boxed unless annotated with [@@ocaml.unboxed].  This is the default.

       -unsafe
              Turn  bound  checking off on array and string accesses (the v.(i) and s.[i] constructs). Programs compiled with -unsafe are therefore slightly faster, but unsafe: anything can happen if the
              program accesses an array or string outside of its bounds.

       -unsafe-string
              Identify the types string and bytes, thereby making strings writable.  This is intended for compatibility with old source code and should not be used with new software.

       -version
              Print version string and exit.

       -vnum  Print short version number and exit.

       -no-version
              Do not print the version banner at startup.

       -w warning-list
              Enable or disable warnings according to the argument warning-list.  See ocamlc(1) for the syntax of the warning-list argument.

       -warn-error warning-list
              Mark as fatal the warnings described by the argument warning-list.  Note that a warning is not triggered (and does not trigger an error) if it is disabled by the -w option.   See  ocamlc(1)
              for the syntax of the warning-list argument.

       -color mode
              Enable or disable colors in compiler messages (especially warnings and errors).  The following modes are supported:

              auto use heuristics to enable colors only if the output supports them (an ANSI-compatible tty terminal);

              always enable colors unconditionally;

              never disable color output.

              The environment variable "OCAML_COLOR" is considered if -color is not provided. Its values are auto/always/never as above.

              If  -color  is  not provided, "OCAML_COLOR" is not set and the environment variable "NO_COLOR" is set, then color output is disabled. Otherwise, the default setting is auto, and the current
              heuristic checks that the "TERM" environment variable exists and is not empty or "dumb", and that isatty(stderr) holds.

       -error-style mode
              Control the way error messages and warnings are printed.  The following modes are supported:

              short only print the error and its location;

              contextual like "short", but also display the source code snippet corresponding to the location of the error.

              The default setting is contextual.

              The environment variable "OCAML_ERROR_STYLE" is considered if -error-style is not provided. Its values are short/contextual as above.

       -warn-help
              Show the description of all available warning numbers.

       - file Use file as a script file name, even when it starts with a hyphen (-).

       -help or --help
              Display a short usage summary and exit.

INITIALIZATION FILE
       When ocaml(1) is invoked, it will read phrases from an initialization file before giving control to the user. The file read is the first found of:

       1.     .ocamlinit in the current directory;

       2.     XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ocaml/init.ml, if XDG_CONFIG_HOME is an absolute path;

       3.     otherwise, on Unix, HOME/ocaml/init.ml or, on Windows, ocaml\init.ml under LocalAppData (e.g. C:\Users\Bactrian\AppData\Local\ocaml\init.ml);

       4.     ocaml/init.ml under any of the absolute paths in XDG_CONFIG_DIRS.  Paths in XDG_CONFIG_DIRS are colon-delimited on Unix, and semicolon-delimited on Windows;

       5.     if XDG_CONFIG_DIRS contained no absolute paths, /usr/xdg/ocaml/init.ml on Unix or, ocaml\init.ml under any  of  LocalAppData  (e.g.  C:\Users\Bactrian\AppData\Local),  RoamingAppData  (e.g.
              C:\Users\Bactrian\AppData\Roaming), or ProgramData (e.g. C:\ProgramData) on Windows;

       6.     HOME/.ocamlinit, if HOME is non-empty;

              You can specify a different initialization file by using the -init file option, and disable initialization files by using the -noinit option.

              Note that you can also use the #use directive to read phrases from a file.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       OCAMLTOP_UTF_8
              When printing string values, non-ascii bytes (>0x7E) are printed as decimal escape sequence if OCAMLTOP_UTF_8 is set to false. Otherwise they are printed unescaped.

       TERM   When  printing error messages, the toplevel system attempts to underline visually the location of the error. It consults the TERM variable to determines the type of output terminal and look
              up its capabilities in the terminal database.

       XDG_CONFIG_HOME HOME XDG_CONFIG_DIRS
              See INITIALIZATION FILE above.

SEE ALSO
       ocamlc(1), ocamlopt(1), ocamlrun(1).
       The OCaml user's manual, chapter "The toplevel system".

                                                                                                                                                                                                   OCAML(1)
