OCAMLC(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   OCAMLC(1)

NAME
       ocamlc - The OCaml bytecode compiler

SYNOPSIS
       ocamlc [ options ] filename ...

       ocamlc.opt [ options ] filename ...

DESCRIPTION
       The  OCaml  bytecode  compiler  ocamlc(1) compiles OCaml source files to bytecode object files and links these object files to produce standalone bytecode executable files.  These executable files are
       then run by the bytecode interpreter ocamlrun(1).

       The ocamlc(1) command has a command-line interface similar to the one of most C compilers. It accepts several types of arguments and processes them sequentially, after all options have been processed:

       Arguments ending in .mli are taken to be source files for compilation unit interfaces. Interfaces specify the names exported by compilation units: they declare value names  with  their  types,  define
       public data types, declare abstract data types, and so on. From the file x.mli, the ocamlc(1) compiler produces a compiled interface in the file x.cmi.

       Arguments  ending  in  .ml are taken to be source files for compilation unit implementations. Implementations provide definitions for the names exported by the unit, and also contain expressions to be
       evaluated for their side-effects.  From the file x.ml, the ocamlc(1) compiler produces compiled object bytecode in the file x.cmo.

       If the interface file x.mli exists, the implementation x.ml is checked against the corresponding compiled interface x.cmi, which is assumed to exist. If no interface x.mli is provided, the compilation
       of x.ml produces a compiled interface file x.cmi in addition to the compiled object code file x.cmo.  The file x.cmi produced corresponds to an interface that exports everything that is defined in the
       implementation x.ml.

       Arguments ending in .cmo are taken to be compiled object bytecode.  These files are linked together, along with the object files obtained by compiling .ml arguments (if any), and  the  OCaml  standard
       library,  to  produce  a  standalone executable program. The order in which .cmo and.ml arguments are presented on the command line is relevant: compilation units are initialized in that order at run-
       time, and it is a link-time error to use a component of a unit before having initialized it. Hence, a given x.cmo file must come before all .cmo files that refer to the unit x.

       Arguments ending in .cma are taken to be libraries of object bytecode.  A library of object bytecode packs in a single file a set of object bytecode  files  (.cmo  files).  Libraries  are  built  with
       ocamlc -a (see the description of the -a option below). The object files contained in the library are linked as regular .cmo files (see above), in the order specified when the .cma file was built. The
       only difference is that if an object file contained in a library is not referenced anywhere in the program, then it is not linked in.

       Arguments ending in .c are passed to the C compiler, which generates a .o object file. This object file is linked with the program if the -custom flag is set (see the description of -custom below).

       Arguments ending in .o or .a are assumed to be C object files and libraries. They are passed to the C linker when linking in -custom mode (see the description of -custom below).

       Arguments ending in .so are assumed to be C shared libraries (DLLs).  During linking, they are searched for external C functions referenced from the OCaml code, and their names are written in the gen‐
       erated bytecode executable.  The run-time system ocamlrun(1) then loads them dynamically at program start-up time.

       The output of the linking phase is a file containing compiled bytecode that can be executed by the OCaml bytecode interpreter: the command ocamlrun(1).  If caml.out is the name of the file produced by
       the linking phase, the command ocamlrun caml.out arg1  arg2 ... argn executes the compiled code contained in caml.out, passing it as arguments the character strings arg1 to argn.  (See ocamlrun(1) for
       more details.)

       On most systems, the file produced by the linking phase can be run directly, as in: ./caml.out arg1  arg2 ... argn.  The produced file has the executable bit set, and it manages to launch the bytecode
       interpreter by itself.

       ocamlc.opt is the same compiler as ocamlc, but compiled with the native-code compiler ocamlopt(1).  Thus, it behaves exactly like ocamlc, but compiles faster.  ocamlc.opt may not be available  in  all
       installations of OCaml.

OPTIONS
       The following command-line options are recognized by ocamlc(1).

       -a     Build  a  library  (.cma file) with the object files (.cmo files) given on the command line, instead of linking them into an executable file. The name of the library must be set with the -o op‐
              tion.

              If -custom, -cclib or -ccopt options are passed on the command line, these options are stored in the resulting .cma library.  Then, linking with this library automatically adds back  the  -cus‐
              tom, -cclib and -ccopt  options  as if they had been provided on the command line, unless the -noautolink option is given. Additionally, a substring $CAMLORIGIN inside a  -ccopt options will be
              replaced by the full path to the .cma library, excluding the filename.  -absname Show absolute filenames in error messages.

       -annot Deprecated since 4.11. Please use -bin-annot instead.

       -bin-annot
              Dump detailed information about the compilation (types, bindings, tail-calls, etc) in binary format. The information for file src.ml is put into file src.cmt.  In case of a type error, dump all
              the information inferred by the type-checker before the error.  The annotation files produced by -bin-annot contain more information and are much more compact than the files produced by -annot.

       -c     Compile only. Suppress the linking phase of the compilation. Source code files are turned into compiled files, but no executable file is produced. This option is useful to compile modules sepa‐
              rately.

       -cc ccomp
              Use ccomp as the C linker when linking in "custom runtime" mode (see the -custom option) and as the C compiler for compiling .c source files.

       -cclib -llibname
              Pass the -llibname option to the C linker when linking in "custom runtime" mode (see the -custom option). This causes the given C library to be linked with the program.

       -ccopt option
              Pass the given option to the C compiler and linker, when linking in "custom runtime" mode (see the -custom option). For instance, -ccopt -Ldir causes the C linker to search for C  libraries  in
              directory dir.

       -color mode
              Enable or disable colors in compiler messages (especially warnings and errors).  The following modes are supported:

              auto use heuristics to enable colors only if the output supports them (an ANSI-compatible tty terminal);

              always enable colors unconditionally;

              never disable color output.

              The default setting is auto, and the current heuristic checks that the "TERM" environment variable exists and is not empty or "dumb", and that isatty(stderr) holds.

              The environment variable "OCAML_COLOR" is considered if -color is not provided. Its values are auto/always/never as above.

       -error-style mode
              Control the way error messages and warnings are printed.  The following modes are supported:

              short only print the error and its location;

              contextual like "short", but also display the source code snippet corresponding to the location of the error.

              The default setting is contextual.

              The environment variable "OCAML_ERROR_STYLE" is considered if -error-style is not provided. Its values are short/contextual as above.

       -compat-32
              Check that the generated bytecode executable can run on 32-bit platforms and signal an error if it cannot. This is useful when compiling bytecode on a 64-bit machine.

       -config
              Print the version number of ocamlc(1) and a detailed summary of its configuration, then exit.

       -config-var
              Print the value of a specific configuration variable from the -config output, then exit. If the variable does not exist, the exit code is non-zero.

       -custom
              Link  in  "custom  runtime"  mode.  In the default linking mode, the linker produces bytecode that is intended to be executed with the shared runtime system, ocamlrun(1).  In the custom runtime
              mode, the linker produces an output file that contains both the runtime system and the bytecode for the program. The resulting file is larger, but it can  be  executed  directly,  even  if  the
              ocamlrun(1) command is not installed. Moreover, the "custom runtime" mode enables linking OCaml code with user-defined C functions.

              Never use the strip(1) command on executables produced by ocamlc -custom, this would remove the bytecode part of the executable.

              Security warning: never set the "setuid" or "setgid" bits on executables produced by ocamlc -custom, this would make them vulnerable to attacks.

       -depend ocamldep-args
              Compute dependencies, as ocamldep would do.

       -dllib -llibname
              Arrange for the C shared library dlllibname.so to be loaded dynamically by the run-time system ocamlrun(1) at program start-up time.

       -dllpath dir
              Adds  the  directory  dir  to the run-time search path for shared C libraries.  At link-time, shared libraries are searched in the standard search path (the one corresponding to the -I option).
              The -dllpath option simply stores dir in the produced executable file, where ocamlrun(1) can find it and use it.

       -for-pack module-path
              Generate an object  file  (.cmo  file)  that  can  later  be  included  as  a  sub-module  (with  the  given  access  path)  of  a  compilation  unit  constructed  with  -pack.   For  instance,
              ocamlc -for-pack P -c A.ml  will  generate a.cmo that can later be used with ocamlc -pack -o P.cmo a.cmo.  Note: you can still pack a module that was compiled without -for-pack but in this case
              exceptions will be printed with the wrong names.

       -g     Add debugging information while compiling and linking. This option is required in order to be able to debug the program with ocamldebug(1) and to produce stack backtraces when the program  ter‐
              minates on an uncaught exception.

       -i     Cause the compiler to print all defined names (with their inferred types or their definitions) when compiling an implementation (.ml file). No compiled files (.cmo and .cmi files) are produced.
              This can be useful to check the types inferred by the compiler. Also, since the output follows the syntax of interfaces, it can help in writing an explicit interface (.mli  file)  for  a  file:
              just redirect the standard output of the compiler to a .mli file, and edit that file to remove all declarations of unexported names.

       -I directory
              Add the given directory to the list of directories searched for compiled interface files (.cmi), compiled object code files (.cmo), libraries (.cma), and C libraries specified with -cclib -lxxx
              .  By default, the current directory is searched first, then the standard library directory. Directories added with -I are searched after the current directory, in the order in which they  were
              given on the command line, but before the standard library directory. See also option -nostdlib.

              If  the given directory starts with +, it is taken relative to the standard library directory. For instance, -I +compiler-libs adds the subdirectory compiler-libs of the standard library to the
              search path.

       -impl filename
              Compile the file filename as an implementation file, even if its extension is not .ml.

       -intf filename
              Compile the file filename as an interface file, even if its extension is not .mli.

       -intf-suffix string
              Recognize file names ending with string as interface files (instead of the default .mli).

       -keep-docs
              Keep documentation strings in generated .cmi files.

       -keep-locs
              Keep locations in generated .cmi files.

       -labels
              Labels are not ignored in types, labels may be used in applications, and labelled parameters can be given in any order.  This is the default.

       -linkall
              Force all modules contained in libraries to be linked in. If this flag is not given, unreferenced modules are not linked in. When building a library (option -a),  setting  the  -linkall  option
              forces  all  subsequent links of programs involving that library to link all the modules contained in the library.  When compiling a module (option -c), setting the -linkall option ensures that
              this module will always be linked if it is put in a library and this library is linked.

       -make-runtime
              Build a custom runtime system (in the file specified by option -o) incorporating the C object files and libraries given on the command line.  This custom runtime system can be used later to ex‐
              ecute bytecode executables produced with the option ocamlc -use-runtime runtime-name.

       -match-context-rows
              Set number of rows of context used during pattern matching compilation. Lower values cause faster compilation, but less optimized code. The default value is 32.

       -no-alias-deps
              Do not record dependencies for module aliases.

       -no-app-funct
              Deactivates  the  applicative behaviour of functors. With this option, each functor application generates new types in its result and applying the same functor twice to the same argument yields
              two incompatible structures.

       -noassert
              Do not compile assertion checks.  Note that the special form assert false is always compiled because it is typed specially.  This flag has no effect when linking already-compiled files.

       -noautolink
              When linking .cma libraries, ignore -custom, -cclib and -ccopt options potentially contained in the libraries (if these options were given when building the libraries).  This can be useful if a
              library contains incorrect specifications of C libraries or C options; in this case, during linking, set -noautolink and pass the correct C libraries and options on the command line.

       -nolabels
              Ignore non-optional labels in types. Labels cannot be used in applications, and parameter order becomes strict.

       -nostdlib
              Do  not  automatically add the standard library directory to the list of directories searched for compiled interface files (.cmi), compiled object code files (.cmo), libraries (.cma), and C li‐
              braries specified with -cclib -lxxx .  See also option -I.

       -o exec-file
              Specify the name of the output file produced by the linker. The default output name is a.out, in keeping with the Unix tradition. If the -a option is given, specify the name of the library pro‐
              duced.   If  the -pack option is given, specify the name of the packed object file produced.  If the -output-obj option is given, specify the name of the output file produced.  This can also be
              used when compiling an interface or implementation file, without linking, in which case it sets the name of the cmi or cmo file, and also sets the module name to the file name up to  the  first
              dot.

       -opaque
              Interface  file  compiled with this option are marked so that other compilation units depending on it will not rely on any implementation details of the compiled implementation. The native com‐
              piler will not access the .cmx file of this unit -- nor warn if it is absent. This can improve speed of compilation, for both initial and incremental builds, at the expense  of  performance  of
              the generated code.

       -open module
              Opens  the  given  module before processing the interface or implementation files. If several -open options are given, they are processed in order, just as if the statements open! module1;; ...
              open! moduleN;; were added at the top of each file.

       -output-obj
              Cause the linker to produce a C object file instead of a bytecode executable file. This is useful to wrap OCaml code as a C library, callable from any C program. The name of the  output  object
              file must be set with the -o option. This option can also be used to produce a C source file (.c extension) or a compiled shared/dynamic library (.so extension).

       -pack  Build  a  bytecode object file (.cmo file) and its associated compiled interface (.cmi) that combines the object files given on the command line, making them appear as sub-modules of the output
              .cmo file.  The name of the output .cmo file must be given with the -o option.  For instance, ocamlc -pack -o p.cmo a.cmo b.cmo c.cmo generates compiled files p.cmo and p.cmi describing a  com‐
              pilation unit having three sub-modules A, B and C, corresponding to the contents of the object files a.cmo, b.cmo and c.cmo.  These contents can be referenced as P.A, P.B and P.C in the remain‐
              der of the program.

       -pp command
              Cause the compiler to call the given command as a preprocessor for each source file. The output of command is redirected to an intermediate file, which is compiled. If there are no  compilation
              errors, the intermediate file is deleted afterwards. The name of this file is built from the basename of the source file with the extension .ppi for an interface (.mli) file and .ppo for an im‐
              plementation (.ml) file.

       -ppx command
              After parsing, pipe the abstract syntax tree through the preprocessor command.  The module Ast_mapper(3) implements the external interface of a preprocessor.

       -principal
              Check information path during type-checking, to make sure that all types are derived in a principal way.  When using labelled arguments and/or polymorphic methods, this flag is required to  en‐
              sure  future  versions of the compiler will be able to infer types correctly, even if internal algorithms change.  All programs accepted in -principal mode are also accepted in the default mode
              with equivalent types, but different binary signatures, and this may slow down type checking; yet it is a good idea to use it once before publishing source code.

       -rectypes
              Allow arbitrary recursive types during type-checking.  By default, only recursive types where the recursion goes through an object type are supported. Note that once you have created an  inter‐
              face using this flag, you must use it again for all dependencies.

       -runtime-variant suffix
              Add  suffix  to the name of the runtime library that will be used by the program.  If OCaml was configured with option -with-debug-runtime, then the d suffix is supported and gives a debug ver‐
              sion of the runtime.

       -stop-after pass
              Stop compilation after the given compilation pass. The currently supported passes are: parsing, typing.

       -safe-string
              Enforce the separation between types string and bytes, thereby making strings read-only. This is the default.

       -short-paths
              When a type is visible under several module-paths, use the shortest one when printing the type's name in inferred interfaces and error and warning messages.

       -strict-sequence
              Force the left-hand part of each sequence to have type unit.

       -unboxed-types
              When a type is unboxable (i.e. a record with a single argument or a concrete datatype with a single constructor of one argument) it will be unboxed unless annotated with [@@ocaml.boxed].

       -no-unboxed-types
              When a type is unboxable  it will be boxed unless annotated with [@@ocaml.unboxed].  This is the default.

       -unsafe
              Turn bound checking off for array and string accesses (the v.(i)ands.[i] constructs). Programs compiled with -unsafe are therefore slightly faster, but unsafe: anything can happen if  the  pro‐
              gram accesses an array or string outside of its bounds.

       -unsafe-string
              Identify the types string and bytes, thereby making strings writable.  This is intended for compatibility with old source code and should not be used with new software.

       -use-runtime runtime-name
              Generate a bytecode executable file that can be executed on the custom runtime system runtime-name, built earlier with ocamlc -make-runtime runtime-name.

       -v     Print the version number of the compiler and the location of the standard library directory, then exit.

       -verbose
              Print all external commands before they are executed, in particular invocations of the C compiler and linker in -custom mode.  Useful to debug C library problems.

       -vnum or -version
              Print the version number of the compiler in short form (e.g. "3.11.0"), then exit.

       -w warning-list
              Enable, disable, or mark as fatal the warnings specified by the argument warning-list.

              Each  warning  can be enabled or disabled, and each warning can be fatal or non-fatal.  If a warning is disabled, it isn't displayed and doesn't affect compilation in any way (even if it is fa‐
              tal).  If a warning is enabled, it is displayed normally by the compiler whenever the source code triggers it.  If it is enabled and fatal, the compiler will also stop with an error after  dis‐
              playing it.

              The warning-list argument is a sequence of warning specifiers, with no separators between them.  A warning specifier is one of the following:

              +num   Enable warning number num.

              -num   Disable warning number num.

              @num   Enable and mark as fatal warning number num.

              +num1..num2   Enable all warnings between num1 and num2 (inclusive).

              -num1..num2   Disable all warnings between num1 and num2 (inclusive).

              @num1..num2   Enable and mark as fatal all warnings between num1 and num2 (inclusive).

              +letter   Enable the set of warnings corresponding to letter.  The letter may be uppercase or lowercase.

              -letter   Disable the set of warnings corresponding to letter.  The letter may be uppercase or lowercase.

              @letter   Enable and mark as fatal the set of warnings corresponding to letter.  The letter may be uppercase or lowercase.

              uppercase-letter   Enable the set of warnings corresponding to uppercase-letter.

              lowercase-letter   Disable the set of warnings corresponding to lowercase-letter.

              The warning numbers are as follows.

              1    Suspicious-looking start-of-comment mark.

              2    Suspicious-looking end-of-comment mark.

              3    Deprecated feature.

              4    Fragile pattern matching: matching that will remain complete even if additional constructors are added to one of the variant types matched.

              5    Partially applied function: expression whose result has function type and is ignored.

              6    Label omitted in function application.

              7    Method overridden without using the "method!" keyword.

              8    Partial match: missing cases in pattern-matching.

              9    Missing fields in a record pattern.

              10   Expression on the left-hand side of a sequence that doesn't have type unit (and that is not a function, see warning number 5).

              11   Redundant case in a pattern matching (unused match case).

              12   Redundant sub-pattern in a pattern-matching.

              13   Override of an instance variable.

              14   Illegal backslash escape in a string constant.

              15   Private method made public implicitly.

              16   Unerasable optional argument.

              17   Undeclared virtual method.

              18   Non-principal type.

              19   Type without principality.

              20   Unused function argument.

              21   Non-returning statement.

              22   Preprocessor warning.

              23   Useless record with clause.

              24   Bad module name: the source file name is not a valid OCaml module name.

              25   Deprecated: now part of warning 8.

              26   Suspicious unused variable: unused variable that is bound with let or as, and doesn't start with an underscore (_) character.

              27   Innocuous unused variable: unused variable that is not bound with let nor as, and doesn't start with an underscore (_) character.

              28   A pattern contains a constant constructor applied to the underscore (_) pattern.

              29   A non-escaped end-of-line was found in a string constant.  This may cause portability problems between Unix and Windows.

              30   Two labels or constructors of the same name are defined in two mutually recursive types.

              31   A module is linked twice in the same executable.

              32   Unused value declaration.

              33   Unused open statement.

              34   Unused type declaration.

              35   Unused for-loop index.

              36   Unused ancestor variable.

              37   Unused constructor.

              38   Unused extension constructor.

              39   Unused rec flag.

              40   Constructor or label name used out of scope.

              41   Ambiguous constructor or label name.

              42   Disambiguated constructor or label name.

              43   Nonoptional label applied as optional.

              44   Open statement shadows an already defined identifier.

              45   Open statement shadows an already defined label or constructor.

              46   Error in environment variable.

              47   Illegal attribute payload.

              48   Implicit elimination of optional arguments.

              49   Missing cmi file when looking up module alias.

              50   Unexpected documentation comment.

              59   Assignment on non-mutable value.

              60   Unused module declaration.

              61   Unannotated unboxable type in primitive declaration.

              62   Type constraint on GADT type declaration.

              63   Erroneous printed signature.

              64   -unsafe used with a preprocessor returning a syntax tree.

              65   Type declaration defining a new '()' constructor.

              66   Unused open! statement.

              67   Unused functor parameter.

              68   Pattern-matching depending on mutable state prevents the remaining arguments from being uncurried.

              The letters stand for the following sets of warnings.  Any letter not mentioned here corresponds to the empty set.

              A  all warnings

              C  1, 2

              D  3

              E  4

              F  5

              K  32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39

              L  6

              M  7

              P  8

              R  9

              S  10

              U  11, 12

              V  13

              X  14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30

              Y  26

              Z  27

              The default setting is -w +a-4-6-7-9-27-29-30-32..42-44-45-48-50-60-66-67-68.  Note that warnings 5 and 10 are not always triggered, depending on the internals of the type checker.

       -warn-error warning-list
              Mark  as  errors  the warnings specified in the argument warning-list.  The compiler will stop with an error when one of these warnings is emitted.  The warning-list has the same meaning as for
              the -w option: a + sign (or an uppercase letter) marks the corresponding warnings as fatal, a - sign (or a lowercase letter) turns them back into non-fatal warnings, and a @ sign  both  enables
              and marks as fatal the corresponding warnings.

              Note:  it  is  not  recommended  to use the -warn-error option in production code, because it will almost certainly prevent compiling your program with later versions of OCaml when they add new
              warnings or modify existing warnings.

              The default setting is -warn-error -a+31 (only warning 31 is fatal).

       -warn-help
              Show the description of all available warning numbers.

       -where Print the location of the standard library, then exit.

       -with-runtime
              Include the runtime system in the generated program. This is the default.

       -without-runtime
              The compiler does not include the runtime system (nor a reference to it) in the generated program; it must be supplied separately.

       - file Process file as a file name, even if it starts with a dash (-) character.

       -help or --help
              Display a short usage summary and exit.

SEE ALSO
       ocamlopt(1), ocamlrun(1), ocaml(1).
       The OCaml user's manual, chapter "Batch compilation".

                                                                                                                                                                                                      OCAMLC(1)
