OCPROXY(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         OCPROXY(1)

NAME
       ocproxy - lwip based proxy for openconnect

SYNOPSIS
       ocproxy [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the ocproxy command.

       ocproxy  is  a  program that provides a SOCKS and port-forwarding proxy when used in conjunction with openconnect(1).  When using ocproxy, OpenConnect
       only handles network activity that the user specifically asks to proxy, so the VPN tunnel no longer "hijacks" all network traffic on the host.

       ocproxy accomplishes this by running a lwIP network stack in userland, so the OS kernel is no longer directly handling packets sent to  and  from  the
       VPN connection.

BASIC USAGE
       ocproxy  should be invoked directly from OpenConnect or another VPN program; a file descriptor number is passed through the VPNFD environment variable
       to tell ocproxy how to send and receive VPN traffic.  For example:

              openconnect --script-tun --script "ocproxy -D 11080 -L2222:unix-host:22" vpn.example.com

       Commonly used options include:

       -D, --dynfw [bind_address:]port
              Start up a SOCKS5 server on TCP port port to dynamically forward application-level traffic over the VPN proxy.  This is  intended  to  resemble
              the -D option to ssh(1).  If bind_address is unspecified, ocproxy will bind to the loopback interface by default unless --allow-remote is used.

       -L, --localfw port:host:hostport
              Bind to port local TCP port port, and forward incoming connections to host:hostport on the VPN.  host can be a DNS name or a dotted-quad IP ad‐
              dress.   If  the VPN supplied a default DNS domain name or --domain was specified on the command line, unqualified hostnames may be used.  This
              is intended to resemble the -L option to ssh(1).

       -g, --allow-remote
              Local listening sockets opened by the --dynfw and --localfw options, by default, will be bound to the loopback interface  only  (127.0.0.1)  so
              they  are  only available on the local machine.  If --allow-remote is specified, the sockets will be bound to INADDR_ANY (0.0.0.0) instead, and
              other hosts may connect to them.  This is intended to resemble the -g option to ssh(1).

       -k, --keepalive interval
              Send a TCP keepalive packet every interval seconds on each open connection, on the VPN side.  This can help avoid idle timeouts,  both  on  the
              VPN gateway and on any stateful firewalls in between the two ends.

ADVANCED USAGE
       These options may be useful for debugging ocproxy or diagnosing problems:

       -v, --verbose
              Enable verbose debugging output.

       -T, --tcpdump
              Write a log of all TCP or UDP packets traversing the VPN to /tmp/tcpdump.  The format largely mirrors the output of the tcpdump(8) utility.

       ocproxy  will normally retrieve IP configuration parameters through environment variables provided by OpenConnect.  These options may be used to over‐
       ride the autodetected parameters:

       -I, --ip local_ip
              Use local_ip for the VPN side IP address.  Example: 192.168.5.20.  This is normally set through the INTERNAL_IP4_ADDRESS environment variable.

       -M, --mtu mtu_bytes
              Use mtu_bytes as the maximum transmit unit on the VPN interface; it generally depends on DTLS and UDP packet overhead.  Example: 1300.  This is
              normally set through the INTERNAL_IP4_MTU environment variable.

       -d, --dns dns_ip
              Send all VPN side DNS queries to server dns_ip.  Example: 192.168.5.2.  This is normally set through the INTERNAL_IP4_DNS environment variable.

       -o, --domain domain
              Use domain as the default DNS domain, for unqualified hostnames.  This is normally set through the CISCO_DEF_DOMAIN environment variable.

SEE ALSO
       vpnns(1), openconnect(8), ssh(1)

       http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/lwip/

                                                                      November 20, 2012                                                            OCPROXY(1)
