
ods-hsmutil(1)                                                                               OpenDNSSEC ods-hsmutil                                                                              ods-hsmutil(1)

NAME
       ods-hsmutil - OpenDNSSEC HSM utility

SYNOPSIS
       ods-hsmutil [-c config] [-v] command [options]

DESCRIPTION
       The  ods-hsmutil utility is mainly used for debugging or testing. It is designed to interact directly with your HSM and can be used to manually list, create or delete keys. It can also be used to per‐
       form a set of basics HSM tests. Be careful before creating or deleting keys using ods-hsmutil, as the changes are not synchronized with the KASP Enforcer.

       The repositories are configured by the user in the OpenDNSSEC configuration file. The configuration contains the name of the repository, the token label, the user PIN, and the path to its  shared  li‐
       brary.

COMMANDS
       login  If there is no PIN in conf.xml, then this command will ask for it and login.  The PINs are stored in a shared memory and are accessible to the other daemons.

       logout Will erase the semaphore and the shared memory containing any credentials.  Authenticated processes will still be able to interact with the HSM.

       list [repository]
              List the keys that are available in all or one repository

       generate repository rsa|dsa|gost|ecdsa [keysize]
              Generate  a new key with the given keysize in the repository.  Note that GOST has a fixed key size and that ECDSA has two supported curves, P-256 and P-384. In the case of ECDSA, use 256 or 384
              as the keysize.

       remove id
              Delete the key with the given id

       purge repository
              Delete all keys in one repository

       dnskey id name type algo
              Create a DNSKEY RR for the given owner name based on the key with this id.  The type will indicate if it is a KSK (257) or ZSK (256). Please use the numerical value. The algo, a value from  the
              IANA repository, must match the algorithm of the key.

       test repository
              Perform a number of tests on a repository

       info   Show detailed information about all repositories

OPTIONS
       -c config
              Path to an OpenDNSSEC configuration file

              (defaults to /etc/opendnssec/conf.xml)

       -h     Show the help screen

       -v     Output more information by increasing the verbosity level

SEE ALSO
       ods-control(8), ods-enforcerd(8), ods-hsmspeed(1), ods-kaspcheck(1), ods-signer(8), ods-signerd(8), ods-enforcer(8), ods-timing(5), ods-kasp(5), opendnssec(7), http://www.opendnssec.org/

AUTHORS
       ods-hsmutil was written by Jakob Schlyter as part of the OpenDNSSEC project.

OpenDNSSEC                                                                                       February 2010                                                                                   ods-hsmutil(1)
