oggz-sort(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                oggz-sort(1)

NAME
       oggz-sort — Sort the pages of an Ogg file in order of presentation time.

SYNOPSIS
       oggz-sort [-o filename  | --output filename ] filename

       oggz-sort [-h  | --help ]  [-v  | --version ]

Description
       oggz-sort  sorts  an  Ogg file, interleaving pages in order of presentation time.  It correctly interprets the granulepos timestamps of Ogg CELT, CMML, Dirac, FLAC, Kate, PCM, Speex, Theora and Vorbis
       bitstreams.  Run oggz-known-codecs(1) for a full list of codecs known by the installed version of oggz.

       Some encoders produce files with incorrect page ordering; for example, some audio and video pages may occur out of order. Although these files are usually playable, it can be difficult  to  accurately
       seek or scrub on them, increasing the likelihood of glitches during playback.  Players may also need to use more memory in order to buffer the audio and video data for synchronized playback, which can
       be a problem when the files are viewed on low-memory devices.

       Some older Ogg encoders also produce pages which incorrectly have granulepos timestamps recorded that shouldn't be: pages which have no completed packets must have a granulepos of -1.  oggz-sort  will
       correct such granulepos during the process of sorting.

       The  tool  oggz-validate  can be used to check the relative ordering of packets in a file, and also to detect incorrect granulepos on pages with no completed packets. If either of these errors are re‐
       ported, or use oggz-sort to fix the problem.

Options
       oggz-sort accepts the following options:

   Miscellaneous options
       -o filename, --output filename
                 Write output to the specified filename instead of printing it to standard output.

       -h, --help
                 Display usage information and exit.

       -v, --version
                 Output version information and exit.

EXAMPLES
       Correct the page ordering in broken.ogv:

              oggz sort -o fixed.ogv broken.ogv

AUTHOR
       Conrad Parker        January 25, 2008;

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2008 Annodex Association

SEE ALSO
       oggz-validate(1), oggz-merge(1), oggz-dump(1), oggz-diff(1), hogg(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                   oggz-sort(1)
