oggz-merge(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               oggz-merge(1)

NAME
       oggz-merge — Merge Ogg files together, interleaving pages in order of presentation time.

SYNOPSIS
       oggz-merge [-o filename  | --output filename ] filename ...

       oggz-merge [-h  | --help ]  [-v  | --version ]

Description
       oggz-merge  merges Ogg files together, interleaving pages in order of presentation time.  It correctly interprets the granulepos timestamps of Ogg CELT, CMML, Dirac, FLAC, Kate, PCM, Speex, Theora and
       Vorbis bitstreams.  Run oggz-known-codecs(1) for a full list of codecs known by the installed version of oggz.

       For example, if you have an Ogg Theora video file, and its soundtrack stored separately as an Ogg Speex audio file, and you can use oggz-merge to create a single Ogg file containing the video and  au‐
       dio, interleaved together in parallel.

       Similarly,  using  oggz-merge on a collection of Ogg Vorbis audio files will create a big Ogg file with all the songs in parallel, ie. interleaved for simultaneous playback. Such a file is proper Ogg,
       but not "Ogg Vorbis I" -- the Ogg Vorbis I specification defines an Ogg Vorbis file as an Ogg file containing only one Vorbis track at a time (ie. no parallel multiplexing). Many music players  (which
       use  libvorbisfile)  aren't  designed  to play multitrack Ogg files.  In general however, video players, and anything built on a multimedia framework (like GStreamer, DirectShow etc.) will probably be
       able to handle such files.

       If you want to create a file containing some Ogg files sequenced one after another, then you should simply concatenate them together using cat. In Ogg this is called "chaining". If you cat Ogg  Vorbis
       I audio files together, then the result will also be a compliant Ogg Vorbis file.

Options
       oggz-merge accepts the following options:

   Miscellaneous options
       -o filename, --output filename
                 Write output to the specified filename instead of printing it to standard output.

       -h, --help
                 Display usage information and exit.

       -v, --version
                 Output version information and exit.

EXAMPLES
       Merge pages of audio.oga and video.ogv:

              oggz merge -o output.ogv audio.oga video.ogv

AUTHOR
       Conrad Parker        September 21, 2004;

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2004 CSIRO Australia

SEE ALSO
       cat(1), oggz-rip(1), oggz-dump(1), oggz-diff(1), hogg(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                  oggz-merge(1)
