oggz-rip(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 oggz-rip(1)

NAME
       oggz-rip — Extract one or more logical bitstreams from an Ogg file.

SYNOPSIS
       oggz-rip [-o filename  | --output filename ] filename

       oggz-rip [-h  | --help ]  [-v  | --version ]

Description
       oggz-rip extracts one or more tracks from an Ogg file.  In Ogg terminology, oggz-rip extracts one or more logical bitstreams.

       For example, to extract just the Vorbis audio track from any Ogg file:

       oggz-rip -c vorbis input.ogx > output.ogg

       This  will removed any other tracks: Skeleton, Theora, image, etc.  The output will be a valid Ogg Vorbis I file, suitable for use on hardware players that do not support multiplexed (ie. multi-track)
       Ogg files. If the input file contains multiple Vorbis, the desired once can be specified by serialno with the -s option.  Use oggz-info to view the serialno of each track in a file.

Options
       oggz-rip accepts the following options:

   Miscellaneous options
       -o filename, --output filename
                 Write output to the specified filename instead of printing it to standard output.

       -h, --help
                 Display usage information and exit.

       -v, --version
                 Output version information and exit.

   Filter options
       These options can be used multiple times. Pages matching ANY of the filter options will be included into the output.

       -s serialno, --serialno serialno
                 Output streams with given serialno.

       -i index, --stream-index index
                 Filter by stream index. These are assigned to streams in the order of their BOS pages, starting at 0.

       -c content-type --content-type content-type
                 Filter by content-type.  Run oggz-known-codecs(1) for a full list of codecs known by the installed version of oggz.

EXAMPLES
       Extract all bitstreams from file.ogg:

              oggz rip -o output.ogg file.ogg

       Extract only the Theora bitstream from file.ogv:

              oggz rip -c theora -o output.ogv file.ogv

AUTHOR
       David Kuehling        January  1, 2005;

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005 CSIRO Australia

SEE ALSO
       oggz-merge(1), oggz-chop(1), oggz-dump(1), oggz-diff(1)       hogg(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                    oggz-rip(1)
