ONAK(1)                                                            General Commands Manual                                                            ONAK(1)

NAME
       onak - an OpenPGP compatible keyserver

SYNOPSIS
       onak [ options ] command [ parameters ]

DESCRIPTION
       Perform various keyserver actions.

   Options
       -b     Treat keys on stdin as binary rather than ASCII armoured.

       -c FILE
              Use FILE as the config file instead of the default.

       -f     Display fingerprints when listing keys.

       -u     Update keys - output changes on stdout.

       -v     Verbose; increase loglevel.

   Commands
       add    Read OpenPGP keys from stdin and add them to the keyserver database.

       clean  Read OpenPGP keys from stdin, run the key cleaning routines against them and dump to stdout.

       dumpconfig
              Dump the running config in new .ini format to stdout, or the provided file.  Intended to help with migration from old style configuration files
              - onak can read and parse the old style file and this command will output the equivalent new style configuration.

       delete Delete a given key from the keyserver.

       dump   Dump all the keys from the keyserver.

       get    Retrieves the requested key from the keyserver.

       getphoto
              Retrieves the first photoid on the requested key and dumps to stdout.

       index  Search for a key and list it.

       vindex Search for a key and list it and its signatures.

EXAMPLES
       onak index noodles
              List all keys in the keyserver that contain the word noodles.

       onak clean < dirty.key > clean.key
              Clean up one or more PGP keys. Currently this will just dedupe UIDs.

       gpg --export | onak -b add
              Export all keys on your gnupg keyring and import them into the keyserver.

FILES
       /etc/onak.ini              default configuration file

NOTES
       This man page could probably do with some more details.

AUTHOR
       onak was written by Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li>. It can be found at http://www.earth.li/projectpurple/progs/onak.html

                                                                                                                                                      ONAK(1)
