
man(1)                                                                                       onedriver man page                                                                                      man(1)

NAME
       onedriver - A native Linux client for Microsoft OneDrive.

SYNOPSIS
       onedriver [OPTION] <mountpoint>

DESCRIPTION
       This  program  will mount your OneDrive account as a Linux filesystem at the location specified by mountpoint. Note that this is not a sync client - files are fetched on-demand and cached locally.
       Only files you actually use will be downloaded. While offline, the filesystem will be read-only until connectivity is re-established.

OPTIONS
       -a, --auth-only
              Authenticate to OneDrive and then exit.

       -f, --config-file
              A YAML-formatted configuration file used by onedriver. Defaults to "~/.config/onedriver/config.yml".

       -c, --cache-dir dir
              Change the default cache directory used by onedriver. Will be created if the path does not already exist. The dir argument specifies the location.

       -d, --debug
              Enable FUSE debug logging. This logs communication between onedriver and the kernel.

       -h, --help
              Displays a help message.

       -l, --log level
              Set logging level/verbosity. level can be one of: fatal, error, warn, info, debug or trace (default is debug).

       -n, --no-browser
              This disables launching the built-in web browser during authentication. Follow the instructions in the terminal to authenticate to OneDrive.

       -v, --version
              Display program version.

       -w, --wipe-cache
              Delete the existing onedriver cache directory and then exit. Equivalent to resetting the program.

SYSTEM INTEGRATION
       To start onedriver automatically and ensure you always have access to your files, you can start onedriver as a systemd user service. In this example, mountpoint refers to where we want OneDrive to
       be mounted at (for instance, ~/OneDrive). Mounting OneDrive via systemd allows multiple drives to be mounted at the same time (as long as they use different mountpoints).

       Create the mountpoint and determine the service name:
              mkdir -p mountpoint
              export SERVICE_NAME=$(systemd-escape --template onedriver@.service --path mountpoint)

       Mount OneDrive:
              systemctl --user daemon-reload
              systemctl --user start $SERVICE_NAME

       Mount OneDrive on login:
              systemctl --user enable $SERVICE_NAME

       Check onedriver's logs:
              journalctl --user -u $SERVICE_NAME

TROUBLESHOOTING
       Most errors can be solved by simply restarting the program. onedriver is designed to recover cleanly from errors with no extra effort.

       It's possible that there may be a deadlock or segfault that I haven't caught in my tests. If this happens, the onedriver filesystem and subsequent ops may hang indefinitely (ops  will  hang  while
       the kernel waits for the dead onedriver process to respond). When this happens, you can cleanly unmount the filesystem with: fusermount -uz $MOUNTPOINT

       In the event that you want to reset onedriver completely (wipe all local state) you can do so via: onedriver -w

KNOWN ISSUES AND DISCLAIMER
       Many  file  browsers  (like GNOME's Nautilus) will attempt to automatically download all files within a directory in order to create thumbnail images.  This is somewhat annoying, but only needs to
       happen once - after the initial thumbnail images have been created, thumbnails will persist between filesystem restarts.

       Microsoft does not support symbolic links (or anything remotely like them) on OneDrive. Attempting to create symbolic links within the filesystem returns ENOSYS (function not implemented)  because
       the  functionality  hasn't been implemented... by Microsoft. Similarly, Microsoft does not expose the OneDrive Recycle Bin APIs - if you want to empty or restore the OneDrive Recycle Bin, you must
       do so through the OneDrive web UI (onedriver uses the native system trash/restore functionality independently of the OneDrive Recycle Bin).

       This project is still in active development and is provided AS IS. There are no guarantees. It might kill your cat.

SEE ALSO
       Further information can be found at https://github.com/jstaf/onedriver

0.14.1                                                                                            Nov 2021                                                                                           man(1)
