manipulate(3pm)                                                                     User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                     manipulate(3pm)

NAME
       OpaL::manipulate - Perl extension for manipulating files.

SYNOPSIS
         use OpaL::manipulate qw(functions);

       No functions or variables are exported automaticly so you have to specify them here.

DESCRIPTION
       OpaL::manipulate is a module for manipulating files.

       All functions are autoloaded so they will not be loaded into memory if you have not used them before.

FUNCTIONS
       perlmodifyadvanced
           It  simply  applies  the  script  to the file to change its content.  You also have to apply a message to tell what you are doing mostly for debugging and if any error occures. The error level
           tells how critical this action is to the script.

           USAGE:
               "perlmodifyadvanced"("file", "script",
                                  "message", errorlevel);

           The errorlevel is optional.

       perlmodify
           It simply fixes some stuff in the script string and then calls perlmodifyadvanced.

           USAGE:
               "perlmodify"("file", "script",
                          "message", errorlevel);

           The errorlevel is optional.

       perlmodify_insertafter
           This function searches for something (regular expression). It if is found it inserts the text after it. But it will never insert the text twice.

           You also have to apply a message to tell what you are doing mostly for debugging and if any error occures. The error level tells how critical this action is to the script.

           USAGE:
               "perlmodify_insertafter"("file", "find", "text",
                                      "message", errorlevel);

           The errorlevel is optional.

AUTHOR
       Ola Lundqvist <ola@inguza.com>

REQUIRES
       OpaL::action, OpaL::read.

SEE ALSO
       OpaL::action

       OpaL::read

       perl(1)

perl v5.34.0                                                                                     2022-03-24                                                                                 manipulate(3pm)
