opendkim-testmsg(8)         System Manager's Manual        opendkim-testmsg(8)

NAME
       opendkim-testmsg - DKIM message tst

SYNOPSIS
       opendkim-testmsg  [-C]  [-d domain] [-K] [-k keypath] [-s selector] [-t
       path]

DESCRIPTION
       opendkim-testmsg signs or verifies an input message.  This  is  similar
       to  the  test mode for opendkim(8) except that it does not use the same
       configuration system or milter  interface.   Rather,  it  is  a  direct
       access to the DKIM library with those functions "out of the way".

       The message is read from standard input.  In signing mode, the complete
       signed message will then be written to standard output.   When  verify‐
       ing, there will be no output unless an error occurred.

       To  sign  a  message,  the -d, -k and -s settings in the SYNOPSIS above
       must be provided.  If all of them are absent, the input message will be
       verified.  If some but not all are present, an error is returned.

OPTIONS
       -C     If  specified,  the  signature header field generated in signing
              mode will be  line-terminated  with  carriage-return  line-feed,
              instead of just line-feed.

       -d domain
              Names  the domain in which signing is to be done.  More specifi‐
              cally, names the domain in which the  public  key  matching  the
              provided private key would be found in a live test.

       -K     Arranges to keep temporary files generated during message canon‐
              icalization for debugging purposes.

       -k keypath
              Specifies the path to the private key file which should be  used
              to sign the input message.

       -s selector
              Names  the  selector  within the specified domain that should be
              included in the signature.

       -t path
              Specifies the directory in which temporary files are to be  cre‐
              ated.  The default is /tmp.

VERSION
       This  man page covers the version of opendkim-testmsg that shipped with
       version 2.11.0 of OpenDKIM.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c)  2011-2013,  The  Trusted  Domain  Project.   All  rights
       reserved.

SEE ALSO
       opendkim(8)

       RFC6376 - DomainKeys Identified Mail

                          The Trusted Domain Project       opendkim-testmsg(8)
