opendkim-spam(1)                                                   General Commands Manual                                                   opendkim-spam(1)

NAME
       opendkim-spam - DKIM filter spam correlation tool

SYNOPSIS
       opendkim-spam [options]

DESCRIPTION
       opendkim-spam  accepts  a  regular  format message (RFC5322) on standard input and uses it to update a local SQL database being updated by opendkim(8)
       with an indiciation that a user believes the input message is spam or otherwise abusive.  This feedback is important  input  toward  developing  DKIM-
       based domain reputation systems.

       The  tool  is  intended  to be used directly from within shell-based mail readers such as alpine(1) or mutt(1) using a "pipe" command, which feeds the
       message being read to the specified program.

       This tool is experimental.  If the experiment proves useful, the feedback could be used as an input stream to a  larger-scale  collaborative  feedback
       system that can be used to identify sources of signed mail that have good reputations.

OPTIONS
       -b backend
              Specifies the style of backend database in use.  The default is "yes".

       -c file
              Names  a configuration file from which operating parameters will be read.  The configuration file contains entries of the form "key value", one
              per line.  Empty lines or lines beginning with a hash ("#") character are ignored.  Command line equivalents for  the  configuration  file  are
              available  as runtime overrides.  The default configuration file location is /etc/opendkim-spam.conf.  See the CONFIGURATION FILE section for a
              list of known values.

       -f     Run in the foreground rather than executing as a background process.  Intended mainly for debugging.

       -d name
              Indicates the name of the database to be accessed.  The default is "opendkim".

       -h host
              Specifies the host where the database server is running.  The default is "localhost".

       -o file
              Writes an update record to an OpenDKIM statistics file rather than directly to a database.  There is no default.  Note that if this  option  is
              used, all database-specific options are ignored.

       -p password
              Specifies the password to be used when authenticating to the database.  The default is "opendkim".

       -P port
              Specifies the port number where the database server is listening.  The default depends on which backend is in use.

       -r reporter
              Provides  the  name  of the site reporting the spam.  If not provided, an attempt will be made to extract this information from the topmost Re‐
              ceived header field from the input message.

       -s column
              Names the database column whose value should be incremented as a result of this user action.  The default is "spam".

       -u user
              Identifies the database user to be used when connecting to the database.  The default is "opendkim".

       -v     Requests verbose output.  Can be specified multiple times for more and more information.

       -V     Print version number and exit.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       The configuration file used by opendkim-spam(1) is expected to be a text file.  Empty lines or lines starting with a hash ("#") character are ignored.
       All other lines should consist of a parameter name followed by one or more whitespace characters, then followed by its intended value.

       Parameters generally match command line options (specified above), but when present the command line options override the configuration file  options.
       The list of configuration file parameters and their command line equivalents are as follows; see above for descriptions:

       Background
              -f (opposite meaning)

       DatabaseBackend
              -b

       DatabaseName
              -d

       DatabaseHost
              -h

       DatabasePassword
              -p

       DatabasePort
              -P

       DatabaseSpamColumn
              -s

       DatabaseUser
              -u

       ReporterID
              -r

       SkipReceived
              An  integer  that  defines  a number of Received fields that should be skipped while searching for the one that was also seen by opendkim(8) so
              that this command refers to the same Received field.  Defaults to 0.

       StatisticsFile
              -o

NOTES
       It is possible to compile this application without SQL support, in which case only the StatisticsFile setting has any meaning (and, in fact, it is re‐
       quired in that case).

VERSION
       This man page covers the version of opendkim-spam that shipped with version 2.11.0 of OpenDKIM.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, The Trusted Domain Project.  All rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       alpine(1), mutt(1), opendkim(8)

       RFC6376 - DomainKeys Identified Mail

                                                                  The Trusted Domain Project                                                 opendkim-spam(1)
