VLDB.DB0(5)                                                           AFS File Reference                                                          VLDB.DB0(5)

NAME
       vldb.DB0, vldb.DBSYS1 - Contain the Volume Location Database and associated log

DESCRIPTION
       The file vldb.DB0 contains the Volume Location Database (VLDB), which tracks the location of all AFS volumes stored on file server machines in the
       cell. The Volume Location (VL) Server (vlserver process) provides information from the database to Cache Managers when they need to access AFS data.

       The file vldb.DBSYS1 is a log file in which the VL Server logs each database operation before performing it. When an operation is interrupted, the VL
       Server replays the log to complete the operation.

       Both files are in binary format and reside in the /var/lib/openafs/db directory on each of the cell's database server machines. When the VL Server
       starts or restarts on a given machine, it establishes a connection with its peers and verifies that its copy of the database matches the copy on the
       other database server machines. If not, the VL Servers call on AFS's distributed database technology, Ubik, to distribute to all of the machines the
       copy of the database with the highest version number.

       Always use the commands in the vos suite to administer the VLDB. It is advisable to create an archive copy of the database on a regular basis, using a
       tool such as the UNIX tar command.

SEE ALSO
       vldb_check(8), vlserver(8), vos(1)

COPYRIGHT
       IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

       This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
       Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

OpenAFS                                                                   2026-03-13                                                              VLDB.DB0(5)
