opentyrian(6)                                                                                OpenTyrian Manual                                                                                opentyrian(6)

NAME
       opentyrian - an open-source port of the DOS game Tyrian

SYNOPSIS
       opentyrian [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Tyrian is an arcade-style vertical scrolling shooter.  The story is set in 20,031 where you play as Trent Hawkins, a skilled fighter-pilot employed to fight MicroSol and save the galaxy.

       Tyrian features a story mode, one- and two-player arcade modes, and networked multiplayer.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       -h, --help
              Display help and exit.

       -s, --no-sound
              Disable audio.

       -j, --no-joystick
              Disable joystick/gamepad input.

       -t, --data directory
              Set alternative Tyrian data directory.

       -n, --net host[:port]
              Start a networked game; host is the IP address of your opponent. Use this option together with --net-player-name and --net-player-number to join game.

              OpenTyrian uses UDP port 1333 for multiplayer, but in most cases players will not need to open any ports because OpenTyrian makes use of UDP hole punching.

       --net-player-name name
              Set name as your alias for multiplayer game.

       --net-player-number number
              Select ship; number is either 1 or 2 depending on which ship you intend to pilot.

       -p, --net-port port
              Set local port to bind.

       -d, --net-delay frames
              Set lag-compensation delay.

       -x, --no-xmas
              Disable Christmas mode.

COPYRIGHT
       This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.  This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions. See the file COPYING for details.

       Data files bundled with this package come from Tyrian 2.1 data files which have been released as freeware.

       Daniel Cook released graphic files under very liberal license ("use and abuse them as desired").

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Patryk Obara <patryk.obara@gmail.com> basing on AshTR's README file.

                                                                                                October 2009                                                                                  opentyrian(6)
