opendkim-testkey(8)         System Manager's Manual        opendkim-testkey(8)

NAME
       opendkim-testkey - DKIM filter installation test

SYNOPSIS
       opendkim-testkey  [-d  domain] [-s selector] [-k keypath] [-v] [-x con‐
       figfile]

DESCRIPTION
       opendkim-testkey verifies the setup of signing and  verifying  (private
       and public) keys for use with opendkim(8).

       The  test program will read a domain name and selector from the command
       line, configuration file or a key  table,  then  query  and  parse  the
       resulting DKIM key(s), reporting any errors found.

       If  a key path is also provided, the test program will read the private
       key named and attempt to confirm that the private key specified by key‐
       path (or in the key table) and the public DKIM key retrieved match.

OPTIONS
       -d domain
              Names  the domain in which signing is to be done.  More specifi‐
              cally, names the domain in which the  public  key  matching  the
              provided private key will be found.  This parameter must be pro‐
              vided either explicitly, or in the configuration file, or via  a
              KeyTable (see opendkim.conf(5) for details).

       -k keypath
              Specifies  the path to the private key file which should be used
              for this test.  This parameter is optional

       -s selector
              Names the selector within the specified domain whose public  key
              should  be retrieved and tested, comparing it to the private key
              if provided.  This parameter must be provided either explicitly,
              or  in  the  configuration  file,  or via a KeyTable (see opend‐
              kim.conf(5) for details).

       -v     Increases the amount of output (verbosity) of the program.   May
              be specified multiple times for increased output.

       -x conffile
              Names  a  configuration  file  to  be  parsed.   See  the opend‐
              kim.conf(5) man page for details.   The  only  values  used  are
              Domain,   Selector,   KeyFile,   KeyTable,  TrustAnchorFile  and
              ResolverConfig.  The default is /etc/opendkim.conf.

NOTES
       The test program will also complain if a private key file  is  readable
       by anyone other than the user executing the program.

VERSION
       This  man page covers the version of opendkim-testkey that shipped with
       version 2.11.0 of OpenDKIM.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2007, 2008, Sendmail, Inc. and its suppliers.  All rights
       reserved.

       Copyright  (c)  2009-2012,  The  Trusted  Domain  Project.   All rights
       reserved.

SEE ALSO
       opendkim(8)

       RFC6376 - DomainKeys Identified Mail

                          The Trusted Domain Project       opendkim-testkey(8)
