openarc(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 openarc(8)

NAME
       openarc - ARC signing and verifying filter for MTAs

SYNOPSIS
       openarc  [-c  configfile]  [-f]  [-n]  [-p socketspec] [-P pidfile] [-u
       userid[:group]] [-v] [-V]

DESCRIPTION
       openarc implements the  proposed  ARC  (Authenticated  Received  Chain)
       standard  for confirming handling and authentication of a message as it
       is handled for delivery.

       openarc uses the milter interface, originally distributed  as  part  of
       version  8.11  of  sendmail(8), to provide ARC signing and/or verifying
       service for mail transiting a milter-aware MTA.

OPTIONS
       -c configfile
              Read the named configuration file.  See the openarc.conf(5)  man
              page for details.  Values in the configuration file are overrid‐
              den when their equivalents are  provided  on  the  command  line
              until  a  configuration reload occurs.  The default is to read a
              configuration file from /etc/openarc.conf if one exists, or oth‐
              erwise to apply defaults to all values.

       -f     Normally  openarc  forks and exits immediately, leaving the ser‐
              vice running in the background.  This flag suppresses  that  be‐
              haviour so that it runs in the foreground.

       -n     Parse the configuration file and command line arguments, report‐
              ing any errors found, and then exit.  The exit value will  be  0
              if the filter would start up without complaint, or non-zero oth‐
              erwise.

       -p socketspec
              Specifies the socket that should be established by the filter to
              receive  connections  from  sendmail(8) in order to provide ser‐
              vice.  socketspec is in one of two forms: local:path which  cre‐
              ates   a   UNIX   domain   socket  at  the  specified  path,  or
              inet:port[@host] or inet6:port[@host] which creates a TCP socket
              on  the  specified port using the requested protocol family.  If
              the host is not given as either a hostname or an IP address, the
              socket  will  be  listening  on  all  interfaces.   A literal IP
              address must be enclosed in square brackets.  If neither  socket
              type  is  specified,  local is assumed, meaning the parameter is
              interpreted as a path at which the  socket  should  be  created.
              This  parameter is mandatory either here or in the configuration
              file.

       -P pidfile
              Specifies a file into which the filter should write its  process
              ID at startup.

       -u userid[:group]
              Attempts  to be come the specified userid before starting opera‐
              tions.  The process will be assigned all of the groups and  pri‐
              mary  group  ID of the named userid unless an alternate group is
              specified.  See the FILE PERMISSIONS section for  more  informa‐
              tion.

       -V     Print  the  version number and build-time options, and then exit
              without doing anything else.

EXIT STATUS
       Filter exit status codes are selected according to sysexits(3).

VERSION
       This man page covers version 1.0.0 of openarc.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2005-2008, Sendmail, Inc. and its suppliers.  All  rights
       reserved.

       Copyright  (c)  2009-2013, 2015, 2016, The Trusted Domain Project.  All
       rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       openarc.conf(5), sendmail(8)

       Sendmail Operations Guide

       RFC5321 - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

       RFC5322 - Internet Messages

       RFC7601 - Message Header Field for  Indicating  Message  Authentication
       Status

                          The Trusted Domain Project                openarc(8)
