opentracker.conf(5)                                                                          File Formats Manual                                                                        opentracker.conf(5)

NAME
       opentracker.conf — configuration file for opentracker

SYNOPSIS
DESCRIPTION
       The configuration file specifies various options for configuring the behavior of the opentracker program.

       Lines starting with '#' are comments and are ignored. Options are specified as 'keyword value' pairs.

       The following options are available:

       listen.tcp_udp address
                     Specifies an address opentracker will listen on for both TCP and UDP connections. If none are specified, opentracker listens on 0.0.0.0:6969 by default. Can be added more than once.

       listen.tcp address
                     Specifies the address opentracker will listen on for TCP connections. Can be added more than once.

       listen.udp address
                     Specifies the address opentracker will listen on for UDP connections. Can be added more than once.

       listen.udp.workers threads
                     Specifies how many threads will be spawned to handle UDP connections. Defaults to 4.

       access.whitelist path/to/whitelist
                     Specifies the path to the whitelist file containing all torrent hashes that opentracker will serve. Use this option if opentracker runs in a non-open mode.

       access.blacklist path/to/blacklist
                     Specifies the path to the blacklist file containing all torrent hashes that opentracker will not serve. Use this option if opentracker was compiled to allow blacklisting.

       access.fifo_add path/to/adder.fifo
                     Specifies the path to the FIFO (named pipe) used for dynamic changesets to accesslists. Info hashes written to this FIFO will be added to the main accesslist file.

       access.fifo_delete path/to/deleter.fifo
                     Specifies the path to the FIFO (named pipe) used for dynamic changesets to accesslists. Info hashes written to this FIFO will be removed from the main accesslist file.

       access.stats ip_address_or_network
                     Specifies the IP address or network in CIDR notation allowed to fetch stats from opentracker.

       access.stats_path path
                     Specifies the path to the stats location. You can configure opentracker to appear anywhere on your tracker. Defaults to /stats.

       access.proxy ip_address_or_network
                     Specifies the IP address or network of the reverse proxies. Opentracker will take the X-Forwarded-For address instead of the source IP address. Can be added more than once.

       livesync.cluster.listen ip_address:port
                     Specifies the IP address and port opentracker will listen on for incoming live sync packets to keep a cluster of opentrackers synchronized.

       livesync.cluster.node_ip ip_address
                     Specifies one trusted IP address for sync between trackers running in a cluster. Can be added more than once.

       batchsync.cluster.admin_ip ip_address
                     Specifies the admin IP address for old-style (HTTP-based) asynchronous tracker syncing.

       tracker.rootdir path
                     Specifies the directory opentracker will chroot/chdir to. All black/white list files must be located in this directory.

       tracker.user username
                     Specifies the user opentracker will setuid to after binding to potentially privileged ports.

       tracker.redirect_url URL
                     Specifies the URL opentracker will redirect to in response to a "GET / HTTP" request.

EXAMPLES
       To specify the address opentracker will listen on for both TCP and UDP connections:
             listen.tcp_udp 0.0.0.0:6969

       To specify the address opentracker will listen on for TCP connections:
             listen.tcp 0.0.0.0

       To specify the address opentracker will listen on for UDP connections:
             listen.udp 0.0.0.0:6969

SEE ALSO
       opentracker(1)

AUTHOR
       Dirk Engling ⟨erdgeist@erdgeist.org⟩

Unix                                                                                             2024-04-18                                                                             opentracker.conf(5)
