OPENELPD(1)                 General Commands Manual                OPENELPD(1)

NAME
       openelpd - an open source EchoLink proxy daemon

SYNOPSIS
       openelpd [-d] [-F] [-L <log file>] [-S] [-V] [configuration file]

DESCRIPTION
       EchoLink is a software system for connecting licensed radio amateurs to
       communicate over the internet using  Voice  over  IP  (VoIP).  EchoLink
       clients  require  that  UDP  ports  5198 and 5199 be "forwarded" to the
       machine running the client. When this is not allowed or  otherwise  not
       possible, a proxy is used to listen for data on these ports and forward
       this data to a client over a TCP stream.

       OpenELP, an Open Source EchoLink Proxy, is a performance-oriented proxy
       which  can  be used with EchoLink software. It uses a compatible proto‐
       col, and a compatible configuration file syntax with the Java  EchoLink
       proxy available from the EchoLink website.

OPTIONS
       -d     Enable  debugging  output  to  the specified logging utility (by
              default, this is STDOUT/STDERR). Default behavior is to  produce
              no debug output.

       -F     If  specified,  this  parameter causes the main thread to run in
              the foreground, and not daemonize. Child threads are still  cre‐
              ated  for  each  additional  port,  but the main thread does not
              return unless the proxy is shut down.  Default  behavior  is  to
              daemonize.

       -L     After initial startup is complete, switch the logging utility to
              output all information to the given file. If the file  does  not
              exist,  it  will be created. If it does exist, new log data will
              be appended to it. This flag is incompatible  with  -S.  Default
              behavior  is not to use a log file, and route all information to
              STDOUT.

       -S     After initial startup is complete, switch the logging utility to
              output all information to syslog. This flag is incompatible with
              -L. Default behaviour is not to use syslog, and route all infor‐
              mation to STDOUT.

       -V     Print the version of the daemon executable and exit.

       If  the  configuration  file path is not specified, openelpd will first
       attempt to open the file named  ELProxy.conf  in  the  current  working
       directory.  On  systems where a global configuration file path hint was
       specified at compile time, openelpd will use that configuration path as
       a last resort.

BUGS
       Any   bugs   should   be   reported   to   the  project  repository  at
       http://github.com/cottsay/openelp/issues

AUTHORS
       OpenELP was created by Scott K Logan, KM0H <logans@cottsay.net>

       See the Authors file included with this program  for  a  full  list  of
       authors and contributors.

       EchoLink(r) is a registered trademark of Synergenics, LLC.

SEE ALSO
       qtel(1)

                                                                   OPENELPD(1)
