opendmarc-params(8)         System Manager's Manual        opendmarc-params(8)

NAME
       opendmarc-params - OpenDMARC reporting parameters setup tool

SYNOPSIS
       opendmarc-params [options] domain

DESCRIPTION
       opendmarc-params  records  a  specific  reporting address for aggregate
       reports about the named domain and flags it as "locked" in the  report‐
       ing requests database.  This is done to allow an administrator to force
       generation of reports and have them sent to a specific address  regard‐
       less  of  what  data may (or may not) be found in the DNS for the named
       domain.

OPTIONS
       --dbhost=host
              Attempts to connect to the database server on  the  named  host.
              The default is "localhost".

       --dbname=name
              Requests  a connection to the database called name.  The default
              is "opendmarc".

       --dbpasswd=password
              Attempts to authenticate to the database server using the speci‐
              fied password.  The default is "opendmarc".

       --dbport=port
              Tries to connect to the database at the specified TCP port.  The
              default is 3306.

       --dbuser=user
              Attempts to authenticate to the database server as the specified
              user.  The default is "opendmarc".

       --help Prints a usage message and exits.

       --rua=string
              Sets  the  reporting  URI  for the named domain to the specified
              string.

       --unlock
              Unlocks the record for the named domain.

       --verbose
              Requests verbose output.

       --version
              Prints version number and exits.

VERSION
       This man page covers the version of opendmarc-params that shipped  with
       version 1.4.1 of OpenDMARC.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2012, The Trusted Domain Project.  All rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       opendmarc(8), opendmarc-import(8), opendmarc-reports(8)

                          The Trusted Domain Project       opendmarc-params(8)
