opendmarc-import(8)         System Manager's Manual        opendmarc-import(8)

NAME
       opendmarc-import - OpenDMARC aggregate report data import tool

SYNOPSIS
       opendmarc-import [options]

DESCRIPTION
       opendmarc-import  reads  per-message  data  recorded  by an instance of
       opendmarc(8) and inserts it into an SQL  database,  for  later  use  by
       opendmarc-reports(8) to generate aggregate reports.

OPTIONS
       --dbhost=hostname
              Specifies  the  hostname  on  which  the  SQL server is running.
              Defaults  to  the  value  of  the  environment  variable  OPEND‐
              MARC_DBHOST,  or  "localhost" if the environment variable is not
              set.

       --dbname=name
              Specifies the SQL database name to be accessed.  Defaults to the
              value  of  the environment variable OPENDMARC_DB, or "opendmarc"
              if the environment variable is not set.

       --dbpasswd=password
              Specifies the password for the  SQL  database  to  be  accessed.
              Defaults  to  the  value  of  the  environment  variable  OPEND‐
              MARC_PASSWORD, or "opendmarc" if the environment variable is not
              set.

       --dbport=port
              Specifies the TCP port on which the SQL server is expected to be
              listening.  Defaults to the value of  the  environment  variable
              OPENDMARC_PORT, or 3306 if the environment variable is not set.

       --dbuser=user
              Specifies  the  SQL  user  to  be  used  to access the database.
              Defaults  to  the  value  of  the  environment  variable  OPEND‐
              MARC_USER,  or  "opendmarc"  if  the environment variable is not
              set.

       --help Prints a help message and terminates.

       --input=file
              Reads from the named file instead of from  standard  input  (the
              default).

       --verbose
              Increase the amount of verbosity written to standard output.

       --version
              Print version number and exit.

VERSION
       This  man page covers the version of opendmarc-import that shipped with
       version 1.4.1 of OpenDMARC.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2012, The Trusted Domain Project.  All rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       opendmarc(8), opendmarc.conf(5) opendmarc-reports(8)

                          The Trusted Domain Project       opendmarc-import(8)
