OPENRC(8)                                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                                 OPENRC(8)

NAME
       openrc — stops and starts services for the specified runlevel

SYNOPSIS
       openrc [-n, --no-stop] [-o, --override] [runlevel]

DESCRIPTION
       openrc first stops any services that are not in the specified runlevel unless --no-stop is specified, then starts any services in the runlevel and stacked runlevels added by rc-update that are not
       currently started.  If no runlevel is specified, we use the current runlevel.

       There are some special runlevels that you should be aware of:

       sysinit   Brings  up  any  system  specific  stuff  such as /dev, /proc and optionally /sys for Linux based systems. It also mounts /run/openrc as a ramdisk using tmpfs where available unless / is
                 mounted rw at boot.  openrc uses /run/openrc to hold state information about the services it runs.  sysinit always runs when the host first starts should not be run again.

       boot      Generally the only services you should add to the boot runlevel are those which deal with the mounting of filesystems, set the initial state of attached peripherals  and  logging.   Hot‐
                 plugged  services  are added to the boot runlevel by the system.  All services in the boot and sysinit runlevels are automatically included in all other runlevels except for those listed
                 here.

       single    Stops all services except for those in the sysinit runlevel.

       reboot    Changes to the shutdown runlevel and then reboots the host.

       shutdown  Changes to the shutdown runlevel and then halts the host.

       You should not call any of these runlevels yourself.  Instead you should use init(8) and shutdown(8) and let them call these special runlevels.

OPTIONS
       -n, --no-stop    Do not stop any services.

       -o, --override   Override the next runlevel to change into when leaving single user or boot runlevels

       -s, --service    Run the service specified with the rest of the arguments.

       -S, --sys        Output the RC system type, if any.

       -h, --help       Display usage information and exit.

       -C, --nocolor    Disable color output.

       -V, --version    Display software version.

       -v, --verbose    Run verbosely.

       -q, --quiet      Run quietly (repeat to suppress errors).

SEE ALSO
       openrc-run(8), rc-status(8), rc-update(8), init(8), shutdown(8)

AUTHORS
       Roy Marples <roy@marples.name>

OpenRC                                                                                          May 2, 2009                                                                                       OPENRC(8)
