opusinfo(1)                                                                                      opus-tools                                                                                     opusinfo(1)

NAME
       opusinfo - gives information about Opus files and does extensive validity checking

SYNOPSIS
       opusinfo [ -q | -v ] [ -h ] [ -V ] file1.opus ...  fileN.opus

DESCRIPTION
       opusinfo  reads one or more Opus files and prints information about stream contents (including chained and/or multiplexed streams) to standard output. It will detect (but not correct) a wide range
       of common defects, with many additional checks specifically for Opus streams.

       For all stream types opusinfo will print the filename being processed, the stream serial numbers, and various common error conditions.

       For Opus streams, information including the version used for encoding, number of channels and other header information, the bitrate and playback length, the contents of  the  comment  header,  and
       general statistics about the stream are printed.

       Opusinfo is a fork of ogginfo(1) with the non-opus parts largely removed.

OPTIONS
       -h     Show a help and usage message.

       -q     Quiet mode. This may be specified multiple times. Doing so once will remove the detailed informative messages; twice will remove warnings as well.

       -v     Verbose mode. At the current time, this does not do anything.

       -V     Show program version info and exit.

NOTES
       There are many kinds of errored, invalid, non-normative, or otherwise unwise stream constructions which opusinfo will not produce warnings on. Passing opusinfo with flying colors is not certifica‐
       tion of the correctness of a stream. Future versions may detect more error conditions.

AUTHORS
       Michael Smith <msmith@xiph.org>
       Gregory Maxwell <greg@xiph.org>

SEE ALSO
       opusdec(1), opusenc(1)

Xiph.Org Foundation                                                                              2012-08-31                                                                                     opusinfo(1)
