ORPIE(1)                                                       a console-based RPN calculator                                                        ORPIE(1)

NAME
       orpie - is a console-based RPN calculator with an interactive visual stack.

SYNOPSIS
       orpie

QUICK START
       CAUTION:  while  this  manpage should be suitable as a quick reference, it may be subject to miscellaneous shortcomings in typesetting. The definitive
       documentation is the user manual provided with Orpie in PDF format.

       This section describes how to use Orpie in its default configuration. After familiarizing yourself with the basic operations as outlined in this  sec‐
       tion, you may wish to consult the orpierc(5) manpage to see how Orpie can be configured to better fit your needs.

   OVERVIEW
       The  interface  has  two  panels.  The left panel combines status information with context-sensitive help; the right panel represents the calculator's
       stack. (Note that the left panel will be hidden if Orpie is run in a terminal with less than 80 columns.)

       In general, you perform calculations by first entering data on to the stack, then executing functions that operate on the stack data. As  an  example,
       you can hit 1<enter>2<enter>+ in order to add 1 and 2.

   ENTERING REAL NUMBERS
       To  enter  a real number, just type the desired digits and hit enter. The space bar will begin entry of a scientific notation exponent. The 'n' key is
       used for negation. Here are some examples:

   ENTERING COMPLEX NUMBERS
       Orpie can represent complex numbers using either cartesian (rectangular) or polar coordinates. See PERFORMING BASIC COMMAND OPERATIONS to see  how  to
       change the complex number display mode.

       A  complex  number is entered by first pressing '(', then entering the real part, then pressing ',' followed by the imaginary part. Alternatively, you
       can press '(' followed by the magnitude, then '<' followed by the phase angle. The angle will be interpreted in degrees or radians, depending  on  the
       current setting of the angle mode (see PERFORMING BASIC COMMAND OPERATIONS).  Examples:

   ENTERING MATRICES
       You  can enter matrices by pressing '['. The elements of the matrix may then be entered as described in the previous sections, and should be separated
       using ','. To start a new row of the matrix, press '[' again. On the stack, each row of the matrix is enclosed in a set of brackets; for example,  the
       matrix

       would appear on the stack as [[1, 2][3, 4]].

       Examples of matrix entry:

   ENTERING DATA WITH UNITS
       Real  and  complex scalars and matrices can optionally be labeled with units. After typing in the numeric portion of the data, press '_' followed by a
       units string. The format of units strings is described in the UNITS FORMATTING section.

       Examples of entering dimensioned data:

   ENTERING EXACT INTEGERS
       An exact integer may be entered by pressing '#' followed by the desired digits. The base of the integer will be assumed to be the same as the  current
       calculator  base  mode  (see  PERFORMING  BASIC  COMMAND OPERATIONS to see how to set this mode).  Alternatively, the desired base may be specified by
       pressing space and appending one of {b, o, d, h}, to represent binary, octal, decimal, or hexadecimal, respectively. On the stack, the  representation
       of the integer will be changed to match the current base mode. Examples:

       Note that exact integers may have unlimited length, and the basic arithmetic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division) will be per‐
       formed using exact arithmetic when both arguments are integers.

   ENTERING VARIABLE NAMES
       A  variable  name may be entered by pressing '@' followed by the desired variable name string. The string may contain alphanumeric characters, dashes,
       and underscores. Example:

       Orpie also supports autocompletion of variable names. The help panel displays a list of pre-existing variables that partially match the name currently
       being entered.  You can press '<tab>' to iterate through the list of matching variables.

       As a shortcut, keys <f1>-<f4> will enter the variables (``registers'') @ r01 through @ r04.

   ENTERING PHYSICAL CONSTANTS
       Orpie includes definitions for a number of fundamental physical constants. To enter a constant, press 'C', followed by the first few letters/digits of
       the constant's symbol, then hit enter. Orpie offers an autocompletion feature for physical constants, so you only need to type enough of the  constant
       to identify it uniquely. A list of matching constants will appear in the left panel of the display, to assist you in finding the desired choice.

       The following is a list of Orpie's physical constant symbols:

       All  physical  constants  are  defined in the Orpie run-configuration file; consult the orpierc(5) manpage if you wish to define your own constants or
       change the existing definitions.

   ENTERING DATA WITH AN EXTERNAL EDITOR
       Orpie can also parse input entered via an external editor. You may find this to be a convenient method for entering large matrices. Pressing 'E'  will
       launch the external editor, and the various data types may be entered as illustrated by the examples below:

       Real and complex numbers and matrices may have units appended; just add a units string such as ``_N*m/s'' immediately following the numeric portion of
       the expression.

       Notice  that the complex matrix input parser is quite flexible; real and complex matrix elements may be mixed, and cartesian and polar complex formats
       may be mixed as well.

       Multiple stack entries may be specified in the same file, if they are separated by whitespace. For example, entering (1, 2) 1.5 into the  editor  will
       cause the complex value (1, 2) to be placed on the stack, followed by the real value 1.5.

       The  input  parser  will  discard whitespace where possible, so feel free to add any form of whitespace between matrix rows, matrix elements, real and
       complex components, etc.

   EXECUTING BASIC FUNCTION OPERATIONS
       Once some data has been entered on the stack, you can apply operations to that data. For example, '+' will add the last two elements on the stack.  By
       default, the following keys have been bound to such operations:

       As a shortcut, function operators will automatically enter any data that you were in the process of entering. So instead of the sequence 2<enter>2<en‐
       ter>+, you could type simply 2<enter>2+ and the second number would be entered before the addition operation is applied.

       As  an  additional shortcut, any variable names used as function arguments will be evaluated before application of the function. In other words, it is
       not necessary to evaluate variables before performing arithmetic operations on them.

   EXECUTING FUNCTION ABBREVIATIONS
       One could bind nearly all calculator operations to specific keypresses, but this would rapidly get confusing since the PC keyboard is not  labeled  as
       nicely as a calculator keyboard is. For this reason, Orpie includes an abbreviation syntax.

       To  activate an abbreviation, press ''' (quote key), followed by the first few letters/digits of the abbreviation, then hit enter. Orpie offers an au‐
       tocompletion feature for abbreviations, so you only need to type enough of the operation to identify it uniquely. The matching abbreviations will  ap‐
       pear in the left panel of the display, to assist you in finding the appropriate operation.

       To avoid interface conflicts, abbreviations may be entered only when the entry buffer (the bottom line of the screen) is empty.

       The following functions are available as abbreviations:

       Entering  abbreviations  can  become  tedious  when  performing  repetitive  calculations.  To save some keystrokes, Orpie will automatically bind re‐
       cently-used operations with no prexisting binding to keys <f5>-<f12>. The current autobindings can be viewed by pressing 'h' to cycle between the var‐
       ious pages of the help panel.

   EXECUTING BASIC COMMAND OPERATIONS
       In addition to the function operations listed in the section EXECUTING BASIC FUNCTION OPERATIONS, a number of  basic  calculator  commands  have  been
       bound to single keypresses:

   EXECUTING COMMAND ABBREVIATIONS
       In  addition  to  the function operations listed in the section EXECUTING FUNCTION ABBREVIATIONS, there are a large number of calculator commands that
       have been implemented using the abbreviation syntax:

   BROWSING THE STACK
       Orpie offers a stack browsing mode to assist in viewing and manipulating stack data. Press <up> to enter stack browsing mode;  this  should  highlight
       the  last  stack  element.  You can use the up and down arrow keys to select different stack elements. The following keys are useful in stack browsing
       mode:

       The left and right scrolling option may prove useful for viewing very lengthy stack entries, such as large matrices. The edit option provides a conve‐
       nient way to correct data after it has been entered on the stack.

   UNITS FORMATTING
       A units string is a list of units separated by '*' to indicate multiplication and '/' to indicate division. Units may be raised to real-valued  powers
       using the '^'character. A contrived example of a valid unit string would be "N*nm^2*kg/s/in^-3*GHz^2.34".

       Orpie  supports the standard SI prefix set, {y, z, a, f, p, n, u, m, c, d, da, h, k, M, G, T, P, E, Z, Y} (note the use of 'u' for micro-). These pre‐
       fixes may be applied to any of the following exhaustive sets of units:

       Note: No, Celsius and Fahrenheit will not be supported. Because these temperature units do not share a common zero point, their  behavior  is  ill-de‐
       fined under many operations.

       Note: Although the lumen is defined by 1_lm = 1_cd * sr, Orpie drops the steridian because it is a dimensionless unit and therefore is of questionable
       use to a calculator.

       All  units are defined in the Orpie run-configuration file; consult the orpierc(5) manpage if you wish to define your own units or change the existing
       definitions.

LICENSING
       Orpie is Free Software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL), Version 3, as  published  by
       the Free Software Foundation. You should have received a copy of the GPL along with this program, in the file ``LICENSE.md''.

CONTACT INFO
       Orpie author: Paul Pelzl <pelzlpj@gmail.com>
       Orpie website: https://github.com/pelzlpj/orpie

SEE ALSO
       orpierc(5), orpie-curses-keys(1)

a console-based RPN calculator                                          28 August 2018                                                               ORPIE(1)
