osinfo-db-import(1)                                                                           Osinfo DB Tools                                                                           osinfo-db-import(1)

NAME
       osinfo-db-import - Import an osinfo database archive

SYNOPSIS
       osinfo-db-import [OPTIONS...] [ARCHIVE-FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       The osinfo-db-import tool will take an osinfo database archive and extract its contents into one of the standard database locations on the current host:

       system
        This is the primary system-wide database location, intended for use by operating system vendors distributing database files in the native package format.

       local
        This is the secondary system-wide database location, intended for use by system administrators wishing to provide an updated database for all users.

       user
        This is the user private database location, intended for use by unprivileged local users wishing to provide applications they use with an updated database.

       If run by a privileged account (ie root), the local database location will be used by default, otherwise the user location will be used.

       When passing a non local ARCHIVE-FILE, only http:// and https:// protocols are supported.

       With no ARCHIVE-FILE, or when ARCHIVE-FILE is -, read standard input.

OPTIONS
       --user  Override the default behaviour to force installation into the user database location.

       --local Override the default behaviour to force installation into the local database location.

       --system
               Override the default behaviour to force installation into the system database location.

       --dir=PATH
               Override the default behaviour to force installation into the custom directory PATH.

       --root=PATH
               Prefix the installation location with the root directory given by "PATH". This is useful when wishing to install into a chroot environment or equivalent.

       --latest
               Downloads  the  latest  osinfo-db release from libosinfo's official releases website and installs it in the desired location.  The latest osinfo-db release is only downloaded and installed
               when it's newer than the one installed in the desired location.  Note that this option is mutually exclusive with '--nightly'.

       --nightly
               Downloads the nightly (unreleased) osinfo-db build from libosinfo's website and installs it in the desired location.  Unlike with '--latest' with this option  the  nightly  archive  always
               downloaded and installed regardless of the version installed in the desired location. Note that this option is mutually exclusive with '--latest'.

       -v, --verbose
               Display verbose progress information when installing files

EXIT STATUS
       The exit status will be 0 if all files were installed successfully, or 1 if at least one file could not be installed.

SEE ALSO
       "osinfo-db-export(1)", "osinfo-db-path(1)"

AUTHORS
       Daniel P. Berrange <berrange@redhat.com>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.

LICENSE
       "osinfo-db-import"  is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+ license. This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or
       FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE

osinfo-db-tools-1.12.0                                                                           2025-08-15                                                                             osinfo-db-import(1)
