OSMIUM-CAT(1)                                                                                                                                   OSMIUM-CAT(1)

NAME
       osmium-cat - concatenate OSM files and convert to different formats

SYNOPSIS
       osmium cat [OPTIONS] OSM-FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       Concatenates all input files and writes the result to the output file.  The data is not sorted in any way but strictly copied from input to output.

       Because this program supports several different input and output formats, it can be used to convert OSM files from one format into another.

       This  commands  reads its input file(s) only once and writes its output file in one go so it can be streamed, ie.  it can read from STDIN and write to
       STDOUT.

       Usually this is not the right command to merge two or more typical OSM files, see osmium merge for that.

OPTIONS
       -c, --clean=ATTR
              Clean the attribute (version, timestamp, changeset, uid, user), from the data before writing it out again.  The attribute will be set to 0 (the
              user will be set to the empty string).  This option can be given multiple times.  Depending on the output format these attributes might show up
              as 0 or not show up at all.

       -t, --object-type=TYPE
              Read only objects of given type (node, way, relation, changeset).  By default all types are read.  This option can be given multiple times.

       --buffer-data
              Read all input files into memory and only then write out all the data.  This will need a lot of memory and is  usually  slower  than  a  normal
              copy.  Used for timing the reading and writing phase separately.

COMMON OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Show usage help.

       -v, --verbose
              Set verbose mode.  The program will output information about what it is doing to STDERR.

       --progress
              Show  progress  bar.  Usually a progress bar is only displayed if STDOUT and STDERR are detected to be TTY.  With this option a progress bar is
              always shown.  Note that a progress bar will never be shown when reading from STDIN or a pipe.

       --no-progress
              Do not show progress bar.  Usually a progress bar is displayed if STDOUT and STDERR are detected to be a TTY.  With this  option  the  progress
              bar is suppressed.  Note that a progress bar will never be shown when reading from STDIN or a pipe.

INPUT OPTIONS
       -F, --input-format=FORMAT
              The  format  of  the  input file(s).  Can be used to set the input format if it can’t be autodetected from the file name(s).  This will set the
              format for all input files, there is no way to set the format for some input files only.  See osmium-file-formats(5) or  the  libosmium  manual
              for details.

OUTPUT OPTIONS
       -f, --output-format=FORMAT
              The  format  of  the  output  file.   Can be used to set the output file format if it can’t be autodetected from the output file name.  See os‐
              mium-file-formats(5) or the libosmium manual for details.

       --fsync
              Call fsync after writing the output file to force flushing buffers to disk.

       --generator=NAME
              The name and version of the program generating the output file.  It will be added to the header of the output file.  Default is  “osmium/”  and
              the version of osmium.

       -o, --output=FILE
              Name of the output file.  Default is `-' (STDOUT).

       -O, --overwrite
              Allow an existing output file to be overwritten.  Normally osmium will refuse to write over an existing file.

       --output-header=OPTION=VALUE
              Add  output  header  option.   This command line option can be used multiple times for different OPTIONs.  See the osmium-output-headers(5) man
              page for a list of available header options.  For some commands you can use the special format “OPTION!” (ie.  an exclamation  mark  after  the
              OPTION and no value set) to set the value to the same as in the input file.

DIAGNOSTICS
       osmium cat exits with exit code

       0      if everything went alright,

       1      if there was an error processing the data, or

       2      if there was a problem with the command line arguments.

MEMORY USAGE
       osmium cat does all its work on the fly and doesn’t keep much data in main memory.

EXAMPLES
       Convert a PBF file to a compressed XML file:

              osmium cat -o out.osm.bz2 in.osm.pbf

       Concatenate all change files in the `changes' directory into one:

              osmium cat -o all-changes.osc.gz changes/*.osc.gz

       Copy nodes and ways from source to destination file:

              osmium cat -o dest.osm.pbf source.osm.pbf -t node -t way

       Remove changeset, uid, and user from a file to protect personal data:

              osmium cat -c changeset -c uid -c user -o cleaned.osm.pbf data.osm.pbf

SEE ALSO
       • osmium(1), osmium-file-formats(5), osmium-merge(1), osmium-output-headers(5)

       • Osmium website

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2013-2026 Jochen Topf <jochen@topf.org>.

       License  GPLv3+:  GNU  GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

CONTACT
       If you have any questions or want to report a bug, please go to https://osmcode.org/contact.html

AUTHORS
       Jochen Topf <jochen@topf.org>.

                                                                            1.19.0                                                              OSMIUM-CAT(1)
