OTFINFO(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                  OTFINFO(1)

NAME
       otfinfo - report information about OpenType fonts

SYNOPSIS
       otfinfo [-sfzpvag] [FILE...]

DESCRIPTION
       Otfinfo reports information about the named OpenType font FILEs (or standard input, if no FILEs are given). Results are printed to standard output. Each line is prefaced with the relevant FILE if more
       than one FILE was supplied.

OPTIONS
       With long options, you need type only as many characters as will make the option unique.

   Query options
       -s, --scripts
            Print supported scripts and language systems. The scripts are printed one per line, with human-readable descriptions; for example:
              cyrl            Cyrillic
              grek            Greek
              latn            Latin
              latn.TUR        Latin/Turkish

       -f, --features
            Print GSUB and GPOS features supported by the selected script (see the --script option below). The scripts are printed one per line, with human-readable descriptions; for example:
              aalt    Access All Alternates
              c2sc    Small Capitals From Capitals
              case    Case-Sensitive Forms
              cpsp    Capital Spacing
              ...
              zero    Slashed Zero

       -z, --optical-size
            Print optical size information. For example:
              design size 11 pt, size range (8.4 pt, 13 pt], subfamily ID 11, subfamily name Semibold Italic

       -p, --postscript-name
            Print each font's PostScript name. For example:
              MinionPro-SemiboldItCapt

       -a, --family
            Print each font's family name. For example:
              Minion Pro

       -v, --font-version
            Print font version information, if available. For example:
              OTF 1.013;PS 001.000;Core 1.0.27;makeotf.lib(1.11)

       -i, --info
            Print each font's name, version, designer, vendor, copyright, and license information. For example:
              Family:              Minion Pro
              Subfamily:           Regular
              Full name:           Minion Pro
              PostScript name:     MinionPro-Regular
              Version:             OTF 1.011;PS 001.000;Core 1.0.27;makeotf.lib1.3.1
              Unique ID:           1.011;ADBE;MinionPro-Regular
              Designer:            Robert Slimbach
              Vendor URL:          http://www.adobe.com/type/
              Trademark:           Minion is either a registered trademark or a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries.
              Copyright:           © 2000 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. U.S. Patent Des. 337,604. Other patents pending.
              License URL:         http://www.adobe.com/type/legal.html

       -g, --glyphs
            Print the name of every glyph in each font, one per line. For example:
              .notdef
              space
              exclam
              ...
              ncommaaccent.end
              lje.alt

       -u, --unicode
            Print each Unicode code point supported by the font, followed by the glyph number representing that code point (and, if present, the name of the corresponding glyph).

       -t, --tables
            Print the size and name of every OpenType table in the font. For example:
                   52 BASE
                87723 CFF
                 4940 DSIG
                21366 GPOS
              ...

       -T table, --dump-table=table
            Print the contents of the font's OpenType table table.

   Miscellaneous options
       --script=script[.lang]
            Select the script system script and language system lang used to look up features by --features.  Examples include "latn" (Latin script), "grek" (Greek script), and "yi.YIC" (Yi script with clas‐
            sic characters). If lang is not specified, otfinfo will use the default language system for that script. Defaults to "latn".

       -V, --verbose
            Write progress messages to standard error.

       -q, --quiet
            Do not generate any error messages.

       -h, --help
            Print usage information and exit.

       --version
            Print the version number and some short non-warranty information and exit.

SEE ALSO
       otftotfm(1)

       OpenType Specification, Version 1.4

AUTHOR
       Eddie Kohler (ekohler@gmail.com)

Version 2.108                                                                                    LCDF Typetools                                                                                      OTFINFO(1)
