p2bin(1)                    General Commands Manual                   p2bin(1)

NAME
       p2bin - convert code files into hex files

SYNTAX
       p2bin [ option(s) ] <name(s)> [ further options/names ]

DESCRIPTION
       P2BIN  is  a  tool to convert the contents of one or several code files
       generated by AS into binary files.  A binary file is a 1:1 memory image
       of  the  processor's memory and is especially suited for EPROM program‐
       mers and emulators.

       Arguments to P2BIN may be either command line parameters or  file  name
       specifications.   Any argument that starts with the charactes +, - or /
       is regarded as a comand line parameter (which may  take  an  additional
       command  line argument); any other argument is regarded as a file name.
       Generally, P2BIN needs at least two file names: An input code file  and
       the  name of the binary output file.  If multiple file names are given,
       P2BIN will always take the last name as the output file's name.  If  an
       input file name does not have an extension, the extension '.p' is added
       automatically.  Similarly, the extension '.bin' is added  automatically
       to  the  target  file's name.  A special case occurs when only one file
       name is given: P2BIN will then take its name as  the  source  (possibly
       extended  with '.p'), and the same name as target (with '.bin' as addi‐
       tional or replaced extension).

COMMAND-LINE PARAMETERS
       If a command-line parameter starts with a slash(/) or minus sign(-), it
       turns  an  option  on;  if  a command-line parameter starts with a plus
       sign(+), it turns a specific option off.  Numeric arguments to  parame‐
       ters  can  be  either  written in decimal or hexadecimal notation.  For
       hexadecimal notation, prefix the number with a dollar($) sign.  In  the
       following list, all options will be shown in the form that is needed to
       change the default behaviour, which might be a plus or minus sign,  de‐
       pening on wether the option is on or off by default.

       p2bin accepts the following command-line parameters:

       -f <number>[,<further numbers>]

              Add  <number>  to  the  list  of  record header IDs that allow a
              record from a source file to be written to the target  file.   A
              certain header ID marks code for a certain target processor fam‐
              ily; thus, this filter allows to distill code for a certain pro‐
              cessor  out  of  a  source file that contains code for different
              processor families.  Negation of this parameter removes  certain
              header  IDs  from P2BIN's list.  See the user manual of AS for a
              list of all possible header  ID  values.   If  P2BIN's  list  of
              header  IDs  is  empty,  no  filtering will take place, i.e. all
              records from a source file will make it into the target file.

       -l <number>

              Set the value that should be used to fill memory  areas  in  the
              binary image that are unused by the input code file(s).  The de‐
              fault for this is to  fill  unused  areas  with  the  value  255
              (0xff),  which  is  the  best  choice for EPROMs as erased EPROM
              cells carry this value and an intelligent EPROM burner can  skip
              these  cells,  speeding  up the programming process and reducing
              stress for the EPROM.  However,  there  are  specialized  EPROMs
              that have zeros in their cells after erasure, and you might want
              to fill unused areas with a code that executes as a NOP or BREAK
              statement.

       -m <all|even|odd|byte<0|1|2|3>|word<0|1>>

              Set  the  mask of bytes to be filtered out.  If your target pro‐
              cessor has a 16- or 32-bit data path, but your EPROMs  are  only
              8- or 16-bits wide, the code has to be spread over the EPROMs in
              an alternating fashion.  This option allows you to do the  nece‐
              sary  splitting, however you have to run P2BIN two or four times
              with different masks.  The possible arguments have the following
              meanings:

              all  does not do any filtering, i.e. all bytes of your code will
              show up in the resulting image.  This is the default.

              even or odd will take only those bytes whose  addresses  are  in
              the  form  2*n  or  2*n+1.  They are useful if you have a 16-bit
              data path and two 8-bit EPROMs.

              byte0, byte1, byte2 or byte3 will take only  those  bytes  whose
              addresses are in the form 4*n ... 4*n+3.  They are useful if you
              have a 32-bit data path and four 8-bit EPROMs.

              word0 or word1 will take only those bytes whose addresses are in
              the form 4*n+0 / 4*n+1 or 4*n+2 / 4*n+3.  They are useful if you
              have a 32-bit data path and two 16-bit EPROMs.

              When using one of these filters, the resulting images will auto‐
              matically  become  smaller  by  a factor of 2 or 4.  Beware that
              this does not influence address specifications given with the -r
              command-line  parameter! See also the examples section below for
              correct usage.

       -r < <start>-<stop> >

              Set a certain address range to be  filtered  out  of  the  input
              file(s).   Code  that lies outside this range does not appear in
              the output file.  The default for  the  address  filter  is  the
              0-$7fff,  which might create confusion in some cases.  As a spe‐
              cial option, <start> and <stop> may consist  of  just  a  single
              dollar  sign (escape this in UNIX shells!) to signify the lowest
              resp. highest address that occurs in the input  file(s).   Using
              this  option will implicitly enable a second pass over all input
              files to find the minimum and maximum values  before  conversion
              starts, reducing the speed of P2BIN slightly.

       -e <address>

              Set  an  entry address or modify an existing one.  P2BIN can op‐
              tionally prepend the start address to the binary image to tell a
              program  loader  where  to  jump after the image has been loaded
              (see the '-S' option).  Normally, this address is  generated  by
              AS  if  the program's END statement has a label as argument, but
              this options allows to change the entry point or add one  if  it
              was forgotten in the program itself.

       -S [L|B]<n>

              Instruct  P2BIN  to prepend the program entry address to the im‐
              age.  'n' is the length in bytes the address should have and has
              an  allowed  range from 1 to 4.  The number may be prefixed by a
              'L' or 'B' letter that sets the endianess of the address.  If no
              letter is used, little endian is assumed.

       -s

              Tell  P2BIN to include a checksum into the image.  A checksum is
              a byte value entered into the image's  last  byte  that  is  the
              two's  complement  of the sum of all previous bytes.  Therefore,
              the sum of all bytes modulus 256 will become zero.  This  option
              is  useful if you want to check the ROM contents in your program
              as part of a power-on self-test, but keep in mind that you  must
              not use the last byte for your own purposes any more!

       -k

              Instruct  P2BIN  to erase the program source files after conver‐
              sion.

PRESETTING PARAMETERS
       Parameters need not neccessarily be given in the command  line  itself.
       Before processing of command line parameters starts, P2BIN will look if
       the P2BINCMD environment variable is defined.  If it exists,  its  con‐
       tents will be treated as additional command line paramters whose syntax
       is absolutely equal to normal command line parameters.  As exception is
       made  if the variable's contents start with a '@' sign; in such a case,
       the string after the '@' sign is treated as the name  of  a  file  that
       contains  the  options.  Such a file (also called a 'key file') has the
       advantage that it allows the options to be written in different  lines,
       and  it  does  not have a size limit.  Some operating systems (like MS-
       DOS) do have a length limit on command lines and  environment  variable
       contents,  so the key file may be your only option if you have a lot of
       lengthy parameters for P2BIN.

RETURN CODES
       p2bin may return with the following codes:

       0      no errors.

       1      incorrect command line parameters.

       2      I/O-error.

       3      An input file had an incorrect format.

EXAMPLES
       To convert a file file1.p fully into its binary representation, use

       p2bin -r \$-\$ file1

       If you have a processor with a 64 KByte address space and a 16-bit data
       path  and you want to assure that the memory image always starts at ad‐
       dress 0, regardless of address layout in the code file, use

       p2bin -r 0-\$ffff -m even file1 evenfile

       p2bin -r 0-\$ffff -m odd file1 oddfile

       to get images for two 27256 EPROMs.

NATIONAL LANGUAGE SUPPORT
       p2bin supports national languages in the same way as AS.  See the  man‐
       ual page for asl(1) for more information about this.

TIPS
       Calling P2BIN without any arguments will print a short help listing all
       command line parameters.

SEE ALSO
       asl(1), plist(1), pbind(1), p2hex(1)

HISTORY
       P2BIN originally appeared as an AS tool in 1992,  written  in  Borland-
       Pascal, and was ported to C and UNIX in 1996.

BUGS
       Command  line interpreters of some operating systems reserve some char‐
       acters for their own use, so it might be necessary to give command line
       parameters  with  certain tricks (e.g., with the help of escape charac‐
       ters).

       P2BIN does not have so far an opportunity to filter records  by  target
       segment.  Instead, records that contain data for any other segment than
       CODE are completely ignored.

AUTHOR(S)
       Alfred Arnold (alfred@ccac.rwth-aachen.de)

                                                                      p2bin(1)
