PKGCLI(1)                                                                   pkgcli                                                                  PKGCLI(1)

NAME
       pkgcli - command-line client for PackageKit

SYNOPSIS

       pkgcli [GLOBAL-OPTIONS...] COMMAND [COMMAND-OPTIONS...] [ARGUMENTS...]

DESCRIPTION
       pkgcli is a command line client for PackageKit, a distribution-neutral interface to the operating system's package manager. It provides a set of
       subcommands for querying and managing software packages, repositories and transaction history.

       Use pkgcli --help to get a list of available commands, and pkgcli COMMAND --help for command-specific help.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       The following options are parsed before the command name and affect most subcommands:

       -v, --version
           Show the pkgcli version and exit.

       -h, --help
           Show generic help and a list of available commands.

       -q, --quiet
           Only provide minimal output.

       --verbose
           Show more detailed and debug-style output.

       --json
           Output results in JSON format suitable for consumption by other tools. Output is generated in the JSONL (JSON Lines) format, with one JSON object
           per line.

       --no-color
           Disable colored terminal output. This is also enabled when the NO_COLOR environment variable is set.

       -y, --yes
           Answer “yes” to all questions and run in non-interactive mode.

       -f, --filter=FILTER
           Apply one or more filters when querying packages, such as restricting results to installed or available packages. You can view all supported
           filter options by running pkgcli organization.

       -n, --background
           Hint that the command is not urgent and may use idle network bandwidth and power-saving settings where supported.

COMMANDS
       The following commands are available:

       backend
           Display information about the PackageKit backend currently in use, including the backend name, version, and the roles it supports.

       history
           Show a list of recent package management transactions (like installation, removal, and update operations performed on the system).

       search
           Search for packages matching a given pattern. The first argument may optionally be one of name, details, file or group, to limit the search to the
           selected domain. If only one argument is given, a search across package details (name, summary, and description) is performed.

       list
           List packages, optionally filtered by installation status or name pattern. Use with --filter to show only installed, available, or other
           categories of packages.

       show
           Display detailed information about one or more packages, including version, size, description, license, and repository information.

       list-depends
           List all packages that the specified package depends on. Use the --recursive flag to list dependencies of the entire chain.

       list-required-by
           List packages that depend on or require the specified package.

       what-provides
           Find and list packages that provide a given capability, shared library, or file path.

       files
           Display a list of all files contained in the specified package.

       list-updates
           List all available package updates for installed software.

       show-update
           Display detailed information about a specific update, including changelog entries, security advisories, and other update metadata.

       resolve
           Resolve package names or identifiers to their package state, showing whether they are installed, available, or unavailable.

       organization
           Display available package filters (such as installed, available, newest), groups (such as system, development, graphics), and categories that can
           be used to query packages.

       show-os-upgrade
           Check for and display information about available operating system or distribution upgrades, such as upgrades to a newer OS release.

       last-time
           Show the elapsed time since the last transaction of a specified role occurred, such as the last package update or cache refresh.

       refresh
           Refresh the local package metadata cache by downloading the latest package information from configured repositories. This should be run before
           checking for updates or searching for new packages.

       install
           Install one or more packages by name, or install local package files if a path is provided instead of a package name.

       remove
           Remove one or more installed packages from the system. This may also remove dependent packages if they are no longer needed. Use with the
           --autoremove option to clean up unused packages as well.

       update
           Install available updates for all installed packages on the system, or for specific packages if specified as arguments.

       upgrade
           Perform a system upgrade to newer package versions or a new distribution release. This may involve major version updates and significant changes.

       download
           Download package files to the local system without installing them. This is useful for offline installation or package inspection.

       offline-update
           Prepare, trigger, cancel, or inspect offline system updates. Offline updates are applied during system boot before the desktop environment starts,
           allowing critical system packages to be updated safely.

       install-sig
           Install a cryptographic signature for a package to verify its authenticity and integrity.

       repair
           Attempt to automatically repair problems with the package management system, such as broken dependencies, corrupted databases, or interrupted
           transactions.

       quit
           Request the PackageKit daemon to terminate gracefully after completing any ongoing operations. The daemon will restart automatically when needed.

       repo-list
           Display a list of all configured software repositories, showing their identifiers, descriptions, and enabled/disabled status.

       repo-enable
           Enable a previously disabled repository, allowing packages from that repository to be installed and updated.

       repo-disable
           Disable a repository, preventing packages from that source from being installed or updated while keeping the repository configuration.

       repo-remove
           Completely remove a repository from the system configuration. This is permanent and the repository will need to be re-added if needed later. Takes
           a repository-ID as parameter.

       monitor
           Monitor and display real-time PackageKit transaction events and status changes on the bus. This is useful for debugging or observing package
           management activity.

       Use pkgcli COMMAND --help for detailed usage information including supported options and arguments for each command.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit codes are used by pkgcli:

       0
           The command completed successfully.

       1
           A non-specific error occurred.

       2
           Invalid syntax or command-line options were supplied.

       3
           Insufficient permissions to perform the requested operation.

       4
           Required information or packages could not be found.

       5
           The transaction failed.

       Additional exit codes may be used for more specific failure conditions by individual commands.

ENVIRONMENT
       NO_COLOR
           When set to any non-empty value, disables colored output, equivalent to passing --no-color.

EXAMPLES
       Search for packages related to text editors
           pkgcli search editor

       Search only in package names
           pkgcli search name python3

       Show detailed information about a package
           pkgcli show nano

       Install a package non-interactively
           pkgcli --yes install nano

       List all installed packages
           pkgcli --filter=installed list

       Check for available updates
           pkgcli refresh && pkgcli list-updates

       List dependencies of a package
           pkgcli list-depends inkscape

       Find which package provides the AV1 GStreamer codec
           pkgcli what-provides "gstreamer1(decoder-video/x-av1)"

SEE ALSO
       appstreamcli(1), and the PackageKit documentation at https://www.freedesktop.org/software/PackageKit/.

AUTHORS
       Matthias Klumpp <matthias@tenstral.net>
           Developer

       Richard Hughes <richard@hughsie.com>
           Developer

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2012-2026 Matthias Klumpp

PackageKit                                                            26. November 2025                                                             PKGCLI(1)
