PACVIM(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 PACVIM(1)

NAME
       pacvim - PacVim is pacman game concept with vim command

SYNOPSIS
       pacvim [LEVEL_NUMBER][MODE]

DESCRIPTION
        PacVim is a game that teaches you vim commands. You must
        move pacman (the green cursor) to highlight each word on
        the gameboard while avoiding the ghosts (in red).
        Vim is a great tool to write and edit code, but many people, including me,
        struggled with the steep learning curve. I did not find a fun, free way to
        learn about the vim commands in-depth, and thus, PacVim was born. Inspired by
        the classic, PacMan, PacVim is a game that'll give anyone plenty of practice
        with the vim commands while being a ton of fun to play.

       q    quit the game
       h    move left
       j    move down
       k    move up
       l    move right
       w    move forward to next word beginning
       W    move forward to next WORD beginning
       e    move forward to next word ending
       E    move forward to next WORD ending
       b    move backward to next word beginning
       B    move backward to next WORD beginning
       $    move to the end of the line
       0    move to the beginning of the line
       gg/1G     move to the beginning of the first line
       numberG   move to the beginning of the line given by number
       G    move to the beginning of the last line
       ^    move to the first word at the current line
       &    1337 cheatz (beat current level)

       pacvim command option is LEVEL_NUMBER MODE commands.

OPTIONS
       pacvim for level and mode switch

       1-9, Game Level
              Game level number, 1 to 9

       n, normal mode
              Game normal mode.

       h, hard mode
              Game hard mode.

       FILES  /usr/share/pacvim/maps holds a sample set of mapfile.  If your MAPSPATH is not explicitly set, it automatically contains this directory.

BUGS
       If there are any, please notify the author at the address below.

AUTHOR
       kokoye2007 <kokoye2007@gmail.com>

SEE ALSO
       vim(1),

                                                                                             September  8 2019                                                                                    PACVIM(1)
