pageant(1)                     PuTTY tool suite                     pageant(1)

NAME
       pageant - PuTTY SSH authentication agent

SYNOPSIS
       pageant ( -X | -T | --permanent | --debug ) [ [ --encrypted ] key-file... ]
       pageant [ [ --encrypted ] key-file... ] --exec command [ args... ]
       pageant -a [ --encrypted ] key-file...
       pageant ( -d | -r | --public | --public-openssh ) key-identifier...
       pageant ( -D | -R )
       pageant -l [ --fptype format ]
       pageant --askpass prompt

DESCRIPTION
       pageant is both an SSH authentication agent, and also a tool for commu‐
       nicating with an already-running agent.

       When running as an SSH agent, it listens on a  Unix-domain  socket  for
       connections  from  client processes running under your user id. Clients
       can load SSH private keys into the agent, or request  signatures  on  a
       given  message  from a key already in the agent. This permits one-touch
       authentication by SSH client programs, if Pageant is holding a key that
       the server they are connecting to will accept.

       pageant  can also act as a client program itself, communicating with an
       already-running agent to add or remove keys, list the keys, or  extract
       their public half.

       The  agent  protocol used by pageant is compatible with the PuTTY tools
       and also with other implementations such as OpenSSH's  SSH  client  and
       ssh-agent(1).  Some  pageant  features  are  implemented  with protocol
       extensions, so will only work if pageant is on both ends.

       To run pageant as an agent, you must provide an option to tell it  what
       its  lifetime  should  be. Typically you would probably want Pageant to
       last for the duration of a login session, in which case you should  use
       either  -X  or  -T,  depending  on whether your login session is GUI or
       purely terminal-based respectively. For  example,  in  your  X  session
       startup script you might write

       eval $(pageant -X)

       which  will  cause  Pageant  to  start running, monitor the X server to
       notice when your session terminates (and then it will  terminate  too),
       and  print  on  standard  output some shell commands to set environment
       variables that client processes will need to find the running agent.

       In a terminal-based login, you could do almost exactly the  same  thing
       but with -T:

       eval $(pageant -T)

       This will cause Pageant to tie its lifetime to that of your controlling
       terminal: when you log out, and the terminal device ceases to be  asso‐
       ciated  with  your session, Pageant will notice that it has no control‐
       ling terminal any more, and will terminate automatically.

       In either of these modes, you can also add one or more private keys  as
       extra command-line arguments, e.g.

       eval $(pageant -T ~/.ssh/key.ppk)

       in which case Pageant will immediately prompt for the keys' passphrases
       (if any) and start the agent with those keys already loaded in  cleart‐
       ext  form.  Passphrase prompts will use the controlling terminal if one
       is available, or failing that the GUI if one  of  those  is  available.
       (The  prompt  method  can be overridden with the --gui-prompt or --tty-
       prompt options.) If neither is available, no passphrase  prompting  can
       be done.

       Alternatively,  you  can  start  an agent with keys stored in encrypted
       form:

       eval $(pageant -T --encrypted ~/.ssh/key.ppk)

       In this case, Pageant will not prompt  for  a  passphrase  at  startup;
       instead,  it  will prompt the first time a client tries to use the key.
       (Pageant will need access to a GUI so that it can pop up  a  passphrase
       prompt when required, unless it's running in --debug mode.)

       To use Pageant to talk to an existing agent, you can add new keys using
       -a, list the current set of keys' fingerprints and  comments  with  -l,
       extract  the  full  public  half of any key using --public or --public-
       openssh, delete a specific key or all keys using -d or -D respectively,
       or  request  re-encryption of a specific key or all keys using -r or -R
       respectively.

LIFETIME
       The following options are  called  lifetime  modes.  They  all  request
       Pageant to operate in agent mode; each one specifies a different method
       for Pageant to start up and know when to shut down.

       -X     Pageant will open a connection to your X display, and when  that
              connection  is  lost,  it will terminate. This gives it the same
              lifetime as your GUI login session, so in this mode it is  suit‐
              able  for  running  from a startup script such as .xsession. The
              actual agent will be a subprocess; the main Pageant process will
              terminate  immediately, after printing environment-variable set‐
              ting commands on standard output which should  be  installed  in
              any process wanting to communicate with the agent.

              The usual approach would be to run

              eval $(pageant -X)

              in  an  X  session  startup script. However, other possibilities
              exist, such as directing the standard output of `pageant -X'  to
              a file which is then sourced by any new shell.

       -T     Pageant  will tie its lifetime to that of the login session run‐
              ning on its controlling terminal, by noticing when it ceases  to
              have  a controlling terminal (which will automatically happen as
              a side effect of the session leader process  terminating).  Like
              -X, Pageant will print environment-variable commands on standard
              output.

       --exec command
              Pageant will run the provided command as a subprocess, preloaded
              with  the  appropriate environment variables to access the agent
              it starts up. When the subprocess terminates, Pageant will  ter‐
              minate as well.

              All  arguments  on  Pageant's  command line after --exec will be
              treated as part of the command to run, even if  they  look  like
              other valid Pageant options or key files.

       --permanent
              Pageant  will  fork  off a subprocess to be the agent, and print
              environment-variable commands on standard output,  like  -X  and
              -T.  However,  in this case, it will make no effort to limit its
              lifetime in any way; it will simply run permanently, unless man‐
              ually killed. The environment variable SSH_AGENT_PID, set by the
              commands printed by Pageant, permits the  agent  process  to  be
              found for this purpose.

              This  option  is not recommended, because any method of manually
              killing the agent carries the risk of  the  session  terminating
              unexpectedly before it manages to happen.

       --debug
              Pageant  will  run  in  the foreground, without forking. It will
              print its environment variable setup commands on  standard  out‐
              put,  and then it will log all agent activity to standard output
              as well; any passphrase prompts will  need  to  be  answered  on
              standard input. This is useful for debugging what Pageant itself
              is doing, or what another process is doing to it.

CLIENT OPTIONS
       The following options tell Pageant to operate in client mode,  contact‐
       ing  an existing agent via environment variables that it should already
       have set.

       -a key-files
              Load the specified private key  file(s)  and  add  them  to  the
              already-running  agent.  Unless  --encrypted  is also specified,
              pageant will decrypt them if necessary by  prompting  for  their
              passphrases (with the same choice of user interfaces as in agent
              mode).

              The private key files must be in PuTTY's .ppk file format.

       -l     List the keys currently in the running agent. Each key's finger‐
              print  and  comment  string will be shown. (Use the -E option to
              change the fingerprint format.)

              Keys that will require a passphrase on their next use are listed
              as  `encrypted'. Keys that can be returned to this state with -r
              are listed as `re-encryptable'.

       --public key-identifiers
              Print the public half of each specified key,  in  the  RFC  4716
              standard  format (multiple lines, starting with `---- BEGIN SSH2
              PUBLIC KEY ----').

              Each key-identifier can be any of the following:

              ·      The name of a file containing the key, either  the  whole
                     key (again in .ppk format) or just its public half.

              ·      The key's comment string, as shown by pageant -l.

              ·      Enough  of  one  of  the  key's fingerprint formats to be
                     unique among keys currently loaded into the agent.

              If Pageant can uniquely identify one  key  by  interpreting  the
              key-identifier in any of these ways, it will assume that key was
              the one you meant. If it cannot, you will have to  specify  more
              detail.

              If  you  find  that  your  desired  key-identifier string can be
              validly interpreted as more than one of the above kinds of iden‐
              tification, you can disambiguate by prefixing it as follows:

              `file:'
                     to indicate that it is a filename

              `comment:'
                     to indicate that it is a comment string

              `fp:'  to  indicate  that  it  is a fingerprint; any fingerprint
                     format will be matched

              `sha256:' or `md5:'
                     to indicate that it is a fingerprint of a specific format

       --public-openssh key-identifiers, -L key-identifiers
              Print the public half of each specified  key,  in  the  one-line
              format  used  by  OpenSSH,  suitable  for putting in .ssh/autho‐
              rized_keys files.

       -d key-identifiers
              Delete each specified key from the agent's memory, so  that  the
              agent  will no longer serve it to clients unless it is loaded in
              again using pageant -a.

       -D     Delete all keys from the agent's memory, leaving  it  completely
              empty.

       -r key-identifiers
              `Re-encrypt' each specified key in the agent's memory - that is,
              forget any cleartext version, so that the user will be  prompted
              for  a  passphrase again next time the key is used. (For this to
              be possible, the key must previously have been  added  with  the
              --encrypted option.)

              (Holding  encrypted  keys is a Pageant extension, so this option
              and -R are unlikely to work with other agents.)

       -R     `Re-encrypt' all possible keys in the agent's memory. (This  may
              leave  some keys in cleartext, if they were not previously added
              with the --encrypted option.)

       --test-sign key-identifier

       --test-sign-with-flags=flags key-identifier
              Sign arbitrary data with the given key. This mode is only likely
              to be useful when testing pageant itself.

              The  data  to  sign  is taken from standard input, signed by the
              agent with the key identified by key-identifier, and the result‐
              ing  signature  emitted  on standard output (as a binary blob in
              the format defined by the SSH specifications).

              flags is a  number  representing  a  combination  of  flag  bits
              defined by the SSH agent protocol.

SSH-ASKPASS REPLACEMENT
       --askpass prompt
              With this option, pageant acts as an ssh-askpass(1) replacement,
              rather than performing any SSH agent functionality. This may  be
              useful if you prefer Pageant's GUI prompt style, which minimises
              information leakage about your passphrase length in  its  visual
              feedback, compared to other ssh-askpass(1) implementations.

              pageant  --askpass implements the standard ssh-askpass(1) inter‐
              face: it can be passed a prompt to display (as  a  single  argu‐
              ment) and, if successful, prints the passphrase on standard out‐
              put and returns a zero exit status. Typically you would use  the
              environment  variable  SSH_ASKPASS to tell other programs to use
              pageant in this way.

OPTIONS
       -v     Verbose mode. When Pageant  runs  in  agent  mode,  this  option
              causes  it  to log all agent activity to its standard error. For
              example, you might run

              eval $(pageant -X -v 2>~/.pageant.log)

              and expect a list of all signatures requested by  agent  clients
              to build up in that log file.

              The  log information is the same as that produced by the --debug
              lifetime option, but --debug sends it to standard output  (since
              that  is  the  main  point  of debugging mode) whereas -v in all
              other lifetime modes sends the same log data to  standard  error
              (being  a by-product of the program's main purpose). Using -v in
              --debug mode has no effect: the log still goes to standard  out‐
              put.

       -s, -c Force  Pageant  to  output its environment setup commands in the
              style of POSIX / Bourne shells (-s) or  C  shells  (-c)  respec‐
              tively.  If neither option is given, Pageant will guess based on
              whether the environment variable SHELL has  a  value  ending  in
              `csh'.

       --symlink fixed-path
              When  operating  in  agent  mode, as well as creating a uniquely
              named listening socket, pageant will also create (or  update)  a
              symbolic link at fixed-path pointing to that socket.

              This   allows  access  to  an  agent  instance  by  setting  the
              SSH_AUTH_SOCK environment variable to  fixed-path,  rather  than
              having to use the value invented by pageant when it starts. It's
              mainly expected to be useful for debugging.

       --encrypted, --no-decrypt
              When adding keys to the agent (at startup or later),  keep  them
              in  encrypted form until the first attempt to use them; the user
              will be prompted for a passphrase then. Once  decrypted,  a  key
              that  was added in this way can be `re-encrypted' with the -r or
              -R client options.

              The --encrypted option makes no difference for key  files  which
              do not have a passphrase.

              (Storing  keys  in  encrypted form is a Pageant extension; other
              agent implementations are unlikely to support it.)

       -E fingerprint-type, --fptype fingerprint-type
              Specify the fingerprint format to print.  Only  applicable  when
              listing  fingerprints  with -l. The available formats are sha256
              (the default) and md5.

       --gui-prompt, --tty-prompt
              Force Pageant to prompt for key passphrases  with  a  particular
              method  (GUI  or  terminal) rather than trying to guess the most
              appropriate method as described above. (These options are  rele‐
              vant  whenever  a  key  file  is specified to pageant that needs
              immediate decryption, and in --askpass mode.)

       --help Print a brief summary of command-line options and terminate.

       --version, -V
              Print the version of Pageant.

       --     Cause all subsequent arguments to be treated as key file  names,
              even if they look like options.

PuTTY tool suite                  2015‐05‐19                        pageant(1)
