Pamaltsat User Manual(0)                                                                                                                                                               Pamaltsat User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamaltsat - increase or decrease the saturation of an image using one of several alternative methods.

SYNOPSIS
       pamaltsat [-method name] [-strength number] [-linear] [infile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamaltsat decreases or increases the saturation of a Netpbm image by one of various non-standard (alternative) methods.

       The input is a Netpbm image from Standard Input or a file named by the arguments.  The output is a Netpbm image in the same format written to Standard Output.

       The most conventional way to change the saturation of an image is what pambrighten does.

EXAMPLES
       To increase saturation by a factor of 2.1 using the logarithmic method:

            pamaltsat -method log -strength 2.1 test.ppm

       To convert a color image to grayscale:

           pamaltsat -strength 0 test.ppm

SATURATION METHODS
       The following saturation methods are available.

   Logarithmic Method
       This  saturation  model  is  inspired  by  the  concept  of  color  integrity(1),  which  works  with  color  in  terms  of  intensity  ratios,  where  intensity  is a value of the luminosity function
       ⟨https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luminosity_function⟩ , rather than brightness, or the numerical value of the sample in the image file.  From this viewpoint, it is natural to define the saturation of  a
       color  as  the  ratio of maximum and minimum intensities of its primary components. In order, however, to make saturation an additive value and to endow the -strength parameter with the semantics of a
       multiplier, it is convenient to operate on the logarithm of that ratio.  The addition of such saturations acquires physical sense, and multiplication corresponds to the raising  of  intensity  to  the
       power of the multiplier.

       With  this  method,  pamaltsat  raises the intensity of each component to the power of the strength value. Since the total intensity of the resulting color will differ from that of the original, it is
       necessary to restore the intensity by multiplying the component intensities of the saturated color by the ratio of the intensity of the original color to that of the saturated color.

       Although it is always possible to decrease saturation by any given factor, there are two cases where it cannot be increased.  When the total intensity (or brightness) of a color is too  high  for  the
       desired saturation, pamaltsat applies the maximum possible saturation that keeps the original intensity.  For example, any color with at least one component at the maxiumum is already fully saturated.
       When one of the primary components is zero, the definition of saturation given above no longer works because of a zero in the denominator.  pamaltsat offers no special treatment of this situation  be‐
       cause  it  does not create discontinuities and therefore produces no visible defects at reasonable strength levels.  When, however, strength approaches infinity, each color tends to its primary compo‐
       nent with the highest intensity.

       This method was invented by Anton Shepelev.

   Spectral Method
       This is the default method.  It treats color as a spectrum with three bands: one for the intensity of each primary component.  Since neutral gray has a uniform (constant) spectrum, saturation  can  be
       measured  as  the  difference of the spectrum of the given color from the uniform spectrum of the same total intensity.  The spectral method uses one of the simplest measures of such a difference: the
       difference between the highest and lowest component intensities, which is an additive value and therefore amenable to multiplication with good physical sense.  Although a complete hue-saturation model
       can be dervied from this approach, pamaltsat need not concern itself with it because it always preserves both hue and total intensity.

       In  order  to change saturation, pamaltsat first multiplies the intensity of each component by the desired strength.  The saturation of the result is the strength times the saturation of the original,
       and likewise the total intensity, but it is then restored by subtraction of the neutral gray with a suitable intensity.

       The effect of this method on each component intensity may be expressed in the following equation:

           sat = orig * strength - Iorig * (strength - 1)

       where sat is the saturated sample, orig the original sample, and Iorig the total intensity of the original color.

       The method is also related to color integrity because both its operations are part of that concept: multiplication of component intensities by the same  quotient  is  an  important  operation  because
       changes brightness but keeps color balance, and subtraction of a constant from all component intensities is described by the inventor of color integrity as 'subtraction of white.'

       This procedure may produce both negative and over-unity component intensities.  For such samples, pamaltsat decreases the strength to the highest value that keeps the resulting color in range.

       This method was invented by Anton Shepelev.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pamaltsat recognizes the following command line options:

       -method method
              specifies the saturation method to use:

              The default is spectrum

       -strength strength
              This  specifies  a real nonnegative factor whereby to modify saturation.  A value greater than unity will increase saturation, whereas a value less than unity will decrease it. Unity will leave
              the image unchanged, and zero will produce greyscale output according to Rec 709.

              pamaltsat preserves the total intensity of each pixel and never affects neutral gray pixels.

              This option is mandatory.

       -linear
              This tells pamaltsat that the input is the intensity-linear variation of a Netpbm image forat, in which the samples are proportional to light intensity rather than to brightness, as they are in
              true-or gamma-adjusted- Netpbm image formats.

USAGE NOTES
       Since pamaltsat does not affect neutral colors, you should adjust the color balance before saturation. You can do this with pamlevels.

EXTENSIBILITY
       pamaltsat  is  written  with an eye to extending it with new saturation methods, which programmers are welcome to contribute.  The only requirement is that every new method depend on a single strength
       parameter with the semantics described under the -strength command-line option.

SEE ALSO
       pambrighten(1), ppmflash(1),

AUTHOR
       This program was first submitted by Anton Shepelev (anton.txt@gmail.com).

HISTORY
       pamaltsat was new in Netpbm 10.84 (September 2018).

Table Of Contents
       •

              SYNOPSIS ⟨#synopsis⟩

       •

              DESCRIPTION ⟨#description⟩

       •

              EXAMPLES ⟨#examples⟩

       •

              SATURATION METHODS ⟨#saturation_methods⟩

       •

              OPTIONS ⟨#options⟩

       •

              USAGE NOTES ⟨#usage_notes⟩

       •

              EXTENSIBILITY ⟨#extensibility⟩

       •

              SEE ALSO ⟨#seealso⟩

       •

              AUTHOR ⟨#author⟩

       •

              HISTORY ⟨#history⟩

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamaltsat.html

netpbm documentation                                                                           14 September 2018                                                                       Pamaltsat User Manual(0)
