Pamcomp User Manual(0)                                  Pamcomp User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamcomp - composite (overlay) two Netpbm images together

SYNOPSIS
       pamcomp

       [-align={left|center|right| beyondleft|beyondright}] [-valign={top|mid‐
       dle|bottom| above|below}]  [-xoff=X]  [-yoff=Y]  [-alpha=alpha-pgmfile]
       [-invert]  [-opacity=opacity] [-mixtransparency] [-linear] overlay_file
       [underlying_file [output_file]]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamcomp reads two images and produces a composite image with one of the
       images overlayed on top of  the  other,  possible  translucently.   The
       images  need  not  be  the same size.  The input and outputs are Netpbm
       format image files.

       In its simplest use, pamcomp simply places the image in the file  over‐
       lay_file  on top of the image in the file underlying_file, blocking out
       the part of underlying_file beneath it.

       If you add the -alpha option, then  pamcomp  uses  the  image  in  file
       alpha-pgmfile  as  a  transparency  mask, which means it determines the
       level of transparency of each point in the overlay image.   The  trans‐
       parency  mask  must  have the same dimensions as the overlay image.  In
       places where the transparency mask defines  the  overlay  image  to  be
       opaque,  the composite output contains only the contents of the overlay
       image; the underlying image is totally blocked out.   In  places  where
       the  transparency mask defines the overlay image to be transparent, the
       composite output contains none of the  overlay  image;  the  underlying
       image  shows through completely.  In places where the transparency mask
       shows a value in between opaque  and  transparent  (translucence),  the
       composite  image contains a mixture of the overlay image and the under‐
       lying image and the level of translucence determines how much of each.

       The transparency mask is a PGM file in which a white  pixel  represents
       opaqueness  and  a  black  pixel  transparency.  Anything in between is
       translucent.  (Like any Netpbm program, pamcomp will see a PBM file  as
       if it is PGM).

       If  the  overlay  image  is  a  PAM  image  of  tuple type RGB_ALPHA or
       GRAYSCALE_ALPHA, then the overlay image contains transparency  informa‐
       tion  itself  and pamcomp uses it the same way as the transparency mask
       described above.  If you supply both an overlay image that  has  trans‐
       parency information and a transparency mask, pamcomp multiplies the two
       opacities to get the opacity of the overlay pixel.

       Before Netpbm 10.25 (October  2004),  pamcomp  did  not  recognize  the
       transparency information in a PAM image -- it just ignored it.  So peo‐
       ple had to make appropriate transparency masks in order to have a  non-
       opaque  overlay.   Some Netpbm programs that convert from image formats
       that contain transparency information are not able to create  RGB_ALPHA
       or  GRAYSCALE_ALPHA  PAM  output,  so you have to use the old method --
       extract the transparency information from the original into a  separate
       transparency mask and use that as input to pamcomp.

       The  output  image  is  always of the same dimensions as the underlying
       image.  pamcomp uses only parts of the overlay image  that  fit  within
       the underlying image.

       The  output  image is a PAM image.  Its tuples are color, grayscale, or
       black and white, whichever is the  "highest"  format  between  the  two
       input images.  The maxval of the output is the least common multiple of
       the maxvals of the input, up to the maximum possible PAM maxval, 65535.

       The output has an opacity channel if and only if the  underlying  image
       does,  and  then  the  opacities  are as described under the -mixtrans‐
       parency option.  Before Netpbm 10.56 (September 2011), the output never
       has an opacity channel.

       To  specify  where  on the underlying image to place the overlay image,
       use the -align, -valign,  -xoff,  and  -yoff  options.   Without  these
       options,  the default horizontal position is flush left and the default
       vertical position is flush top.

       The overlay image, in the position you specify, need not  fit  entirely
       within  the underlying image.  pamcomp uses only the parts of the over‐
       lay image that appear above the underlying image.  It  is  possible  to
       specify  positioning  such  that  none of the overlay image is over the
       underlying image -- i.e. the overlay is out of frame.  If you do  that,
       pamcomp issues a warning.

        The  overlay  and  underlying images may be of different formats (e.g.
       overlaying a PBM text image over a full color PPM image) and have  dif‐
       ferent maxvals.  The output image has the more general of the two input
       formats and a maxval that is the least common multiple the two  maxvals
       (or the maximum maxval allowable by the format, if the LCM is more than
       that).

OPTIONS
       -align=alignment
              This option selects the basic horizontal position of the overlay
              image  with  respect to the underlying image, in syntax reminis‐
              cent of HTML.  left means flush left, center means centered, and
              right means flush right.

              The -xoff option modifies this position.

              beyondleft means just out of frame to the left -- the right edge
              of the overlay is flush with the left  edge  of  the  underlying
              image.  beyondright means just out of frame to the right.  These
              alignments are useful only if you add a -xoff  option.     These
              two values were added in Netpbm 10.10 (October 2002).

              The default is left.

       -valign=alignment
              This  option  selects the basic vertical position of the overlay
              image with respect to the underlying image, in  syntax  reminis‐
              cent  of  HTML.  top means flush top, middle means centered, and
              bottom means flush bottom.

              The -yoff option modifies this position.

              above means just out of frame to the top -- the bottom  edge  of
              the  overlay is flush with the top edge of the underlying image.
              below means just out of frame to the bottom.   These  alignments
              are  useful  only  if  you add a -yoff option.  These two values
              were added in Netpbm 10.10 (October 2002).

              The default is top.

       -xoff=x
              This option modifies the horizontal positioning of  the  overlay
              image  with  respect  to the underlying image as selected by the
              -align option.  pamcomp shifts the overlay image from that basic
              position  x  pixels to the right.  x can be negative to indicate
              shifting to the left.

              The overlay need not fit entirely (or at all) on the  underlying
              image.  pamcomp uses only the parts that lie over the underlying
              image.

              Before Netpbm 10.10 (October 2002), -xoff was mutually exclusive
              with -align and always measured from the left edge.

       -yoff=y
              This  option  modifies  the  vertical positioning of the overlay
              image with respect to the underlying image as  selected  by  the
              -valign  option.   pamcomp  shifts  the  overlay image from that
              basic position y pixels downward.  y can be negative to indicate
              shifting upward.

              The  overlay need not fit entirely (or at all) on the underlying
              image.  pamcomp uses only the parts that lie over the underlying
              image.

              Before Netpbm 10.10 (October 2002), -xoff was mutually exclusive
              with -valign and always measured from the top edge.

       -alpha=alpha-pgmfile
              This option names a file that contains  the  transparency  mask.
              If you don't specify this option, there is no transparency mask,
              which is equivalent to having a transparency mask specify  total
              opaqueness everywhere.

              You  can  specify  -  as the value of this option and the trans‐
              parency mask will come from Standard Input.   If  you  do  this,
              don't  specify  Standard  Input as the source of any other input
              image.

       -invert
              This option inverts the sense of the values in the  transparency
              mask,  which effectively switches the roles of the overlay image
              and the underlying image in places where the two intersect.

       -opacity=opacity
              This option tells how opaque the overlay image is  to  be,  i.e.
              how  much  of  the  composite  image  should be from the overlay
              image, as opposed to the underlying image.  opacity is a  float‐
              ing  point number, with 1.0 meaning the overlay image is totally
              opaque and 0.0 meaning it is totally transparent.   The  default
              is 1.0.

              If  you specify a transparency mask (the -alpha option), pamcomp
              uses the product of the opacity indicated  by  the  transparency
              mask (as modified by the -invert option, as a fraction, and this
              opacity value.  The -invert option does not apply to this  opac‐
              ity value.

              As  a  simple opacity value, the value makes sense only if it is
              between 0 and 1, inclusive.  However, pamcomp accepts all values
              and  performs  the  same  arithmetic  computation using whatever
              value you provide.  An opacity value less than  zero  means  the
              underlay  image  is  intensified  and  then the overlay image is
              "subtracted" from it.  An opacity value greater than unity means
              the  overlay  image  is  intensified and the underlay image sub‐
              tracted from it.  In either case, pamcomp  clips  the  resulting
              color  component  intensities  so they are nonnegative and don't
              exceed the output image's maxval.

              This may seem like a strange thing to do, but it has uses.   You
              can use it to brighten or darken or saturate or desaturate areas
              of the underlay image.  See  this description(1)  of  the  tech‐
              nique.

              This option was added in Netpbm 10.6 (July 2002).  Before Netpbm
              10.15 (April 2003), values less than zero or greater than  unity
              were not allowed.

       -mixtransparency
              This option controls what pamcomp does where both the underlying
              and overlay image are non-opaque.

              By default, the output image has the same  transparency  as  the
              underlying  image  and  the transparency of the underlying image
              has no effect on the composition of color.

              But with this option, pamcomp composes the image according to  a
              plastic transparency metaphor: the underlying and overlay images
              are plastic slides.  The output image is the slide you get  when
              you  stack up those two slides.  So the transparency of the out‐
              put is a combination of the transparency of the inputs  and  the
              transparency  of  the  underlying  image  affects the underlying
              image's contribution to the output image's color.

              Unlike the metaphorical slide, a PAM  pixel  has  a  color  even
              where  it is completely transparent, so pamcomp departs from the
              metaphor in that case and makes the output  color  identical  to
              the underlying image.

              This  option  was  new in Netpbm 10.56 (September 2011).  Before
              that, the output is always opaque and the  pamcomp  ignores  the
              transparency of the underlying image.

       -linear
              This option indicates that the inputs are not true Netpbm images
              but rather a non-gamma-adjusted  variation.   This  is  relevant
              only  when you mix pixels, using the -opacity option or a trans‐
              parency mask (the -alpha option).

              The transparency mask and -opacity values indicate a fraction of
              the  light intensity of a pixel.  But the PNM and PNM-equivalent
              PAM image formats represent intensities with gamma-adjusted num‐
              bers  that  are not linearly proportional to intensity.  So pam‐
              comp, by default, performs a calculation  on  each  sample  read
              from  its input and each sample written to its output to convert
              between these gamma-adjusted numbers and internal intensity-pro‐
              portional numbers.

              Sometimes  you  are not working with true PNM or PAM images, but
              rather a variation in  which  the  sample  values  are  in  fact
              directly  proportional  to  intensity.   If  so, use the -linear
              option to tell pamcomp this.  pamcomp then will skip the conver‐
              sions.

              The  conversion  takes  time.  And the difference between inten‐
              sity-proportional values and gamma-adjusted values may be  small
              enough  that  you would barely see a difference in the result if
              you just pretended that the gamma-adjusted values were  in  fact
              intensity-proportional.  So just to save time, at the expense of
              some image quality, you can specify -linear even when  you  have
              true PPM input and expect true PPM output.

              For  the  first  13  years  of Netpbm's life, until Netpbm 10.20
              (January 2004), pamcomp's predecessor pnmcomp always treated the
              PPM samples as intensity-proportional even though they were not,
              and drew few complaints.  So using -linear as a lie is a reason‐
              able thing to do if speed is important to you.

              Another  technique  to  consider is to convert your PNM image to
              the linear variation with pnmgamma, run pamcomp on it and  other
              transformations  that  like linear PNM, and then convert it back
              to true PNM with pnmgamma -ungamma.  pnmgamma  is  often  faster
              than pamcomp in doing the conversion.

SEE ALSO
       ppmmix(1)  and  pnmpaste(1)  are  simpler, less general versions of the
       same tool.

       ppmcolormask(1) and pbmmask(1), and pambackground(1) can help with gen‐
       erating a transparency mask.

       pnmcomp(1) is an older program that runs faster, but has less function.

       pnm(1)

HISTORY
       pamcomp  was  new  in Netpbm 10.21 (March 2004).  Its predecessor, pnm‐
       comp, was one of the first programs added to Netpbm  when  the  project
       went global in 1993.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1992 by David Koblas (koblas@mips.com).

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamcomp.html

netpbm documentation            13 August 2011          Pamcomp User Manual(0)
