Pamgradient User Manual(0)                          Pamgradient User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamgradient - create a four-corner gradient PAM image

SYNOPSIS
       pamgradient  [-maxval=maxval] color-tl color-tr color-bl color-br width
       height

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamgradient  creates  an  image  of  the  specified dimensions width by
       height which contains a smooth, two-dimensional  gradient  between  the
       specified colors of the four corners (from top left to bottom right).

       Specify   the   colors   as   described   for   the   argument  of  the
       ppm_parsecolor() library routine ⟨libppm.html#colorname⟩ .

       If all four colors are gray values,  pamgradient  creates  a  grayscale
       image  (PAM tuple type GRAYSCALE).  Otherwise, it creates a color image
       (PAM tuple type RGB).

OPTIONS
       -maxval=maxval

              maxval of the generated image.  (See PAM(1) and PNM(1)  specifi‐
              cations).

SEE ALSO
       pamgradient(1),   ppmmake(1),   ppmrainbow(1),  pgmramp(1),  ppmpat(1),
       pam(1), pnm(1)

NOTE
       Only the top left corner of the generated image has exactly the  speci‐
       fied  color.  The color of the top right corner is a bit shifted to the
       left, the bottom left corner a bit up, and the bottom right corner left
       and  up.  This  ensures  nice transitions when combining adjacent (very
       narrow) gradients, and doesn't play a  role  when  the  gradient  butts
       against a solid surface.

       This  effect is created by the integer arithmetic used for the interpo‐
       lation of the color values, and since it doesn't make a difference  for
       all practical purposes I might as well sell it as a feature.

HISTORY
       pamgradient was new in Netpbm 10.31 (December 2005).

AUTHOR
       pamgradient was written by Daniel Haude in October 2005.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamgradient.html

netpbm documentation            21 October 2005     Pamgradient User Manual(0)
