pamix(1)                                                                                       pamix man page                                                                                      pamix(1)

NAME
       pamix - pavucontrol inspired ncurses based pulseaudio mixer

DESCRIPTION
       PAmix is a pavucontrol inspired ncurses based pulseaudio mixer

CONFIGURATION
       pamix is configured using a file called pamix.conf inside the $XDG_CONFIG_HOME or $HOME/.config, should it not be set.

COMMANDS
       PAmix conf files support the following commands:
       * bind

bind
       SYNOPSIS: bind KEYNAME MIXER-COMMAND [ARGUMENT]

       bind is used to bind a keyname to a mixer-command.
       Some mixer-commands require an argument.
       You can bind a keyname to multiple mixer-commands.

PAMIX-COMMANDS
       Pamix-Commands can be bound to keys using the bind command and are used to interact with pamix.
       The following pamix-commands are currently supported:

quit
       quit will cause PAmix to exit and takes no arguments.

select-tab
       select-tab will select one of the following tabs: Output Devices, Input Devices, Playback, Recording, Cards
       select-tab takes the number of the tab to switch to starting at 0 in the order mentioned.

select-next and select-prev
       these  commands  are  given  the optional argument 'channel' they will select the next and previous channels.  if no argument is given they will select the next and previous entry in the displayed
       tab.

set-volume
       this command takes the targetvalue in form of a double as an argument.
       depending on whether channels are locked, this command will set the volume of the selected entry/channel to the targetvalue given in the argument.
       Example: bind 0 set-volume 1.0 ; this will set the volume to 100%

add-volume
       this command takes a deltavalue in form of a double as an argument.
       the deltavalue can be negative Example: bind h add-volume -0.05 ; this will reduce the volume by 5%

cycle-next and cycle-prev
       these commands will change the device or port of the currently selected entry.
       they don't take any arguments.

toggle-lock
       this command toggles whether channels should be locked together for the currently selected entry
       and takes no arguments.

toggle-mute
       toggles whether the currently selected entry is muted
       and takes no arguments.

DEFAULT CONFIGURATION
       Keybindings:
       F1      show Playback tab
       F2      show Recording tab
       F3      show Output devices tab
       F4      show Input devices tab
       F5      show Cards tab
       0-9     set volume to percentage (10%-100%)
       j/down  select next channel or entry
       k/up    select previous channel or entry
       h/left  decrease volume
       l/right increase volume
       c       un/lock channels
       s/S     select next/previous device/port

V                                                                                               27 Nov 2024                                                                                        pamix(1)
