Pamlookup User Manual(0)                              Pamlookup User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamlookup  -  map an image to a new image by using it as indices into a
       table

SYNOPSIS
       pamlookup -lookupfile=lookupfile [-byplane] -missingcolor=color  [-fit]
       indexfile

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
       may use two hyphens instead of one.  You may separate  an  option  name
       and its value with white space instead of an equals sign.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamlookup  takes  a two dimensional array of indices and a lookup table
       as input.  For each position in the index array, it looks up the  index
       in  the  lookup table and places the result of the lookup in the output
       image.

       There are two ways of indexing the lookup table:  whole  tuple  and  by
       plane.  The -byplane option controls which pamlookup does.

       In  the  simplest form of whole tuple indexing, each index in the index
       array is a single whole number and the lookup table associates a  whole
       tuple with each possible whole number index.  So for example, the index
       array might have at Row 2, Column 9 the value  23.   The  lookup  table
       might associate the tuple (1,2,3) with the value 23.  In that case, the
       output image contains the tuple (1,2,3) at Row 2, Column 9.

       In a more complex form of whole tuple indexing, each index in the index
       array  is  an  ordered pair of whole numbers and the lookup table asso‐
       ciates a whole tuple with each possible ordered pair index.   Modifying
       the example above, the index value could be (23, 5) instead of 23.

       With  whole  tuple  indexing,  the  output  thus has the same width and
       height as the index image, and tuple depth and type and  maxval  deter‐
       mined by the lookup table.

       With  whole  tuple indexing, if the index image has depth 1, its sample
       values are single whole number indices.  If the index image  has  depth
       greater  than  1,  its  tuples are ordered pair indices composed of the
       first and second sample in the tuple.

       In by plane indexing, the index image contains  whole  number  indices.
       The  first  sample  of each tuple in the index image is the index.  The
       lookup table maps each whole number  index  to  another  whole  number.
       pamlookup looks up each sample from the index image in the lookup table
       and uses the resulting whole number as the sample value  for  the  same
       row, column, and plane in the output.

       With  by plane indexing, the output thus has the same dimensions as the
       index image an the same maxval as the lookup image.

   The Lookup Table Image
       The lookup table is a PAM or PNM image.  If the  index  image  contains
       whole number indices, the lookup image is a single row and the index is
       a column number.  The lookup result is the value of the tuple or  pixel
       at  the  indicated  column  in the one row in the lookup table.  If the
       index image contains ordered pair indices, the  first  element  of  the
       ordered pair is a row number and the second element of the ordered pair
       is a column number.  The lookup result is the value  of  the  tuple  or
       pixel at the indicated row and column in the lookup table.

       The  width  of  the  lookup  image should normally be the maxval of the
       index image plus one, so that each possible index sample  value  corre‐
       sponds  to one entry in the lookup table.  There are two ways pamlookup
       deals with a lookup image that does not have such a width:

       ·      Scale the lookup image to the required width.  pamlookup  always
              does this with by plane indexing, and with whole tuple indexing,
              does it when you specify -fit.

       ·      Use a default value for indices that exceed  the  width  of  the
              lookup  image  and ignore lookup image columns beyond the maxval
              of the index image.  pamlookup does this with whole tuple index‐
              ing when you don't specify -fit.

              You  specify  the  default value with a -missingcolor option; it
              defaults to the value from the top left  corner  of  the  lookup
              image.

       With  ordered  pair  indexes  (which implies whole tuple indexing), the
       same rule applies to the height of the index image as to the width.

       The mandatory -lookupfile option identifies  the  file  containing  the
       lookup table image.  - means Standard Input.  It won't work if both the
       index image file and lookup table file are Standard Input.

       You can use ppmmake and pnmcat to create a lookup table file.

   Example - Whole Tuple Indexing
       Here is an example of pamlookup's function with  whole  tuple  indexing
       (-byplane not specified).

       Consider an index image consisting of a 3x2x1 PAM as follows:

       0   1   0
       2   2   2

       and a lookup table consisting of a 3x1 PPM image as follows:

       red   yellow   beige

       The lookup table above says Index 0 corresponds to the color red, Index
       1 corresponds to yellow, and Index 2 corresponds to beige.  The  output
       of pamlookup is the following PPM image:

       red     yellow   red
       beige   beige    beige

       Now let's look at an example of the more complex case where the indices
       are ordered pairs of whole numbers instead of whole numbers.  Our index
       image will be this 3x2x2 PAM image:

       (0,0)   (0,1)   (0,0)
       (1,1)   (1,0)   (0,0)

       Our lookup table for the example will be this two dimensional PPM:

       red     yellow
       green   black

       This  lookup table says Index (0,0) corresponds to the color red, Index
       (0,1) corresponds to yellow, Index  (1,0)  corresponds  to  green,  and
       Index  (1,1) corresponds to black.  The output of pamlookup is the fol‐
       lowing PPM image:

       red     yellow   red
       black   green    red

   Example - By Plane Indexing
       Here is an example of pamlookup's function with by plane tuple indexing
       (-byplane specified).

       Consider an index image consisting of a 3x2x3 PAM as follows:

       (0,0,0)   (1,0,0)   (2,0,0)
       (2,2,0)   (2,0,2)   (2,0,0)

       and  a  lookup  table  consisting of a 3x1x1 PAM image with maxval 7 as
       follows:

       3   4   7

       The lookup table above says Index 0 corresponds to the sample value  3,
       Index  1 corresponds to 4, and Index 2 corresponds to 7.  The output of
       pamlookup is the following 3x2x3 PAM image:

       (3,3,3)   (4,3,3)   (7,3,3)
       (7,7,3)   (7,3,7)   (7,3,3)

   Miscellaneous
       The indexfile argument identifies the file containing the index PAM  or
       PNM  image.   -  means Standard Input.  It won't work if both the index
       image file and lookup table file are Standard Input.

       The output image goes to Standard Output.

       If you want to use two separate 1-plane images as indices (so that your
       output  reflects  the combination of both inputs), use pamstack to com‐
       bine the two into one two-plane image (and use a  2-dimensional  lookup
       table image).

OPTIONS
       -lookupfile=lookupfile
              lookupfile  names  the  file  that contains the PAM or PNM image
              that is the lookup table.  This option is mandatory.

       -byplane
              This options selects by plane indexing.  The  default  is  whole
              tuple indexing.

              This  option  was  new in Netpbm 10.72 (September 2015).  Before
              that, there is no by plane indexing.

       -missingcolor=color
              This option is meaningful only if the lookup image  (and  there‐
              fore the output) is a PNM image.  color specifies the color that
              is to go in the output wherever the index from the input is  not
              present in the lookup table (not present means the index exceeds
              the dimensions of the lookup image -- e.g. index is 100 but  the
              lookup image is a 50 x 1 PPM).

              If  you  don't  specify  this option or -fit, pamlookup uses the
              value from the top left corner of the lookup image  whenever  an
              index exceeds the dimensions of the lookup image.

              Specify  the  color (color) as described for the argument of the
              ppm_parsecolor() library routine ⟨libppm.html#colorname⟩ .

              Another way to deal with a too-small lookup image is to use  the
              -fit option.

              This option has no effect if you also specify -fit or -byplane.

       -fit   This  option says to shrink or expand the lookup image as neces‐
              sary to fit the indices present in  the  index  image,  per  the
              index  image's  maxval.   For example, if your index image has a
              single plane and a maxval of 255 and your lookup image is 1  row
              of 10 columns, pamlookup stretches your lookup image to 255 col‐
              umns before doing the lookups.  pamlookup  does  the  stretching
              (or shrinking) with the pamscale(1) program.

              When you use -fit, pamlookup never fails or warns you because of
              invalid lookup image dimensions, and  the  -missingcolor  option
              has no effect.

              -fit  has no effect when you specify -byplane.  pamlookup always
              has the behavior requested by -fit when it does by plane  index‐
              ing.

EXAMPLES
   Example: rainfall map
       Say  you  have a set of rainfall data in a single plane PAM image.  The
       rows and columns of the PAM indicate latitude and longitude.  The  sam‐
       ple values are the annual rainfall in (whole) centimeters.  The highest
       rainfall value in the image is 199 centimeters.  The image  is  in  the
       file rainfall.pam.

       You  want  to  produce  a  PPM  rainfall map with green for the wettest
       places, red for the driest, and other colors in between.

       First, compose a lookup table image, probably with a  graphical  editor
       and the image blown way up so you can work with individual pixels.  The
       image must have a single row and 200 columns.  Make the leftmost  pixel
       red  and  the  rightmost  pixel  green and choose appropriate colors in
       between.  Call it colorkey.ppm.

           pamlookup rainfall.pam -lookupfile=colorkey.ppm >rainfallmap.ppm

       Now lets say you're too lazy to type in 200  color  values  and  nobody
       really  cares  about  the  places that have more than 99 centimeters of
       annual rainfall.  In that case, just make colorkey.ppm 100 columns wide
       and do this:

           pamlookup rainfall.ppm -lookupfile=colorkey.ppm -missingcolor=black \
              >rainfallmap.ppm

       Now  if there are areas that get more than 100 centimeters of rainfall,
       they will just show up black in the output.

   Example: graphical diff
       Say you want to compare two PBM  (black  and  white)  images  visually.
       Each  consists  of  black foreground pixels on a white background.  You
       want to create an image that contains background where both images con‐
       tain  background  and  foreground where both images contain foreground.
       But where Image 1 has a foreground pixel and Image 2 does not, you want
       red  in  the  output;  where Image 2 has a foreground pixel and Image 1
       does not, you want green.

       First, we create a single image that contains the information from both
       input PBMs:

           pamstack image1.pbm image2.pbm >bothimages.pam

       Note that this image has 1 of 4 possible tuple values at each location:
       (0,0), (0,1), (1,0), or (1,1).

       Now, we create a lookup table that we can index with those 4 values:

           ppmmake white 1 1 >white.ppm
           ppmmake black 1 1 >black.ppm
           ppmmake red   1 1 >red.ppm
           ppmmake green 1 1 >green.ppm
           pnmcat -leftright black.ppm red.ppm   >blackred.ppm
           pnmcat -leftright green.ppm white.ppm >greenwhite.ppm
           pnmcat -topbottom blackred.ppm greenwhite.ppm >lookup.ppm

       Finally, we look up the indices from our index in our lookup table  and
       produce the output:

           pamlookup bothimages.ppm -lookupfile=lookup.ppm >imagediff.ppm

SEE ALSO
       pamunlookup(1),   pnmremap(1),   ppmmake(1),   pnmcat(1),  pamstack(1),
       pnm(1), pam(1)

HISTORY
       pamlookup was new in Netpbm 10.13 (December 2002).

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamlookup.html

netpbm documentation             25 July 2015         Pamlookup User Manual(0)
