Pamlevels User Manual(0)                                                                                                                                                               Pamlevels User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamlevels - effect a 'levels' transformation

SYNOPSIS
       pamlevels -from1 from1 -to1 to1 -from2 from2 -to2 to2 [-from3 from3 -to3 to3] [-linear] [-fitbrightness] [pamfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamlevels  reads  a  Netpbm  image from pamfile or standard input, applies a 'levels' transformation, and sends the result to standard output. It finds a unique transformation that maps color from1 to
       to1, color from2 to to2, and-if -from3 and -to3 are supplied-color from3 to to3. Transformations based on two mappings are linear in light intensity and those based on three mappings  quadratic.   The
       color-mapping options may be shortened to -f1...-f3 and -t1...-t3.

       Color values have the following format: color[:scale], where color is a
        Netpbm color specification ⟨libppm.html#colorname⟩  and scale an optional coefficient that is applied to the intensity (i.e. not gamma-adjusted) of each RGB component of color.

       When  the  transformation is linear (i.e. uses two mappings) and preserves zero (i.e. maps black to black), it corresponds to multiplication of light intensity by a constant and preserves color integ‐
       rity(1).

EXAMPLES
       In the examples below, \ denotes a line continuation:

       To brighten an image by setting a darker white point-
           pamlevels -f1 black -t1 black \
             -f2 white:0.9 -t2 white in.ppm > out.ppm

       To adjust the white point-
           pamlevels -f1 black -t1 black \
             -f2 rgbi:0.9/0.83/0.80 -t2 white in.ppm > out.ppm

       To set a lighter black point-
           pamlevels -f1 white:0.06 -t1 black \
             -f2 white -t2 white in.ppm > out.ppm

       To increase brightness by compression-
           pamlevels \
             -f1 black -t1 black -f2 white -t2 white \
             -f3 white:0.5 -t3 white:0.6 in.ppm > out.ppm

       The latter tranformation is similar to gamma-correction.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pamlevels recognizes the following command line options:

       -from1

       -to1

       -from2

       -to2

       -from3

       -to3   These options define the mappings of input colors to output colors that anchor the transformation function.  See DESCRIPTION ⟨#description⟩ .

              You must specify at least two of these pairs.

       -linear
              This option tells pamlevels to work with the intensity-linear variation on PPM where the samples are proportional to light intensity, rather than brightness (gamma-adjusted)  as  in  true  PPM.
              The input must be of this form and the pamlevels makes the output of this form.

              Note that the numbers in a color specification like rgbi:0.9/0.83/0.80 are brightness levels (gamma-adjusted) regardless of the input and output format.

              You cannot use this with -fitbrightness because that function is not implemented.

       -fitbrightness
              This  option selects a transformation which is not very useful - it is linear or quadratic in brightness rather than light intensity of the pixels.  There is no physical basis for doing it this
              way and the result is normally undesirable.

              Note that many tools other than Netpbm do the transformation this way.  One use for this option is simply to demonstrate the poor result of this method.

              One advantage of this transformation is that it is faster, because the input and output image formats use brightness values.  The result is approximately correct.

              You cannot use this with -linear because that function is not implemented.

SEE ALSO
       pnmnorm(1), pamrecolor(1), pnmgamma(1), pnm(1)

AUTHOR
       This program was first submitted by Anton Shepelev (anton.txt@gmail.com).

HISTORY
       pamlevels was new in Netpbm 10.83 (June 2018).

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamlevels.html

netpbm documentation                                                                              13 June 2018                                                                         Pamlevels User Manual(0)
