Pamrecolor User Manual(0)                            Pamrecolor User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamrecolor - alter colors without affecting luminance

SYNOPSIS
       pamrecolor  [--colorspace=name]  [--rmult=fraction]  [--gmult=fraction]
       [--bmult=fraction] [--targetcolor=color]  [--colorfile=file]  [-random‐
       seed=integer]

       [infile]

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamrecolor changes an image's colors to be  as  close  as  possible  to
       given  target  colors but with the constraint that the luminance not be
       modified.  That is, the original image and the target image  will  look
       identical  if  both are converted to grayscale (e.g. with ppmtopgm(1)).
       You can have pamrecolor select target colors randomly, specify a single
       hue  for  the  entire  image,  or  take the target colors from a target
       image.

       pamrecolor works on pseudo-Netpbm images based on arbitrary color  spa‐
       ces.   You  can define the color space explicitly or choose one of many
       that pamrecolor knows by name.

       The output is a PAM image on  standard  output.   Options  control  the
       exact  format  of the PAM.  If you want a PNM (PBM, PGM, or PPM) image,
       use pamtopnm(1) on the output.  There is no need to convert if you will
       use the image as input to a current Netpbm program, but many other pro‐
       grams don't know what a PAM is.

OPTIONS
       --colorspace=name
              Designate the color space to use for determining  the  contribu‐
              tion  to  luminance  of  each  of the red, green, and blue color
              channels.  For example, in the SMPTE-C color space an RGB  color
              is  converted  to  grayscale  by  multiplying the red channel by
              0.2124132, the green channel by 0.7010437, and the blue  channel
              by 0.0865432 and summing the resulting three products.

              When  you  use  this option, the input and output images are not
              true Netpbm images, because the Netpbm image format specifies  a
              particular  color  space.  Instead, you are using a variation on
              the format in which the sample values in the raster have differ‐
              ent  meaning.   Many  programs that ostensibly use Netpbm images
              actually use a variation with  a  different  color  space.   For
              example,  GIMP  ⟨http://www.gimp.org/⟩  uses sRGB internally and
              if you have GIMP generate a Netpbm image file, it really  gener‐
              ates a variation of the format that uses sRGB.

              pamrecolor knows the following color spaces (name values):

       adobe

              Adobe RGB (1998) with a D65 reference white

       apple

              Apple  RGB with a D65 reference white

       cie

              CIE with an Illuminant E reference white

       ntsc

              NTSC RGB with an Illuminant C reference white

       pal

              PAL/SECAM with a D65 reference white

       smpte-c

              SMPTE-C with a D65 reference white

       srgb

              sRGB with a D65 reference white

       wide

              Wide-gamut RGB with a D50 reference white

              The  default  is "ntsc" because this is the color space that the
              Netpbm formats and many graphics utilities use.  As a counterex‐
              ample,  GIMP  ⟨http://www.gimp.org/⟩    uses  sRGB as its native
              color space.

              The luminance values pamrecolor uses for each of the above  come
              from  Bruce  Lindbloom's    Computing  RGB-to-XYZ and XYZ-to-RGB
              matrices" (1) page.

       --rmult=fraction

       --gmult=fraction

       --bmult=fraction
              Instead of selecting a color space  by  name,  you  can  specify
              explicitly the contribution of each color channel to the overall
              luminance as red, green,  and  blue  multipliers.   These  three
              options  must  be  used  together, and the three fraction values
              must sum to 1.0.  For example,  you  can  specify  the  ProPhoto
              (ROMM) RGB color space with "--rmult=0.2880402 --gmult=0.7118741
              --bmult=0.0000857".

       --targetcolor=color
              Designate color as the target color for the  image.   pamrecolor
              will  make  each  pixel as close as possible to color subject to
              the constraint that the luminance must stay the same as  in  the
              original  image.   Specify  color  as  in  the  argument  of the
              ppm_parsecolor()  library   routine   ⟨libppm.html#colorname⟩
              (e.g., "hotpink" or "#ff69b4").

              If you specify neither --targetcolor nor --colorfile, pamrecolor
              will randomly select a target color for each pixel of the  input
              image.

              You may not specify both -targetcolor and -colorfile.

       --colorfile=file
              Take  per-pixel  target  colors from Netpbm file file instead of
              using a single target color for the entire image.   file  should
              be  a PPM or color PAM image.  If the image in the file wider or
              taller than the input image, pamrecolor uses only the  left  and
              top part of it.  If the image is narrower or shorter, pamrecolor
              considers the image to be repeated in a tile pattern.

              If you specify neither --targetcolor nor --colorfile, pamrecolor
              will  randomly select a target color for each pixel of the input
              image.

              You may not specify both -targetcolor and -colorfile.

       -randomseed=integer
              This is the seed for the random number generator that  generates
              the pixels.

              Use  this  to  ensure you get the same image on separate invoca‐
              tions.

              By default, pamrecolor uses a seed derived from the time of  day
              and  process  ID, which gives you fairly uncorrelated results in
              multiple invocations.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.61 (December 2012).

EXAMPLES
       This command tints an image yellow:

           pamrecolor --targetcolor=yellow colorpic.pam > yellowpic.pam

       This command takes the colors from colorpicture.ppm and applies them to
       graypicture.pgm:

           pamrecolor --colorfile=colorpic.ppm graypic.pgm > colorizedpic.pam

       The   grayscale   version  of  colorizedpic.pam  will  look  just  like
       graypic.pgm.  Note that if you use a non-Netpbm tool to do the  conver‐
       sion  to grayscale, you may additionally need to specify an appropriate
       --colorspace value for your conversion tool.

NOTES
       Here are a couple of fun special effects you can  produce  with  pamre‐
       color:

       ·      Specify  a  color  file that is identical to the input image but
              with some large, colored text added to it.  The text will "magi‐
              cally" vanish when the image is converted to grayscale.

       ·      Provide  a  low-contrast grayscale image - perhaps a secret mes‐
              sage written in similar shades of gray - as the input file and a
              colorful  but  completely different image as the color file.  If
              done carefully, the grayscale image can be hidden by the  color‐
              ful  image.   Only  people  who  know  to  convert the result to
              grayscale can recover the original grayscale image.

       ·      Use --targetcolor=tan to make an image look  like  an  old-timey
              photograph   (or,   more  precisely,  a  sepia-toned  photograph
              ⟨http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photographic_print_toning⟩  of the
              late 1800s).

HISTORY
       Scott Pakin wrote pamrecolor in July 2010.

       pamrecolor was new in Netpbm 10.52 (September 2010).

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2010 Scott Pakin, scott+pbm@pakin.org.

SEE ALSO
       ·

              ppmtopgm(1)

       ·

              ppmchange(1)

       ·

              pnmremap(1)

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamrecolor.html

netpbm documentation             31 July 2010        Pamrecolor User Manual(0)
