Pamsplit User Manual(0)                                Pamsplit User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamsplit - split a multi-image Netpbm file into single-image files

SYNOPSIS
       pamsplit

       [netpbmfile

       [ output_file_pattern]]

       [-padname=n]

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamsplit reads a PNM or PAM stream as input.  It copies each  image  in
       the input into a separate file, in the same format.

       netpbmfile  is  the file name of the input file, or - to indicate Stan‐
       dard Input.  The default is Standard Input.

       output_file_pattern tells how to name the output files.  It is the file
       name of the output file, except that the first occurrence of "%d" in it
       is replaced by the image sequence number  in  unpadded  ASCII  decimal,
       with  the  sequence starting at 0.  If there is no "%d" in the pattern,
       pamsplit fails.

       The default output file pattern is "image%d".

       The -padname option specifies to how many characters you want the image
       sequence  number  in the output file name padded with zeroes.  pamsplit
       adds leading zeroes to the image sequence number to get up to at  least
       that  number  of  characters.  This is just the number of characters in
       the sequence number part of the name.  For example, pamsplit -  output‐
       file%d.ppm  -padname=3  would yield output filenames outputfile000.ppm,
       outputfile001.ppm, etc.

       The default is no padding (equivalent to -padname=0).

       The -padname option was new in Netpbm 10.23 (July 2004).  Before  that,
       there was never any padding.

       Note  that to do the reverse operation (combining multiple single-image
       Netpbm files into a multi-image one), there is no special  Netpbm  pro‐
       gram.  Just use cat.

       If  you  just  want to find out basic information about the images in a
       stream, you can use pamfile on the stream.

       To extract images from a stream and generate a single stream containing
       them, use pampick.

       To run a program on each image in a stream without the hassle of tempo‐
       rary files, use pamexec.

SEE ALSO
       pamfile(1), pampick(1), pamexec(1), pnm(1), pam(1), cat man page

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamsplit.html

netpbm documentation            11 August 2011         Pamsplit User Manual(0)
