Pamshadedrelief User Manual(0)                  Pamshadedrelief User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamshadedrelief - generate shaded relief image from an elevation map

SYNOPSIS
       pamshadedrelief

       [-gamma g]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamshadedrelief creates a shaded relief image from an elevation map.  A
       shaded relief image is a visual image of terrain, showing  the  terrain
       as  if  illuminated by oblique light and viewed from above, so that the
       brightess of each spot depends upon its slope.  A common example  of  a
       shaded relief image is a relief map of the Earth, which shows mountains
       and valleys.

       The image pamshadedrelief creates is as if illumated by a light  source
       from the left.

       The output image is a PAM with tuple type GRAYSCALE.

       The  program  pamcrater is a good thing to use to demonstrate the func‐
       tion of pamshadedrelief.  It generates a  terrain  map  of  a  cratered
       landscape.

           $ pamcrater | pamshadedrelief | pamx

OPTIONS
       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

       -gamma factor
              The  specified  factor  is used to gamma adjust the image in the
              same manner as performed by pnmgamma.  The default value is 1.0,
              which  results in a medium contrast image.  Values larger than 1
              lighten the image and reduce contrast, while values less than  1
              darken the image, increasing contrast.

              Note  that  this  is  separate from the gamma correction that is
              part of the definition of the PAM GRAYSCALE format.   The  image
              pamshadedrelief  generates  is  a  genuine,  gamma-corrected PAM
              GRAYSCALE image in any case.  This  option  simply  changes  the
              contrast  and  may compensate for a display device that does not
              correctly render PAM GRAYSCALE images.

DESIGN NOTES
       The-gamma option isn't really necessary since you can achieve the  same
       effect  by  piping  the  output  from pamshadedrelief through pnmgamma.
       However, pamshadedrelief performs an internal gamma map anyway  in  the
       process of rendering the elevation array into the PAM GRAYSCALE format,
       so there's no additional  overhead  in  allowing  an  additional  gamma
       adjustment.

SEE ALSO
       ppmrelief(1) pnmgamma(1), pnmsmooth(1) pamcrater(1) pam(1),

AUTHOR
       pgmcrater, from which this is derived, was written by John Walker:

       John Walker
       Autodesk SA
       Avenue des Champs-Montants 14b
       CH-2074 MARIN
       Suisse/Schweiz/Svizzera/Svizra/Switzerland
           Usenet:kelvin@Autodesk.com
           Fax:038/33 88 15
           Voice:038/33 76 33

       Permission  to  use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,  with‐
       out  any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided "as is"
       without express or implied warranty.

HISTORY
       pgmcrater was split into pamshadedrelief and pamcrater in Netpbm  10.68
       (September  2014).  See the history section of the pamcrater manual for
       details.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamshadedrelief.html

netpbm documentation             26 July 2014   Pamshadedrelief User Manual(0)
