Pamtopng User Manual(0)                                Pamtopng User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamtopng - convert a Netpbm image to PNG

SYNOPSIS
       pamtopng     [-verbose]     [-transparent=color]    [-background=color]
       [-gamma=value] [-chroma='wx wy
         rx ry gx gy bx by'] [-srgbintent=intent] [-time=[yy]yy-mm-dd
         hh:mm:ss] [-text=file] [-ztxt=file] [-itxt=file] [pnmfile]

OPTION USAGE
       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens instead of a single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamtopng reads a Netpbm image as input and produces a PNG image as out‐
       put.

       Color component values in PNG files are either 8 or 16  bits  wide,  so
       where  necessary  pamtopng  scales  colors  to  have a maxval of 255 or
       65535.  In that case, it will add an sBIT chunk to indicated the origi‐
       nal bit-depth.

       pamtopng works only on images with maxval 1, 3, 15, 255, or 65535.  You
       can use pamdepth to convert an image with some other maxval to  one  of
       these.

       pamtopng produces a color PNG from a color PAM, even if the only colors
       in the image are shades of gray.  To create a graycale PNG,  from  such
       an  image  (which  might be slightly smaller), you can use other Netpbm
       programs to convert the input to grayscale.

   Alternative: pnmtopng
       Netpbm contains another program for generating  PNG  images:  pnmtopng.
       pnmtopng  is  a much older program - it is in fact the first program in
       the world that could generate a PNG.  pnmtopng is a  complex,  feature-
       laden  program.  It lets you control various arcane aspects of the con‐
       version and create PNGs with various arcane features.  It does  various
       transformations  on the image to create the greatest compression possi‐
       ble, to a degree that probably doesn't make any difference in the  mod‐
       ern world.

       The  main  advantage  pamtopng has over pnmtopng is that the former can
       use the transparency channel of a PAM  image  to  generate  the  trans‐
       parency  information  in  the  PNG.  In contrast, handling of the alpha
       channel is very cumbersome with pnmotpng.

       One difference that does not exist, that some people might  incorrectly
       infer  from the names is the possible input formats.  Both programs can
       take PBM, PGM, PPM, and PAM input.

       Because pnmtopng has been around virtually forever, programs and proce‐
       dures  that use it are more portable than those that use pamtopng.  Its
       age and popularity also probably make it have fewer bugs.

       pamtopng does not have any way to do what the following do in pnmtopng:

       ·      -palette

       ·      -history

       ·      -filter

       ·      -size

       ·      -paeth

       ·      -hist

       ·      -nofilter

       ·      -sub

       ·      -up

       ·      -avg

       ·      -force

       ·      -libversion

       ·      -compression

       ·      -comp_xxx

       These are some of the other functions of pnmtopng that pamtopng lacks:

       ·      When you specify a transparent or background color that  is  not
              in  the  image,  pnmtopng  can optionally choose the closest one
              that is in the image.  pamtopng always uses the exact color  you
              specify.

       Features that exist in both programs are controlled by largely the same
       command syntax.  But there are these differences:

       ·      pnmtopng's -rgb option is -chroma in  pamtopng.   -chroma  is  a
              better  name, and in fact was the name that pnmtopng used origi‐
              nally, but we had to change it when we had to change the  syntax
              of the option value to conform to the rest of Netpbm.

       ·      pnmtopng's  -modtime option is -time in pamtopng.  The origin of
              -modtime is analogous to that of -rgb.

OPTIONS
       -transparent=color
              pamtopng marks the specified color as  transparent  in  the  PNG
              image.

              Specify  the  color (color) as described for the argument of the
              ppm_parsecolor() library routine ⟨libppm.html#colorname⟩ .  E.g.
              red or rgb:ff/00/0d.

       -background=color
              This  causes  pamtopng to create a background color chunk in the
              PNG output which can be used for subsequent transparency channel
              or transparent color conversions.  Specify color the same as for
              -transparent.

       -gamma=value
              This causes pnmtopng to create a gAMA chunk.   This  information
              helps  describe  how  the color values in the PNG must be inter‐
              preted.  Without the gAMA chunk,  whatever  interprets  the  PNG
              must  get  this information separately (or just assume something
              standard).  If your input is a true PPM or PGM image, you should
              specify  -gamma=.45.  But sometimes people generate images which
              are ostensibly PPM except  the  image  uses  a  different  gamma
              transfer function than the one specified for PPM.  A common case
              of this is when the image is created  by  simple  hardware  that
              doesn't  have  digital computational ability.  Also, some simple
              programs that generate images from scratch do it  with  a  gamma
              transfer in which the gamma value is 1.0.

       -chroma=chroma_list
              This  option specifies how red, green, and blue component values
              of a pixel specify a particular color, by telling the chromatic‐
              ities  of  those  3  primary illuminants and of white (i.e. full
              strength of all three).

              The chroma_list value is a blank-separated list  of  8  floating
              point  decimal numbers.  The CIE-1931 X and Y chromaticities (in
              that order) of each of white, red,  green,  and  blue,  in  that
              order.

              This information goes into the PNG's cHRM chunk.

              In  a  shell  command, make sure you use quotation marks so that
              the blanks in chroma_list don't make the shell see multiple com‐
              mand arguments.

       -srgbintent=intent
              This  asserts  that the input is a pseudo-Netpbm image that uses
              an sRGB color space (unlike true Netpbm) and indicates  how  you
              intend  for  the  colors  to be rendered.  It causes pamtopng to
              include an sRGB chunk in  the  PNG  image  that  specifies  that
              intent,  so  see  the  PNG documentation for more information on
              what this really means.

              intent is one of:

       ·      perceptual

       ·      relativecolorimetric

       ·      saturation

       ·      absolutecolorimetric

       -text=filename
              This option lets you include arbitrary text strings in  the  PNG
              output, as tEXt chunks.

              filename is the name of a file that contains your text strings.

              The  output contains a distinct tEXt chunk for each entry in the
              file.

              Here is an example of a text string file:

                   Title           PNG file
                   Author          John Doe
                   Description     how to include a text chunk
                                      PNG file
                   "Creation Date" 2015-may-11
                   Software        pamtopng

              The file is divided into entries, each entry comprising consecu‐
              tive  lines  of  text.  The first line of an entry starts in the
              first column (i.e. the first column  is  not  white  space)  and
              every other line has white space in the first column.  The first
              entry starts in the first line, so it is not valid for the first
              line of the file to have white space in its first column.

              The  first  word in an entry is the key of the text string (e.g.
              'Title').  It begins in column one of the line and continues  up
              to,  but not including, the first delimiter character or the end
              of the line, whichever is first.  You can  enclose  the  key  in
              double  quotes  in  which  case the key can consists of multiple
              words.  The quotes are not part of the key.  The text string per
              se  begins  after the key and any delimiter characters after it,
              plus the text in subsequent continuation lines.

              There is no limit on the length of a file line or entry  or  key
              or text string.  There is no limit on the number of entries.

       -ztxt=filename
              The  same  as -text, except the text string is compressed in the
              PNG output.  pnmtopng uses zTXt chunks instead of a tEXt chunks.

       -itxt=filename
              Similar to -text, but the text strings  can  be  in  a  language
              other  than English.  The PNG image indicates what language that
              is and includes the text string key both  in  English  and  that
              language.  pnmtopng uses iTXt chunks instead of tEXt chunks.

              For  each record, you must specify the language and give the key
              both in English and in the text string language.

              Example:

                   Language        nl-NL  Taal             nl-NL
                      Title           nl-NL  Titel            PNG file
                      Author          nl-NL  Auteur           Pietje Puk
                      Description     nl-NL  Omschrijving     Tekst in het Nederlands.

              The language specification is based on the ISO  639-1  standard,
              see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes for the
              valid codes.  The format is either a two character  "nl"  or  an
              extended code like "en-US".

       -time='[yy]yy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss'
              This option allows you to specify the modification time value to
              be placed in the PNG output.  You can specify the year parameter
              either as a two or four digit value.

       -verbose
              This  causes the program to display various facts about the con‐
              version.

SEE ALSO
       pngtopam(1), pnmtopng(1), pam(1), pnm(1)

       For  information  on  the  PNG  format,  see  http://www.w3.org/TR/PNG/
       ⟨http://www.w3.org/TR/PNG/⟩         ,        http://libpng.org/pub/png/
       ⟨http://libpng.org/pub/png/⟩                                          ,
       http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes
       ⟨http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes⟩              and
       http://schaik.com/png/ ⟨http://schaik.com/png/⟩ .

HISTORY
       pamtopng was new in Netpbm 10.70 (June 2015).

       Before  pamtopng,  the  two  ways to create PNG images with Netpbm were
       pnmtopng and pamrgbatopng.  The history  of  the  former  is  discussed
       above.  The latter was added to Netpbm in 2005 as a cheap way to fill a
       significant need that pnmtopng did not: the ability to turn  the  alpha
       channel in a PAM image into the alpha channel in a PNG image.

       Handling  of the alpha channel with pnmtopng is very cumbersome (as was
       dealing with alpha channels in general before the introduction  of  the
       PAM  format).   pamrgbatopng could do what people wanted with the alpha
       channel, but nothing else.  It was a very small program with  literally
       no command line options.

       The  goal in those days was eventually to expand pnmtopng to do the PAM
       alpha channel thing, rename it to pamtopng,  and  retire  pamrgbatopng.
       But  pnmtopng  is such a complex program, because of its dizzying array
       of features and its need for backward compatibility, that  adding  that
       one  capability  to  it  was  a  daunting task and for ten years nobody
       attempted it.

       In 2015, one of the authors of the original pnmtopng  (from  before  it
       was  even  part of Netpbm -- a program that shared essentially no lines
       of code with pnmtopng of 2015) decided to go in a different  direction.
       While  many  features  of  pnmtopng  were  pretty important and easy to
       implement, many others were probably of no use in the modern  world  or
       at  least  not  important enough to justify the complexity they lent to
       the code.  (The features thought to be outdated  were  ones  that  were
       intended  to make the PNG output slightly smaller - something consider‐
       ably less important with the declining cost of computer resources).

       And there was an opportunity to drop those features: We could  use  the
       new  name 'pamtopng' for a new program, keep the existing program under
       the name 'pnmtopng', and avoid most backward compatibility trouble.

       Therefore, Willem van Schaik wrote an intermediate level  program  that
       had all the most important features of pnmtopng, plus the alpha channel
       handling of pamrgbatopng, with nice, simple code.  That was pamtopng.

       Because pamrgbatopng had no options, pamtopng was  backward  compatible
       with  it  without even trying.  Therefore, as soon as we added pamtopng
       to Netpbm, we removed pamrgbatopng and recommended that pamrgbatopng be
       installed as an alias for pamtopng.

AUTHOR
       Copyright  (C)  1995-1997  by  Alexander Lehmann and Willem van Schaik.
       Copyright (C) 2015 by Willem van Schaik.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamtopng.html

netpbm documentation             12 March 2017         Pamtopng User Manual(0)
