Pamtowinicon User Manual(0)                        Pamtowinicon User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamtowinicon  -  convert  Netpbm PAM images to a Microsoft Windows icon
       file

SYNOPSIS
       pamtowinicon  [-pngthreshold=threshold]  [-truetransparent]  [-verbose]
       [pam_file]

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
       may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may use
       either  white  space  or  equals  signs  between an option name and its
       value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamtowinicon reads an RGB_ALPHA Netpbm PAM file and converts  it  to  a
       Microsoft Windows icon file.

       The output goes to Standard Output.

       The  input is a multi-image PAM file; each image becomes an icon in the
       output file.  If you have input images in multiple files, you can  sim‐
       ply combine them with cat and pass the result to pamtowinicon.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ),
       pamtowinicon recognizes the following command line options:

       -pngthreshold=threshold
              pamtowinicon  encodes  images  with  resolutions  above or equal
              threshold by threshold as PNG  by  running  pnmtopng(1).   Other
              images it encodes using the more traditional BMP format.

              When the program uses PNG encoding for a 5-channel PAM with sep‐
              arate AND mask (see below), it discards the AND mask.

              The default value for threshold is 128.

       -truetransparent
              Make all pixels outside the opaque area black,  avoiding  inver‐
              sion  and other effects on the background of the image (see Win‐
              dows Icons(1)).

       -verbose
              Print more messages

IMAGES
       pamtowinicon reads a (multi-image) Netpbm PAM file as input and outputs
       an single Windows icon file containing those images.

       The images in the icon file are in the same order as in the PAM input.

   PAM Input
       pamtowinicon  interprets the PAM images as follows, based on the number
       of channels.

       ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
       channels   image
       1          fully opaque grayscale image
       2          grayscale image with transparency channel
       3          fully opaque color image
       4          color image with transparency channel
       5          color image with transparency channel and additional AND
       mask

       The tuple types of the PAMs are irrelevant.

   AND Mask
       The so-called "AND mask" is a  special  feature  of  Microsoft  Windows
       icons.  It is required for all BMP encoded images.  At the first sight,
       the AND mask is a 1-bit transparency channel, but it is also  used  for
       e.g.  shading  the  icon  while  dragging.   See  Windows  Icons(1) for
       details.

       If there is no explicit AND mask, but transparency data  in  the  input
       image, pamtowinicon sets the AND mask to opaque where the sample in the
       transparency channel is below maxval, and to transparent elsewhere.

       If no transparency data is present in  the  input  image,  pamtowinicon
       assumes the whole image to be fully opaque.

   BMP Output
       When  BMP encoding an image, pamtowinicon tries to use the most compact
       BI_RGB format allowed for icon images with a color depth of eight  bits
       per channel.

       pamtowinicon  generates  neither  16-bit  BI_RGB  nor  BI_BITFIELDS BMP
       encoded images, even if the maxval of the input PAM is not 255.

SEE ALSO
       ·

              winicontopam(1)

       ·

              ppmtowinicon(1)

       ·

              pam(1)

       ·

              Windows Icons(1)

       For  information  on  the   PNG   format,   see   http://schaik.com/png
       ⟨http://schaik.com/png⟩ .

HISTORY
       pamtowinicon  was  new  in Netpbm 10.63 (June 2013).  It obsoleted ppm‐
       towinicon by providing more function and conforming  better  to  Netpbm
       conventions.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2013 by Ludolf Holzheid.

       Translated to Netpbm coding style by Bryan Henderson.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamtowinicon.html

netpbm documentation             12 April 2013     Pamtowinicon User Manual(0)
