Pamtouil User Manual(0)                                Pamtouil User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamtouil  -  convert  a  PNM or PNM/transparency image into a Motif UIL
       icon file

SYNOPSIS
       pamtouil [-name=uilname] [pamfile]

       You may abbreviate any option to its shortest unique prefix.   You  may
       use  two hyphens instead of one to delimit an option.  You may separate
       an option from its value with whitespace instead of =.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamtouil reads a PNM or PAM image as input and  produces  a  Motif  UIL
       icon  file  as output.  If the input is PAM, it may be either a regular
       grayscale or color  image  or  grayscale+transparency  or  color+trans‐
       parency.   Where  the transparency channel is present, pamtouil renders
       pixels that are more than half transparent as transparent in  the  out‐
       put.

       In the UIL's colormap, pamtouil uses the color names from the RGB data‐
       base -- the same one ppmmake(1) uses.  Where a color in the input  does
       not exactly match one of the colors named in the RGB database, pamtouil
       uses the closest color named in the RGB database.

OPTIONS
       -name
                   Allows you to specify the prefix string which is printed in
              the
                   resulting  UIL  output.   If not specified, will default to
              the filename
                   (without extension) of the ppmfile argument.  If  -name  is
              not
                   specified  and  no ppmfile is specified (i.e. piped input),
              the
                   prefix string will default to the string "noname".

SEE ALSO
       pamstack(1) pam(1) ppm(1)

HISTORY
       Before May 2002, pamtouil was called ppmtouil and had no way to specify
       transparency.

AUTHOR
       Converted  by  Bryan  Henderson from ppmtouil.c, which was converted by
       Jef Poskanzer from ppmtoxpm.c, which is Copyright (C) 1990 by  Mark  W.
       Snitily

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamtouil.html

netpbm documentation              05 May 2002          Pamtouil User Manual(0)
