Pamunlookup User Manual(0)                          Pamunlookup User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamunlookup - inverse of pamlookup

SYNOPSIS
       pamunlookup -lookupfile=lookupfile inputfile

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
       may use two hyphens instead of one.  You may separate  an  option  name
       and its value with white space instead of an equals sign.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamunlookup  is  best  described  as  the inverse of pamlookup (without
       -byplane).  For example, the following normally yields output identical
       the input:

           $ cat input.ppm | \
               pamunlookup -lookupfile=map.pam | \
               pamlookup -lookupfile=map.pam \
               > output.ppm

       Specifically,  pamunlookup  takes an input image and produces an output
       image of the same width and height in which each tuple is a single num‐
       ber.   That  number  is  the index in a given lookup table of the tuple
       value that is in the same position in the input image.

       You  specify  the  lookup  table  the  same  way   as   for   pamlookup
       ⟨pamlookup.html#lookupimage⟩ .

       Where a tuple in the input image is not in the lookup table, the number
       pamunlookup places in the output index image is one  greater  than  the
       highest index in the lookup table.  Accordingly, the maxval of the out‐
       put index image is the size of the lookup table.

   Example
       Here is an example of pamunlookup's function.

       Consider an input image consisting of a 3x2 PPM as follows:

       red     yellow   red
       beige   beige    beige

       and a lookup table consisting of a 3x1 PPM image as follows:

       red   yellow   beige

       The lookup table above says Index 0 corresponds to the color red, Index
       1  corresponds to yellow, and Index 2 corresponds to beige.  The output
       of pamunlookup is the following index image:

       0   1   0
       2   2   2

   Miscellaneous
       The inputfile argument identifies the file containing the index PAM  or
       PNM  image.   -  means Standard Input.  It won't work if both the input
       image file and lookup table file are Standard Input.

       The output index image goes to Standard Output.

OPTIONS
       -lookupfile=lookupfile
              lookupfile names the file that contains the  PAM  or  PNM  image
              that is the lookup table.  This option is mandatory.

SEE ALSO
       pamlookup(1), ppmchange(1), pnmcolormap(1), pnm(1), pam(1)

HISTORY
       pamunlookup was new in Netpbm 10.72 (September 2015).

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamunlookup.html

netpbm documentation             9 August 2015      Pamunlookup User Manual(0)
