Pamwipeout User Manual(0)                            Pamwipeout User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamwipeout  -  replace detail with smooth gradient from one edge to the
       other

SYNOPSIS
       pamwipeout {-lr | -tb} [filename]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of options is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       The  pamwipeout  utility takes a Netpbm image as input and the uses two
       opposite edges of the image to wipe out anything in between.   You  can
       use  it  in  combination  with  pamcut and pnmpaste / pamcomp to remove
       unwanted parts of a larger image.  The program replaces the  pixels  in
       between the two edges with a gradient from one edge to the other.

       In  top-bottom  mode,  the  program  reads  the whole image into memory
       before it can start processing.  In left-right it will read the image a
       row  at  the  time,  process  that row and write it to the output file.
       Therefore, in case of very large  images,  it  may  be  better  to  use
       instead  of  "pamwipeout -tb" a pipe of "pamflip -cw | pamwipeout -lr |
       pamflip -ccw".

       In his blog at

       www.i-am.ws ⟨http://www.i-am.ws/entry/pnmblend_disappearing_act⟩ ,  the
       author  wrote  about  a  predecessor  of "pamwipeout" at the time named
       "pnmblend". It shows a good example of what can  be  accomplished  with
       this utility.

PARAMETERS
       Filename  is  the  name  of  the input file. If you don't specify this,
       pamwipeout reads the image from Standard Input.

OPTIONS
       -tb | -lr

              This option chooses between a vertical and a  horizontal  gradi‐
              ent.  You must specify one of these, but not both.

SEE ALSO
       pam(1) and pamflip(1), pamcut(1), pamcomp(1), pnmpaste(1).

HISTORY
       pamwipeout was new in Netpbm 10.54 (March 2011).

AUTHORS
       Willem van Schaik wrote this program in January 2011 and contributed it
       to Netpbm.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamwipeout.html

netpbm documentation           February 26, 2011     Pamwipeout User Manual(0)
