Pamx User Manual(0)                                        Pamx User Manual(0)

NAME
       pamx - display Netpbm image in X Window System window

SYNOPSIS
       pamx

       [-fullscreen]  [-install] [-private] [-fit] [-pixmap] [-verbose] [-dis‐
       play=x-display] [-title=text]  [-foreground=color]  [-background=color]
       [-border=color]       [-geometry=x-geometry-string]      [-visual=name]
       netpbm_file

       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest  unique  prefix.   You
       may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may use
       either white space or an equals sign between an  option  name  and  its
       value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamx  displays a Netpbm image in an X Window System window.  It is like
       a very simple version of the classic X image viewer xloadimage.

       If you don't specify the input file  netpbm_file,  the  input  is  from
       Standard  Input.   The  input image can be any Netpbm image format.  If
       the input is a multi-image stream,  pamx  ignores  all  but  the  first
       image.

       pamx  is  not  the  best  choice for general purpose viewing of images,
       because it is a traditional simple Netpbm building block.  It is a good
       thing to build into other programs and can be useful for debugging more
       complex systems, but you can get much more powerful  viewers  that  can
       display Netpbm images.  For example, xloadimage, xli, xzgv, and any web
       browser.

       The program xwud (X Window Undump) is part of the X Window  System  and
       performs the same basic display function, though with input in the spe‐
       cial X Window Dump format (for which Netpbm has converters).

       The initial window is at most 90% of the size of the display unless the
       window  manager  does  not  correctly handle window size requests or if
       you've used the -fullscreen option.  You may move the image  around  in
       the  window  by  dragging with the first mouse button.  The cursor will
       indicate which directions you may drag, if any.  You may exit the  win‐
       dow  by  typing 'q' or control-C when the keyboard focus is on the win‐
       dow.

       ppmsvgalib is a similar program that displays an image on a Linux  sys‐
       tem without the need for the X Window System.

X RESOURCE CLASS
       pamx  uses the resource class name Xloadimage for window managers which
       need this resource set.  This is, of course, the  same  resource  class
       that the conventional viewer program xloadimage uses.

OPTIONS
       -border=color
              This sets the background portion of the window which is not cov‐
              ered by any images to be color.

       -display=display_name
              This names the X display in which to put the window.  E.g. 0:0.

       -fit   Force image to use the default visual  and  colormap.   This  is
              useful  if you do not want technicolor effects when the colormap
              focus is inside the image window, but it may reduce the  quality
              of the displayed image.

       -fullscreen
              Use the entire screen to display the image.

       -geometry=WxH[{+,-}X{+,-}Y
              This sets the size and position of the window in which pamx dis‐
              plays the image.

              By default, the window size  exactly  matches  the  image  size,
              except that if you don't specify -fullscreen, the maximum is 90%
              of the screen dimensions.

       -install
              Forcibly  install  the  image's  colormap  when  the  window  is
              focused.  This violates ICCCM standards and only exists to allow
              operation with naive window managers.  Use this option  only  if
              your window manager does not install colormaps properly.

       -pixmap
              Force  the  use  of a pixmap as backing-store.  This is provided
              for servers where backing-store is broken (such as some versions
              of the AIXWindows server).  It may improve scrolling performance
              on servers which provide backing-store.

       -private
              Force pamx to use of a private colormap.  By default, pamx allo‐
              cates  colors  shared  unless there are not enough colors avail‐
              able.

       -verbose
              Causes pamx to print various information about what  it's  doing
              to Standard Error.

       -visual=visual_name
              Force the use of a specific visual type to display an image.  By
              default, pamx tries to pick the best available image for a  par‐
              ticular  image  type.   The  available visual types are: Direct‐
              Color, TrueColor, PseudoColor, StaticColor, GrayScale, and Stat‐
              icGray.   You may use the shortest unique prefix of these names,
              and case is not significant.

       -background=color
              Use color as the background color instead of the  default  (usu‐
              ally white but this depends on the image type) if you are trans‐
              ferring a monochrome image to a color display.

       -foreground=color
              Use color as the foreground color instead of black  if  you  are
              transferring  a  monochrome  image  to a color display.  You can
              also use this to invert the foreground and background colors  of
              a monochrome image.

       -title=text
              Set the title bar title of the window.  Default is the file name
              of the input file, or "stdin" if  the  image  is  from  Standard
              Input.

SEE ALSO
       ppmsvgalib(1), pam(1), pnm(1), xzgv, xwud, xloadimage, xli

AUTHOR
       pamx  is  by Bryan Henderson, in March 2006, based on xloadimage by Jim
       Frost, Centerline Software, jimf@centerline.com, 1989-1993.

       Jim's code contained the following copyright notice and license:

              Copyright 1989, 1993 Jim Frost

              Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this soft‐
              ware  and  its  documentation  for any purpose is hereby granted
              without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear  in
              all  copies and that both that copyright notice and this permis‐
              sion notice appear  in  supporting  documentation.   The  author
              makes  no representations about the suitability of this software
              for any purpose.  It is provided  "as  is"  without  express  or
              implied warranty.

              THE  AUTHOR  DISCLAIMS  ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFT‐
              WARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY  AND
              FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
              INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES  OR  ANY  DAMAGES  WHATSOEVER
              RESULTING  FROM  LOSS  OF  USE,  DATA  OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
              ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
              OUT  OF  OR  IN  CONNECTION  WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
              SOFTWARE.

       Lots of other people contributed to Xloadimage, and they are listed  in
       the file COPYRIGHT in the source code.

HISTORY
       pamx was new in Netpbm 10.34 (May 2006).

       pamx is essentially based on the classic X displayer program xloadimage
       by Jim Frost, 1989.  Bryan Henderson stripped it down and adapted it to
       Netpbm in March 2006.

       The  following  features of xloadimage are left out of pamx, to be more
       compatible with Netpbm's philosophy of simple  building  blocks.   Note
       that there are other programs in Netpbm that do most of these things:

       ·      zoom in/out

       ·      ability to accept formats other than Netpbm

       ·      image transformations (brightening, clipping, rotating, etc)

       ·      decompressing and other decoding of input

       ·      ability to display on the root window

       ·      slide show

              pamx also differs from xloadimage in that it uses Libnetpbm.

       There  is  virtually  no code from xloadimage actually in pamx, because
       Bryan rewrote it all to make it easier to understand.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamx.html

netpbm documentation             02 July 2011              Pamx User Manual(0)
