PANTALAIMON.CONF(5)                                                    BSD File Formats Manual                                                   PANTALAIMON.CONF(5)

NAME
     pantalaimon.conf — pantalaimon configuration file

DESCRIPTION
     pantalaimon(1) reads configuration data in the INI file format. The configuration file is used to configure pantalaimon homeservers.

     The sections inside the configuration file represent a pantalaimon proxy instance with the section name enclosed in square brackets representing an user chosen
     instance name.

     The following keys are required in the proxy instance sections:

     Homeserver
          The URI of the homeserver that the pantalaimon proxy should forward requests to, without the matrix API path but including the http(s) schema.

     The following keys are optional in the proxy instance sections:

     ListenAddress
          The address where the daemon will listen to client connections for this homeserver. Defaults to "localhost".

     ListenPort
          The port where the daemon will listen to client connections for this homeserver. Note that the listen address/port combination needs to be unique between
          different homeservers. Defaults to "8009".

     Proxy
          An URI of a HTTP proxy that the daemon should use when making requests to the homeserver.  pantalaimon only supports HTTP proxies. The default is to make
          a direct connection to the homeserver.

     SSL  A boolean that decides if SSL verification should be enabled for outgoing connections to the homeserver. Defaults to "True".

     IgnoreVerification
          A boolean that decides if device verification should be enabled. If this is True devices will be marked as ignored automatically and encryption keys will
          be shared with them, if this is False the user needs to verify, blacklist or ignore devices manually before messages can be sent to a room. Defaults to
          "False".

     UseKeyring
          This option configures if a proxy instance should use the OS keyring to store its own access tokens. The access tokens are required for the daemon to re‐
          sume operation. If this is set to "No", access tokens are stored in the pantalaimon database in plaintext. Defaults to "Yes".

     SearchRequests
          This option configures if the proxy should make additional HTTP requests to the server when clients use the search API endpoint. Some data that is re‐
          quired to fill out a complete search response is only available on the Homeserver (e.g.  start/end tokens for the event context or room state at a partic‐
          ular point in time).

          If this option is set to "On" pantalaimon will make additional HTTP requests to fetch the unavailable data from the Homeserver, note that this will make
          the search much slower. If this is set to "Off" pantalaimon will not make any additional HTTP requests and will leave some data fields in the search re‐
          sponse empty. Defaults to "Off".

     IndexEncryptedOnly
          A configuration option to decide if pantalaimon should fetch the history for unencrytped rooms as well as for encrypted ones. If True, only the history
          for encrypted rooms is fetched and indexed. Search requests for non-encrypted rooms are forwarded to the Homeserver. Defaults to "True".

     IndexingBatchSize
          The number of messages that should be requested from the Homeserver when we fetch and index messages from the room history. Defaults to 100.

     HistoryFetchDelay
          The amount of time to wait between room message history requests to the Homeserver in ms. Defaults to 3000.

     Aditional to the homeserver section a special section with the name Default can be used to configure the following values for all homeservers: ListenAddress,
     ListenPort, Proxy, SSL IgnoreVerification UseKeyring

     The Default section has the following keys that globally change the behaviour of the daemon:

     LogLevel
          Set the log level of the daemon, can be one of error, warning, info, debug.  Defaults to warning.

     Notifications
          The daemon sends out notifications for some actions that require users to interfere (unverified devices are in a room, interactive key verification
          events), this option enables or disables OS notifications. Can be one of On, Off.  Defaults to On.

FILES
     pantalaimon supports the XDG Base Directory Specification, the default locations can be overridden using appropriate environment variables.

     ~/.config/pantalaimon/pantalaimon.conf
         Default location of the configuration file.

EXAMPLES
     The following example shows a configured pantalaimon proxy with the name Clocktown, the homeserver URL is set to https://localhost:8448, the pantalaimon proxy
     is listening for client connections on the address localhost, and port 8009.  The pantalaimon proxy is making connections to the homeserver through the proxy
     http://localhost:8009, finally, SSL verification is disabled.

     Additionally to the Clocktown section the Default section is also listed and the default value for SSL verification is set to True, OS notifications are en‐
     abled and the debug level is set to Debug.

           [Default]
           LogLevel = Debug
           SSL = True
           Notifications = On

           [Clocktown]
           Homeserver = https://localhost:8448
           ListenAddress = localhost
           ListenPort = 8009
           Proxy = http://localhost:8080
           SSL = False

SEE ALSO
     pantalaimon(8)

AUTHORS
     pantalaimon.conf was written by Damir Jelić <poljar@termina.org.uk>.

BSD                                                                         May 08, 2019                                                                         BSD
