GP(1)                                                                                     General Commands Manual                                                                                     GP(1)

NAME
       gp - The PARI calculator

SYNOPSIS
       gp [-s stacksize] [-p primelimit] [--emacs] [-f|--fast] [-q|--quiet] [-D|--default key=val] [--help] [--test] [--texmacs] [--version] [--version-short] [ file1 file2 ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Invokes the PARI-GP calculator gp; gp is an advanced programmable calculator, specializing in number theory, which computes symbolically as long as possible, numerically where needed, and contains
       a  wealth  of arithmetic functions: factorizations, elliptic curves, Galois theory, class field theory, modular forms, etc.  Commands, written in the GP scripting language, are input interactively
       or loaded from files.

       If present at the end of the command line, files 'file1', 'file2', ...  are loaded on startup; they must be written in the GP language.

OPTIONS
       Command line options are available in both short form (-f) and POSIX-like (--fast). Numeric arguments can be followed by a modifier k , M or G at the user's convenience; in that case the  argument
       is multiplied by 10^3, 10^6, or 10^9 respectively.

       -f, --fast
              Fast start (or factory settings). Do not read .gprc (see below) upon startup.

       -p limit
              [DEPRECATED]  Upon startup, gp computes a table of small primes used in number-theoretic applications. If primelimit is set, the table include primes up to that bound instead of the default
              (= 1048576). It is now mostly useless to change this value.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet mode. Do not print headers or history numbers and do not say goodbye.

       -D, --default key=val
              performs default(key, val); on startup, overriding values from the gprc preferences file. 'val' must be a constant value and is not allowed to involve any computation (e.g. 1+1  is  forbid‐
              den). Any number of such default-setting statements may appear on the command line. A key may be set multiple times, the last setting taking precedence

       -s limit
              Size of gp internal stack allocated on startup. When gp runs out of space, it interrupts the current computation and raises a stack overflow exception. If this occurs frequently, start with
              a bigger stack. The stack size can also be increased from within gp, using default(parisize,limit); it is convenient to set parisize from your .gprc to that the setting is persistent across
              sessions;  a  value  of 80MB is sensible.  We strongly advise to also set parisizemax to a positive, much larger, value in your .gprc (about what you believe your machine can stand, usually
              half the available RAM or so): this strives to fit computation in the parisize range but allows it to temporarily go beyond it (up to parisizemax).  Note that computations  with  a  smaller
              stack may be more efficient due to better data locality. Finally, threadsize and threadsizemax play analogous roles in the parallel version of gp.

       --emacs
              gp  can  be  run in an Emacs shell (see GP User's manual for details). This flag is then required for smooth interaction with the PariEmacs package (pari.el). It is set automatically by the
              pari.el package, and will produce display oddities if you set it outside of an Emacs session.

       --help print a summary of available command-line options.

       --test run gp in test mode: suppress printing of history numbers and wrap long output lines (to get readable diff output). For benches only.

       --texmacs
              gp can be run from a TeXmacs frontend. This flag is set by TeXmacs, to enable special purpose communication channels. Do not set it yourself.

       --version
              output version info (banner) then exit.

       --version-short
              output version number then exit.

USE
       ?      to get online help.

       ??     to get extended online help (more precisely, to call the external help program, gphelp by default)

       quit   (or \q), or EOF (Ctrl-D) to quit gp.

       The following works only when gp was linked with GNU readline library:

       arrow keys
              for editing and viewing the input history.

       TAB
               for automatic completion

MANUALS
       The following material is included in the standard distribution (originally in TeX format) and can also be downloaded at
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/doc.html
       or viewed online at
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/dochtml/html/

       The User's Guide to PARI/GP
              (users.dvi)

       The User's Guide to the PARI library
              (library.dvi)

       The Developer's Guide to the PARI library
              (develop.dvi)

       PARI/GP, a tutorial
              (tutorial.dvi)

       PARI/GP reference cards
              (refcard*.dvi)

FILES
       gp     main executable

       $HOME/.gprc
              (or $GPRC if set) user preference file, read at beginning of execution by each gp shell. A default gprc gprc.dft is provided with the distribution. If this file cannot be  found,  /etc/gprc
              is checked instead.

       <logfile>
              a file used to log in all commands and results; default: pari.log (you need to set the log default in your gprc or interactively)

       <psfile>
              a file used to dump PostScript drawings; default: pari.ps

       <histfile>
              a file where gp will keep a history of all input commands (you need to set the histfile default in the gprc file)

       gphelp default external help program (as above)

       *.gp   GP programs

ENVIRONMENT
       $GPRC  place to look for the user's preference file (gprc); if the file does not exist, we then check in $HOME/.gprc, /etc/gprc, and finally for a file named 'gprc' in PARI's datadir.

       $GP_DATA_DIR
              directory  containing  data installed by optional PARI packages.  For example, the Galois resolvents files in directory galdata/ needed by the polgalois function, in degrees 8 to 11; or the
              modular polynomials in seadata/ used by the ellap function for large base fields. This environment variable overrides PARI's 'datadir', defined at Configure time.

       $GP_POSTSCRIPT_VIEWER
              an application able to display PostScript files, used by the plotps graphic engine. This engine is a fallback used to output hi-res plots even  when  no  compatible  graphical  library  was
              available on your platform at Configure time. (Dumps the graph to a temporary file, then open the file.)

       $GP_SVG_VIEWER
              an  application  able  to  display  SVG images files, used by the plotsvg graphic engine. This engine is a fallback used to output hi-res plots even when no compatible graphical library was
              available on your platform at Configure time. (Dumps the graph to a temporary file, then open the file.)

       $GPHELP
              name of the external help program invoked by ?? and ??? shortcuts.

       $GPTMPDIR
              name of the directory where temporary files will be generated.

HOME PAGE
       PARI's home page resides at
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/

MAILING LISTS
       There are a number of mailing lists devoted to the PARI/GP package, and most feedback should be directed to those. See
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/lists.html
       for details. The most important ones are:

       - pari-announce (moderated): for us to announce major version changes.

       - pari-dev: for everything related to the development of PARI, including suggestions, technical questions, bug reports or patch submissions.

       - pari-users: for discuss about everything else, in particular ask for help.

       To subscribe, send empty messages with a Subject: containing the word "subscribe" respectively to

          pari-announce-request@pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr

          pari-users-request@pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr

          pari-dev-request@pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr

BUG REPORTS
       Bugs should be submitted online to our Bug Tracking System, available from PARI's home page, or directly from the URL
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/Bugs/
       Further instructions can be found on that page.

TRIVIA
       Despite the leading G, GP has nothing to do with GNU. The first version was originally called GPC, for Great Programmable Calculator. When people started  calling  it  "the  GPC  Calculator",  the
       trailing C was dropped.

       PARI has nothing to do with the French capital. The name is a pun about the project's early stages when the authors started to implement a library for "Pascal ARIthmetic" in the PASCAL programming
       language. They quickly switched to C.

       For  the  benefit  of non-native French speakers, here's a slightly expanded explanation: Blaise Pascal (1623-1662) was a famous French mathematician and philosopher who was one of the founders of
       probability and devised one of the first "arithmetic machines". He once proposed the following "proof" of the existence of God for the unbelievers: whether He exists or not I lose nothing  by  be‐
       lieving in Him, whereas if He does and I misbehave... This is the so-called "pari de Pascal" (Pascal's Wager).

       Note that PARI also means "fairy" in Persian.

AUTHORS
       PARI was originally written by Christian Batut, Dominique Bernardi, Henri Cohen, and Michel Olivier in Laboratoire A2X (Universite Bordeaux I, France), and was maintained by Henri Cohen up to ver‐
       sion 1.39.15 (1995), and by Karim Belabas since then.

       A great number of people have contributed to the successive improvements which eventually resulted in the present version. See the AUTHORS file in the distribution.

SEE ALSO
       gap(1), gphelp(1), perl(1), readline(3), sage(1), tex(1), texmacs(1),

COPYING
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Gen‐
       eral Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

                                                                                             12 September 2024                                                                                        GP(1)
