PARPROUTED(8)                                                                            Proxy ARP Bridging Daemon                                                                            PARPROUTED(8)

NAME
       parprouted - Proxy ARP IP bridging daemon

SYNOPSIS
       parprouted [-d] [-p] interface [interface]

DESCRIPTION
       parprouted  is  a daemon for transparent IP (Layer 3) proxy ARP bridging.  Unlike standard bridging, proxy ARP bridging allows to bridge Ethernet networks behind wireless nodes. Normal L2 bridging
       does not work between wireless nodes because wireless does not know about MAC addresses used in the wired Ethernet networks. Also this daemon is useful for making transparent firewalls.

       The daemon listens for incoming ARP requests, and in case the location of the requested IP address is unknown, forwards them to other interfaces, as well as updates kernel ARP table with  the  re‐
       ceived replies. When necessary, the daemon generates an ARP reply itself, which causes the stations to send traffic to the host daemon is running on. By automatically adding appropriate /32 routes
       to  Linux  kernel  IP  routing table for the hosts learned via ARP, daemon ensures that the Linux kernel will be able to route the packets to the destination host when it receives them without any
       need routing/subnetting manually.

       All routes entered by the daemon have a metric of 50.

       Unless you use -p switch, all entries in the ARP table will be refreshed (rechecked by sending ARP requests) every 50 seconds. This keeps them from being expired by kernel.

       Normally it takes about 60 ms for a bridge to update all its tables and start sending packets to the destination.

REQUIREMENTS
       This daemon can be used for unicast traffic only. I.e., DHCP is not supported.  Use software such as dhcrelay to "bridge" DHCP.

       You should have an IP address assigned on all of your interfaces that you do bridging on. There is no need for this address to be from the same networks as the bridged networks. Any dummy  address
       will do.

       The system should have correct default route.

       parprouted  requires "ip" program from iproute2 tools to be installed in /sbin. If it is installed in another location, please replace "/sbin/ip" occurances in the source with the correct path. As
       well you should have proc filesystem mounted in /proc because the daemon uses /proc/net/arp.

       parprouted is designed for and tested only with Linux 2.4.x kernels.

OPTIONS
       The list of interfaces to do bridging on should be given via the command line.

       The daemon accepts the following switches:

       -d, which stands for debugging. If you run it in debugging mode the daemon will not go to background and will print additional debugging information to stdout/stderr.

       -p, which makes all ARP entries to be permanent. This will also result in that ARP tables will not be refreshed by ARP pings.

EXAMPLE
       To bridge between wlan0 and eth0: parprouted eth0 wlan0

AUTHOR
        (C) 2004, Vladimir Ivaschenko <vi@maks.net>
        http://www.hazard.maks.net

parprouted                                                                                      January 2004                                                                                  PARPROUTED(8)
