Pbmnoise User Manual(0)                                                                                                                                                                 Pbmnoise User Manual(0)

NAME
       pbmnoise - create a PBM image made up of white noise

SYNOPSIS
       pbmnoise width height

       [-ratio=M/N] [-pack] [-randomseed=integer] [-endian=]{big|little|native|swap}]

       Minimum  unique  abbreviations of option are acceptable.  You may use double hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use white space in place of the equals sign to separate an op‐
       tion name from its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pbmnoise creates a PBM image with random pixels.  You specify the probability each pixel will be black or white (essentially, the proportion of black to white pixels in the image).

       You specify the dimensions of the image with the width and height arguments.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pbmnoise recognizes the following command line options:

       -ratio=M/N
              The proportion of black pixels in the generated image.

              To be precise, this is the probability that any given pixel will be black.  By the law of large numbers, we can expect the proportion of black pixels in a reasonably large image to be close  to
              this fraction.

              The option value is a fraction.  The denominator must be 1 or an integer power of 2 up to 65536.  the numerator must be 0 or a positive integer not exceeding denominator.

              The default is 1/2, meaning the output image has essentially the same number of black and white pixels.

              If the ratio is 0 the output image is entirely white.  If 1, the output is entirely black.

       -pack  The  program generates pixels in 32-bit units discarding any fractional pixels at row ends by default.  When this option is specified, the unused pixels are carried over to the next row, elimi‐
              nating waste in exchange for some overhead cost.

              Using this option improves performance when the image width is small.

       -randomseed=integer
              This is the seed for the random number generator that generates the pixels.

              Use this to ensure you get the same image on separate invocations.

              By default, pbmnoise uses a seed derived from the time of day and process ID, which gives you fairly uncorrelated results in multiple invocations.

       -endian=mode
              pbmnoise internally generates random 32-bit integers and uses the machine's binary encoding of those integers as strings of pixels.  Because the integers are random, it doesn't normally  matter
              what  binaary  encoding  is  used for them, but if you need consistent results between machines using the same random number generator, it matters.  For that reason (mainly for testing the pro‐
              gram), this option lets you control that encoding, between big-endian and little-endian.

              mode is one of the following:

       big    Force big-endian output by rearranging bytes on little-endian machines.  No effect on big-endian machines.

       little Likewise, force little-endian output.

       native Do not rearrange anything.  This is the default.

       swap   Always swap regardless of system endianness.

EXAMPLES
       This generates a random PBM image with roughly one-third of pixels colored black:
         pbmnoise -ratio=11/32 1200 1200 > random.pbm

       The following is an alternate method for generating a random PBM image which uses pgmnoise and pgmtopbm instead of pbmnoise.  It is less efficient.
         pgmnoise -maxval=100 1200 1200 | \
           pgmtopbm -threshold -value=0.333 > random.pbm

       This generates a random PPM image, maxval 1:
         pbmnoise 600 400 > red.pbm
         pbmnoise 600 400 > green.pbm
         pbmnoise 600 400 > blue.pbm
         rgb3topbm red.pbm green.pbm blue.pbm > random.ppm

SEE ALSO
       pbm(1) pgmnoise(1) pgmtopbm(1)

HISTORY
       pbmnoise was new in Netpbm 10.97 (December 2021).

       In Netpbm before that, you can use pgmnoise.

AUTHOR
       Akira F Urushibata wrote this program and contributed it to the public domain in December 2021.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pbmnoise.html

netpbm documentation                                                                            18 December 2021                                                                        Pbmnoise User Manual(0)
