pcb-rnd-svg(1)                                                                                 pcb-rnd manual                                                                                pcb-rnd-svg(1)

NAME
       pcb-rnd-svg - compare pcb-rnd svg renders

SYNPOSIS
       pcb-rnd-svg command [args]

DECSRIPTION
       pcb-rnd-svg  compares svg renders generated by pcb-rnd in a way that order of objects within the svg does not matter, only layering and geometry do. This is done by sorting group objects, assuming
       each object is a single line.

       Note: stored reference files are of format boardname.ref or boardname.ref.gz if they are compressed.

OPTIONS
       svg-sort
              reads a pcb-rnd generated svg on stdin, prints sorted svg: objects within each group sorted alphabetically

       svg-diff s1 s2
              sort pcb-rnd generated svgs s1 and s2 and print diff s1 s2; result written to stdout in diff -u format

       diff b1 b2
              run pcb-rnd to generate svgs of b1 and b2 and print their diff; result written to stdout in diff -u format. Boards can be of any format pcb-rnd can load.

       svg-vis-comp s1 s2
              generate a visual comparison of s1 and s2, diffs highlighted: - lines of the diff with blue, + lines with red in a new group, over the faded version of s1.

       vis-comp b1 b2
              generate a svg visual comparison of board files b1 and b2, diffs highlighted: - lines of the diff with blue, + lines with red in a new group, over the faded svg render of b1. Boards can  be
              of any format pcb-rnd can load.

       test brd
              run pcb-rnd on brd and compare the resulting svg to a saved sorted svg reference file called brd.ref

       test-all dir1 [dir2 dirN...]
              run test on all boards with a ref available under all directories listed, recursively.

       gen-ref brd1 [brd2 brdN...]
              generate the initial svg reference file for all board files named

                                                                                                 2020-06-16                                                                                  pcb-rnd-svg(1)
