MRTG2PCP(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               MRTG2PCP(1)

NAME
       mrtg2pcp - import MRTG data and create a PCP archive

SYNOPSIS
       mrtg2pcp hostname devname timezone infile outfile

DESCRIPTION
       mrtg2pcp is intended to read an MRTG log file as created by mrtg(1) and translate this into a Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive with the basename outfile.  The hostname, devname, and timezone ar‐
       guments specify information about the system for which the statistics were gathered.

       The  resultant  PCP archive may be used with all PCP client tools to graph subsets of the data using pmchart(1), perform data reduction and reporting, filter with the PCP inference engine pmie(1),
       etc.

       A series of physical files will be created with the prefix outfile.  These are outfile.0 (the performance data), outfile.meta (the metadata that describes the performance data)  and  outfile.index
       (a  temporal  index to improve efficiency of replay operations for the archive).  If any of these files exists already, then mrtg2pcp will not overwrite them and will exit with an error message of
       the form

       __pmLogNewFile: ``blah.0'' already exists, not over-written

       mrtg2pcp is a Perl script that uses the PCP::LogImport Perl wrapper around the PCP libpcp_import library, and as such could be used as an example to develop new tools to import other types of per‐
       formance data and create PCP archives.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation, the file /etc/pcp.conf contains  the  local  values  for  these
       variables.  The $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative configuration file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       mrtg(1), pmchart(1), pmie(1), pmlogger(1), LOGIMPORT(3) and PCP::LogImport(3).

Performance Co-Pilot                                                                                PCP                                                                                         MRTG2PCP(1)
