COLLECTL2PCP(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                    COLLECTL2PCP(1)

NAME
       collectl2pcp - import collectl data to a PCP archive

SYNOPSIS
       collectl2pcp [-fv?]  [-D debug] file [file ...]  archive

DESCRIPTION
       collectl2pcp  reads raw collectl(1) data from each file and creates a new PCP archive with basename archive.  Each input file may be gzipped (with .gz
       suffix).  The PCP archive and at least one input file are required arguments.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -f, --force
            Overwrite archive (and the index and meta files) if it already exists.

       -v, --verbose
            Report progress and errors verbosely.  This also reports a count of unsupported metric data in the collectl(1) input file(s), which  is  normally
            silently skipped.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

       file [file ...]
            These are the collectl(1) input files.  If more than one is given, they must contain data for the same host and be given in time-stamp chronolog‐
            ical  order  on the command line.  Note that when collectl(1) is run as a service, it normally creates files with date based names that will sort
            chronologically (e.g. /var/log/collectl/*.gz will be sorted correctly).

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the file and directory  names  used  by  PCP.   On  each  installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains the local values for these variables.  The $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative configuration file, as de‐
       scribed in pcp.conf(5).

       For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see pmGetOptions(3).

DEBUGGING OPTIONS
       The -D or --debug option enables the output of additional diagnostics on stderr to help triage problems, although the information is sometimes cryptic
       and primarily intended to provide guidance for developers rather end-users.  debug is a comma separated list of debugging options; use  pmdbg(1)  with
       the -l option to obtain a list of the available debugging options and their meaning.

SEE ALSO
       collectl(1), PCPIntro(1), LOGIMPORT(3), pcp.conf(5), pcp.env(5) and PMNS(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                                                         PCP                                                              COLLECTL2PCP(1)
