GUIDELLM2PCP(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                    GUIDELLM2PCP(1)

NAME
       guidellm2pcp - GuideLLM benchmark results importer

SYNOPSIS
       guidellm2pcp [-hv] [-a archive] [-H hostname] results [...]

DESCRIPTION
       guidellm2pcp is a performance metrics importer tool that creates a PCP archive from the JSON results of a GuideLLM benchmark.

       An archive spanning the time for which the benchmark and its run iterations were active.  Discrete PCP metrics are created for each recorded aspect of
       a run, and logged once at the start and once at the end of each iteration, followed by a mark record.

       This  allows PCP tools to report on these metrics in a meaningful way alongside other system (kernel, hardware, vLLM, and so on) metrics gathered dur‐
       ing the benchmark.

       The only mandatory command line argument is the JSON results file from a GuideLLM invocation.  This JSON can optionally  be  wrapped  with  additional
       Model Furnace metadata, and if this is detected additional PCP labels will be extracted and stored (such as model and inference server names).

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -a archive, --archive=archive
            Specified  the  name of the output PCP archive to be produced.  By default, an archive name using the timestamp of the start of the benchmark run
            will be used.

       -H hostname, --hostname=hostname
            Sets the hostname that will be stamped into the PCP archive label header.

       -h, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

       -v, --verbose
            Report progress as each run is identified and its values saved.

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1), pminfo(1), pmrep(1), LOGARCHIVE(5), and PMNS(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                                                         PCP                                                              GUIDELLM2PCP(1)
