USAGE()                                                                                                                                                                                             USAGE()

NAME
       Usage -

       pdfposter  can be used to create a large poster by building it from multiple pages and/or printing it on large media. It expects as input a PDF file, normally printing on a single page. The output
       is again a PDF file, maybe containing multiple pages together building the poster.  The input page will be scaled to obtain the desired size.

       The program uses a simple but efficient method which is possible with PDF: All new pages share the same data stream of the scaled page. Thus resulting file grows moderately.

       To control its operation, you need to specify either the size of the desired poster or a scale factor for the image:

       • Given the poster size, it calculates the required number of sheets to print on, and from that a scale factor to fill these sheets optimally with the input image.

       • Given a scale factor, it derives the required number of pages from the input image size, and positions the scaled image centered on this area.

OPTIONS
   General Options
       -h, --help
              Show help message and exit

       --help-media-names
              List available media and distance names and exit

       --help-box-definitions
              Show help about specifying BOX for --media-size and --poster-size and exit

       --version
              Show program's version number and exit

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose. Tell about scaling, rotation and number of pages. Can be used more than once to increase the verbosity.

       -n, --dry-run
              Show what would have been done, but do not generate files.

   Defining Input
       -f, --first
              First page to convert (default: first page).

       -l, --last
              Last page to convert (default: last page).

       -A, --art-box
              Use the content area defined by the ArtBox (default: use the area defined by the TrimBox)

   Defining Output
       -m BOX, --media-size=BOX
              Specify the desired media size to print on.  See below for BOX. The default is A4 in the standard package.

       -p BOX, --poster-size=BOX
              Specify the poster size. See below for BOX.  pdfposter will autonomously choose scaling and rotation to best fit the input onto the poster (see EXAMPLES below).

              If you give neither the -s nor the -p option, the default poster size is identical to the media size.

       -s NUMBER
              Specify a linear scaling factor to produce the poster.  Together with the input image size and optional margins, this induces an output poster size. So don't specify both -s and -p.

              The scaling factor is applied to the width and height of the input image size. Thus, a scaling factor of 2 results in a poster 4 times the area compared to the original.

              Default is deriving the scale factor to fit a given poster size.

   Box Definition
       The BOX mentioned above is a specification of horizontal and vertical size. The syntax is as follows (with multiplier being specified optionally):
          box = [ multiplier ] unit

          multiplier = number "x" number

          unit = medianame or distancename

       Many international media names are recognised by the program, in upper and lower case, and can be shortened to their first few characters, as long as unique. For  instance  'A0',  'Let'.  Distance
       names are like 'cm', 'inch', 'ft'.

       Medias are typically not quadratic but rectangular, which means width and height differ. Thus using media names is a bit tricky:

       10x20cm
              obvious: 10 cm x 20 cm (portrait)

       20x10cm
              same as 10x20cm, since all boxes are rotated to portrait format

       Now when using media names it gets tricky:

       1x1a4  same as approx. 21x29cm (21 cm x 29 cm, portrait)

       1x2a4  same as approx. 21x58cm (21 cm x 58 cm, portrait)

              This are two a4 pages put together at the small side: One portrait page wide and two portrait pages high.

       2x1a4  same as approx. 42x29cm, which is rotated to portrait and is (approx.) the same as 29x42cm (29 cm x 42 cm)

              This are two a4 pages put together at the long side: Two portrait pages wide and one portrait page high.

                                                                                                                                                                                                    USAGE()
