PDFPC(1)                                                                                    General Commands Manual                                                                                    PDFPC(1)

NAME
       pdfpc - PDF presenter console with multi-monitor support

SYNOPSIS
       pdfpc [options] PDF-file

DESCRIPTION
       pdfpc  is a GTK-based presentation viewer which uses Keynote-like multi-monitor output to provide meta information to the speaker during the presentation. It is able to show a normal presentation win‐
       dow on one screen while showing a more sophisticated overview on the other one, providing information like a picture of the next slide, as well as the time left in the  presentation.  pdfpc  processes
       PDF documents, which can be created using nearly all modern presentation software.

       By default the presenter view appears in the primary monitor and the presentation view in the second monitor (provided you have two monitors).

OPTIONS
       -B, --list-bindings
              List action bindings defined

       -C, --time-of-day
              Display the time of the day

       -d, --duration=N
              Duration in minutes of the presentation used for timer display. If not given or if a value of 0 is specified, the clock just measures the time in the presentation.

       -e, --end-time=T
              End time of the presentation. (Format: HH:MM (24h))

       -f, --note-format=FORMAT
              Enforce format of notes (plain or markdown. Default: markdown)

       -g, --disable-auto-grouping
              Disable auto detection of overlay groups. (Default: enabled)

       -h, --help
              Show this help

       -l, --last-minutes=N
              Time in minutes, from which on the timer changes its color. (Default: 5 minutes)

       -L, --list-actions
              List actions supported

       -M, --list-monitors
              List monitors known to the operating system

       -n, --notes=P
              Position of second-screen beamer notes on the PDF page (left, right, top, bottom, or none. Default: none). Note that this disables slide auto-grouping.

       -N, --no-install
              Allow for testing pdfpc without proper installation. Icons, configuration files, etc. will be loaded from the source path locations. Mostly intended for developers.

       -P, --page
              Go to a specific page directly after startup. In case of overlays, the first slide will be displayed.

       -r, --page-transition=TRANSITION
              Set  default  page transition. The TRANSITION specification is of the form type:duration:angle:alignment:direction. See the Page transitions section for the list of supported types. duration is
              in seconds. The three last settings are optional (and indeed meaningless for some of the transition types).  The accepted values for angle are 0/90/180/270; alignment  can  be  h[orizontal]  of
              v[ertical] and direction i[nward] or o[utward].

       -R, --pdfpc-location=LOCATION
              Use custom pdfpc file.

       -s, --switch-screens
              Switch the presentation and the presenter screen.

       -S, --single-screen
              Force to use only one screen

       -t, --start-time=T
              Start time of the presentation to be used as a countdown. (Format: HH:MM (24h))

       -T, --enable-auto-srt-load
              Try loading video subtitle files automatically. For each video media, pdfpc will append ".srt" to the media URI and attempt to load a subtitle file (in the SRT format) from that location.

       -W, --wayland-workaround
              Enable Wayland-specific workaround. This might fix HiDPI scaling problems.

       -w, --windowed=MODE
              Run in the given windowed mode (presenter|presentation|both|none). The default mode is "none" (both windows are fullscreen).

       -X, --external-script=FILENAME
              Specify  a  script  to  be executed with the 'X' (Shift+x) key during the presentation. The script must be executable but can otherwise be written in any language. The script is called with the
              following command line arguments:

              • Name of pdf file
              • Total slide count
              • Current slide number
              • Current user slide number

              If the script exits with a non-zero return value, whatever the script wrote to stdout is printed in the console. Otherwise nothing is printed.

       -Z, --size
              Size of the presentation window in width:height format (forces windowed mode)

       -1, --presenter-screen=MONITOR
              Monitor to be used for the presenter screen (see the -M option).

       -2, --presentation-screen=MONITOR
              Monitor to be used for the presentation screen (see the -M option).

KEYBINDINGS
       These are the default keybindings for pdfpc:

       Right cursor key / Down cursor key / Page down / Return / Space / 1st mouse button / Mouse wheel down
              Go forward one slide

       Left cursor key / Up cursor key / Page up / Backspace / 3rd mouse button / Mouse wheel up
              Go back one slide

       Shift + Page down
              Go forward one user slide (see Overlays below)

       Shift + Page up
              Go back one user slide (see Overlays below)

       Shift + Right cursor key / 1st mouse button / Mouse wheel down
              Go forward 10 slides

       Shift + Left cursor key / 3rd mouse button / Mouse wheel up
              Go back 10 slides

       Home   Go to the first slide

       End    Go to the last slide

       Shift + Backspace / Shift + Space
              Go back /forward in history.

       Shift + Home / Shift + End
              Go to the previous / next slide, skipping over overlays that have already been viewed, but at most one user slide.

       Tab / 2nd mouse button
              Overview mode

       g      Input a slide number to jump to

       m      Bookmark the current slide and store it in the .pdfpc file for later usage

       Shift + m
              Load the bookmarked slide which was saved with m before

       t      Toggle the toolbox

       1 / KP_1
              Switch to the normal mode (pen/eraser and pointer are off)

       2 / KP_2
              Switch the pointer mode on

       3 / KP_3
              Switch the pen drawing mode on

       4 / KP_4
              Switch the eraser drawing mode on

       Plus / KP_Add / Equal
              Depending on the current mode, increase font size of notes or pointer size or the size of pen or eraser

       Minus / KP_Subtract
              Depending on the current mode, decrease font size of notes or pointer size or the size of pen or eraser

       c      Clear the drawing on the current page

       d      Toggle visibility of the drawings; if in the drawing mode (pen/eraser), exit it

       f      Freeze the current presentation display (the presenter display is still fully active)

       w      Toggle between the fullscreen and windowed mode of the presenter screen

       b      Turn off the presentation view (i.e.  fill it with a black color)

       h      Hide the presentation window (i.e. make other windows on the other screen visible)

       Escape Exit any "special" state (pause, freeze, blank)

       Ctrl + n
              Edit notes for the current slide (press Escape to exit this mode)

       s      Start timer

       p      Pause timer

       Ctrl + t
              Reset timer

       Ctrl + o
              Toggle the overlay flag for one particular slide (see Overlays below)

       Ctrl + e
              Define end slide

       Ctrl + r
              Reload the presentation (e.g., if the PDF file has been updated)

       Ctrl + q
              Exit pdfpc

       ?      Show a cheat sheet with the keyboard and mouse bindings; press Escape or Return to exit it

       Within the overview mode, the following key bindings are used:

       Return / 1st mouse button
              Go to currently selected page (last page of overlay)

       Shift + Return / Shift + 1st mouse button
              Go to currently selected page (first page of overlay)

       Cursor left / Page up
              Select previous slide

       Cursor right / Page down
              Select next slide

       See pdfpcrc(5) if you want to customize the key or mouse bindings. Please note though, that only in the normal mode the mouse bindings are configurable.

FEATURES
   Caching / Pre-rendering
       To allow fast changes between the presentation slides, the PDF pages are pre-rendered to memory.  The progress bar on the bottom of the presenter screen indicates how many percent of the  slides  have
       been  pre-rendered  already.   During  the  initial  rendering phase this will slow down slide changes, as most CPU power is used for the rendering process in the background.  After the cache is fully
       primed, however, the changing of slides should be much faster, as with normal PDF viewers.

       To avoid excessive memory consumption, cached are only slides that took a significant time to render; this threshold is configurable. In order to further reduce memory  consumption,  the  pre-rendered
       and cached slides are selectively compressed in memory. The compression factor is typically 10-30, however, it takes some CPU time to compress and uncompress, so there is a trade-off. Small images be‐
       low a certain (configurable) threshold will not be compressed.

       Please refer to the pdfpcrc(5) man page for options to fine tune the caching algorithm.

   Timer
       If a duration is given (-d option), the timer will show a countdown with the given parameters.  If no duration is specified (or if a value of 0 is given to the -d option), the timer will show how much
       time has been spent.  The duration is stored automatically, so you do not need to repeat it for every invocation.

       The timer is started if you are navigating away from the first page for the first time.  This feature is quite useful as you may want to show the title page of your presentation while people are still
       entering the room and the presentation has not really begun yet.  If you want to start over you can use the 'Ctrl + t' key which will make the presenter reset the timer.

       If a duration is given, the timer also provides hints aiding the presenter to judge whether the talk would end on time.  There are two modes in which pdfpc can operate.  In the old (and the  only  one
       available  up to, and including pdfpc-4.0.8) mode, at the moment the timer reaches the defined last-minutes value it will change color to indicate your talk is nearing its end, thus mimicking a chair‐
       man frantically pantomiming in front of you with five (four, three, ...) fingers up.  A drawback of this approach is it is often too late at that moment to alter the presentation pace without  ruining
       to some extent the rest of the talk.  On the other hand, the warning indication provides an unnecessary distraction if you have been perfectly conveying the talk and the remaining time is adequate.

       Contrary  to  that, in the new (default) mode, pdfpc tracks your progress continuously, calculating the expected time as (talk_duration)*(current_user_slide_number - 0.5)/(total_number_of_user_slides)
       and comparing it to the actual wall time since beginning of the talk.  If these two numbers differ by more than 60 seconds, the timer changes its color to either orange (indicating you need  to  speed
       up)  or a blueish one (need to slow down).  Once the optimal progress is recovered, the timer becomes white again.  In this mode, the last-minutes option (-l) has no effect.  The previous behavior can
       be restored by setting the 'timer-pace-color' option to 'false' in the configuration file, see pdfpcrc(5).

       In any case as soon as the timer reaches the zero mark (00:00:00), it will turn red and count further down showing a negative time, to provide information on how many minutes you are overtime.

   Notes
       Textual notes can be displayed for each slide.  pdfpc understands the Markdown syntax, which allows for rendering anything from plain text to a very rich formatting, if so desired.  A few types of PDF
       annotations are understood by pdfpc and will be automatically imported and displayed. The PDF annotations can be made using many PDF editors and even viewers;  when using LaTeX, the pdfpc package (see
       below) provides a convenient macro.  These "native" PDF notes cannot be edited in pdfpc.

       In addition, while in the presentation mode, pressing 'Ctrl + n' will allow you to take or edit notes for the current user slide.  To exit the note editing mode, press the Escape key.  These notes are
       stored  in  the  .pdfpc  file.  They take precedence over the native PDF annotations, i.e., if a user-provided note exists for a given slide, any PDF annotations on that page will be silently ignored.
       While editing a note, the normal keybindings are disabled, e.g., you are not able to change slides.

       Although mixing the two types of notes is possible, for a given presentation one will likely want to have either only the "native" notes (produced by the same PDF authoring software  used  for  making
       the slides), or only the "pdfpc" ones.

   Overview mode
       Pressing  the Tab key enters the overview mode, where thumbnails of the slides are shown in a grid.  You can select a slide to jump to with the mouse or with the arrow keys.  You can also define over‐
       lays and the end slide (see next sections) in this mode.  Press Escape to exit the mode without making an change.

   Overlays
       Many slide preparation systems allow for overlays, i.e.  sets of slides that are logically grouped together as a single, changing slide.  Examples include enumerations where bullet items are displayed
       one after another, or rough "animations", where parts of a picture change from slide to slide. Pdfpc includes facilities for dealing with such overlays.

       In  this  description,  we will differentiate between slides (i.e.  pages in the PDF document) and "user slides", that are the logical slides.  The standard forward movement command (page down, enter,
       etc.) moves through one slide at a time, as expected.  This means that every step in the overlay is traversed.  The backward movement command works differently depending on  whether  the  current  and
       previous slides are part of an overlay:

       • If the current slide is part of an overlay we just jump to the previous slide.  That means that we are in the middle of an overlay and can jump forward and backward through the single steps of it

       • If  the current slide is not part of an overlay (or if it is the first one), but the previous slides are, we jump to the previous user slide.  This means that when going back in the presentation you
         do not have to go through every step of the overlay, pdfpc just shows the first slide of each overlay.  As one typically goes back in a presentation only when looking for a concrete slide,  this  is
         more convenient.

       The  Shift  +  Page  up/down  key combinations work on the "user slide" basis.  You can use them to skip the rest of an overlay or to jump to the previous user slide, ignoring the state of the current
       slide.

       When going through an overlay, two additional previews may be activated in the presenter view, just below the main view, showing the next and the previous slide in an overlay.

       Pdfpc tries to find these overlays automatically by looking into the page labels in the PDF file.  For LaTeX this works correctly at least with the beamer class and also  modifying  the  page  numbers
       manually  (compiling with pdflatex).  If your preferred slide-producing method does not work correctly with this detection, you can supply this information using the 'Ctrl + o' key for each slide that
       is part of an overlay (except the first one!).  The page numbering is also adapted.  This information is automatically stored.

   End slide
       Some people like to have some additional, backup slides after the last slide in the actual presentation.  Things like bibliographic references or slides referring to specialized questions are  typical
       examples.   Pdfpc  lets you define which is the last slide in the actual presentation via the 'Ctrl + e' key.  This just changes the progress display in the presenter screen, as to have a better over‐
       view of how many slides are left.

   Page transitions
       Pdfpc supports almost all standard animated PDF page transitions: blinds, box, cover, dissolve, fade, glitter (except the diagonal one), push, split, uncover, and wipe, including  various  alignments,
       angles, and directions (where applicable). The transitions are enabled only for sequential (either forward or backward) movement; in the later case, the transition is "inverted".

       Advancing slides automatically is also supported.

   Movies
       Pdfpc  can play back movies included in the PDF file.  Movies may be started and stopped by clicking within their area.  For the presenter, a progress bar is drawn along the bottom of the movie.  This
       expands when the mouse hovers over it, allowing one to seek by clicking or dragging within the progress bar.  Switching slides automatically stops playback, and movies will be reset after leaving  and
       returning to a slide.

       Movies  may  be  included in PDF files as "screen annotations".  pdfpc does not yet support options that modify the playback of these movies.  In LaTeX, such movies may be added to a presentation with
       the "movie15" or "multimedia" package. Note that the poster, autoplay, and repeat options are not yet supported. (Also, run ps2pdf with the -dNOSAFER flag.)

       As a perhaps simpler option, pdfpc will play back movies linked from a hyperlink of type "launch".  A query string may be added to the URL of the movie to  enable  the  "autostart",  "loop"  and  "no‐
       progress"  properties,  if  necessary.   (E.g., a link to "movie.avi?autostart&loop&noprogress" will add a video that starts playing automatically, loops when it reaches the end, and does not show the
       progress bar.)

       In LaTeX, such links are created with

              \usepackage{hyperref}
              \href{run:<movie file>}{<placeholder content>}

       The movie will playback in the area taken by the placeholder content.  Using a frame of the movie will ensure the correct aspect ratio.

       See our website ⟨http://pdfpc.github.io/demo/pdfpc-video-example.zip⟩ for a full example.

       See the bugs section for further information.

   Pointer mode
       If needed, it is possible to turn on a pointer which draws a red (by default) dot in the place pointed by mouse cursor on both presenter and presentation screens. It is also possible to  increase  and
       decrease the pointer size.  Additionally, when the pointer is enabled, it is possible to highlight some area of the current slide using the drag mouse motion. The area outside the selected region will
       be dimmed. You can zoom in the selected area by pressing 'z'; press in, but there will be no further action on pressing 'z'. Drawing is also disabled in this mode.

   Spotlight mode
       Spotlight mode is similar to the pointer mode: a circular area that moves with the mouse and can be adjusted in size, but instead of highlighting the spot by a different color,  it  shades  the  back‐
       ground.

   Drawing mode
       It  is  possible to turn on a mode which allows drawing over slides with the mouse cursor or a connected tablet.  When drawing mode is enabled, drawings can be made on the presenter screen. A separate
       drawing will be kept in memory for each slide (based on user slide numbers, so consolidating overlay slides). Drawings are presently not saved between sessions.

       In the drawing mode, there are two drawing tools, a pen and an eraser. An indicator in the bottom-left corner of the presenter screen will indicate which is active. When in the pen mode, the color and
       size  of  the pen will be indicated by the cursor. The pen size can be increased or decreased using hot keys specified in the key bindings. When the eraser tool is active, the size of the cursor indi‐
       cates the amount to erase.

       The color of the pen can be changed through key bindings or using the toolbox.

       If you are using a tablet, the pen or eraser tool will be selected based on whether the tablet reports a pen or eraser input device is being used, overriding the normal selection of the drawing  tool.
       Also for pressure-sensitive input devices, the pressure will affect the line width and the eraser size.  Both these features can be disabled in the configuration file, if desired.

   Monitor Plug and Play
       Pdfpc can handle monitor plug and play. E.g. if pdfpc was started before the presentation screen was attached to the computer, pdfpc can create and show the presentation screen after the second screen
       was attached. This allows the user to rehearse the slides and switch to a normal presentation without having the full setup at the computer in advance.

   pdfpc files
       Notes, user-defined overlays, and some additional information is stored in a file with extension "pdfpc".  When pdfpc is invoked with a PDF file, it automatically checks for and loads  the  associated
       .pdfpc file, if it exists.  This means that you normally do not have to deal with this kind of files explicitly.

       Beside internal configuration, the following command-line options are saved in the pdfpc file for later usage:

       • duration

       • end_time

       • last_minutes

       • notes (position)

       • page_transition

       • start_time

   Appearance
       With  GTK3  it  is possible to modify the appearance of pdfpc. There are two locations where pdfpc is looking for files. The default location is /usr/share/pixmaps/pdfpc/pdfpc.css. It can be copied to
       $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pdfpc/pdfpc.css and modified to the user's liking.

       The geometry of various views (the current/next etc slide) in the presenter window can be adjusted at run time in the "Customization" mode, which is activated by pressing Shift+c. In this mode, mouse-
       draggable handles will appear. Exit the customization with Escape.

   Desktop integration
       Pdfpc  provides  a DBus interface that appears on the session bus as io.github.pdfpc. Other applications can, in particular, execute any action listed by --list-actions. It is also possible to control
       pdfpc from the command line (and write shell scripts) using the dbus-send(1) utility. For example, to advance to the next slide, run

       dbus-send --type=method_call --session --dest=io.github.pdfpc
        /io/github/pdfpc io.github.pdfpc.TriggerAction string:next

       For actions that require an argument, use TriggerActionArg, e.g.,

       dbus-send --type=method_call --session --dest=io.github.pdfpc
        /io/github/pdfpc io.github.pdfpc.TriggerActionArg string:switchMode
        string:pointer

       In addition to TriggerAction*, the pdfpc DBus interface exposes the GetNotes method, three properties (NumberOfOverlays, NumberOfSlides, Url) and two signals (OverlayChange and SlideChange).

   LaTeX package
       A tiny LaTeX package is available for pdfpc at CTAN. It provides a convenient way to specify notes and to define certain meta properties of the presentation.  For a full documentation, please  consult
       the pdfpc package documentation. You can open it with:

              $ texdoc pdfpc

BUGS
       Bugs can be reported at our issue tracker ⟨https://github.com/pdfpc/pdfpc/issues⟩.

       The LaTeX package "hyperref" produces buggy results when using with beamer notes. It is recommended to use the "multimedia" package instead.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       pdfpc was previously developed by davvil ⟨https://github.com/davvil/pdfpc⟩.

       pdfpc is a fork of Pdf Presenter Console, available online ⟨https://github.com/jakobwesthoff/Pdf-Presenter-Console⟩.

SEE ALSO
       pdfpcrc(5)

       There are several other programs with similar functionality.

       impressive(1) has nice transition effects.

       hpdfp(1) is the Haskell PDF Presenter ⟨http://michaeldadams.org/projects/haskell-pdf-presenter/⟩ program, which packs an amazing level of functionality into not many lines of Haskell.

       pympress(1) is a little PDF reader written in Python ⟨https://github.com/Cimbali/pympress⟩ which handles dual screens and beamer notes.

       dspdfviewer(1) is also specialized for beamer-produced wide PDF with notes.

       Many PDF viewers have full-screen presentation modes, but without dual-monitor preview or notes or a timer. These include zathura(1), evince(1), and okular(1).

                                                                                                                                                                                                       PDFPC(1)
