PT-FINGERPRINT(1p)                                           User Contributed Perl Documentation                                           PT-FINGERPRINT(1p)

NAME
       pt-fingerprint - Convert queries into fingerprints.

SYNOPSIS
       Usage: pt-fingerprint [OPTIONS] [FILES]

       pt-fingerprint converts queries into fingerprints.  With the --query option, converts the option's value into a fingerprint.  With no options, treats
       command-line arguments as FILEs and reads and converts semicolon-separated queries from the FILEs. When FILE is -, it read standard input.

       Convert a single query:

         pt-fingerprint --query "select a, b, c from users where id = 500"

       Convert a file full of queries:

         pt-fingerprint /path/to/file.txt

RISKS
       Percona Toolkit is mature, proven in the real world, and well tested, but all database tools can pose a risk to the system and the database server.
       Before using this tool, please:

       •   Read the tool's documentation

       •   Review the tool's known "BUGS"

       •   Test the tool on a non-production server

       •   Backup your production server and verify the backups

DESCRIPTION
       A query fingerprint is the abstracted form of a query, which makes it possible to group similar queries together.  Abstracting a query removes literal
       values, normalizes whitespace, and so on.  For example, consider these two queries:

         SELECT name, password FROM user WHERE id='12823';
         select name,   password from user
            where id=5;

       Both of those queries will fingerprint to

         select name, password from user where id=?

       Once the query's fingerprint is known, we can then talk about a query as though it represents all similar queries.

       Query  fingerprinting accommodates a great many special cases, which have proven necessary in the real world.  For example, an IN list with 5 literals
       is really equivalent to one with 4 literals, so lists of literals are collapsed to a single one.  If you want to understand more about how and why all
       of these cases are handled, please review the test cases in the Github repository.  If you find something that is not fingerprinted  properly,  please
       submit a bug report with a reproducible test case.  Here is a list of transformations during fingerprinting, which might not be exhaustive:

       •   Group  all  SELECT  queries  from  mysqldump  together,  even if they are against different tables.  Ditto for all of pt-table-checksum's checksum
           queries.

       •   Shorten multi-value INSERT statements to a single VALUES() list.

       •   Strip comments.

       •   Abstract the databases in USE statements, so all USE statements are grouped together.

       •   Replace all literals, such as quoted strings.  For efficiency, the code that replaces literal numbers is somewhat non-selective, and might replace
           some things as numbers when they really are not.  Hexadecimal literals are also replaced.  NULL is treated as  a  literal.   Numbers  embedded  in
           identifiers are also replaced, so tables named similarly will be fingerprinted to the same values (e.g. users_2009 and users_2010 will fingerprint
           identically).

       •   Collapse all whitespace into a single space.

       •   Lowercase the entire query.

       •   Replace all literals inside of IN() and VALUES() lists with a single placeholder, regardless of cardinality.

       •   Collapse multiple identical UNION queries into a single one.

OPTIONS
       This tool accepts additional command-line arguments.  Refer to the "SYNOPSIS" and usage information for details.

       --[no]buffer-stdout
           default: yes

           Enables  STDOUT  buffering. Disable this option if you want to see live progress when using output post-processing tools such as "tee" or "kubectl
           logs".

       --config
           type: Array

           Read this comma-separated list of config files; if specified, this must be the first option on the command line.

       --help
           Show help and exit.

       --match-embedded-numbers
           Match numbers embedded in words and replace as single values.  This option causes the tool to be more careful about matching numbers so that words
           with numbers, like "catch22" are matched and replaced as a single "?"  placeholder.  Otherwise the default number matching  pattern  will  replace
           "catch22" as "catch?".

           This is helpful if database or table names contain numbers.

       --match-md5-checksums
           Match  MD5  checksums  and  replace as single values.  This option causes the tool to be more careful about matching numbers so that MD5 checksums
           like "fbc5e685a5d3d45aa1d0347fdb7c4d35" are matched and replaced as a single "?" placeholder.  Otherwise, the default number matching pattern will
           replace "fbc5e685a5d3d45aa1d0347fdb7c4d35" as "fbc?".

       --query
           type: string

           The query to convert into a fingerprint.

       --version
           Show version and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variable "PTDEBUG" enables verbose debugging output to STDERR.  To enable debugging and capture all output to a  file,  run  the  tool
       like:

          PTDEBUG=1 pt-fingerprint ... > FILE 2>&1

       Be careful: debugging output is voluminous and can generate several megabytes of output.

ATTENTION
       Using <PTDEBUG> might expose passwords. When debug is enabled, all command line parameters are shown in the output.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
       You need Perl, DBI, DBD::mysql, and some core packages that ought to be installed in any reasonably new version of Perl.

BUGS
       For a list of known bugs, see <https://jira.percona.com/projects/PT/issues>.

       Please report bugs at <https://jira.percona.com/projects/PT>.  Include the following information in your bug report:

       •   Complete command-line used to run the tool

       •   Tool "--version"

       •   MySQL version of all servers involved

       •   Output from the tool including STDERR

       •   Input files (log/dump/config files, etc.)

       If possible, include debugging output by running the tool with "PTDEBUG"; see "ENVIRONMENT".

DOWNLOADING
       Visit  <http://www.percona.com/software/percona-toolkit/>  to  download  the  latest  release of Percona Toolkit.  Or, get the latest release from the
       command line:

          wget percona.com/get/percona-toolkit.tar.gz

          wget percona.com/get/percona-toolkit.rpm

          wget percona.com/get/percona-toolkit.deb

       You can also get individual tools from the latest release:

          wget percona.com/get/TOOL

       Replace "TOOL" with the name of any tool.

AUTHORS
       Baron Schwartz and Daniel Nichter

ABOUT PERCONA TOOLKIT
       This tool is part of Percona Toolkit, a collection of advanced command-line tools for MySQL developed by Percona.  Percona Toolkit was forked from two
       projects in June, 2011: Maatkit and Aspersa.  Those projects were created by Baron Schwartz and primarily developed by him and Daniel Nichter.   Visit
       <http://www.percona.com/software/> to learn about other free, open-source software from Percona.

COPYRIGHT, LICENSE, AND WARRANTY
       This program is copyright 2011-2024 Percona LLC and/or its affiliates.

       THIS  PROGRAM  IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS"  AND  WITHOUT  ANY  EXPRESS  OR  IMPLIED  WARRANTIES,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
       MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as  published  by  the  Free
       Software  Foundation, version 2; OR the Perl Artistic License.  On UNIX and similar systems, you can issue `man perlgpl' or `man perlartistic' to read
       these licenses.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free  Software  Foundation,  Inc.,  59
       Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.

VERSION
       pt-fingerprint 3.7.1

perl v5.40.1                                                              2026-03-01                                                       PT-FINGERPRINT(1p)
