PFT(1)                                                                                User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                                PFT(1)

NAME
       pft - Hacker friendly static blog generator

SYNOPSIS
       pft <command> [options]

DESCRIPTION
       PFT It is a static website generator written in Perl.  PFT stands for Plain F. Text, where the meaning of F is up to personal interpretation. Like Fancy or Fantastic.

       Static means that your content is compiled once and the result can be served by a simple HTTP server, without need of server-side dynamic content generation. Actually it doesn't need a server either:
       you can use it as note-taking application and browse trough your local files.

       PFT is designed to be Hacker Friendly: it's a command-line application with unicode support, which handles your website's boilerplate, but stays out of the way. It comes with number of subcommands:

       •   init: Initialize a pft site in the current directory;

       •   edit: Create a content text (e.g. page or blog entry);

       •   make: Build the website;

       •   gen-rss: Generate RSS feed XML;

       •   pub: Publish the website;

       •   clean: Clear built tree;

       •   grab: Grab a file as attachment or picture;

       •   ls: List content and properties;

       •   show: Show the compiled site in a web browser;

       •   help: Show this manual.

       The manual of each sub-command is available in form of manpages or by invoking it with the "--help" flag.

FILES
       A new site can be initialized by running the "pft init" command inside a directory. In this document such directory will be called ROOT.

       The initialization command produces the following filesystem structure:

           ROOT
           |-- pft.yaml            - Configuration file
           |-- content
           |   |-- attachments     - Location for attachments
           |   |-- blog            - Root location for blog entries source files
           |   |-- pages           - Location for pages source files
           |   |-- pics            - Location for pictures lookup
           |   `-- tags            - Location for tag pages source files
           |-- build               - Location of the built website
           |-- inject              - Content to bulk inject the online site root
           `-- templates           - Location for templates

   "pft.yaml": configuration file
       The configuration file is created automatically by the pft-init(1) command, and populated with sensible defaults.  It is expected to be in YAML format. For more information consult the manual of "pft
       init".

   "content": files generated by the user
       This is where your content is stored. The pft-edit(1) and pft-grab(1) commands will add text and binary files respectively in the appropriate subdirectories. The pft-make(1) command will scan the
       "content" directory while building the website.

   "build": where the built website is placed
       The pft-make(1) command will place the HTML pages resulting from the compilation in this directory. The pft-pub(1) command will publish what here is contained. The pft-clean(1) command will erase it.

   "inject": a place for auxiliary files
       It's common practice to add files in the root directory of your online website. The pft-make(1) command will add any arbitrary file which is found in the "inject" directory to the "build" directory
       after compilation.

       A good use case for this feature is the ".htaccess" file used by the Apache webserver.

   "templates": HTML templates for compilation
       Each text entry in your "content" directory will be mapped by pft-make(1) to an HTML file. The output is created by expanding the content into the structure defined by a template file.

       Multiple template files can be stored in the "template" directory. Some default files installed by pft-init(1).

       Among other things, the "pft.yaml" configuration defines which default template page should be used for the site. Single content entries can override this setting by declaring a different template
       name in their header. More details about the header can be found in the pft-edit(1) manual page. Templates are documented in the pft-make(1) manual page.

SEE ALSO
       pft-clean(1), pft-edit(1), pft-gen-rss(1), pft-grab(1), pft-help(1), pft-init(1), pft-ls(1), pft-make(1), pft-pub(1), pft-show(1)

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-22                                                                                            PFT(1)
