PG_RECEIVEWAL(1)        PostgreSQL 10.17 Documentation        PG_RECEIVEWAL(1)

NAME
       pg_receivewal - stream write-ahead logs from a PostgreSQL server

SYNOPSIS
       pg_receivewal [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       pg_receivewal is used to stream the write-ahead log from a running
       PostgreSQL cluster. The write-ahead log is streamed using the streaming
       replication protocol, and is written to a local directory of files.
       This directory can be used as the archive location for doing a restore
       using point-in-time recovery (see Section 25.3).

       pg_receivewal streams the write-ahead log in real time as it's being
       generated on the server, and does not wait for segments to complete
       like archive_command does. For this reason, it is not necessary to set
       archive_timeout when using pg_receivewal.

       Unlike the WAL receiver of a PostgreSQL standby server, pg_receivewal
       by default flushes WAL data only when a WAL file is closed. The option
       --synchronous must be specified to flush WAL data in real time. Since
       pg_receivewal does not apply WAL, you should not allow it to become a
       synchronous standby when synchronous_commit equals remote_apply. If it
       does, it will appear to be a standby that never catches up, and will
       cause transaction commits to block. To avoid this, you should either
       configure an appropriate value for synchronous_standby_names, or
       specify application_name for pg_receivewal that does not match it, or
       change the value of synchronous_commit to something other than
       remote_apply.

       The write-ahead log is streamed over a regular PostgreSQL connection
       and uses the replication protocol. The connection must be made with a
       superuser or a user having REPLICATION permissions (see Section 21.2),
       and pg_hba.conf must permit the replication connection. The server must
       also be configured with max_wal_senders set high enough to leave at
       least one session available for the stream.

       If the connection is lost, or if it cannot be initially established,
       with a non-fatal error, pg_receivewal will retry the connection
       indefinitely, and reestablish streaming as soon as possible. To avoid
       this behavior, use the -n parameter.

OPTIONS
       -D directory
       --directory=directory
           Directory to write the output to.

           This parameter is required.

       --if-not-exists
           Do not error out when --create-slot is specified and a slot with
           the specified name already exists.

       -n
       --no-loop
           Don't loop on connection errors. Instead, exit right away with an
           error.

       -s interval
       --status-interval=interval
           Specifies the number of seconds between status packets sent back to
           the server. This allows for easier monitoring of the progress from
           server. A value of zero disables the periodic status updates
           completely, although an update will still be sent when requested by
           the server, to avoid timeout disconnect. The default value is 10
           seconds.

       -S slotname
       --slot=slotname
           Require pg_receivewal to use an existing replication slot (see
           Section 26.2.6). When this option is used, pg_receivewal will
           report a flush position to the server, indicating when each segment
           has been synchronized to disk so that the server can remove that
           segment if it is not otherwise needed.

           When the replication client of pg_receivewal is configured on the
           server as a synchronous standby, then using a replication slot will
           report the flush position to the server, but only when a WAL file
           is closed. Therefore, that configuration will cause transactions on
           the primary to wait for a long time and effectively not work
           satisfactorily. The option --synchronous (see below) must be
           specified in addition to make this work correctly.

       --synchronous
           Flush the WAL data to disk immediately after it has been received.
           Also send a status packet back to the server immediately after
           flushing, regardless of --status-interval.

           This option should be specified if the replication client of
           pg_receivewal is configured on the server as a synchronous standby,
           to ensure that timely feedback is sent to the server.

       -v
       --verbose
           Enables verbose mode.

       -Z level
       --compress=level
           Enables gzip compression of write-ahead logs, and specifies the
           compression level (0 through 9, 0 being no compression and 9 being
           best compression). The suffix .gz will automatically be added to
           all filenames.

       The following command-line options control the database connection
       parameters.

       -d connstr
       --dbname=connstr
           Specifies parameters used to connect to the server, as a connection
           string; these will override any conflicting command line options.

           The option is called --dbname for consistency with other client
           applications, but because pg_receivewal doesn't connect to any
           particular database in the cluster, database name in the connection
           string will be ignored.

       -h host
       --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is
           running. If the value begins with a slash, it is used as the
           directory for the Unix domain socket. The default is taken from the
           PGHOST environment variable, if set, else a Unix domain socket
           connection is attempted.

       -p port
       --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension
           on which the server is listening for connections. Defaults to the
           PGPORT environment variable, if set, or a compiled-in default.

       -U username
       --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w
       --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password
           authentication and a password is not available by other means such
           as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option
           can be useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to
           enter a password.

       -W
       --password
           Force pg_receivewal to prompt for a password before connecting to a
           database.

           This option is never essential, since pg_receivewal will
           automatically prompt for a password if the server demands password
           authentication. However, pg_receivewal will waste a connection
           attempt finding out that the server wants a password. In some cases
           it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       pg_receivewal can perform one of the two following actions in order to
       control physical replication slots:

       --create-slot
           Create a new physical replication slot with the name specified in
           --slot, then exit.

       --drop-slot
           Drop the replication slot with the name specified in --slot, then
           exit.

       Other options are also available:

       -V
       --version
           Print the pg_receivewal version and exit.

       -?
       --help
           Show help about pg_receivewal command line arguments, and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, uses the
       environment variables supported by libpq (see Section 33.14).

NOTES
       When using pg_receivewal instead of archive_command as the main WAL
       backup method, it is strongly recommended to use replication slots.
       Otherwise, the server is free to recycle or remove write-ahead log
       files before they are backed up, because it does not have any
       information, either from archive_command or the replication slots,
       about how far the WAL stream has been archived. Note, however, that a
       replication slot will fill up the server's disk space if the receiver
       does not keep up with fetching the WAL data.

EXAMPLES
       To stream the write-ahead log from the server at mydbserver and store
       it in the local directory /usr/local/pgsql/archive:

           $ pg_receivewal -h mydbserver -D /usr/local/pgsql/archive

SEE ALSO
       pg_basebackup(1)

PostgreSQL 10.17                     2021                     PG_RECEIVEWAL(1)
