PG_REWIND(1)            PostgreSQL 10.17 Documentation            PG_REWIND(1)

NAME
       pg_rewind - synchronize a PostgreSQL data directory with another data
       directory that was forked from it

SYNOPSIS
       pg_rewind [option...] {-D  | --target-pgdata} directory
                 {--source-pgdata=directory | --source-server=connstr}

DESCRIPTION
       pg_rewind is a tool for synchronizing a PostgreSQL cluster with another
       copy of the same cluster, after the clusters' timelines have diverged.
       A typical scenario is to bring an old master server back online after
       failover as a standby that follows the new master.

       The result is equivalent to replacing the target data directory with
       the source one. Only changed blocks from relation files are copied; all
       other files are copied in full, including configuration files. The
       advantage of pg_rewind over taking a new base backup, or tools like
       rsync, is that pg_rewind does not require reading through unchanged
       blocks in the cluster. This makes it a lot faster when the database is
       large and only a small fraction of blocks differ between the clusters.

       pg_rewind examines the timeline histories of the source and target
       clusters to determine the point where they diverged, and expects to
       find WAL in the target cluster's pg_wal directory reaching all the way
       back to the point of divergence. The point of divergence can be found
       either on the target timeline, the source timeline, or their common
       ancestor. In the typical failover scenario where the target cluster was
       shut down soon after the divergence, this is not a problem, but if the
       target cluster ran for a long time after the divergence, the old WAL
       files might no longer be present. In that case, they can be manually
       copied from the WAL archive to the pg_wal directory. The use of
       pg_rewind is not limited to failover, e.g., a standby server can be
       promoted, run some write transactions, and then rewound to become a
       standby again.

       When the target server is started for the first time after running
       pg_rewind, it will go into recovery mode and replay all WAL generated
       in the source server after the point of divergence. If some of the WAL
       was no longer available in the source server when pg_rewind was run,
       and therefore could not be copied by the pg_rewind session, it must be
       made available when the target server is started. This can be done by
       creating a recovery.conf file in the target data directory with a
       suitable restore_command.

       pg_rewind requires that the target server either has the wal_log_hints
       option enabled in postgresql.conf or data checksums enabled when the
       cluster was initialized with initdb. Neither of these are currently on
       by default.  full_page_writes must also be set to on, but is enabled by
       default.

           Warning
           If pg_rewind fails while processing, then the data folder of the
           target is likely not in a state that can be recovered. In such a
           case, taking a new fresh backup is recommended.

           pg_rewind will fail immediately if it finds files it cannot write
           directly to. This can happen for example when the source and the
           target server use the same file mapping for read-only SSL keys and
           certificates. If such files are present on the target server it is
           recommended to remove them before running pg_rewind. After doing
           the rewind, some of those files may have been copied from the
           source, in which case it may be necessary to remove the data copied
           and restore back the set of links used before the rewind.

OPTIONS
       pg_rewind accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -D directory
       --target-pgdata=directory
           This option specifies the target data directory that is
           synchronized with the source. The target server must be shut down
           cleanly before running pg_rewind

       --source-pgdata=directory
           Specifies the file system path to the data directory of the source
           server to synchronize the target with. This option requires the
           source server to be cleanly shut down.

       --source-server=connstr
           Specifies a libpq connection string to connect to the source
           PostgreSQL server to synchronize the target with. The connection
           must be a normal (non-replication) connection with superuser
           access. This option requires the source server to be running and
           not in recovery mode.

       -n
       --dry-run
           Do everything except actually modifying the target directory.

       -P
       --progress
           Enables progress reporting. Turning this on will deliver an
           approximate progress report while copying data from the source
           cluster.

       --debug
           Print verbose debugging output that is mostly useful for developers
           debugging pg_rewind.

       -V
       --version
           Display version information, then exit.

       -?
       --help
           Show help, then exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       When --source-server option is used, pg_rewind also uses the
       environment variables supported by libpq (see Section 33.14).

NOTES
       When executing pg_rewind using an online cluster as source which has
       been recently promoted, it is necessary to execute a CHECKPOINT after
       promotion so as its control file reflects up-to-date timeline
       information, which is used by pg_rewind to check if the target cluster
       can be rewound using the designated source cluster.

   How it works
       The basic idea is to copy all file system-level changes from the source
       cluster to the target cluster:

        1. Scan the WAL log of the target cluster, starting from the last
           checkpoint before the point where the source cluster's timeline
           history forked off from the target cluster. For each WAL record,
           record each data block that was touched. This yields a list of all
           the data blocks that were changed in the target cluster, after the
           source cluster forked off.

        2. Copy all those changed blocks from the source cluster to the target
           cluster, either using direct file system access (--source-pgdata)
           or SQL (--source-server).

        3. Copy all other files such as pg_xact and configuration files from
           the source cluster to the target cluster (everything except the
           relation files).

        4. Apply the WAL from the source cluster, starting from the checkpoint
           created at failover. (Strictly speaking, pg_rewind doesn't apply
           the WAL, it just creates a backup label file that makes PostgreSQL
           start by replaying all WAL from that checkpoint forward.)

PostgreSQL 10.17                     2021                         PG_REWIND(1)
