PG_UPGRADE(1)           PostgreSQL 10.17 Documentation           PG_UPGRADE(1)

NAME
       pg_upgrade - upgrade a PostgreSQL server instance

SYNOPSIS
       pg_upgrade -b oldbindir -B newbindir -d oldconfigdir -D newconfigdir
                  [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       pg_upgrade (formerly called pg_migrator) allows data stored in
       PostgreSQL data files to be upgraded to a later PostgreSQL major
       version without the data dump/reload typically required for major
       version upgrades, e.g., from 9.5.8 to 9.6.4 or from 10.7 to 11.2. It is
       not required for minor version upgrades, e.g., from 9.6.2 to 9.6.3 or
       from 10.1 to 10.2.

       Major PostgreSQL releases regularly add new features that often change
       the layout of the system tables, but the internal data storage format
       rarely changes.  pg_upgrade uses this fact to perform rapid upgrades by
       creating new system tables and simply reusing the old user data files.
       If a future major release ever changes the data storage format in a way
       that makes the old data format unreadable, pg_upgrade will not be
       usable for such upgrades. (The community will attempt to avoid such
       situations.)

       pg_upgrade does its best to make sure the old and new clusters are
       binary-compatible, e.g., by checking for compatible compile-time
       settings, including 32/64-bit binaries. It is important that any
       external modules are also binary compatible, though this cannot be
       checked by pg_upgrade.

       pg_upgrade supports upgrades from 8.4.X and later to the current major
       release of PostgreSQL, including snapshot and beta releases.

OPTIONS
       pg_upgrade accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -b bindir
       --old-bindir=bindir
           the old PostgreSQL executable directory; environment variable
           PGBINOLD

       -B bindir
       --new-bindir=bindir
           the new PostgreSQL executable directory; environment variable
           PGBINNEW

       -c
       --check
           check clusters only, don't change any data

       -d configdir
       --old-datadir=configdir
           the old database cluster configuration directory; environment
           variable PGDATAOLD

       -D configdir
       --new-datadir=configdiry
           the new database cluster configuration directory; environment
           variable PGDATANEW

       -j njobs
       --jobs=njobs
           number of simultaneous processes or threads to use

       -k
       --link
           use hard links instead of copying files to the new cluster

       -o options
       --old-options options
           options to be passed directly to the old postgres command; multiple
           option invocations are appended

       -O options
       --new-options options
           options to be passed directly to the new postgres command; multiple
           option invocations are appended

       -p port
       --old-port=port
           the old cluster port number; environment variable PGPORTOLD

       -P port
       --new-port=port
           the new cluster port number; environment variable PGPORTNEW

       -r
       --retain
           retain SQL and log files even after successful completion

       -U username
       --username=username
           cluster's install user name; environment variable PGUSER

       -v
       --verbose
           enable verbose internal logging

       -V
       --version
           display version information, then exit

       -?
       --help
           show help, then exit

USAGE
       These are the steps to perform an upgrade with pg_upgrade:

        1. Optionally move the old cluster: If you are using a
           version-specific installation directory, e.g., /opt/PostgreSQL/10,
           you do not need to move the old cluster. The graphical installers
           all use version-specific installation directories.

           If your installation directory is not version-specific, e.g.,
           /usr/local/pgsql, it is necessary to move the current PostgreSQL
           install directory so it does not interfere with the new PostgreSQL
           installation. Once the current PostgreSQL server is shut down, it
           is safe to rename the PostgreSQL installation directory; assuming
           the old directory is /usr/local/pgsql, you can do:

               mv /usr/local/pgsql /usr/local/pgsql.old

           to rename the directory.

        2. For source installs, build the new version: Build the new
           PostgreSQL source with configure flags that are compatible with the
           old cluster.  pg_upgrade will check pg_controldata to make sure all
           settings are compatible before starting the upgrade.

        3. Install the new PostgreSQL binaries: Install the new server's
           binaries and support files.  pg_upgrade is included in a default
           installation.

           For source installs, if you wish to install the new server in a
           custom location, use the prefix variable:

               make prefix=/usr/local/pgsql.new install

        4. Initialize the new PostgreSQL cluster: Initialize the new cluster
           using initdb. Again, use compatible initdb flags that match the old
           cluster. Many prebuilt installers do this step automatically. There
           is no need to start the new cluster.

        5. Install custom shared object files: Install any custom shared
           object files (or DLLs) used by the old cluster into the new
           cluster, e.g., pgcrypto.so, whether they are from contrib or some
           other source. Do not install the schema definitions, e.g., CREATE
           EXTENSION pgcrypto, because these will be upgraded from the old
           cluster. Also, any custom full text search files (dictionary,
           synonym, thesaurus, stop words) must also be copied to the new
           cluster.

        6. Adjust authentication: pg_upgrade will connect to the old and new
           servers several times, so you might want to set authentication to
           peer in pg_hba.conf or use a ~/.pgpass file (see Section 33.15).

        7. Stop both servers: Make sure both database servers are stopped
           using, on Unix, e.g.:

               pg_ctl -D /opt/PostgreSQL/9.6 stop
               pg_ctl -D /opt/PostgreSQL/10 stop

           or on Windows, using the proper service names:

               NET STOP postgresql-9.6
               NET STOP postgresql-10

           Streaming replication and log-shipping standby servers can remain
           running until a later step.

        8. Prepare for standby server upgrades: If you are upgrading standby
           servers using methods outlined in section Step 10, verify that the
           old standby servers are caught up by running pg_controldata against
           the old primary and standby clusters. Verify that the “Latest
           checkpoint location” values match in all clusters. (There will be a
           mismatch if old standby servers were shut down before the old
           primary or if the old standby servers are still running.) Also,
           make sure wal_level is not set to minimal in the postgresql.conf
           file on the new primary cluster.

        9. Run pg_upgrade: Always run the pg_upgrade binary of the new server,
           not the old one.  pg_upgrade requires the specification of the old
           and new cluster's data and executable (bin) directories. You can
           also specify user and port values, and whether you want the data
           files linked instead of the default copy behavior.

           If you use link mode, the upgrade will be much faster (no file
           copying) and use less disk space, but you will not be able to
           access your old cluster once you start the new cluster after the
           upgrade. Link mode also requires that the old and new cluster data
           directories be in the same file system. (Tablespaces and pg_wal can
           be on different file systems.) See pg_upgrade --help for a full
           list of options.

           The --jobs option allows multiple CPU cores to be used for
           copying/linking of files and to dump and reload database schemas in
           parallel; a good place to start is the maximum of the number of CPU
           cores and tablespaces. This option can dramatically reduce the time
           to upgrade a multi-database server running on a multiprocessor
           machine.

           For Windows users, you must be logged into an administrative
           account, and then start a shell as the postgres user and set the
           proper path:

               RUNAS /USER:postgres "CMD.EXE"
               SET PATH=%PATH%;C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\10\bin;

           and then run pg_upgrade with quoted directories, e.g.:

               pg_upgrade.exe
                       --old-datadir "C:/Program Files/PostgreSQL/9.6/data"
                       --new-datadir "C:/Program Files/PostgreSQL/10/data"
                       --old-bindir "C:/Program Files/PostgreSQL/9.6/bin"
                       --new-bindir "C:/Program Files/PostgreSQL/10/bin"

           Once started, pg_upgrade will verify the two clusters are
           compatible and then do the upgrade. You can use pg_upgrade --check
           to perform only the checks, even if the old server is still
           running.  pg_upgrade --check will also outline any manual
           adjustments you will need to make after the upgrade. If you are
           going to be using link mode, you should use the --link option with
           --check to enable link-mode-specific checks.  pg_upgrade requires
           write permission in the current directory.

           Obviously, no one should be accessing the clusters during the
           upgrade.  pg_upgrade defaults to running servers on port 50432 to
           avoid unintended client connections. You can use the same port
           number for both clusters when doing an upgrade because the old and
           new clusters will not be running at the same time. However, when
           checking an old running server, the old and new port numbers must
           be different.

           If an error occurs while restoring the database schema, pg_upgrade
           will exit and you will have to revert to the old cluster as
           outlined in Step 16 below. To try pg_upgrade again, you will need
           to modify the old cluster so the pg_upgrade schema restore
           succeeds. If the problem is a contrib module, you might need to
           uninstall the contrib module from the old cluster and install it in
           the new cluster after the upgrade, assuming the module is not being
           used to store user data.

        10. Upgrade Streaming Replication and Log-Shipping standby servers: If
           you used link mode and have Streaming Replication (see
           Section 26.2.5) or Log-Shipping (see Section 26.2) standby servers,
           you can follow these steps to quickly upgrade them. You will not be
           running pg_upgrade on the standby servers, but rather rsync on the
           primary. Do not start any servers yet.

           If you did not use link mode, do not have or do not want to use
           rsync, or want an easier solution, skip the instructions in this
           section and simply recreate the standby servers once pg_upgrade
           completes and the new primary is running.  Install the new
           PostgreSQL binaries on standby servers: Make sure the new binaries
           and support files are installed on all standby servers.  Make sure
           the new standby data directories do not exist: Make sure the new
           standby data directories do not exist or are empty. If initdb was
           run, delete the standby servers' new data directories.  Install
           custom shared object files: Install the same custom shared object
           files on the new standbys that you installed in the new primary
           cluster.  Stop standby servers: If the standby servers are still
           running, stop them now using the above instructions.  Save
           configuration files: Save any configuration files from the old
           standbys' configuration directories you need to keep, e.g.,
           postgresql.conf (and any files included by it),
           postgresql.auto.conf, recovery.conf, pg_hba.conf, because these
           will be overwritten or removed in the next step.  Run rsync: When
           using link mode, standby servers can be quickly upgraded using
           rsync. To accomplish this, from a directory on the primary server
           that is above the old and new database cluster directories, run
           this on the primary for each standby server:

               rsync --archive --delete --hard-links --size-only --no-inc-recursive old_cluster new_cluster remote_dir

           where old_cluster and new_cluster are relative to the current
           directory on the primary, and remote_dir is above the old and new
           cluster directories on the standby. The directory structure under
           the specified directories on the primary and standbys must match.
           Consult the rsync manual page for details on specifying the remote
           directory, e.g.,

               rsync --archive --delete --hard-links --size-only --no-inc-recursive /opt/PostgreSQL/9.5 \
                     /opt/PostgreSQL/9.6 standby.example.com:/opt/PostgreSQL

           You can verify what the command will do using rsync's --dry-run
           option. While rsync must be run on the primary for at least one
           standby, it is possible to run rsync on an upgraded standby to
           upgrade other standbys, as long as the upgraded standby has not
           been started.

           What this does is to record the links created by pg_upgrade's link
           mode that connect files in the old and new clusters on the primary
           server. It then finds matching files in the standby's old cluster
           and creates links for them in the standby's new cluster. Files that
           were not linked on the primary are copied from the primary to the
           standby. (They are usually small.) This provides rapid standby
           upgrades. Unfortunately, rsync needlessly copies files associated
           with temporary and unlogged tables because these files don't
           normally exist on standby servers.

           If you have tablespaces, you will need to run a similar rsync
           command for each tablespace directory, e.g.:

               rsync --archive --delete --hard-links --size-only --no-inc-recursive /vol1/pg_tblsp/PG_9.5_201510051 \
                     /vol1/pg_tblsp/PG_9.6_201608131 standby.example.com:/vol1/pg_tblsp

           If you have relocated pg_wal outside the data directories, rsync
           must be run on those directories too.  Configure streaming
           replication and log-shipping standby servers: Configure the servers
           for log shipping. (You do not need to run pg_start_backup() and
           pg_stop_backup() or take a file system backup as the standbys are
           still synchronized with the primary.)

        11. Restore pg_hba.conf: If you modified pg_hba.conf, restore its
           original settings. It might also be necessary to adjust other
           configuration files in the new cluster to match the old cluster,
           e.g., postgresql.conf (and any files included by it),
           postgresql.auto.conf.

        12. Start the new server: The new server can now be safely started,
           and then any rsync'ed standby servers.

        13. Post-Upgrade processing: If any post-upgrade processing is
           required, pg_upgrade will issue warnings as it completes. It will
           also generate script files that must be run by the administrator.
           The script files will connect to each database that needs
           post-upgrade processing. Each script should be run using:

               psql --username=postgres --file=script.sql postgres

           The scripts can be run in any order and can be deleted once they
           have been run.

               Caution
               In general it is unsafe to access tables referenced in rebuild
               scripts until the rebuild scripts have run to completion; doing
               so could yield incorrect results or poor performance. Tables
               not referenced in rebuild scripts can be accessed immediately.

        14. Statistics: Because optimizer statistics are not transferred by
           pg_upgrade, you will be instructed to run a command to regenerate
           that information at the end of the upgrade. You might need to set
           connection parameters to match your new cluster.

        15. Delete old cluster: Once you are satisfied with the upgrade, you
           can delete the old cluster's data directories by running the script
           mentioned when pg_upgrade completes. (Automatic deletion is not
           possible if you have user-defined tablespaces inside the old data
           directory.) You can also delete the old installation directories
           (e.g., bin, share).

        16. Reverting to old cluster: If, after running pg_upgrade, you wish
           to revert to the old cluster, there are several options:

           ·   If the --check option was used, the old cluster was unmodified;
               it can be restarted.

           ·   If the --link option was not used, the old cluster was
               unmodified; it can be restarted.

           ·   If the --link option was used, the data files might be shared
               between the old and new cluster:

               ·   If pg_upgrade aborted before linking started, the old
                   cluster was unmodified; it can be restarted.

               ·   If you did not start the new cluster, the old cluster was
                   unmodified except that, when linking started, a .old suffix
                   was appended to $PGDATA/global/pg_control. To reuse the old
                   cluster, remove the .old suffix from
                   $PGDATA/global/pg_control; you can then restart the old
                   cluster.

               ·   If you did start the new cluster, it has written to shared
                   files and it is unsafe to use the old cluster. The old
                   cluster will need to be restored from backup in this case.

NOTES
       pg_upgrade does not support upgrading of databases containing these
       reg* OID-referencing system data types: regproc, regprocedure, regoper,
       regoperator, regconfig, and regdictionary. (regtype can be upgraded.)

       All failure, rebuild, and reindex cases will be reported by pg_upgrade
       if they affect your installation; post-upgrade scripts to rebuild
       tables and indexes will be generated automatically. If you are trying
       to automate the upgrade of many clusters, you should find that clusters
       with identical database schemas require the same post-upgrade steps for
       all cluster upgrades; this is because the post-upgrade steps are based
       on the database schemas, and not user data.

       For deployment testing, create a schema-only copy of the old cluster,
       insert dummy data, and upgrade that.

       If you are upgrading a pre-PostgreSQL 9.2 cluster that uses a
       configuration-file-only directory, you must pass the real data
       directory location to pg_upgrade, and pass the configuration directory
       location to the server, e.g., -d /real-data-directory -o '-D
       /configuration-directory'.

       If using a pre-9.1 old server that is using a non-default Unix-domain
       socket directory or a default that differs from the default of the new
       cluster, set PGHOST to point to the old server's socket location. (This
       is not relevant on Windows.)

       If you want to use link mode and you do not want your old cluster to be
       modified when the new cluster is started, make a copy of the old
       cluster and upgrade that in link mode. To make a valid copy of the old
       cluster, use rsync to create a dirty copy of the old cluster while the
       server is running, then shut down the old server and run rsync
       --checksum again to update the copy with any changes to make it
       consistent. (--checksum is necessary because rsync only has file
       modification-time granularity of one second.) You might want to exclude
       some files, e.g., postmaster.pid, as documented in Section 25.3.3. If
       your file system supports file system snapshots or copy-on-write file
       copies, you can use that to make a backup of the old cluster and
       tablespaces, though the snapshot and copies must be created
       simultaneously or while the database server is down.

SEE ALSO
       initdb(1), pg_ctl(1), pg_dump(1), postgres(1)

PostgreSQL 10.17                     2021                        PG_UPGRADE(1)
