Pgmmorphconv User Manual(0)                        Pgmmorphconv User Manual(0)

NAME
       pgmmorphconv - perform morphological convolutions: dilation, erosion

SYNOPSIS
       pgmmorphconv [
        -erode |
        -dilate |
        -open |
        -close |
        -gradient ] templatefile [pgmfile]

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pgmmorphconv performs morphological convolutions on a PGM image:  dila‐
       tion and erosion.

       pgmmorphconv  performs  a "topological" convolution.  For each pixel of
       the input, pgmmorphconv generates an output pixel in the same position.
       To  determine  the intensity of the output pixel, pgmmorphconv lays the
       template image over the input image such that the middle pixel  of  the
       template  is  over  the input pixel in question.  pgmmorphconv looks at
       the input pixels underneath each white pixel in the  template.   For  a
       dilation, the maximum intensity of all those pixels is the intensity of
       the output pixel.  For an erosion, it is the minimum.

       Thus, the dilation effect is that bright areas of the input get  bigger
       and  dark areas smaller.  The erosion effect is the opposite.  The sim‐
       plest template image would be one with a white pixel in the middle  and
       the  rest  black.   This would produce an output image identical to the
       input.  Another simple template image is a fully  white  square.   This
       causes  bright  or  dark areas to expand in all directions.  A template
       image that is white on the left side and black on the right would smear
       the image to the right.

       The  template file named by templatefile contains the template image as
       a PBM image.  It must have an odd number of rows and an odd  number  of
       columns, so there is a definite middle pixel.  It must contain at least
       one white pixel.

       This is similar to the continuous convolution done by pnmconvol, except
       that  with  pnmconvol  the  output  intensity  is a weighted average of
       nearby input pixels instead of a minimum or maximum.

       This convolution changes the three Minkowski integrals in a  predefined
       way, and can be used to filter an image to enhance certain features, to
       ease their automatic recognition.

       The options -erode and -dilate obviously produce an  erosion  or  dila‐
       tion, respectively.

       The -open option causes pgmmorphconv to perform first an erode and then
       a dilate operation.  The -close option causes a dilate first  and  then
       an  erode.   If  you  specify  none of these options, it is the same as
       -dilate.

       With -gradient, pgmmorphconv produces an image which is the  difference
       between  the  eroded image and the dilated image.  -gradient was new in
       Netpbm 10.70 (March 2015).

SEE ALSO
       ·

              pgmminkowski(1)

       ·

              pnmconvol(1)

       ·

              pgm(1)

       For more information about morphological convolutions, see e.g.

       ·

               K. Michielsen and H. De Raedt, "Integral-Geometry Morphological
              Image    Analysis",    Phys.    Rep.    347,   461-538   (2001).
              ⟨http://rugth30.phys.rug.nl/compphys0/2001.htm⟩

       ·

               J.S. Kole, K. Michielsen, and H. De Raedt, "Morphological Image
              Analysis  of  Quantum  Motion  in  Billiards",  Phys. Rev. E 63,
              016201-1             -              016201-7              (2001)
              ⟨http://rugth30.phys.rug.nl/pdf/prechaos.pdf⟩

AUTHORS
       Luuk van Dijk, 2001.

       Based on work which is Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pgmmorphconv.html

netpbm documentation             29 March 2015     Pgmmorphconv User Manual(0)
