PHC2SYS(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 PHC2SYS(8)

NAME
       phc2sys - synchronize two or more clocks

SYNOPSIS
       phc2sys  -a [ -r ] [ -r ] [ -f config-file ] [ options ] [ long-options
       ]
       phc2sys [ -f config-file ] [ -d pps-device ] [ -s device ] [ -c  device
       ] [ -O offset ] [ -w ] [ options ] [ long-options ] ...

DESCRIPTION
       phc2sys  is a program which synchronizes two or more clocks in the sys‐
       tem. Typically, it is used to synchronize the system  clock  to  a  PTP
       hardware clock (PHC), which itself is synchronized by the ptp4l(8) pro‐
       gram.

       With the -a option, the clocks to synchronize are fetched from the run‐
       ning  ptp4l  daemon  and the direction of synchronization automatically
       follows changes of the PTP port states.

       Manual configuration is also possible. When using manual configuration,
       two  synchronization  modes  are supported, one uses a pulse per second
       (PPS) signal provided by the source clock and the other mode reads time
       from  the source clock directly. Some clocks can be used in both modes,
       the mode which will synchronize the slave clock  with  better  accuracy
       depends on hardware and driver implementation.

OPTIONS
       -a     Read  the  clocks  to  synchronize from running ptp4l and follow
              changes in the port states, adjusting the synchronization direc‐
              tion  automatically.  The  system  clock (CLOCK_REALTIME) is not
              synchronized, unless the -r option is also specified.

       -r     Only valid together with the -a  option.  Instructs  phc2sys  to
              also  synchronize the system clock (CLOCK_REALTIME). By default,
              the system clock is not considered as a possible time source. If
              you  want  the  system  clock  to  be  eligible to become a time
              source, specify the -r option twice.

       -f config
              Read configuration from the  specified  file.  No  configuration
              file is read by default.

       -d pps-device
              Specify  the  PPS  device  of the master clock (e.g. /dev/pps0).
              With this option the PPS synchronization mode is used instead of
              the  direct  mode.  As  the PPS signal does not specify time and
              only marks start of a second, the slave clock should be  already
              close  to  the  correct time before phc2sys is started or the -s
              option should be used too. With the -s option the PPS signal  of
              the  master  clock is enabled automatically, otherwise it has to
              be enabled before phc2sys is started (e.g. by running echo  1  >
              /sys/class/ptp/ptp0/pps_enable).   This  option can be used only
              with the system clock as the slave clock.  Not  compatible  with
              the -a option.

       -s device
              Specify the master clock by device (e.g. /dev/ptp0) or interface
              (e.g. eth0) or by  name  (e.g.  CLOCK_REALTIME  for  the  system
              clock).  When  this  option is used together with the -d option,
              the master clock is used only to correct  the  offset  by  whole
              number  of  seconds,  which  cannot be fixed with PPS alone. Not
              compatible with the -a option.  This  option  does  not  support
              bonded  interface (e.g. bond0, team0). If ptp4l has a port on an
              active-backup bond or team interface, the -a option can be  used
              to track the active interface.

       -i interface
              Performs  the  exact  same function as -s for compatibility rea‐
              sons. Previously enabled  specifying  master  clock  by  network
              interface.  However,  this  can  now  be  done using -s and this
              option is no longer necessary. As such it has  been  deprecated,
              and should no longer be used.

       -c device
              Specify  the slave clock by device (e.g. /dev/ptp1) or interface
              (e.g. eth1) or by  name. The default is CLOCK_REALTIME (the sys‐
              tem clock). Not compatible with the -a option.

       -E servo
              Specify  which  clock  servo should be used. Valid values are pi
              for a PI controller, linreg for  an  adaptive  controller  using
              linear regression, and ntpshm for the NTP SHM reference clock to
              allow another process  to  synchronize  the  local  clock.   The
              default is pi.

       -P kp  Specify  the  proportional  constant  of  the PI controller. The
              default is 0.7.

       -I ki  Specify the integral constant of the PI controller. The  default
              is 0.3.

       -S step
              Specify  the step threshold of the servo. It is the maximum off‐
              set that the servo corrects  by  changing  the  clock  frequency
              instead  of  stepping  the  clock. The clock is stepped on start
              regardless of the  option  if  the  offset  is  larger  than  20
              microseconds  (unless  the -F option is used). It's specified in
              seconds. The value of 0.0 disables stepping after the start. The
              default is 0.0.

       -F step
              Specify  the step threshold applied only on the first update. It
              is the maximum offset that is corrected by  changing  the  clock
              frequency.  It's specified in seconds. The value of 0.0 disables
              stepping on start. The default is 0.00002 (20 microseconds).

       -R update-rate
              Specify the slave clock update rate when running in  the  direct
              synchronization mode. The default is 1 per second.

       -N phc-num
              Specify  the number of master clock readings per one slave clock
              update. Only the fastest reading is used  to  update  the  slave
              clock,  this  is  useful  to minimize the error caused by random
              delays in scheduling and bus utilization.  The default is 5.

       -O offset
              Specify the offset between the slave and master  times  in  sec‐
              onds.  Not  compatible with the -a option.  See TIME SCALE USAGE
              below.

       -L freq-limit
              The maximum allowed frequency offset between  uncorrected  clock
              and  the system monotonic clock in parts per billion (ppb). This
              is used as a sanity check of  the  synchronized  clock.  When  a
              larger offset is measured, a warning message will be printed and
              the servo will be reset. When set to 0, the sanity check is dis‐
              abled. The default is 200000000 (20%).

       -M segment
              The number of the SHM segment used by ntpshm servo.  The default
              is 0.

       -u summary-updates
              Specify the number of clock updates included in summary  statis‐
              tics. The statistics include offset root mean square (RMS), max‐
              imum absolute offset, frequency offset mean and standard  devia‐
              tion, and mean of the delay in clock readings and standard devi‐
              ation. The units are nanoseconds and parts per billion (ppb). If
              zero,  the individual samples are printed instead of the statis‐
              tics. The messages are  printed  at  the  LOG_INFO  level.   The
              default is 0 (disabled).

       -w     Wait until ptp4l is in a synchronized state. If the -O option is
              not used, also keep the offset  between  the  slave  and  master
              times  updated  according to the currentUtcOffset value obtained
              from ptp4l and the direction of the clock  synchronization.  Not
              compatible with the -a option.

       -n domain-number
              Specify the domain number used by ptp4l. The default is 0.

       -x     When a leap second is announced, don't apply it in the kernel by
              stepping the clock, but let the  servo  correct  the  one-second
              offset  slowly  by  changing  the clock frequency (unless the -S
              option is used).

       -z uds-address
              Specifies the address of the server's UNIX domain  socket.   The
              default is /var/run/ptp4l.

       -l print-level
              Set the maximum syslog level of messages which should be printed
              or sent to the system logger. The default is 6 (LOG_INFO).

       -t message-tag
              Specify the tag which is added to all messages  printed  to  the
              standard output or system log. The default is an empty string.

       -m     Print messages to the standard output.

       -q     Don't send messages to the system logger.

       -h     Display a help message.

       -v     Prints the software version and exits.

LONG OPTIONS
       Each  and  every  configuration  file  option  (see  below  in  section
       FILE OPTIONS) may also appear as a "long" style command line  argument.
       For  example,  the  transportSpecific option may be set using either of
       these two forms:

              --transportSpecific 1   --transportSpecific=1

       Option values given on the command line override values in  the  global
       section  of  the  configuration  file (which, in turn overrides default
       values).

CONFIGURATION FILE
       The configuration file is divided into sections.  Each  section  starts
       with  a  line  containing  its name enclosed in brackets and it follows
       with settings.  Each setting is placed on a separate line, it  contains
       the  name  of  the option and the value separated by whitespace charac‐
       ters. Empty lines and lines starting with # are ignored.

       The global section (indicated as [global]) sets  the  program  options.
       This is the only used option.

FILE OPTIONS
       domainNumber
              Specify  the  domain  number  used by phc2sys. The default is 0.
              Same as option -n (see above).

       kernel_leap
              When a leap second is announced, let  the  kernel  apply  it  by
              stepping  the  clock instead of correcting the one-second offset
              with servo, which would correct the one-second offset slowly  by
              changing  the  clock frequency (unless the step_threshold option
              is set to correct such offset by stepping). Relevant  only  with
              software  time  stamping.  The  default  is 1 (enabled). Same as
              option -x (see above).

              The maximum logging level of messages which should  be  printed.
              The default is 6 (LOG_INFO). Same as option -l (see above).

       logging_level
              The  maximum  logging level of messages which should be printed.
              The default is 6 (LOG_INFO). Same as option -l (see above).

       message_tag
              The tag which is added to all messages printed to  the  standard
              output or system log. The default is an empty string (which can‐
              not be set in the configuration file as the option  requires  an
              argument).  Same as option -t (see above).

       sanity_freq_limit
              The  maximum  allowed frequency offset between uncorrected clock
              and the system monotonic clock in parts per billion (ppb).  This
              is  used  as  a  sanity  check of the synchronized clock. When a
              larger offset is measured, a warning message will be printed and
              the servo will be reset. When set to 0, the sanity check is dis‐
              abled. The default is 200000000 (20%).  Same as option  -L  (see
              above).

       clock_servo
              The  servo  which  is used to synchronize the local clock. Valid
              values are "pi" for a PI controller, "linreg"  for  an  adaptive
              controller  using  linear  regression,  "ntpshm" for the NTP SHM
              reference clock to allow  another  process  to  synchronize  the
              local  clock  (the  SHM segment number is set to the domain num‐
              ber), and "nullf" for a servo that always dials frequency offset
              zero  (for  use  in  SyncE nodes). The default is "pi."  Same as
              option -E (see above).

       transportSpecific
              The transport specific field. Must be in the  range  0  to  255.
              The default is 0.

       use_syslog
              Print  messages  to the system log if enabled.  The default is 1
              (enabled).  Related to option -q (see above).

       verbose
              Print messages to the standard output if enabled.   The  default
              is 0 (disabled).  Related to option -m (see above).

       pi_proportional_const
              Specifies  the proportional constant of the PI controller.  Same
              as option -P (see above).

       pi_integral_const
              Specifies the integral constant of the PI controller.   Same  as
              option -I (see above).

       step_threshold
              Specifies  the  step  threshold  of the servo. It is the maximum
              offset that the servo corrects by changing the  clock  frequency
              instead  of  stepping  the  clock. The clock is stepped on start
              regardless of the  option  if  the  offset  is  larger  than  20
              microseconds  (unless  the  -F option is used).  It's  specified
              in seconds. The value of 0.0 disables stepping after the  start.
              The default is 0.0.  Same as option -S (see above).

       first_step_threshold
              Specify  the step threshold applied only on the first update. It
              is the maximum offset that is corrected by adjusting clock. It's
              specified  in  seconds.  The  value  of 0.0 disables stepping on
              start. The default is 0.00002 (20 microseconds).  Same as option
              -F (see above).

       ntpshm_segment
              The number of the SHM segment used by ntpshm servo.  The default
              is 0.  Same as option -M (see above).

       uds_address
              Specifies the address of the server's UNIX  domain  socket.  The
              default is /var/run/ptp4 Same as option -z (see above).

TIME SCALE USAGE
       Ptp4l  uses  either  PTP time scale or UTC (Coordinated Universal Time)
       time scale.  PTP time scale is continuous and shifted against UTC by  a
       few tens of seconds as PTP time scale does not apply leap seconds.

       In  hardware  time stamping mode, ptp4l announces use of PTP time scale
       and PHC is used for the stamps.  That means PHC must  follow  PTP  time
       scale while system clock follows UTC.  Time offset between these two is
       maintained by phc2sys.

       Phc2sys acquires the offset value either by reading it from ptp4l  when
       -a  or -w is in effect or from command line when -O is supplied.  Fail‐
       ure to maintain the correct offset can result  in  local  system  clock
       being  off  some  seconds  to  domain master system clock when in slave
       mode, or incorect PTP time announced to the network in case the host is
       the domain master.

EXAMPLES
       Synchronize  time  automatically  according to the current ptp4l state,
       synchronize the system clock to the remote master.

              phc2sys -a -r

       Same as above, but when the host becomes the domain master, synchronize
       time in the domain to its system clock.

              phc2sys -a -rr

       Same as above, in an IEEE 802.1AS domain.

              phc2sys -a -rr --transportSpecific=1

       The  host is a domain master, PTP clock is synchronized to system clock
       and the time offset is obtained from ptp4l.  Phc2sys waits for ptp4l to
       get  at least one port in master or slave mode before starting the syn‐
       chronization.

              phc2sys -c /dev/ptp0 -s CLOCK_REALTIME -w

       Same as above, time offset is provided on command line and phc2sys does
       not wait for ptp4l.

              phc2sys -c /dev/ptp0 -s CLOCK_REALTIME -O 35

       The host is in slave mode, system clock is synchronized from PTP clock,
       phc2sys waits for ptp4l and the offset is set automatically.

              phc2sys -s /dev/ptp0 -w

       Same as above, PTP clock id is read from  the  network  interface,  the
       offset is provided on command line phc2sys does not wait.

              phc2sys -s eth0 -O -35

WARNING
       Be cautious when the same configuration file is used for both ptp4l and
       phc2sys.  Keep in mind, that values specified in the configuration file
       take  precedence  over their default values. If a certain option, which
       is common to ptp4l and phc2sys, is specified to a non-default value  in
       the  configuration  file (p.e., for ptp4l), then this non-default value
       applies also for phc2sys. This might be not what is expected.

       It is recommended to use seperate configuration  files  for  ptp4l  and
       phc2sys in order to avoid any unexpected behavior.

SEE ALSO
       ptp4l(8)

linuxptp                          April 2018                        PHC2SYS(8)
