PIC2GRAPH(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                PIC2GRAPH(1)

NAME
       pic2graph - convert a PIC diagram into a cropped image

SYNOPSIS
       pic2graph [-unsafe] [-format output-format] [-eqn delimiters] [convert-arguments]

       pic2graph --help

       pic2graph -v
       pic2graph --version

DESCRIPTION
       pic2graph  reads a pic(1) program from the standard input and writes an image file, by default in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format, to the standard output.  It furthermore translates eqn(1) con‐
       structs, so it can be used for generating images of mathematical formulae.

       The input PIC code should not be wrapped with the .PS and .PE macros that normally guard it within groff(1) documents.

       Arguments not recognized by pic2graph are passed to the ImageMagick or GraphicsMagick program convert(1).  By specifying these, you can give your image a border, set the image's pixel density, or per‐
       form other useful transformations.

       The output image is clipped using convert's -trim option to the smallest possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.

OPTIONS
       -eqn delimiters
              Use delimiters as the opening and closing characters that delimit eqn directives; the default is “$$”.  The option argument delimiters should be a two-character string, but an empty string ("")
              is accepted as a directive to disable eqn processing.

       -format output-format
              Write the image in output-format, which must be understood by convert; the default is PNG.

       --help Display a usage message and exit.

       -unsafe
              Run groff in unsafe mode, enabling the PIC command sh to execute arbitrary Unix shell commands.  The groff default is to forbid this.

       -v
       --version
              Display version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_TMPDIR
       TMPDIR
       TMP
       TEMP   These environment variables are searched in the given order to determine the directory where temporary files will be created.  If none are set, /tmp is used.

AUTHORS
       pic2graph was written by Eric S. Raymond ⟨esr@thyrsus.com⟩, based on a recipe by W. Richard Stevens.

SEE ALSO
       W. Richard Stevens, Turning PIC into HTML ⟨http://www.kohala.com/start/troff/pic2html.html⟩

       eqn2graph(1), grap2graph(1), pic(1), eqn(1), groff(1), convert(1)

groff 1.22.4                                                                                     21 March 2020                                                                                     PIC2GRAPH(1)
