pilot-link(7)                                                                                      PILOT-LINK                                                                                     pilot-link(7)

NAME
       pilot-link - A suite of tools for communicating with Palm handhelds, such as those made by Palm, Handspring, Handera, TRGPro, Sony or other Palm Compatible Handheld PDA device.

SECTION
       Pilot-link: Overview

DESCRIPTION
       The pilot-link suite of tools contains a series of conduits, libraries, and language bindings for moving information to and from your Palm device and your desktop or server/workstation system, as well
       as across the network.

TARGET DEVICE
       The /dev/pilot fallback has been removed in v0.12. The environment variable $PILOTPORT can be set in your shell, to save specifying the port each time. A serial device specified  on  the  command-line
       will  be  used  regardless of any $PILOTPORT setting. If $PILOTPORT is not set, and -p is not supplied, all conduits in pilot-link will print the usage information. The default connection rate is 9600
       baud. You are welcome to try higher baud rates (19200, 38400, 57600 or higher) by setting the $PILOTRATE environment variable, but various machines have various limitations. (Be careful  about  values
       higher than 115200 on older Linux boxes if you've been using setserial to change the multiplier).

CONDUITS
       A  complete  list  of conduits available from within the pilot-link package as of the date of this manpage. If you invoke any of the conduits from pilot-link with no command-line arguments at all, the
       usage summary will be printed.

       Note that there are widespread changes in this release - some conduits have been merged, a lot have had new options added and some options have been renamed or removed.

   addresses
       DEPRECATED: Use pilot-addresses --write|--human-readable instead.

   pilot-hinotes
       Syncronize your Hi-Notes database with your desktop machine.

   install-datebook
       installs a new datebook entry onto your Palm handheld.

   pilot-install-expenses
       Install an expense record from various parameters and arguments passed at connection time.

   install-hinote
       Install local files into your Hi-Note database on your Palm handheld.

   install-memo
       Installs a new Memo Pad entry onto your Palm handheld.

   pilot-install-netsync
       reads or sets the Network Preferences information on a Palm Device. Modifies the "Network Preference" settings and reports additional intormation about the Palm, such as the IP,  hostname,  and  other
       information as they are set on the Palm.

   install-todo
       Updates the Palm ToDo list with one new entry.

   install-todos
       Updates the Palm ToDo list with entries from a local file.

   install-user
       Reads or sets a Palm User and UserID on a Palm Device. Modifies the "User Preference" settings and reports additional intormation about the Palm, such as the Username and UserID as they are set on the
       Palm

   pilot-memos
       Manipulate Memo entries from a file or your Palm device.

   pilot-addresses
       Read and write address book databases to and from a Palm handheld.

       Changes in 0.12: Incorporates functionality from the now deprecated addresses conduit.

   pilot-archive
       DEPRECATED: Use pilot-read-todos -w --archived instead.

   pilot-clip
       Get or Set the Palm Clipboard contents from STDOUT/STDIN.

   pilot-dedupe
       Removes duplicate records from any Palm database.

   pilot-file
       Dump application and header information from your local PRC/PDB files.

   pilot-foto
       Palm 'Foto' Image Installer/Remover/Fetcher/Converter

   pilot-read-screenshot
       Read screenshots from Palm (ScreenShotDB).

   pilot-schlep
       Package up any arbitrary file and sync it to your Palm device.

   pilot-foto-treo600
       Copies Treo 600 foto databases to current directory and extracts .jpg files from them.

   pilot-foto-treo650
       Copies Treo 600 images and videos to the current directory

   pilot-wav
       Decodes Palm Voice Memo files to wav files you can read

   pilot-xfer
       Backup, sync, and restore databases from a Palm handheld device.

   pilot-read-expenses
       Export Palm Expense application data in a text format.

   pilot-read-ical
       Exports the DatebookDB and/or ToDo applications (DatebookDB.pdb and ToDoDB.pdb respectively) to Ical format. (The ical application must be installed and working on your system first. This is  NOT  the
       same thing as the iCal Calendar format, however).

   pilot-read-notepad
       List the record information found in the Palm Notepad (Palm OS4 and later) application.

   pilot-read-palmpix
       Convert all pictures in the files given or found on a Palm handheld.

   pilot-read-todos
       Syncronize your Palm ToDo application's database with your desktop machine.

   pilot-read-veo
       Synchronize your Veo Traveler databases

   pilot-reminders
       Exports your Palm Datebook database into a 'remind' data file format.

TOOLS
   pilot-debugsh
       Simple debugging console for a Palm Handheld device (deprecated).

   pilot-dlpsh
       An interactive Desktop Link Protocol (DLP) Shell for your Palm device. This is very useful for debugging potential problems with your serial port. Query the RAM/ROM, list databases, change your UserID
       or Username, and many other useful functions. This is the "Swiss Army Knife" of any of pilot-link's tools.

   pilot-csd
       Connection Service Daemon for Palm Devices

   pilot-getram
       Retrieves the RAM image from your Palm device for use in debugging.

   pilot-getrom
       Retrieves the ROM image from your Palm device for use in debugging.

   pilot-getromtoken
       Reads a ROM token from a Palm Handheld device.

   pilot-nredir
       Accept connection and redirect via Network Hotsync Protocol.

PERL SCRIPTS
       (Available from the source code, not always installed from packages).

   pilot-ietf2datebook.pl
       Converts IETF agenda format to install-datebook format

   pilot-undelete.pl
       Turn previously archived records into normal (non-archived) records by resetting the "dirty" bit.

   pilot-sync-plan.pl
       completely synchronize the Palm datebook with the "plan" calendar via netplan, including authenticating to the netplan server itself.

ADVANCED PROGRAMS
       Some of these programs are not intended for general end-users. More detailed documentation on their usage can be obtained by reading the source of the application itself.

   ccexample
       test program demonstrating C++ interface.

   iambicexample
       test program demonstrating C++ interface.

   validate
       experimental program to test C++ features.

OBTAINING
       The most current version of the pilot-link suite of tools can be found at the pilot link homepage: http://www.pilot-link.org/

MAILING LIST
       The original pilot-unix mailing list has been taken offline, and is now being hosted and maintained by David A. Desrosiers <desrod@gnu-designs.com>. The original pilot-unix mailing list was maintained
       by Matthew Cravit. Its mandate was:

       The pilot-unix mailing list is for discussion and "idea-sharing" for those interested in using your Palm handheld with UNIX systems. This includes people who are interested in helping to develop tools
       to allow the Palm to operate with UNIX and other POSIX systems, and possibly to develop an SDK (Software Develop- ment Kit) for the Palm for Unix.

       For more information, including how to subscribe to the pilot-link mailing lists, please visit the pilot-link mailing list subscription page:

       http://lists.pilot-link.org/

       pilot-link specific mailing lists are also available for Development, General, and Announce topics, at the following:

       http://lists.pilot-link.org/mailman/listinfo/pilot-link-devel

       http://lists.pilot-link.org/mailman/listinfo/pilot-link-general

       http://lists.pilot-link.org/mailman/listinfo/pilot-link-announce

AUTHOR
       Most of the pilot-link tools were written by Kenneth Albanowski. This manual page was written by David H. Silber <pilot@orbits.com>, and updated for version 0.12  of  pilot-link  by  Neil  Williams  <
       linux@codehelp.co.uk > .

       Current maintainer of pilot-link as of the authoring of this manpage is David A. Desrosiers <desrod@gnu-designs.com>.

       Any  questions or problems with pilot-link should be directed at the various  pilot-link  mailing lists or to the irc channel dedicated to supporting pilot-link at  irc.pilot-link.org  in your irc ap‐
       plication (not a web browser).

PATCHES
       All patches you wish to submit should be sent to <patches@pilot-link.org> directly, with a brief explanation of what the patch adds or fixes. Please make sure to send your patched in unified diff for‐
       mat (diff -u).

SEE ALSO
        pilot-addresses(1),  pilot-dlpsh(1), pilot-hinotes(1), pilot-ietf2datebook(1), pilot-install-datebook(1), pilot-install-expenses(1), pilot-install-hinote(1), pilot-install-memo(1), pilot-install-net‐
       sync(1), pilot-install-user(1), pilot-getrom(1), pilot-getram(1), pilot-addresses(1), pilot-xfer(1), pilot-read-ical(1), pilot-read-notepad(1), pilot-read-palmpix(1)

       David Silber <pilot@orbits.com> has written a Pilot HOWTO, which you can find at http://www.sgmltools.org/HOWTO/Pilot-HOWTO/t1.html

0.12.5                                                                                      Copyright 1996-2007 FSF                                                                               pilot-link(7)
