PINENTRY-FLTK(1)                                                                          General Commands Manual                                                                          PINENTRY-FLTK(1)

NAME
       pinentry-fltk - PIN or pass-phrase entry dialog for GnuPG

SYNOPSIS
       pinentry-fltk [OPTION...]

DESCRIPTION
       pinentry-fltk  is  a  program that allows for secure entry of PINs or pass phrases.  That means it tries to take care that the entered information is not swapped to disk or temporarily stored any‐
       where.  This functionality is particularly useful for entering pass phrases when using encryption software such as GnuPG or e-mail clients using the same.  It uses an open protocol and  is  there‐
       fore not tied to particular software.

       pinentry-fltk  implements  a  PIN entry dialog using the Fast Light Tool Kit version 1.3, so it is especially suitable for users of GNOME.  If the X Window System is not active then an alternative
       text-mode dialog will be used.  There are other flavors that implement PIN entry dialogs using other tool kits.

       pinentry-fltk is typically used internally by gpg-agent.  Users don't normally have a reason to call it directly.

OPTIONS
       --version
              Print the program version and licensing information.

       --help Print a usage message summarizing the most useful command-line options.

       --debug, -d
              Turn on some debugging.  Mostly useful for the maintainers.  Note that this may reveal sensitive information like the entered pass phrase.

       --enhanced, -e
              Ask for timeouts and insurance, too.  Note that this is currently not fully supported.

       --no-global-grab, -g
              Grab the keyboard only when the window is focused.  Use this option if you are debugging software using pinentry-fltk; otherwise you may not be able to to access your X session anymore (un‐
              less you have other means to connect to the machine to kill pinentry-fltk).

       --parent-wid N
              Use window ID N as the parent window for positioning the window.  Note, that this is not fully supported by all flavors of pinentry.

       --display STRING, --ttyname STRING, --ttytype STRING, --lc-ctype STRING, --lc-messages STRING
              These options are used to pass localization information to pinentry-fltk.  They are required because pinentry-fltk is usually called by some background process which does not have  any  in‐
              formation on the locale and terminal to use.  Assuan protocol options are an alternative way to pass these information.

SEE ALSO
       pinentry-curses(1), pinentry-gtk-2(1), pinentry-qt(1), pinentry-gnome3(1), pinentry-tty(1), gpg(1), gpg-agent(1)

       The full documentation for pinentry-fltk is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the pinentry-doc package is installed, the command

              info pinentry

       should give you access to the complete manual.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Peter Eisentraut for the Debian project.

                                                                                                27 Jan 2005                                                                                PINENTRY-FLTK(1)
