pingus (6)                                                                                     User Commands                                                                                     pingus (6)

NAME
       pingus - A puzzle game where you have to save penguins

SYNOPSIS
       pingus [OPTION]... [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       Pingus  is a side-scrolling puzzle game where the player has to guide a group of penguins from the entrance of a level to the exit, in between the path is blocked by numerous obstacles and dangers
       that the player has to overcome by assigning actions to the penguins.

OPTIONS
   GENERAL OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Displays this help

       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit

       -v, --verbose
              Enable info level log output

       -D, --debug
              Enable debug level log output

       -Q, --quiet
              Disable all log output

   DISPLAY OPTIONS
       -w, --window
              Start in Window Mode

       -f, --fullscreen
              Start in Fullscreen

       -r, --renderer=RENDERER
              Use the given renderer, defaults to sdl. Available renderers are:

              sdl    A simple software renderer based on SDL, this is the default and the safest options.

              opengl The OpenGL renderer will use hardware acceleration to render the graphics, it is much faster then the SDL renderer and recommended when the hardware supports OpenGL.

              delta  The delta renderer uses SDL for rendering and doesn't use hardware acceleration, it will however try to increase rendering performance by only re rendering screen elements that  have
                     changed. Using the delta renderer will disable some effects such as scrolling background to allow maximum benefits.

       -g, --geometry=WIDTHxHEIGHT
              Set the window resolution for pingus (default: 800x600). Note that --geometry only applies to the window resolution, for the fullscreen resolution use --fullscreen-resolution

       -R, --fullscreen-resolution=WIDTHxHEIGHT
              Set the resolution used in fullscreen mode (default: 800x600)

       --software-cursor
              Enable software cursor

   GAME OPTIONS
       --no-auto-scrolling
              Disable  automatic  scrolling. Automatic scrolling will cause the screen to scroll whenever the mouse reaches the border of the screen. Automatic scrolling will only be active in fullscreen
              mode or when mouse-grab is enabled.

       --drag-drop-scrolling
              Enable drag'n drop scrolling. By default Pingus will use a rubber-band scrolling where the scroll speed depends on how far away the cursor is from the position when  the  mouse  button  has
              been clicked. In drag&drop mode scrolling will behave more like in traditional GUI applications such as Gimp, where clicking the scroll button will 'pick up' the playfield and allow to move
              it around till it is released again.

   SOUND OPTIONS
       -s, --disable-sound
              Disable sound

       -m, --disable-music
              Disable music

   LANGUAGE OPTIONS
       -l, --language=LANG
              Select language to use with Pingus

       --list-languages
              List all available languages

   EDITOR OPTIONS
       -e, --editor
              Loads the level editor

   DIRECTORY OPTIONS
       -d, --datadir=DIR
              Load game datafiles from DIR

       -u, --userdir=DIR
              Load config files and store savegames in DIR

       -a, --addon=DIR
              Load  game modifications from DIR. Files in DIR will be used instead of the files in found in the main datadir of Pingus, thus allowing to modifications, such as sprites replacements, addi‐
              tional levels, etc. to the game, without changing the main data files.

       --no-cfg-file
              Don't read ~/.pingus/config

       -c, --config=FILE
              Read config from FILE

       --controller=FILE
              Uses the controller given in FILE

   DEBUG OPTIONS
       --developer-mode
              Enables some special features for developers

       -t, --speed=SPEED
              Set the game speed (0=fastest, >0=slower)

       -k, --fps=FPS
              Set the desired game framerate (frames per second)

       --tile-size=INT
              Set the size of the map tiles (default: 32)

KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
   GAMEPLAY
       All gameplay related keyboard shortcuts are configurable via a controller config file, see --controller and controller/default.scm.

       W, A, S, D
              Scroll in the level

       Space  Hold to ast-forward

       P, R   Pause the game.

       S, F   Advance the game by a single frame.

       Backspace
              Activate armageddon.

       Escape Leave the current screen/level.

   ENGINE
       F10    Show/hide the FPS counter.

       AltReturn, F11
              Switch to fullscreen/window mode.

       Ctrlg  Toggle mouse grab, when active, the mouse can not leave the window.

       Ctrlo, F5
              Show the option menu.

       F12    Make a screenshot. Screenshots are stored in ~/.pingus/screenshots/.

       Ctrlm  Toggle the developer mode, see --developer-mode

       c (only in developer-mode)
              Show the collision map overlayed over the regular groundmap.

       k (only in developer-mode)
              Clear the screen for delta mode debugging.

ACTIONS
       Basher The Basher will to a horizontal dig, leaving behind it a tunnel. It is not able to dig through metal.

       Blocker
              The Blocker will stop and stay in position, directing other penguins to turn around when they reach him.

       Bomber The Bomber will blow up on the spot and take a bit of surrounding ground with it.

       Bridger
              The Bridger will build a small bridge, useful for crossing small chasm.

       Climber
              The Climber actions allows a Pingu to travel upwards a vertical wall. Unlike other actions the climber action is a permanent addition to the Pingus ability.

       Digger The Digger will dig a hole into the ground. It can't dig through metal.

       Floater
              The Floater action will give a penguin a small propeller that lets him gently glide down from great heights that would otherwise be deadly.

       Jumper The Jumper will let the Pingu do a big leap forward, allowing him to cross chasm and small vertical obstacles.

       Miner  The Miner will dig a diagonal hole into the ground.

       Slider The Slider will make a tiny leap forward, gliding on its belly for a short while, allowing the Pingu to make it through narrow tunnels.

LEVEL EDITOR
       Pingus comes with a build in level editor. The level editor can currently be used to edit level files (*.pingus) as well as prefabricated objects (*.prefabs). Worldmaps (*.worldmap) can  currently
       not be edited with the editor.

       All Pingus data files, except the sound and images, are raw text files and can be edited in a text editor if the editor isn't sufficient.

       If you want to submit a level to be included in the next release follow the following naming convention:

       {theme}{number}-{nickname}.pingus

       Do  not  use  space or uppercase in the levelname and keep the levelname simple (i.e. snow1-grumbel.pingus not pingus-go-on-a-long-journey-in-snowland-grumbel.pingus).  The filename should not re‐
       flect the actual level title, it simply should be unique and not conflict with other peoples levels. If you plan on building a whole levelset, name the levels after the levelset.

       To submit a level send it to <pingus-devel@nongnu.org>.

   PREFABS
       A prefab, short for prefabricated object, is a group of objects that have been combined into a new single object. A classic case of a prefab would for example be a snowman, it is build out of mul‐
       tiple smaller snowball objects and then saved as prefab to allow easy reuse in multiple levels. Unlike simple object groups, prefab are saved as reference in the level, thus if the prefab  is  up‐
       dated,  all levels will see the change. Like object groups prefabs can be ungrouped to break them back down to individual objects if individual editing is needed, they are seizing to be prefabs at
       that point and changes to the .prefab file will no longer be reflected in the level.

       Prefabs behave pretty much like regular levels, to create a prefab simply start a new level and insert the objects as usual, unlike regular levels the level size is ignored and thus  you  have  to
       place  your  object  around  the center of the levels, marked by a cross, to have the prefab function properly. To save a prefab as prefab instead of level you have to append .prefab suffix to the
       filename.

       Thumbnail generation for prefabs is currently done offline with the script ./tools/generate-prefab-images.sh available from the Pingus source tree.

   UI QUIRCKS
       The Pingus level editor is best used with a combination of mouse and keyboard, all essential functions have keyboard shortcuts.

       Unlike more traditional GUIs, the Pingus editor lacks scrollbars, so to move around the level or the object list on the right simply use the middle or right mouse button  and  drag&drop  the  list
       around.

       Objects from the object list can be inserted into the level by drag&dropping them over to the level.

   KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
       Delete, Backspace
              Delete all currently selected objects

       A      Select or unselect all objects

       D      Duplicate the currently selected objects

       I, K, J, L
              Move the current selection by one pixel, if Shift is held, move it by 32 pixel.

       PageUp, PageDown
              Raise or lower an object

       ShiftPageUp, ShiftPageDown
              Raise or lower an object to the top or bottom

       R, ShiftR
              Rotate an objects 90 degrees, if Shift is held rotate it the other way around

       F, ShiftV
              Flip an object horizontally

       V, ShiftF
              Flip an object vertically

       B, ShiftB
              Toggle the background color to make it easier to see small pixel errors. If shift is hold the color will be toggled in the opposite direction.

       +, =, -
              Increase/decrease the repeat value of selected objects, this will only have an effect on objects having an repeat value (switchdoors, liquids, ...).

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1998-2011 Ingo Ruhnke <grumbel@gmail.com> See the file AUTHORS for a complete list of contributors.  Pingus comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY. This is free software, and you are wel‐
       come to redistribute it under certain conditions; see the file COPYING for details.

SEE ALSO
       http://pingus.seul.org

0.7.5                                                                                         21 October 2011                                                                                    pingus (6)
