dpt-takeover(1)                                                  Debian Perl packaging Tools                                                  dpt-takeover(1)

NAME
       dpt-takeover - take over a package for the Debian Perl Group

SYNOPSIS
       dpt takeover -t top-directory [option...] package...

DESCRIPTION
       dpt takeover helps taking over a package and adopting its control files for maintenance by the Debian Perl group.

       dpt takeover first creates a local Git repository either from existing Git repository specified with the -g option, or by importing all package
       versions available on snapshot.debian.org via gbp-import-dscs(1).

       Next dpt takeover adds suitable entries to debian/changelog, using information given by the -m or the -a options.

       Next dpt takeover runs "dpt-packagecheck -a -A -C -c" to adjust the control fields.

       Finally, the resulting Git repository is pushed to the Debian collaborative server, salsa.debian.org, unless the -n option is used.

OPTIONS
       -t top-directory  (mandatory)
           The location of the top level directory, containing packages/.

       -m URL
           The address of the message with which the previous maintainer requests adoption. It is included in the commit message and debian/changelog.

           Conflicts with -a.

       -a number
           RFA/ITA bug number. Suitable "Closes: #nnnnnn" is added to debian/changelog.

           Conflicts with -m.

       -g URL
           URL  of  an  existing  Git repository to clone. If not present gbp-import-dscs is used to prime the local Git repository from the package versions
           available on snapshot.debian.org.

       -n  Local operation. The resulting Git repository is not pushed to salsa.debian.org.

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
       Copyright 2008, 2009, 2013, 2014 Damyan Ivanov <dmn@debian.org>

       Copyright 2008, 2011, 2018 gregor herrmann <gregoa@debian.org>

       Copyright 2008, 2009, Ryan Niebur <ryan@debian.org>

       This program is free software and can be distributed under the same terms as Perl.

pkg-perl-tools 0.85                                                       2025-12-23                                                          dpt-takeover(1)
