PKGCONF(1)                                                          General Commands Manual                                                        PKGCONF(1)

NAME
       pkgconf — a system for configuring build dependency information

SYNOPSIS
       pkgconf [options] module ...

DESCRIPTION
       The  pkgconf  program retrieves configuration information related to the module arguments from pc(5) files installed on the system and prints parts of
       the retrieved information depending on the specified options.  The most common use is printing the compiler and linker flags needed to build  software
       that uses the libraries given by the module arguments.

       The  pc(5)  files  are  searched for along a path constructed from the --with-path option, the PKG_CONFIG_PATH and PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR environment vari‐
       ables, and some compiled-in default directories.  The module arguments correspond to the file names, but without the .pc filename extension.

       Several of the options cause immediate exit.  If multiple of these options are given, only the option with the highest priority takes effect and those
       with lower priority are silently ignored.  These options are, ordered by descending priority:

       1.   No-module options: --relocate, --dump-personality, --about, --version, --help, --atleast-pkgconfig-version, --list-all, and --list-package-names:
            These options cause all arguments to be ignored.

       2.   Argument-only options: --atleast-version, --exact-version, and --max-version: These options only inspect modules explicitly specified on the com‐
            mand line and do not look at dependencies.

       3.   Limited-output options: --validate, --license, --uninstalled, and --env: These options perform dependency resolution, but exit after printing the
            information requested by the highest-priority option, ignoring other output options that may have been specified.

       Several other options require at least one module argument, produce output, do not cause early exit, can be combined with each other, but override and
       disable all --cflags and --libs options:

       1.   Single-module output options: --path, --print-variables, --variable: If any of these options is specified, only  the  first  module  argument  is
            used, all other arguments are silently ignored, and no dependency resolution is attempted.

       2.   Depth-one  output  options: --print-provides, --modversion, --print-requires, and --print-requires-private: If any of these options is specified,
            only modules explicitly specified on the command line are inspected and no dependency resolution is attempted.

       3.   General output options: --simulate, --digraph, --solution, --fragment-tree: These options do not limit dependency resolution.

       The most important output options --cflags and --libs can be combined with each other, but are overridden and ignored if any  of  the  options  listed
       above are specified.

       The complete list of options is as follows:

       --about
               Print  the  version  number, the Copyright notice, and the license of the pkgconf program to standard output and exit.  Most other options and
               all command line arguments are ignored.

       --atleast-pkgconfig-version=version
               Exit with error if the requested version number is greater than the version number of the pkgconf program, or with  success  otherwise.   Most
               other options and all command line arguments are ignored.

       --atleast-version=version
               Check  the module arguments in the given order.  Exit with error as soon as a module does not exist, and exit with success as soon as the ver‐
               sion number of a module is greater than or equal to the requested version number.  Exit with error if the version number  of  each  module  is
               less than the requested version number.

       --cflags, --cflags-only-I, --cflags-only-other
               Print  all compiler flags required to compile against the module, or only the include path (-I) flags, or only the compiler flags that are not
               include path flags, respectively.  These options imply --print-errors.

       --debug
               Print some non-fatal warning messages to standard  error  output  that  would  otherwise  silently  be  ignored.   This  option  also  implies
               --print-errors.  If pkgconf was compiled without defining the preprocessor macro PKGCONF_LITE, this option also prints many debugging messages
               to standard error output.

       --define-prefix
               Attempts  to  determine the prefix variable to use for CFLAGS and LIBS entry relocations.  This is mainly useful for platforms where framework
               SDKs are relocatable, such as Windows.

       --define-variable=varname=value
               Define varname as value.  Variables are used in query output, and some modules' results may change based on the presence of a variable defini‐
               tion.

       --digraph
               Dump the dependency resolver's solution as a graphviz ‘dot’ file.  This can be used with graphviz to visualize module interdependencies.  This
               option is only available if the preprocessor macro PKGCONF_LITE was not defined during compilation.

       --dont-define-prefix
               Disables the ‘define-prefix’ feature.

       --dont-relocate-paths
               Disables the path relocation feature.

       --dump-personality
               Print some default settings to standard output, in particular the default module search path that is used when PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR  is  not  de‐
               fined, the default list of include paths that are filtered out when PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH is not defined, and the default list of li‐
               brary paths that are filtered out when PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_LIBRARY_PATH is not defined, and exit.  Most other options and all command line argu‐
               ments are ignored.  This option is only available if the preprocessor macro PKGCONF_LITE was not defined during compilation.

       --env=varname
               Print the requested values as variable declarations in a similar format as the env(1) command.

       --env-only
               Initialize  the  module search path from --with-path and PKG_CONFIG_PATH only, ignoring PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR and the compiled-in default directo‐
               ries.

       --errors-to-stdout
               Print all error, warning, and debugging messages to standard output instead of to standard error output.

       --exact-version=version
               Check the module arguments in the given order.  Exit with error as soon as a module does not exist, and exit with success as soon as the  ver‐
               sion  number  of  a module is exactly the requested version number.  Exit with error if the version number of each module differs from the re‐
               quested version number.

       --exists
               Exit with a non-zero exit status if the dependency resolver is unable to find all of the requested modules.  This option is active by  default
               and cannot be disabled.  However, various other options cause pkgconf to exit and report success or failure before all arguments have been in‐
               spected.

       --fragment-filter=types
               Filter the fragment lists for the specified types.

       --help  Print a usage summary on standard output and exit.  Most other options and all command line arguments are ignored.

       --ignore-conflicts
               Ignore ‘Conflicts’ rules in modules.

       --keep-system-cflags, --keep-system-libs
               Keep CFLAGS or linker flag fragments that would be filtered due to being included by default in the compiler.

       --libs, --libs-only-L, --libs-only-l, --libs-only-other
               Print  all  linker flags required to link against the module, or only the library path (-L) flags, or only the library (-l) flags, or only the
               linker flags that are neither library path nor library flags, respectively.  These options imply --print-errors.

       --list-all
               Walk the module search path in the order of descending priority.  For each pc(5) file found, print one line to standard output, containing the
               basename of the file without  the  extension,  the  Name  property,  a  dash  (‘-’),  and  the  Description  property.   This  option  implies
               --print-errors.  All command line arguments are ignored.

       --list-package-names
               Perform  the  same search as --list-all, but only print the basename of each pc(5) file without the extension, not the module name and the de‐
               scription.  This option implies --print-errors.  All command line arguments are ignored.

       --log-file=file
               Set the name of the output file where information about selected modules is logged, both about those selected by arguments  and  as  dependen‐
               cies.   For each selected module, one line is printed, containing the basename of the pc(5) file without the extension, optionally an operator
               and version number describing the desired range of versions,  and  either  the  actual  version  number  in  square  brackets  or  the  string
               "NOT-FOUND".   If  this option is not provided, the name of the output file is instead taken from the PKG_CONFIG_LOG environment variable, and
               if that is not provided either, this kind of logging is disabled.

       --max-version=version
               Check the module arguments in the given order.  Exit with error as soon as a module does not exist, and exit with success as soon as the  ver‐
               sion  number  of  a  module  is  less  than or equal to the requested version number.  Exit with error if the version number of each module is
               greater than the requested version number.

       --maximum-traverse-depth=depth
               Impose a limit on the allowed depth in the dependency graph.  For example, a depth of 2 restricts the resolver from acting on child  dependen‐
               cies of modules added to the resolver's solution.  This option is overridden by the PKG_CONFIG_MAXIMUM_TRAVERSE_DEPTH environment variable and
               by the options --modversion, --path, --print-provides, --print-requires, --print-requires-private, --print-variables, and --variable.

       --modversion
               For each specified module, print the version number to standard output.  If the --verbose option is also specified, the name of the respective
               module and a colon is printed before each version number.  This option implies --print-errors and --maximum-traverse-depth=1 and overrides and
               disables all --cflags and --libs flags.

       --msvc-syntax
               Use  MSVC syntax for --cflags, --env, and --libs output.  This option is only available if the preprocessor macro PKGCONF_LITE was not defined
               during compilation.

       --no-cache
               Skip caching packages when they are loaded into the internal resolver.  This may result in an alternate dependency graph being computed.

       --no-provides
               Ignore ‘Provides’ rules in modules when resolving dependencies.

       --no-uninstalled
               Forbids the dependency resolver from considering 'uninstalled' modules as part of a solution.

       --path  For the first module given on the command line, let the dependency resolver find the pc(5) file describing that  module,  print  the  absolute
               pathname of that file to standard output, and exit immediately, ignoring most other options and all other arguments.

       --prefix-variable=variable
               Sets the ‘prefix’ variable used by the ‘define-prefix’ feature.

       --print-errors
               Print  some  messages  about  fatal errors to standard error output that would otherwise be omitted.  This option is implied by many other op‐
               tions, but not by all.  It can be overridden with --silence-errors.

       --print-provides
               For each specified module, print one line to standard output containing the Name property, an equal sign (‘=’), and the Version property.   If
               the module contains one or more Provides properties, print additional lines in dependency list format, one name per line, each name optionally
               followed  by  an  operator  and  a version.  This option implies --maximum-traverse-depth=1 and overrides and disables all --cflags and --libs
               flags.

       --print-requires, --print-requires-private
               For each specified module, print the Requires or Requires.private properties, respectively, in dependency  list  format  to  standard  output.
               Both of these options imply --maximum-traverse-depth=1 and override and disable all --cflags and --libs flags.

       --print-variables
               For  the first module given on the command line, print the names of all seen variables to standard output, one per line.  Any subsequent argu‐
               ments are silently ignored.  This option implies --print-errors and --maximum-traverse-depth=1 and overrides and  disables  all  --cflags  and
               --libs flags.

       --pure  Treats the computed dependency graph as if it were pure.  This is mainly intended for use with the --static flag and has no effect if --shared
               is also specified.

       --relocate=path
               Relocates  a path using the pkgconf_path_relocate API.  This is mainly used by the testsuite to provide a guaranteed interface to the system's
               path relocation backend.

       --shared
               Compute a simple dependency graph that is only suitable for shared linking.  This option overrides --static.

       --short-errors
               When printing error messages about modules that are not found or conflict with each other, avoid printing additional, verbose instructions ex‐
               plaining potential methods for solving the problem.

       --silence-errors
               Do not print any error, warning, or debugging messages at all.  Overrides all of --debug, --errors-to-stdout, and --print-errors.  This option
               is overridden and disabled if the PKG_CONFIG_DEBUG_SPEW environment variable is set.

       --simulate
               Simulates resolving a dependency graph based on the requested modules on the command line.  Dumps a series of  trees  denoting  pkgconf's  re‐
               solver state.  This option is only available if the preprocessor macro PKGCONF_LITE was not defined during compilation.

       --solution
               Print  the  names  of the modules requested with module arguments and their dependencies to standard output.  This option is only available if
               the preprocessor macro PKGCONF_LITE was not defined during compilation.

       --static
               Compute a deeper dependency graph and use compiler/linker flags intended for static linking.  This option is overridden by --shared.

       --uninstalled
               Exit with a non-zero result if the dependency resolver uses an ‘uninstalled’ module as part of its solution.

       --validate package ...
               Validate specific ‘.pc’ files for correctness.  This option implies --print-errors and --errors-to-stdout.

       --variable=varname
               For the first module given on the command line, print the value of the variable with the name varname to standard output.  Any subsequent  ar‐
               guments are silently ignored.  This option implies --maximum-traverse-depth=1 and overrides and disables all --cflags and --libs flags.

       --verbose
               This option only has an effect if --modversion is also specified.  It prints the name of the respective module and a colon before each version
               number.

       --version
               Print the version number of the pkgconf program to standard output and exit.  Most other options and all command line arguments are ignored.

       --with-path=path
               Prepend  the  directory path to the module search path, giving it priority over all other directories including those from PKG_CONFIG_PATH and
               PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR.

ENVIRONMENT
       CPATH   First supplementary colon-separated list of include paths filtered out in the same way as PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH.

       CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH
               Third supplementary colon-separated list of include paths filtered out in the same way as PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH.

       C_INCLUDE_PATH
               Second supplementary colon-separated list of include paths filtered out in the same way as PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH.

       DESTDIR
               If  set  to  the  same  value  as  PKG_CONFIG_SYSROOT_DIR,  behave  in  the  same  way  as  if  PKG_CONFIG_FDO_SYSROOT_RULES   is   set.    If
               PKG_CONFIG_SYSROOT_DIR is not set or set to a different value, DESTDIR is ignored.

       LIBRARY_PATH
               Supplementary colon-separated list of library paths filtered out in the same way as PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_LIBRARY_PATH.

       OBJC_INCLUDE_PATH
               Fourth supplementary colon-separated list of include paths filtered out in the same way as PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH.

       PKG_CONFIG_ALLOW_SYSTEM_CFLAGS
               If set, this variable has the same effect as the --keep-system-cflags option.

       PKG_CONFIG_ALLOW_SYSTEM_LIBS
               If set, this variable has the same effect as the --keep-system-libs option.

       PKG_CONFIG_DEBUG_SPEW
               If set, override and disable the --silence-errors option.

       PKG_CONFIG_DISABLE_UNINSTALLED
               If set, enables the same behaviour as the --no-uninstalled flag.

       PKG_CONFIG_DONT_DEFINE_PREFIX
               If set, this variable has the same effect as the --dont-define-prefix option.

       PKG_CONFIG_DONT_RELOCATE_PATHS
               If set, disables the path relocation feature.

       PKG_CONFIG_FDO_SYSROOT_RULES
               If set, follow the sysroot prefixing rules that freedesktop.org pkg-config uses.

       PKG_CONFIG_IGNORE_CONFLICTS
               If set, ignore Conflicts rules in modules.  Has the same effect as the --ignore-conflicts option.

       PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR
               A  colon-separated  list of low-priority directories where pc(5) files are looked up.  The module search path is constructed by appending this
               list to PKG_CONFIG_PATH, which enjoys higher priority.  If PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR is not defined, the default list compiled into the  pkgconf  pro‐
               gram from the PKG_DEFAULT_PATH preprocessor macro is appended instead.  If PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR is defined but empty, nothing is appended.

       PKG_CONFIG_LOG
               If  set,  log information about selected modules to the file with the name stored in this variable.  For more details, see the --log-file com‐
               mand line option, which overrides this variable.

       PKG_CONFIG_MAXIMUM_TRAVERSE_DEPTH
               Impose a limit on the allowed depth in the dependency graph.  This variable overrides the --maximum-traverse-depth option, but  is  overridden
               by the other options mentioned there.

       PKG_CONFIG_MSVC_SYNTAX
               If  set,  use MSVC syntax for --cflags, --env, and --libs output.  This variable has the same effect as the --msvc-syntax option.  If the pre‐
               processor macro PKGCONF_LITE was defined during compilation, this variable is ignored.

       PKG_CONFIG_PATH
               A colon-separated list of high-priority directories where pc(5) files are looked up.  The module search path is constructed by prepending  the
               directory specified with --with-path, if any, and unless --env-only is specified, by appending either PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR or the compiled-in de‐
               fault directories with lower priority.

       PKG_CONFIG_PRELOADED_FILES
               Colon-separated  list  of  pc(5) files which are loaded before any other pkg-config files.  These packages are given highest priority over any
               other pc(5) files that would otherwise provide a given package.

       PKG_CONFIG_PURE_DEPGRAPH
               If set, enables the same behaviour as the --pure flag.

       PKG_CONFIG_RELOCATE_PATHS
               If set, this variable has the same effect as the --define-prefix option.

       PKG_CONFIG_SYSROOT_DIR
               If set, this variable defines a ‘sysroot’ directory, which will be prepended to every path variable beginning with the prefix  variable  in  a
               given  pc(5)  file.   Useful  for  cross  compilation.   The  value  of  this  environment  variable  is  also copied into the global variable
               pc_sysrootdir.

       PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH
               Colon-separated list of include paths that are filtered out and not printed by the --cflags and --cflags-only-I options because they are  con‐
               sidered  system  include  paths.   If  not defined, the default list compiled into the pkgconf program from the SYSTEM_INCLUDEDIR preprocessor
               macro is used instead.  This variable  is  a  pkgconf-specific  extension.   Any  directories  listed  in  the  environment  variables  CPATH,
               C_INCLUDE_PATH, CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH, and OBJC_INCLUDE_PATH are also filtered out.

       PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_LIBRARY_PATH
               Colon-separated  list  of library paths that are filtered out and not printed by the --libs and --libs-only-L options because they are consid‐
               ered system library paths.  If not defined, the default list compiled into the pkgconf program from the SYSTEM_LIBDIR  preprocessor  macro  is
               used instead.  This variable is a pkgconf-specific extension.

       PKG_CONFIG_TOP_BUILD_DIR
               The  value  of  the pc_top_builddir global variable.  If this environment variable is not defined, the string "$(top_builddir)" is used as the
               value of pc_top_builddir.

EXIT STATUS
       The pkgconf utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
       Displaying the CFLAGS of a package:
             $ pkgconf --cflags foo
             -fPIC -I/usr/include/foo

SEE ALSO
       pc(5), pkg.m4(7)

Debian                                                                November 15, 2016                                                            PKGCONF(1)
