PKGSYNC(8)                                                                                System Manager's Manual                                                                                PKGSYNC(8)

NAME
       pkgsync - Automated package synchronization tool

SYNOPSIS
       pkgsync

DESCRIPTION
       pkgsync is a tool for keeping multiple machines reasonably similar and clean. Packages can either be in a `must be installed', `may be installed' or `must not be installed' list (which is presumed
       to  be  distributed separately using a tool such as rdist or cfengine).  pkgsync will take care of meeting the demands put down in the lists, and then removing everything that is not in the `must'
       or `may' list and is not necessary for their operations (as determined by aptitude).

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Print a short help text and exit.

       -s, --simulate
              Do everything as usual, but put aptitude in simulation mode, causing it to never do any changes (except update and autoclean, which should both be harmless) to your system.  This  is  espe‐
              cially useful on a new system to make sure pkgsync behaves as expected.

              Note  that  aptitude  prints  out its intended actions _before_ running the conflict resolver. If there's a conflict somewhere, chances are that the results on your system will be different
              from what aptitude prints out.

       -k, --keep-unused
              Instruct aptitude to not remove cruft (ie. unused packages); this is morally equivalent to having an "*" entry in mayhave.

       -d, --dpkg-glob
              When encountering a wildcard pattern, pkgsync tries to `un-glob' it.  Traditionally, this was done using dpkg -- however, in later versions one can use aptitude instead. Using aptitude is a
              little slower, but the syntax is a lot more flexible, supporting regular expressions and various searches on fields. Giving --dpkg-glob makes pkgsync use dpkg, which is not very useful  ex‐
              cept for backwards compatibility.

       -a, --aptitude-glob
              Use aptitude's globbing instead of dpkg's globbing (see above). This option is the default.

SEE ALSO
       /usr/share/doc/pkgsync/README.Debian (complete tutorial and reference documentation)

AUTHOR
       pkgsync is Copyright 2004-2007 Steinar H. Gunderson <sgunderson@bigfoot.com>.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 PKGSYNC(8)
