PLANTUML(1)                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANTUML(1)

NAME
       plantuml - generate UML diagrams from a text description

SYNOPSIS
       plantuml [options] files/dirs...

DESCRIPTION
       PlantUML is used to draw UML diagrams using a simple and human readable text description.

       Note that graphviz is required to be installed for generation of all diagrams except sequence diagrams.

       When files/directories are given, they are processed in batch mode.  Otherwise, a GUI window appears. It allows user to browse directories and view diagrams generated from suitable files (must
       have one of the following extensions: .txt, .tex, .java, .htm, .html, .c, .h, .cpp).

       You can use the following wildcards in files/dirs:

       * means any characters but '/'
       ? one and only one character but '/'
       ** means any characters (used to recurse through directories)

OPTIONS
       -tformat
           Generate images in one of the following formats:

           png PNG image (default)
           svg SVG image
           eps EPS image
           pdf PDF image
           vdx VDX image
           xmi XMI file for class diagram
           scxml SCXML file for state diagram
           html HTML file for class diagram
           txt ASCII art
           utxt ASCII art using Unicode characters
           latex LaTeX/TikZ format
           latex:nopreamble LaTeX/TikZ format without preamble
       -output dir, -o dir
           Generate images in the specified directory.

       -config file
           Read the provided config file before each diagram.

       -charset encoding
           Use a specific encoding (default is UTF-8).

       -exclude pattern, -x pattern
           Exclude files that match the provided pattern.

       -metadata
           Retrieve PlantUML sources from PNG images.

       -version
           Display information about PlantUML and Java versions.

       -verbose, -v
           Be more verbose.

       -quiet
           Don't print error messages.

       -keepfiles
           Do NOT delete temporary files after process.

       -help, -h Display a help message.
       -testdot Test the installation of graphviz.
       -graphvizdot path Specify the dot executable path.
       -pipe, -p Use stdin for PlantUML source and stdout for PNG/SVG generation.
       -computeurl Compute the encoded URL of a PlantUML source file.
       -decodeurl Retrieve the PlantUML source from an encoded URL.

       This list of options is not exhaustive. For more information, run plantuml -help.

       For more documentation, see the PlantUML's website: <https://plantuml.com/command-line>.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY
           If not set or empty, uses Java's headless mode to run PlantUML.

       GRAPHVIZ_DOT
           Similarly to -graphvizdot, can be used to specify the path to the dot executable. If both GRAPHVIZ_DOT and -graphvizdot are used, the command-line setting takes the precedence.

NOTES
       The Debian package for PlantUML comes without Easter eggs, XEarth diagram support or inbuilt FTP server, Telnet server or a Sudoku game.

SEE ALSO
       graphviz(1)

AUTHOR
       PlantUML was written by Arnaud Roques <plantuml@gmail.com>.

       This manual page was written by Ilya Paramonov <ivparamonov@gmail.com> and updated by Andrej Shadura <andrewsh@debian.org>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                                 2025-01-05                                                                                     PLANTUML(1)
