plist(1)                    General Commands Manual                   plist(1)

NAME
       plist - list contents of output files generated by AS

SYNTAX
       plist [ file name ]

DESCRIPTION
       PLIST  is a program to list the contents of code output files generated
       by AS, a cross assembler for a variety  of  microprocessors  and  -con‐
       trollers.  PLIST takes only one argument: the name of the file to list.
       If [ name ] does not have an extension, the default extension '.p' will
       be  added automatically.  The output consists of a single line for each
       record in the file, listing the target processor, target address space,
       number  of code/data bytes, and start/stop address.  Note that the dif‐
       ference between the start and stop address need not equal the number of
       bytes,  since there are target processors whose memory is not bytewise-
       organized.  The records that specify entry  address  and  file  creator
       have  a different layout and therefore have a little bit different look
       in PLIST's output.

       PLIST does not accept multiple file arguments;  processing  of  several
       files must be done with individual calls.

COMMAND-LINE PARAMETERS
       none.

NATIONAL LANGUAGE SUPPORT
       plist  supports national languages in the same way as AS.  See the man‐
       ual page for asl(1) for more information about this.

RETURN CODES
       plist may return with the following codes:

       0      no errors.

       1      incorrect command line parameters.

       2      I/O-error.

       3      An input file had an incorrect format.

EXAMPLES
       To list the contents of a code file file1.p, use:

       plist file1

       There aren't more meaningful examples, as PLIST does not have any  com‐
       mand line parameters.

TIPS
       If  PLIST  is started without any argument, it will prompt for a file's
       name.

SEE ALSO
       asl(1), pbind(1), p2hex(1), p2bin(1)

HISTORY
       PLIST originally appeared as an AS tool in 1992,  written  in  Borland-
       Pascal, and was ported to C and UNIX in 1996.

BUGS
       There are too few options.

AUTHOR(S)
       Alfred Arnold (alfred@ccac.rwth-aachen.de)

                                                                      plist(1)
