plocate-build(8)                                                                            System Manager's Manual                                                                            plocate-build(8)

NAME
       plocate-build - generate index for plocate

SYNOPSIS
       plocate-build [OPTION]...  MLOCATE_DB PLOCATE_DB

DESCRIPTION
       plocate-build  creates an index from plocate(1) from an index earlier generated by updatedb(8) from the mlocate(1) package. Most users would rather want to use plocate's own updatedb(8), which is more
       direct.  If PLOCATE_DB already exists, it will be overwritten (non-atomically). The file is created such that it is not world-readable, as the final access check  is  done  by  plocate(1)  during  the
       search.

OPTIONS
       -b, --block-size SIZE
              Create  blocks  containing  SIZE filenames each, compress them together, and treat them as the same element in the posting lists. This makes the index smaller (because the compression algorithm
              gets more context to work with, and because there are fewer elements in each posting list), but also makes posting lists less precise, moving more work to  weeding  out  false  positives  after
              posting list intersection.

              Making  this number larger will make linear search (for --regex, or very short patterns) faster, with diminishing returns around 256 filenames per block. However, making it too large will cause
              more false positives, reducing overall performance for typical queries. The default value is 32.  Setting it to 1 makes one (compressed) block per filename.

       -p, --plaintext
              Treat the input as plain text, with entries delimited by newlines, instead of an mlocate database.

       --help Print out usage information, then exit successfully.

       --version
              Print out version information, then exit successfully.

AUTHOR
       Steinar H. Gunderson <steinar+plocate@gunderson.no>

SEE ALSO
       plocate(1), /etc/cron.daily/plocate (which is called update-plocate.sh in the source distribution)

plocate-build                                                                                       Oct 2020                                                                                   plocate-build(8)
