PMBOOTSTRAP(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            PMBOOTSTRAP(1)

NAME
       pmbootstrap - Develop and install postmarketOS

SYNOPSIS
       pmbootstrap [options] action

DESCRIPTION
       pmbootstrap is the central tool used in the development and installation of postmarketOS.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Show the built-in help message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Show pmbootstrap's version number and exit.

       -c, --config config
              Specify path to pmbootstrap.cfg file; defaults to ~/.config.

       --config-channels channels
              Specify path to channels.cfg, which is by default read from the master branch of pmaports.git.

       -mp, --mirror-pmOS URL
              Specify postmarketOS mirror to use. Can be disabled with -mp=''.  Multiple mirrors can be specified with -mp='one' -mp='two'.  The default value is http://mirror.postmarketos.org/postmarke‐
              tos.

       -m, --mirror-alpine URL
              Specify Alpine Linux mirror to use. The default value is http://dl-cdn.alpinelinux.org/alpine.

       -j, --jobs jobs
              Specify number of parallel jobs to use when compiling.

       -E, --extra-space space
              Specify an integer with the amount of additional space to allocate to the image, in MB (default 0).

       -B, --boot-size size
              Specify the boot partition size on target machine in MB (default 128).

       -p, --aports aports
              Specify the path to postmarketOS aports (pmaports).

       -t, --timeout time
              Specify the seconds after which hung processes get killed (default 900).

       -w, --work work
              Specify the folder where all data gets stored (chroots, caches, built packages, etc).

       -y, --assume-yes
              Assume 'yes' to all question prompts.

       --as-root
              Allow running as root. This is not recommended, as it may screw up the work folder's directory permissions.

       -o, --offline
              Do not attempt to update the package index files.

       --no-ccache
              Do not cache the compiled output.

       --no-cross
              Disable cross compiler; build only with QEMU and gcc.

       -l, --log log
              Specify path to log file.

       --details-to-stdout
              Print details (e.g. build output) to stdout instead of writing to the log.

       -v, --verbose
              Write even more information to the log files.

       -q, --quiet
              Do not output any log messages.

ACTIONS
       init   Initialize the config file.

       shutdown
              Shut down active chroots (unmount them and unregister QEMU binfmt).

       index  Re-index all repositories with custom-built packages.

       work_migrate
              Migrate the work folder version.

       kconfig
              Change or edit kernel configs.

       export Create convenience symlinks to generated image files (system, kernel, initramfs, boot.img, etc).

       sideload
              Push packages to a running phone connected over USB or WiFi.

       netboot
              Launch an nbd server with the postmarketOS rootfs.

       flasher
              Flash something to the target device.

       initramfs
              Do something with the initramfs.

       pkgrel_bump
              Increase the pkgrel to indicate that a package must be rebuilt because of a dependency change.

       aportupgrade
              Check for outdated packages that need upgrading.

       newapkbuild
              Get a template to package new software.

       lint   Run quality checks on pmaports (required to pass CI).

       status Get a quick health check for the work dir.

       log    Follow the pmbootstrap log file.

       zap    Safely delete chroot folders.

       stats  Show ccache stats.

       update Update all existing APKINDEX files.

       build_init
              Initialize the build environment.

       chroot Start a shell in a chroot.

       install
              Set up a device specific chroot and install to an SD card or image file.

       checksum
              Update aport checksums.

       aportgen
              Generate a postmarketOS-specific package build recipe (aport/APKBUILD).

       build  Build a package for a specific architecture.

       config Get and set pmbootstrap options.

       bootimg_analyze
              Extract all the information from an existing boot.img.

       pull   Update all git repositories that pmbootstrap cloned.

       ci     Run continuous integration scripts locally of git repo in current directory.

                                                                                                                                                                                             PMBOOTSTRAP(1)
