PMDBG(1)                    General Commands Manual                   PMDBG(1)

NAME
       pmdbg - report Performance Co-Pilot debug options

SYNOPSIS
       pmdbg code ...
       pmdbg -l [-o] [-g]
       pmdbg -D name[,name ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The components of the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) use a global mechanism
       to control diagnostic and debug output.  Historically this was a vector
       of bit-fields but this was later replaced by an array of debug options.
       All of the bit-field debug controls  have  an  equivalent  in  the  new
       scheme,  but  some  new  debug options cannot be represented in the old
       bit-field scheme.

       pmdbg with a -l option prints out all the debug options.  If  there  is
       no  -g  and  no -o option then the output lists the name of each option
       and some descriptive text.

       With the -l and -g options the descriptive text  is  replaced  with  an
       expression  that  can  be  used to set or print the corresponding debug
       flag in gdb (1).

       With the -l and -o options the output is for only  the  old  bit-fields
       with  the  mnemonic and decimal values of each the bit-field along with
       some descriptive text.

       Obviously the -o and -g options are mutually exclusive.

       pmdbg with a -D option parses the list of names(s)  using  __pmParseDe‐
       bug(3)  and  reports  the corresponding decimal value.  This use is not
       required in the new scheme, but for the old bit-fields  scheme  it  was
       useful when debugging and wanting to set the internal value of the con‐
       trol vector (pmDebug) via  a  debugger,  e.g.   gdb(1).   For  the  new
       scheme, the same effect can be achieved using the name of the option(s)
       and calling pmSetDebug(3) from within the debugger.

       The alternative usage also relates to the old bit-field scheme and  the
       code arguments are values for the debug vector, and the bit-fields that
       are enabled by each of these values is listed.

       Each code may be an integer, a hexadecimal value or a hexadecimal value
       prefixed by either ``0x'' or ``0X''.

       Most  applications  using  the  facilities  of  the  PCP  support  a -D
       name[,name ...]  command-line syntax to enable debug control using  the
       name(s) of the desired debug options.

       Alternatively  the  initial value of the debug control flags may be set
       to either a value N (old scheme) or a comma-separated  list  if  option
       name(s)  (new  scheme)  using  the environment variable $PCP_DEBUG.  If
       both mechanisms are used the effect is additive, so the resultant flags
       are those set via $PCP_DEBUG combined with those set via any -D command
       line options.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -D name, --debug=name
            Parse a comma-separated list of name(s) and report the correspond‐
            ing decimal value(s).

       -l, --list
            List all the debug options.

       -g, --gdb
            Output gdb(1) expressions with -l.

       -o, --old
            Use old-style output format with -l.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains  the  local  values  for  these variables.  The
       $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative  configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1),    pmSetDebug(3),    pmClearDebug(3),   __pmParseDebug(3),
       pcp.conf(5) and pcp.env(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                             PMDBG(1)
