PMDUMPLOG(1)                General Commands Manual               PMDUMPLOG(1)

NAME
       pmdumplog - dump internal details of a performance metrics archive log

SYNOPSIS
       pmdumplog  [-adehilLmMrstxzV?]   [-n  pmnsfile] [-S starttime] [-T end‐
       time] [-Z timezone] archive [metricname ...]
       pmdumplog [-v file]

DESCRIPTION
       pmdumplog dumps assorted control, metadata, index and state information
       from  the  files  of a Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive log.  The ar‐
       chive log has the base name archive and must have been previously  cre‐
       ated using pmlogger(1).

       Normally pmdumplog operates on the distributed Performance Metrics Name
       Space (PMNS), however if the -n  option  is  specified  an  alternative
       local PMNS is loaded from the file pmnsfile.

       If  any  metricname  arguments appear, the report will be restricted to
       information relevant to the named performance metrics.   If  metricname
       is  a non-leaf node in the namespace (see PMNS(5)), then pmdumplog will
       recursively descend the archive's namespace  and  report  on  all  leaf
       nodes.

       Command line options control the specific information to be reported.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -a, --all
            Report  almost  everything,  i.e. the flags -d, -i, -L, -m, -s and
            -t.  The optional help text (-h) and label metadata  strings  (-e)
            are not reported by default.

       -d, --descs
            Display  the  metadata and descriptions for those performance met‐
            rics that appear at least once in the archive: see pmLookupDesc(3)
            for more details on the metadata describing metrics.

       -e, --labelsets
            Display  the  label metadata if it is present in the archive.  See
            pmLookupLabels(3) for more details on the label metadata hierarchy
            associated with metrics.

       -h, --helptext
            Display metric and instance domain help text if present in the ar‐
            chive.  See pmLookupText(3) for more  details  on  the  help  text
            associated with metrics.

       -i, --insts
            Display the instance domains, and any variations in their instance
            members over the duration of the archive:  see  pmGetInDom(3)  for
            more details on instance domains.

       -l, --label
            Dump  the  archive label, showing the log format version, the time
            and date for the start and (current) end of the archive,  and  the
            host from which the performance metrics values were collected.

       -L   Like -l, just a little more verbose.

       -m, --metrics
            Print  the  values  for  the performance metrics from the archive.
            This is the default display option.

            Metrics without an instance domain are reported as:
              [timestamp] metric-id (metric-name): value1 value2

            Metrics with an instance domain are reported as:
              [timestamp] metric-id (metric-name):
                  inst [internal-id or "external-id"] value1 value2

            The timestamp is only reported for the first metric in a group  of
            metrics sharing the same timestamp.

       -M, --markrecs
            If  no  metricname  is  specified then <mark> records are reported
            when they are found in the archive.  If metricname  arguments  are
            specified,  then  <mark> records are not reported by default.  The
            -M option forces <mark> records to be reported, even when  metric‐
            name arguments are specified.

            <mark> records are inserted into a PCP archive log by pmlogger(1),
            pmlogextract(1), and similar tools to indicate a temporal  discon‐
            tinuity in the time-series of metric values.

       -r, --reverse
            Process  the  archive in reverse order, from most recent to oldest
            recorded metric values.

       -s, --sizes
            Report the size in bytes of each physical record in the archive.

       -S starttime, --start=starttime
            When using the -m option, the report will be restricted  to  those
            records  logged at or after starttime.  Refer to PCPIntro(1) for a
            complete description of the syntax for starttime.

       -t   Dump the temporal index that is used to provide accelerated access
            to large archive files.

            The  integrity of the index will also be checked.  If the index is
            found to be corrupted, the ``*.index''  file  can  be  renamed  or
            removed   and  the  archive  will  still  be  accessible,  however
            retrievals may take longer without the index.  Note however that a
            corrupted temporal index is usually indicative of a deeper malaise
            that may infect all files in a PCP archive.

       -T endtime, --finish=endtime
            When using the -m option, the report will be restricted  to  those
            records  logged  before or at endtime.  Refer to PCPIntro(1) for a
            complete description of the syntax for endtime.

       -v file
            Verbose mode.  Dump the records from a physical  archive  file  in
            hexadecimal  format.   In  this  case file is the name of a single
            file, usually a basename (as would otherwise appear as the archive
            command line argument), concatenated with ``.'' followed by one of
            meta (the metadata), index (the temporal index), or a  digit  (one
            of the volumes of metric values).

            Use of -v precludes the use of all other options and arguments.

       -V, --version
            Display version number and exit.

       -x   Extended  timestamp  reporting format that includes the day of the
            week, day of  the  month,  month  and  year  in  addition  to  the
            (default) hours, minutes and seconds time.  This is useful for ar‐
            chives that span multiple days.

            A second -x option will also report the  timestamp  as  an  offset
            from the start of the archive in units of seconds.  This is useful
            in conjunction with debug diagnostics from  the  archive  handling
            routines in libpcp.

       -z, --hostzone
            Change  the timezone to the local timezone at the host that is the
            source of the performance  metrics,  as  specified  in  the  label
            record of the archive log.

       -Z timezone, --timezone=timezone
            By  default,  pmdumplog  reports  the time of day according to the
            local timezone on the system  where  pmdumplog  is  run.   The  -Z
            option changes the timezone to timezone in the format of the envi‐
            ronment variable TZ as described in environ(7).

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

FILES
       $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/<hostname>
            Default directory for PCP archives containing  performance  metric
            values collected from the host hostname.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains  the  local  values  for  these variables.  The
       $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative  configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1),   pmlogcheck(1),  pmlogger(1),  pmlogger_check(1),  pmlog‐
       ger_daily(1), pmloglabel(1), pmlogextract(1), PMAPI(3),  pmGetInDom(3),
       pmLookupDesc(3), pcp.conf(5), pcp.env(5) and PMNS(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                         PMDUMPLOG(1)
