PMFIND(1)                   General Commands Manual                  PMFIND(1)

NAME
       pmfind - find PCP services on the network

SYNOPSIS
       pmfind [-CqrSV?]  [-m mechanism] [-s service] [-t timeout]

DESCRIPTION
       pmfind searches for instances of the specified PCP service being adver‐
       tised on the network and prints a list of  URLs  corresponding  to  the
       services   discovered.    It   can   be   used   in   conjunction  with
       pmfind_check(1) to automate the monitoring of remote PCP collector sys‐
       tems.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -C, --containers
            Performs containers discovery as well, for each discovered pmcd(1)
            service.

       -m mechanism, --mechanism=mechanism
            This option sets the mechanism that pmfind  uses  when  performing
            service  discovery.   By  default, or if the keyword all is speci‐
            fied, every available mechanism will be used  (iteratively).   See
            the  ``MECHANISMS''  section  for  a description of each available
            discovery mechanism.

       -q, --quiet
            This option suppresses all output on the standard output stream.

       -r, --resolve
            Requests that DNS name resolution be attempted for  the  addresses
            of any discovered services.  The default is to display the network
            addresses of any discovered services.

       -s service, --service=service
            By default pmfind will search for all supported PCP services, how‐
            ever a specific PCP service to discover can be specified using the
            -s option.  Supported services are pmcd(1), and pmproxy(1).

       -S, --sources
            Reports source identifiers for each  discovered  pmcd(1)  service.
            These  identifiers  are unique for each host, and are formed using
            the (non-optional) context labels available for every PCP  collec‐
            tor.   Because  the discovery process will often identify multiple
            paths to an individual collector host, this option is an important
            part   of   the  process  of  using  pmfind  in  conjunction  with
            pmfind_check(1), to ensure only  one  pmie(1)  and/or  pmlogger(1)
            process is started for each discovered collector host.  The source
            identifiers reported by pmfind are the same as the source  identi‐
            fiers reported by the pminfo(1) and pmseries(1) commands.

       -t seconds, --timeout=seconds
            Sets  the  maximum amount of time in seconds that pmfind will take
            before interrupting the service discovery.  The time argument is a
            floating  point  number  representing the number of seconds before
            timing out.  The default is to take as much time as is  needed  to
            complete the process.

       -V, --version
            Display version number and exit.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

MECHANISMS
       Supported mechanisms for service discovery are:

       avahi  Searches  for  services  which  are  broadcasting using mDNS via
              avahi-daemon(8).  An optional suffix ",timeout=N" may  be  added
              to  limit the amount of time waiting for the avahi-daemon.  N is
              a floating point number specifying  the  number  of  seconds  to
              wait.   The  default  is  0.5 seconds.  This timeout may also be
              specified by  setting  the  environment  variable  AVAHI_DISCOV‐
              ERY_TIMEOUT to the desired number of seconds.  If both are spec‐
              ified, then the value  specified  in  the  environment  variable
              takes precedence.

       probe=<net-address>/<mask-bits>
              Actively  probes  the  given  subnet  for the requested PCP ser‐
              vice(s).  <net-address> is an Inet or IPv6 network  address  and
              <mask-bits>  is  the  number  of bits used to define the subnet.
              For example, 192.168.1.0/24 defines an 8 bit  subnet  consisting
              of the addresses 192.168.1.0 through 192.168.1.255.  An optional
              suffix ",maxThreads=N" may be  added  to  limit  the  number  of
              threads used while probing.  The default is the value of FD_SET‐
              SIZE (which is typically 1024) or the number of addresses in the
              subnet,  whichever is less.  An optional suffix ",timeout=N" may
              be added to limit the amount of time spent waiting for each con‐
              nection  attempt.   N  is a floating point number specifying the
              number of seconds to wait.  The default is 0.02 seconds (20 mil‐
              liseconds).

       shell  Probes  the  list of addresses provided by scripts for requested
              PCP service(s).  Several  optional,  comma-separated  parameters
              can  also  be  provided.   The  "path=DIR"  option specifies the
              directory  where  commands  like  pcp-kube-pods(1)  are  located
              (defaults  to  $PCP_BINADM_DIR/discover/).   This setting can be
              further restricted to  an  individual  command  using  the  com‐
              mand=CMD  option,  but  the default is to use all available com‐
              mands from the path.  The "maxThreads=N" option limits the  num‐
              ber  of threads used while probing.  The default is the value of
              FD_SETSIZE (which is typically 1024) or the number of  addresses
              returned  by  the  scripts,  whichever is less.  The "timeout=N"
              option may be added to limit the amount of  time  spent  waiting
              for each connection attempt.  N is a floating point number spec‐
              ifying the number of seconds to wait.  The default is 0.02  sec‐
              onds (20 milliseconds).

SIGNALS
       pmfind  will  interrupt  the  service discovery process when one of the
       following  signals  is  received:  SIGHUP,  SIGPIPE,  SIGINT,  SIGTERM,
       SIGXFSZ, SIGXCPU.  pmfind will report any results which were discovered
       up to point of the interruption.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The value of the exit status from the command  is  zero  when  services
       were successfully located, one if no services were found, and two if an
       error occurred.

       In the event of an error a message will be generated on standard  error
       that is intended to be self-explanatory.

FILES
       $PCP_BINADM_DIR/discover
            default path to address discovery scripts

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains  the  local  values  for  these variables.  The
       $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative  configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1), pmcd(1), pmfind_check(1), pmie(1), pminfo(1), pmlogger(1),
       pmproxy(1),  pmseries(1),  pcp-kube-pods(1),   PMAPI(3),   PMWEBAPI(3),
       pmDiscoverServices(3), pcp.conf(5) and pcp.env(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                            PMFIND(1)
