PMJSON(1)                   General Commands Manual                  PMJSON(1)

NAME
       pmjson - Performance Co-Pilot JSON dumping utility

SYNOPSIS
       pmjson [-mpqyV?]  [-i infile] [-o outfile]

DESCRIPTION
       pmjson  is used to manipulate JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format‐
       ted text used in the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP toolkit).  It  can  pro‐
       duce minimal and human readable output formats when it is supplied with
       valid JSON input.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -i infile, --in=infile
            JSON formatted input infile - path to  a  file  from  which  input
            should  be read.  If this option is omitted, then pmjson will read
            from the standard input stream.

       -m, --minimal
            Produce JSON output with all superflous  whitespace  removed  from
            the resulting JSON string.

       -o outfile, --out=outfile
            Formatted  output is written to the named outfile.  If this option
            is omitted, then pmjson will write to the standard output stream.

       -p, --pretty
            Produce JSON output in a human-readable format.

       -q, --quiet
            Verify the input as valid JSON only, no output is produced.

       -V, --version
            Display version number and exit.

       -y, --yaml
            Produce YAML-like output, a human-readable format with  less  syn‐
            tactic sugar than JSON.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains  the  local  values  for  these variables.  The
       $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative  configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       PMWEBAPI(3), pcp.conf(5) and pcp.env(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                            PMJSON(1)
