PMLOGCHECK(1)               General Commands Manual              PMLOGCHECK(1)

NAME
       pmlogcheck - checks for invalid data in a PCP archive

SYNOPSIS
       pmlogcheck  [-lmvwz?]   [-n  pmnsfile] [-S start] [-T finish] [-Z time‐
       zone] archive

DESCRIPTION
       pmlogcheck prints information about the  nature  of  any  invalid  data
       which it detects in the files of a PCP archive.

       The  archive  has  the  base name archive and must have been previously
       created using pmlogger(1).

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -l, --label
            Print the archive label, showing the log format version, the  time
            and  date  for the start and (current) end of the archive, and the
            host from which the performance metrics values were collected.

       -m, --metadataonly
            Skip Pass 3 (see below) and only  check  the  archive  meta  data.
            This  can  run substantially faster in cases where the volume data
            doesn't need to be checked, especially on archives with compressed
            data volume(s).

       -n pmnsfile, --namespace=pmnsfile
            Load  an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS(5)) from
            the file pmnsfile.

       -S starttime, --start=starttime
            Specify the starttime of time window over which metrics should  be
            checked  in  Pass  3 (see below).  Refer to PCPIntro(1) for a com‐
            plete description of the syntax for starttime.

       -T endtime, --finish=endtime
            Specify the endtime of time window over which  metrics  should  be
            checked  in  Pass  3 (see below).  Refer to PCPIntro(1) for a com‐
            plete description of the syntax for endtime.

       -v, --verbose
            Enable verbose mode.

       -w, --nowrap
            Suppress reporting of counter wraps.

       -z, --hostzone
            Use the local timezone of the host that is the source of the  per‐
            formance  metrics  archive.  The default is to use the timezone of
            the local host.

       -Z timezone, --timezone=timezone
            Use timezone for the date and time.  Timezone is in the format  of
            the  environment  variable  TZ  as  described  in environ(7).  The
            default is to use the timezone of the local host.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

OPERATION
       The checking proceeds in a number of passes, each designed to  validate
       progressively  more complex semantic relationships between the informa‐
       tion in a PCP archive.

   Pass 0
       Each physical file of the PCP archive is processed to ensure the  label
       records  are valid and consistent, and that each file contains an inte‐
       gral number of physical records with correct header and trailer fields.

       Any errors at this stage are usually fatal.  The PCP archive is  proba‐
       bly  damaged  beyond  repair,  and  no  more  passes  of pmlogcheck are
       attempted.

   Pass 1
       Validates the integrity of the temporal index, usually archive.index.

       As the temporal index is (strictly speaking) optional, errors  at  this
       stage  are  handled by marking the index as bad and ignoring it for the
       remainder of the pmlogcheck passes.

       Permanent repair can be achieved by removing the  temporal  index  file
       and  then  making  a  copy  of the PCP archive using pmlogrewrite(1) or
       pmlogextract(1).  This will create a new temporal index for the  copied
       archive as a side-effect.

   Pass 2
       Validates the integrity of the metadata file, usually archive.meta.

   Pass 3
       Validates  the integrity of each of the log volumes of the PCP archive,
       usually archive.0, archive.1, etc.

       There is some basic integrity checks to ensure the encoding  of  values
       for  each  metric  remains  consistent  and  the values are well formed
       across all the observations in the archive.

       Also the timestamps for the observations are expected to  be  monotoni‐
       cally increasing as the archive is tranversed.

       Additional   attention   is   given   to  counter  metrics  (type  from
       pmLookupDesc(3) is PM_SEM_COUNTER) which are expected to have monotoni‐
       cally  increasing  values.   If the values are not monotonic increasing
       this may suggest a counter wrap has happened or  there  has  been  some
       interruption  or reset to the underlying source of the performance data
       that is no captured in the archive.

       For each counter metric which has been detected as  having  wrapped  at
       some  point  in  the archive, pmlogcheck produces output describing the
       metric name (with instance identifiers where appropriate), the internal
       storage type for the metric, the value of the metric before the counter
       wrap (with its associated timestamp), and the value of the metric after
       the wrap (also with a timestamp).

       The -w option may be used to suppress reporting of counter wraps.

       pmlogcheck  produces  two different timestamp formats, depending on the
       interval over which it is run.  For an interval greater than 24  hours,
       the date is displayed in addition to the time at which the counter wrap
       occurred.  If the extent of the data being  checked  is  less  than  24
       hours,  a more precise format is used (time is displayed with millisec‐
       ond precision, but without the date).

FILES
       $PCP_VAR_DIR/pmns/*
            default PMNS specification files

       $PCP_LOG_DIR/pmlogger/<hostname>
            default directory for PCP  archives  containing  performance  data
            collected from the host hostname.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains  the  local  values  for  these variables.  The
       $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative  configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1),    pmdumplog(1),   pmlogextract(1),   pmlogger(1),   pmlo‐
       grewrite(1), pmlogsummary(1), pmLookupDesc(3), pcp.conf(5),  pcp.env(5)
       and PMNS(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                        PMLOGCHECK(1)
