PMLOGEXTRACT(1)             General Commands Manual            PMLOGEXTRACT(1)

NAME
       pmlogextract  -  reduce, extract, concatenate and merge Performance Co-
       Pilot archives

SYNOPSIS
       pmlogextract [-dfmwxz?]  [-c configfile] [-S  starttime]  [-s  samples]
       [-T endtime] [-v volsamples] [-Z timezone] input [...] output

DESCRIPTION
       pmlogextract  reads one or more Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive logs
       identified by input and creates a temporally merged and/or reduced  PCP
       archive  log in output.  input is a comma-separated list of names, each
       of which may be the base name of an archive or the name of a  directory
       containing  one  or more archives.  The nature of merging is controlled
       by the number of input archive logs, while the nature of data reduction
       is controlled by the command line arguments.  The input(s) must be sets
       of PCP archive logs created by pmlogger(1) with performance  data  col‐
       lected  from the same host, but usually over different time periods and
       possibly (although not  usually)  with  different  performance  metrics
       being logged.

       If only one input is specified, then the default behavior simply copies
       the input set of PCP archive logs, into the  output  PCP  archive  log.
       When  two  or more sets of PCP archive logs are specified as input, the
       sets of logs are merged (or concatenated) and written to output.

       In the output archive log a <mark> record may be  inserted  at  a  time
       just  past the end of each of the input archive logs to indicate a pos‐
       sible temporal discontinuity between the end of one input  archive  log
       and the start of the next input archive log.  See the MARK RECORDS sec‐
       tion below for more information.  There is no <mark> record  after  the
       end of the last (in temporal order) of the input archive logs.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -c config, --config=config
            Extract  only  the  metrics specified in config from the input PCP
            archive log(s).  The config syntax  accepted  by  pmlogextract  is
            explained in more detail in the Configuration File Syntax section.

       -d, --desperate
            Desperate  mode.   Normally  if a fatal error occurs, all trace of
            the partially written PCP archive output is removed.  With the  -d
            option, the output archive log is not removed.

       -f, --first
            For most common uses, all of the input archive logs will have been
            collected in the same timezone.  But if this is not the case, then
            pmlogextract  must  choose one of the timezones from the input ar‐
            chive logs to be used as the timezone for the output archive  log.
            The  default  is  to  use the timezone from the last input archive
            log.  The -f option forces the timezone from the first  input  ar‐
            chive log to be used.

       -m, --mark
            As  described  in  the MARK RECORDS section below, sometimes it is
            possible to safely omit <mark> records from  the  output  archive.
            If the -m option is specified, then the epilogue and prologue test
            is skipped and a <mark> record will always be inserted at the  end
            of each input archive (except the last).  This is the original be‐
            haviour for pmlogextract.

       -S starttime, --start=starttime
            Define the  start  of  a  time  window  to  restrict  the  samples
            retrieved  or specify a ``natural'' alignment of the output sample
            times; refer to PCPIntro(1).  See also the -w option.

       -s samples, --samples=samples
            The argument samples defines the number of samples to  be  written
            to  output.   If samples is 0 or -s is not specified, pmlogextract
            will sample until the end of the PCP archive log, or  the  end  of
            the time window as specified by -T, whichever comes first.  The -s
            option will override the -T option if it occurs sooner.

       -T endtime, --finish=endtime
            Define the termination of a time window to  restrict  the  samples
            retrieved  or specify a ``natural'' alignment of the output sample
            times; refer to PCPIntro(1).  See also the -w option.

       -v volsamples
            The output archive log is potentially a multi-volume data set, and
            the -v option causes pmlogextract to start a new volume after vol‐
            samples log records have been written to the archive log.

            Independent of any -v option, each volume of an archive is limited
            to  no  more  than  2^31 bytes, so pmlogextract will automatically
            create a new volume for the archive before this limit is reached.

       -w   Where -S and -T specify a time window within the same day, the  -w
            flag  will  cause the data within the time window to be extracted,
            for every day in the archive log.  For example, the options -w  -S
            @11:00  -T @15:00 specify that pmlogextract should include archive
            log records only for the periods from 11am to  3pm  on  each  day.
            When  -w  is  used,  the  output  archive  log will contain <mark>
            records to indicate the temporal discontinuity between the end  of
            one time window and the start of the next.

       -x   It  is expected that the metadata (name, PMID, type, semantics and
            units) for each metric will be consistent across all of the  input
            PCP  archive  log(s) in which that metric appears.  In rare cases,
            e.g. in development, in QA and when a PMDA is upgraded,  this  may
            not  be  the case and pmlogextract will report the issue and abort
            without creating the output archive log.   This  is  done  so  the
            problem  can  be  fixed  with  pmlogrewrite(1) before retrying the
            merge.  In unattended or QA environments it may be  preferable  to
            force the merge and omit the metrics with the mismatched metadata.
            The -x option does this.

       -Z timezone, --timezone=timezone
            Use timezone when displaying the date and time.   Timezone  is  in
            the  format  of  the environment variable TZ as described in envi‐
            ron(7).  The default is to initially use the timezone of the local
            host.

       -z, --hostzone
            Use  the  local  timezone of the host from the input archive logs.
            The default is to initially use the timezone of the local host.

       -?   Display usage message and exit.

CONFIGURATION FILE SYNTAX
       The configfile contains metrics of interest - only  those  metrics  (or
       instances) mentioned explicitly or implicitly in the configuration file
       will be included in the output archive.  Each specifications must begin
       on  a  new line, and may span multiple lines in the configuration file.
       Instances may also be specified, but they are optional.  The format for
       each specification is

               metric [[instance[,instance...]]]

       where  metric  may be a leaf or a non-leaf name in the Performance Met‐
       rics Name Space (PMNS, see PMNS(5)).  If a metric refers to a  non-leaf
       node  in  the  PMNS, pmlogextract will recursively descend the PMNS and
       include all metrics corresponding to descendent leaf nodes.

       Instances are optional, and may be specified as a list of one  or  more
       space  (or comma) separated names, numbers or strings (enclosed in sin‐
       gle or double quotes).  Elements in  the  list  that  are  numbers  are
       assumed  to  be  internal  instance identifiers - see pmGetInDom(3) for
       more information.  If no instances are given, then all instances of the
       associated metric(s) will be extracted.

       Any  additional white space is ignored and comments may be added with a
       `#' prefix.

CONFIGURATION FILE EXAMPLE
       This is an example of a valid configfile:

               #
               # config file for pmlogextract
               #

               kernel.all.cpu
               kernel.percpu.cpu.sys ["cpu0","cpu1"]
               disk.dev ["dks0d1"]

MARK RECORDS
       When more than one input archive log contributes  performance  data  to
       the output archive log, then <mark> records may be inserted to indicate
       a possible discontinuity in the performance data.

       A <mark> record contains a timestamp and no  performance  data  and  is
       used  to  indicate  that  there is a time period in the PCP archive log
       where we do not know the values of  any  performance  metrics,  because
       there  was  no  pmlogger(1)  collecting  performance  data  during this
       period.  Since these periods are often associated with the restart of a
       service  or  pmcd(1) or a system, there may be considerable doubt as to
       the continuity of performance data across this time period.

       Most current archives are created with a prologue record at the  begin‐
       ning  and  an  epilogue  record at the end.  These records identify the
       state of pmcd(1) at the time, and may be used by pmlogextract to deter‐
       mine  that there is no discontinuity between the end of one archive and
       the next output record, and as a  consequence  the  <mark>  record  can
       safely be omitted from the output archive.

       The  rationale  behind <mark> records may be demonstrated with an exam‐
       ple.  Consider one input archive log that starts at 00:10 and  ends  at
       09:15  on  the  same  day, and another input archive log that starts at
       09:20 on the same day and ends at 00:10 the  following  morning.   This
       would  be a very common case for archives managed and rotated by pmlog‐
       ger_check(1) and pmlogger_daily(1).

       The output archive log created by pmlogextract would contain:
       00:10.000    first record from first input archive log
       ...
       09:15.000    last record from first input archive log
       09:15.001    <mark> record
       09:20.000    first record from second input archive log
       ...
       01:10.000    last record from second input archive log

       The time period where the performance data is missing starts just after
       09:15  and ends just before 09:20.  When the output archive log is pro‐
       cessed with any of the PCP reporting tools, the <mark> record  is  used
       to indicate a period of missing data.  For example using the output ar‐
       chive above, imagine one was reporting  the  average  I/O  rate  at  30
       minute intervals aligned on the hour and half-hour.  The I/O count met‐
       ric is a counter, so the average I/O rate  requires  two  valid  values
       from  consecutive  sample  times.   There  would  be values for all the
       intervals ending at 09:00, then no  values  at  09:30  because  of  the
       <mark>  record,  then no values at 10:00 because the ``prior'' value at
       09:30 is not available, then the rate would be reported again at  10:30
       and continue every 30 minutes until the last reported value at 01:00.

       The  presence of <mark> records in a PCP archive log can be established
       using pmdumplog(1) where a timestamp and the annotation <mark> is  used
       to indicate a <mark> record.

METADATA CHECKS
       When  more  than  one input archive set is specified, pmlogextract per‐
       forms a number of checks to ensure the metadata is consistent for  met‐
       rics  appearing  in  more  than  one  of the input archive sets.  These
       checks include:

       * metric data type is the same
       * metric semantics are the same
       * metric units are the same
       * metric is either always singular or  always  has  the  same  instance
         domain
       * metrics with the same name have the same PMID
       * metrics with the same PMID have the same name

       If  any  of  these  checks  fail,  pmlogextract reports the details and
       aborts without creating the output archive.

       To address these semantic issues, use pmlogrewrite(1) to translate  the
       input  archives  into  equivalent  archives  with  consistent metdadata
       before using pmlogextract.

CAVEATS
       The preamble metrics  (pmcd.pmlogger.archive,  pmcd.pmlogger.host,  and
       pmcd.pmlogger.port),  which  are  automatically recorded by pmlogger at
       the start of the archive, may not be present in the archive  output  by
       pmlogextract.   These  metrics  are  only relevant while the archive is
       being created, and have no significance once recording has finished.

DIAGNOSTICS
       All error conditions detected by pmlogextract are  reported  on  stderr
       with textual (if sometimes terse) explanation.

       If  one  of  the  input  archives  contains  no archive records then an
       ``empty archive'' warning is issued and that archive is skipped.

       Should one of the input archive logs be corrupted (this can  happen  if
       the pmlogger instance writing the log suddenly dies), then pmlogextract
       will detect and report the position of the corruption in the file,  and
       any subsequent information from that archive log will not be processed.

       If  any  error is detected, pmlogextract will exit with a non-zero sta‐
       tus.

FILES
       For each of the input and output archive logs, several  physical  files
       are used.

       archive.meta
            metadata (metric descriptions, instance domains, etc.) for the ar‐
            chive log

       archive.0
            initial volume of metrics values (subsequent volumes have suffixes
            1,  2,  ...) - for input these files may have been previously com‐
            pressed with bzip2(1) or gzip(1) and thus may have  an  additional
            .bz2 or .gz suffix.

       archive.index
            temporal  index  to support rapid random access to the other files
            in the archive log.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file  and  directory names used by PCP.  On each installation, the file
       /etc/pcp.conf contains the  local  values  for  these  variables.   The
       $PCP_CONF  variable may be used to specify an alternative configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

       For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see pmGetOptions(3).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1), pmdumplog(1), pmlc(1), pmlogger(1), pmlogreduce(1),  pmlo‐
       grewrite(1), pcp.conf(5), pcp.env(5) and PMNS(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                      PMLOGEXTRACT(1)
