PMLOGCONF(1)                General Commands Manual               PMLOGCONF(1)

NAME
       pmlogconf - create/edit a pmlogger configuration file

SYNOPSIS
       pmlogconf  [-cqrvV?]  [-d groupsdir] [-g grouptag] [-h host] [-s group‐
       file] configfile

DESCRIPTION
       pmlogconf may be used to create and modify a generic configuration file
       for the PCP archive logger, pmlogger(1).

       If  configfile does not exist, pmlogconf will create a generic configu‐
       ration file with a default set of enabled metrics  and  logging  inter‐
       vals.

       Once  created, configfile may be used with the -c option to pmlogger(1)
       to select performance metrics and specify logging intervals for  a  PCP
       archive.

       If configfile does exist, pmlogconf will prompt for input from the user
       to enable or disable groups of related performance metrics and to  con‐
       trol the logging interval for each enabled group.

       Group  selection  requires  a  simple y (yes) or n (no) response to the
       prompt Log this group?.

       Other responses at this point may be used to select additional  control
       functions as follows:

       m         Report the names of the metrics in the current group.

       q         Finish  with  group  selection  (quit)  and  make  no further
                 changes to this group or any subsequent group.

       /pattern  Make no change to this group but search for a group  contain‐
                 ing  pattern  in the description of the group or the names of
                 the associated metrics.

       A logging interval is specified by responding to the Logging  interval?
       prompt  with the keywords once or default or a valid pmlogger(1) inter‐
       val specification of the form ``every N timeunits'' or simply ``N time‐
       units  ''  (the  every  is optional) where N is an unsigned integer and
       timeunits is one of the keywords msec, millisecond, sec,  second,  min,
       minute, hour or the plural form of one of the keywords.

       When  run from automated logging setup processes, the -c option is used
       to indicate that pmlogconf is in auto-create mode  and  no  interactive
       dialog  takes  place.   The output configfile has an additional comment
       message and timestamp indicating this fact, so that it can  be  identi‐
       fied  and  subsequently  updated  using  -c  again.  This option is not
       appropriate for interactive use of the tool.

       The -q option suppresses the logging interval dialog and preserves  the
       current interval from configfile.

       More verbose output may be enabled with the -v option.

SETUP GROUP FILES
       When  an initial configfile is created, the default specifications come
       from a set of group files below the groupsdir  specified  with  the  -d
       option (the default groupsdir is $PCP_VAR_DIR/config/pmlogconf which is
       most commonly correct, so the -d option is rarely used in practice).

       The directory structure below groupsdir is  arbitrary  as  all  regular
       files  will  be  found  by  recursive descent and considered, so add-on
       products and PMDA developers can easily extend the  available  defaults
       to pmlogconf by adding new directories and/or group files below groups‐
       dir.

       These group files are processed in the following ways:

       ·  When a new configfile is created, all group files are processed.

       ·  Whenever pmlogconf is run with an existing configfile, groupsdir  is
          traversed  to  see if any new groups have been defined and should be
          considered for inclusion in configfile.

       ·  When pmlogconf processes a group in configfile that is enabled,  the
          list  of  metrics  associated with the group is taken from the group
          file (and replaces any previous list of metrics associated with this
          group in configfile).

       ·  When  either  the  -r (reprobe) or the -c (auto-create) command line
          option is specified, every group (not just newly discovered ones) is
          reprocessed  to see if it should be considered for inclusion in con‐
          figfile.

       ·  If a group is found in configfile but the corresponding  group  does
          not exist below groupsdir (as would be the case when a group is made
          obsolete by a PCP upgrade) then the handling of the group depends on
          the mode in which pmlogconf is being run.  With -c the corresponding
          group is culled from configfile, otherwise the  corresponding  group
          is unchanged in configfile.  In either case a warning is issued.

       Each group file is structured as follows:

       ·  The first line must contain #pmlogconf-setup 2.0

       ·  Other lines beginning with # are treated as comments.

       ·  Blank lines are ignored.

       ·  One  or  more lines starting with the keyword ident are used to pro‐
          vide the human-readable description of the group.

       ·  Non-blank lines beginning with white  space  define  metrics  to  be
          associated with this group, one per line.  Each metric specification
          follows the rules for a pmlogger(1) configuration, namely either the
          name  of  a non-leaf node in the PMNS (implying all descendent names
          in the PMNS), or the name of a leaf node in the PMNS optionally fol‐
          lowed by one or more instance names enclosed by ``['' and ``]''.

       ·  A control line starting with one of the keywords probe or force must
          be present.

       ·  An optional logging interval control line begins  with  the  keyword
          delta  followed  by  one  of  the pmlogger(1) interval specification
          described above.

       ·  probe control lines have the format:
                         probe metric [condition [state_rule] ]
          where metric is the name of a PCP metric (must be a leaf node in the
          PMNS,  no  instance  specification  is allowed, and it must not be a
          derived metric) and the optional condition  is  the  keyword  exists
          (true  if metric exists, i.e. is defined in the PMNS) or the keyword
          values (true if metric exists in the PMNS and has one or  more  cur‐
          rent values) or an expression of the form
                                         op val
          where  op  is  one  of the awk(1) operators (==, !=, >, >=, <, <=, ~
          (regular expression match) or !~ (negated regular expression match))
          and  val  is  a value (arbitrary sequence of characters, excluding a
          space) and the condition is true if there is some instance of metric
          that makes the expression true.

          If the condition is missing, the default is exists.

          When  an  explicit  condition  is  provided,  there  may  also be an
          optional state_rule of the form
                               ? true_state : false_state
          where true_state (applies if  condition  is  true)  and  false_state
          (applies  if  condition  is  false) are both taken from the keywords
          include (include and enable the group and the associated metrics  in
          configfile),  available (include and disable the group in configfile
          - a user action of y as described above  is  needed  to  enable  the
          group  and  add  the  associated metrics into configfile) or exclude
          (the group is not considered for inclusion in configfile).

          The default state_rule is
                                 ? available : exclude

       ·  force control lines begin with the keyword force followed by one  of
          the  states defined above, so one of the actions include, exclude or
          available is applied unconditionally to the group.

       Probing is only done when a new group is being added to  configfile  or
       when  the  -r  command line option is specified.  The evaluation of the
       probing conditions is done by contacting pmcd(1) on hostname  (defaults
       to local:).

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -c   Enable non-interactive, auto-create mode.

       -d groupdir, --groups=groupdir
            Specify the path to the groupsdir directory.

       -g grouptag, --group=grouptag
            Query logging state for the specific logging group named grouptag.

       -h host, --host=host
            Performance  metrics source is pmcd(1) on host, rather than on the
            default localhost.

       -q, --quiet
            Quiet mode, suppress logging interval dialog.

       -r, --reprobe
            Reconsider every group for inclusion in the configfile.

       -s groupfile, --setup=groupfile
            Report the default logging state for  the  one  logging  group  in
            groupfile.   This  is  equivalent  output  to that produced by the
            retired pmlogconf-setup shell script from earlier versions of PCP.

       -v, --verbose
            Enable verbose mode.

       -V, --version
            Display version number and exit.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

EXAMPLE
       The following group file demonstrates all of  the  supported  syntactic
       elements.

       #pmlogconf-setup 2.0
       ident   Example group file
       ident   ... more description
       delta   1 minute
       probe   sample.secret.foo.one values ? include : exclude
               sample.secret.foo.one
               sample.secret.foo.bar   # non-leaf in the PMNS
               sample.colour [ red green ]

MIGRATION
       The  current  version  of pmlogconf (2.0) supports a slightly different
       format for configfile compared to earlier versions.  If an old  version
       configfile  is  presented  to pmlogconf it will be converted to the new
       format.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file  and  directory names used by PCP.  On each installation, the file
       /etc/pcp.conf contains the  local  values  for  these  variables.   The
       $PCP_CONF  variable may be used to specify an alternative configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

       pmlogconf overrides any $PCP_DERIVED_CONFIG environment variable to  an
       empty string, for performance reasons.

       pmlogconf  honours  the  $PMCD_WAIT_TIMEOUT  environment  variable when
       probing and creating new  pmlogger  configuration  files.   It  uses  a
       default  timeout  value  of  10  seconds for this, in the absence of an
       environment setting.

SEE ALSO
       pmcd(1), pmlogger(1), pcp.conf(5) and pcp.env(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                         PMLOGCONF(1)
