PMLOGSIZE(1)                General Commands Manual               PMLOGSIZE(1)

NAME
       pmlogsize - report sizes for parts of PCP archive(s)

SYNOPSIS
       pmlogsize [-drv?]  [-x threshold] archive [...]

DESCRIPTION
       pmlogsize  prints information about the size of the index, metadata and
       data sections of a Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive.  The  output  is
       intended  to  guide  improvements  in  archive  encoding format for PCP
       developers and to help trim pmlogger(1) configuration files  to  remove
       metrics  that are bloating the PCP archives with low-value data in pro‐
       duction environments.

       The archive arguments can be any mixture of the names of  the  physical
       files of a PCP archive or the basename that is common to all the compo‐
       nent physical files in a single archive.  In the latter case archive is
       replaced by a list of all of the matching component file names.

       Note  the  semantics  is  a little different to other PCP tools in that
       foo.meta means just the file foo.meta, not foo.index, foo.meta,  foo.0,
       etc.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -d, --detail
            Enable  detailed  reporting.  This means space per instance domain
            in a metadata file and space per metric (for  values)  in  a  data
            file.

       -r, --replication
            Display additional information about possible replicated values in
            the data file and replicated instances in the metadata file.  This
            option implies -d.

       -x threshold, --threshold=threshold
            With  -d (or -r), cut off the report after at least threshold per‐
            cent of the associated space (metric values or  instance  domains)
            has been reported.  The default behaviour is equivalent to thresh‐
            old being set to 100.

       -v, --verbose
            Enable verbose mode.  This option can be provided more  than  once
            for additional verbosity.

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file and directory names used by PCP.  On each installation,  the  file
       /etc/pcp.conf  contains  the  local  values  for  these variables.  The
       $PCP_CONF variable may be used to specify an alternative  configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1), pmdumplog(1), pmlogcheck(1) and pmlogger(1).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                         PMLOGSIZE(1)
