PMTIME(1)                   General Commands Manual                  PMTIME(1)

NAME
       pmtime - time control server for Performance Co-Pilot

SYNOPSIS
       pmtime [-?]  [-p port]

DESCRIPTION
       pmtime  is a graphical user interface for performance monitoring appli‐
       cations using the PCP infrastructure  and  requiring  interactive  time
       control.

       pmtime  is  not normally invoked directly by users.  Rather, it is more
       typical for it to be started by client applications (e.g.   pmchart(1),
       pmstat(1) or pmval(1)).

       There  are  two  modes of interacting with a pmtime process - live host
       mode, and historical archive mode.  In archive mode the window presents
       time  controls suitable for manipulating the archive position, allowing
       full VCR control to move forwards and backwards in time at configurable
       rates  and intervals.  In live mode the pmtime window contains the sim‐
       pler time controls suitable for live monitoring.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -p port, --port=port
            port is the port number which pmtime will  use  for  communication
            with its clients (monitoring applications).

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

       Note  that  the  pmtime  window  is  only  made visible when explicitly
       requested.  Multiple client applications can be connected to  a  single
       pmtime  server  -  when the final client application exits, pmtime will
       also exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       When a port number is not explicitly requested on the command line  via
       the -p option, the environment variable PMTIME_PORT can be set to spec‐
       ify the port number from which  available-port  probing  will  commence
       when pmtime is searching for a port number to use.

       The default starting port number is 43334.

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1), pmchart(1), pmstat(1) and pmval(1).

Performance Co-Pilot                                                 PMTIME(1)
