PMVAL(1)                    General Commands Manual                   PMVAL(1)

NAME
       pmval, pmevent - arbitrary performance metrics value dumper

SYNOPSIS
       pmval   [-dgLrvVXz?]    [-a   archive]  [-A  align]  [--container=name]
       [--derived=file] [-f N] [-h host] [-i instances] [-K  spec]  [-n  pmns‐
       file]  [-O  offset] [-p port] [-s samples] [-S starttime] [-t interval]
       [-T endtime] [-U archive] [-w width] [-x pattern] [-Z timezone] metric‐
       name

       pmevent ...

DESCRIPTION
       pmval  prints  current or archived values for the nominated performance
       metric.  The metric of interest is named in  the  metricname  argument,
       subject to instance qualification with the -i flag as described below.

       Unless  directed  to  another host by the -h option, or to a set of ar‐
       chives by the -a or -U options, pmval will contact the Performance Met‐
       rics  Collector  Daemon (PMCD) on the local host to obtain the required
       information.

       The metricname argument may also be given in the  metric  specification
       syntax,  as  described  in  PCPIntro(1),  where  the source, metric and
       instance may all be included  in  the  metricname,  e.g.  thathost:ker‐
       nel.all.load["1  minute"].  When this format is used, none of the -h or
       -a or -U options may be specified.

       When using the metric  specification  syntax,  the  ``hostname''  @  is
       treated  specially  and  causes pmval to use a local context to collect
       metrics from PMDAs on the local host without PMCD.  Only  some  metrics
       are available in this mode.

       When  processing a set of archives, pmval may relinquish its own timing
       control, and operate under the control of a a  pmtime(1)  process  that
       uses  a GUI dialog to provide timing control.  In this case, either the
       -g option should be used to start pmval as the sole  client  of  a  new
       pmtime(1) instance, or -p should be used to attach pmval to an existing
       pmtime(1) instance via the IPC channel identified by the port argument.

       The -S, -T, -O and -A options may be used to define a  time  window  to
       restrict  the  samples retrieved, set an initial origin within the time
       window, or specify a ``natural'' alignment of the sample  times;  refer
       to PCPIntro(1) for a complete description of these options.

       The  output  from  pmval is directed to standard output.  The following
       symbols may occasionally appear, in place of a metric value,  in  pmval
       output:  A question mark symbol (?) indicates that a value is no longer
       available for that metric instance.  An exclamation mark (!)  indicates
       that a 64-bit counter wrapped during the sample.

       pmevent is an alias for pmval.

OPTIONS
       The available command line options are:

       -a archive, --archive=archive
            Performance  metric  values  are retrieved from the set of Perfor‐
            mance Co-Pilot (PCP) archive log files identified by  the  archive
            argument,  which is a comma-separated list of names, each of which
            may be the base name of an archive or the name of a directory con‐
            taining one or more archives.  See also -U.

       -A align, --align=align
            Force  the initial sample to be aligned on the boundary of a natu‐
            ral time unit align.  Refer to PCPIntro(1) for a complete descrip‐
            tion of the syntax for align.

       --container=container
            Specify an individual container to be queried.

       -d, --delay
            When replaying from an archive, this option requests that the pre‐
            vailing real-time delay be applied between  samples  (see  -t)  to
            effect  a pause, rather than the default behaviour of replaying at
            full speed.

       --derived=file
            Load derived metric definitions from file.

       -f precision, --precision=precision
            Numbers are reported in ``fixed point'' notation, rather than  the
            default scientific notation, using precision digits for precision.
            Each number will be up to  the  column  width  determined  by  the
            default  heuristics,  else the -w option if specified, and include
            precision digits after the decimal point.  So, the options -f 3 -w
            8 would produce numbers of the form 9999.999.  A value of zero for
            precision omits the decimal point and any fractional digits.

       -g, --guimode
            Start pmval as the sole client of a new pmtime(1)  server  process
            for replay of archived performance data using the pmtime(1) graph‐
            ical user interface.

       -h host, --host=host
            Fetch performance metrics from pmcd(1) on host, rather  than  from
            the default localhost.

       -i instances, --instances=instances
            Specify a list of one or more names of instances for the nominated
            performance metric - just these instances will  be  retrieved  and
            reported  (the default is to report all instances).  The list must
            be a single argument, with elements of the list separated by  com‐
            mas and/or white space.

            The  instance  name  may  be  quoted with single (') or double (")
            quotes for those cases where  the  instance  name  contains  white
            space or commas.

            Multiple  -i options are allowed as an alternative way of specify‐
            ing more than one instance of interest.

            As an example, the following are all equivalent:

                 $ pmval -i "'1 minute','5 minute'" kernel.all.load
                 $ pmval -i '"1 minute","5 minute"' kernel.all.load
                 $ pmval -i "'1 minute' '5 minute'" kernel.all.load
                 $ pmval -i "'1 minute'" -i "'5 minute'" kernel.all.load
                 $ pmval 'localhost:kernel.all.load["1 minute","5 minute"]'

       -K spec, --spec-local=spec
            When fetching metrics from a local context (see -L), the -K option
            may  be used to control the DSO PMDAs that should be made accessi‐
            ble.  The spec  argument  conforms  to  the  syntax  described  in
            pmSpecLocalPMDA(3).  More than one -K option may be used.

       -L, --local-PMDA
            Use a local context to collect metrics from DSO PMDAs on the local
            host without PMCD.  See also -K.

       -n pmnsfile, --namespace=pmnsfile
            Load an alternative Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS(5))  from
            the file pmnsfile.

       -O origin, --origin=origin
            When  reporting archived metrics, start reporting at origin within
            the time window (see -S and -T).  Refer to PCPIntro(1) for a  com‐
            plete description of the syntax for origin.

       -p port, --guiport=port
            Attach  pmval  to  an  existing  pmtime(1)  time  control  process
            instance via the IPC channel  identified  by  the  port  argument.
            This   option   is   normally  only  used  by  other  tools,  e.g.
            pmchart(1), when they launch pmval with synchronized time control.

       -r, --raw
            Print raw values for cumulative counter metrics.  Normally cumula‐
            tive  counter  metrics  are converted to rates.  For example, disk
            transfers are reported as number of disk transfers per second dur‐
            ing  the  preceding  sample interval, rather than the raw value of
            number of disk transfers since the machine  was  booted.   If  you
            specify this option, the raw metric values are printed.

       -s samples, --samples=samples
            The samples argument defines the number of samples to be retrieved
            and reported.  If samples is 0 or -s is not specified, pmval  will
            sample  and  report  continuously (in real time mode) or until the
            end of the set of PCP archives (in archive mode).

       -S starttime, --start=starttime
            When reporting archived metrics, the report will be restricted  to
            those  records logged at or after starttime.  Refer to PCPIntro(1)
            for a complete description of the syntax for starttime.

       -t interval, --interval=interval
            Set the reporting interval to something other than the  default  1
            second.   The  interval  argument  follows the syntax described in
            PCPIntro(1), and in the simplest form may be an  unsigned  integer
            (the implied units in this case are seconds).

       -T endtime, --finish=endtime
            When  reporting archived metrics, the report will be restricted to
            those records logged before or at endtime.  Refer  to  PCPIntro(1)
            for a complete description of the syntax for endtime.

       -U archive, --nointerp=archive
            Performance  metric  values are retrieved from the Performance Co-
            Pilot (PCP) archive.  The argument is a  comma-separated  list  of
            names,  each  of  which  may be the base name of an archive or the
            name of a directory containing one  or  more  archives.   However,
            unlike  -a  every  recorded  value in the archive for the selected
            metric and instances is reported (so no  interpolation  mode,  and
            the sample interval (-t option) is ignored.  See also -a.

            At most one of the options -a and -U may be specified.

       -v, --verbose
            Enable verbose mode.

       -V, --version
            Display version number and exit.

       -w width, --width=width
            Set  the  width  of each column of output to be width columns.  If
            not specified columns are wide enough to accommodate  the  largest
            value of the type being printed.

       -x pattern, --filter=pattern
            The  given  pattern is sent to the performance metric domain agent
            for the requested metricname  before  any  values  are  requested.
            This  serves  two  purposes.  Firstly, it provides a mechanism for
            server-side event filtering that is  customisable  for  individual
            event  streams.   In  addition,  some  performance  metrics domain
            agents also use the PMCD store mechanism to provide a basic  secu‐
            rity  model (e.g. for sensitive log files, only a client host with
            pmStore(3) access would be able to access the event stream).

            As pattern may be processed by regcomp(3) it should be a non-empty
            string.  Use . (dot) for a “match all” pattern.

       -X, --timestamp
            When  replaying  from  an  archive,  this option requests that the
            timestamp  be  reported  with  additional  date  information   and
            microsecond precision, for example Sat May 22 20:32:20.971633 2021
            instead of the default format, for example 20:32:20.971.

       -z, --hostzone
            Use the local timezone of the host that is the source of the  per‐
            formance  metrics, as identified by either the -h or the -a or the
            -U options.  The default is to use the timezone of the local host.

       -Z timezone, --timezone=timezone
            Use timezone for the date and time.  Timezone is in the format  of
            the environment variable TZ as described in environ(7).

       -?, --help
            Display usage message and exit.

CAVEATS
       By  default,  pmval attempts to display non-integer numeric values in a
       way that does not distort the inherent precision (rarely  more  than  4
       significant digits), and tries to maintain a tabular format in the out‐
       put.  These goals are sometimes in conflict.

       In the absence of the -f option (described above), the following  table
       describes  the  formats used for different ranges of numeric values for
       any metric that is of type PM_TYPE_FLOAT or PM_TYPE_DOUBLE, or any met‐
       ric  that  has  the semantics of a counter (for which pmval reports the
       rate converted value):

                         ┌──────────┬──────────────────────┐
                         │ Format   │     Value Range      │
                         ├──────────┼──────────────────────┤
                         │        ! │ No values available  │
                         │9.999E-99 │ < 0.1                │
                         │   0.0    │ 0                    │
                         │   9.9999 │ > 0 and <= 0.9999    │
                         │   9.999  │ > 0.9999 and < 9.999 │
                         │  99.99   │ > 9.999 and < 99.99  │
                         │ 999.9    │ > 99.99 and < 999.9  │
                         │9999.     │ > 999.9 and < 9999   │
                         │9.999E+99 │ > 9999               │
                         └──────────┴──────────────────────┘
PCP ENVIRONMENT
       Environment variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to parameterize the
       file  and  directory names used by PCP.  On each installation, the file
       /etc/pcp.conf contains the  local  values  for  these  variables.   The
       $PCP_CONF  variable may be used to specify an alternative configuration
       file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

       For environment variables affecting PCP tools, see pmGetOptions(3).

SEE ALSO
       PCPIntro(1),   pmcd(1),   pmchart(1),   pmdumplog(1),    pmdumptext(1),
       pminfo(1),  pmlogger(1),  pmrep(1),  pmtime(1),  PMAPI(3),  pmStore(3),
       pmSpecLocalPMDA(3), pcp.conf(5), pcp.env(5) and PMNS(5).

Performance Co-Pilot                  PCP                             PMVAL(1)
