pocompendium(1)                                                                             Translate Toolkit 1.3.0                                                                             pocompendium(1)

NAME
       pocompendium - Create a PO compendium from a directory of PO files.

SYNOPSIS
       pocompendium [options] output.po <-d po-directory(ies)|po-file(s)>

DESCRIPTION
       Takes  a  directory  of  translated  PO  files  and creates a single PO files called a PO compendium. This compendium can be used to review word choice conflicts or as input during a merge using pomi‐
       grate(1).

OPTIONS
       -v, --invert
              creates an inverse compendium with msgid and msgstr swapped

       -e, --errors
              only output message bundles that have conflicts

       -c, --correct
              only output message bundles that are correctly translated

       -i, --ignore-case
              drops all strings to lowercase

       -st, -tilde, --strip-accel-amp
              remove all & style accelerator markers

       -sa, -amp, --strip-accel-tilde
              remove all ~ style accelerator markers

       -su, --strip-accel-under
              remove all _ style accelerator markers

EXAMPLES
   Compendium creation
       create a compendium with all your translations to use as input during a message merge either when migrating an existing project or starting a new one.

   Conflicting translations
       use --errors to find where you have translated an English string differently. Many times this is OK but often it will pick up subtle spelling mistakes or help you to migrate older  translations  to  a
       newer choice of words.

   Conflicting word choice
       use --invert and --errors to get a compendium file that show how you have used a translated word for different English words. You might have chosen a word that is valid for both of the English expres‐
       sions but that in the context of computers would cause confusion for the user.  You can now easily identify these words and make changes in the underlying translations.

Narrowing Results
       PO files treat slight changes in capitalisation, accelerator, punctuation and whitespace as different translations. In cases 2) and 3) above it is sometimes useful to  remove  the  inconsistencies  so
       that you can focus on the errors in translation not on shifts in capitals. To this end you can use the following: --ignore-case, --strip-accel-amp, --strip-accel-tilde, --strip-accel-under.

OPERATION
       pocompendium makes use of the Gettext tool msgcat(1) to perform its task. It traverses the PO directories and cat's all found PO files into the single compendium output file. It then uses msgattrib(1)
       to extract only certain messages, msghack to invert messages and msgfilter(1) to convert messages to lowercase.

BUGS
       There are some absolute/relative path name issues.

                                                                                            Translate Toolkit 1.3.0                                                                             pocompendium(1)
