POM2(1p)                                                                              User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                              POM2(1p)

NAME
       pom2 - convert POD to Text, HTML, etc., with Pod::POM

SYNOPSIS
           pom2 text MyFile.pm > MyFile.txt
           pom2 html MyFile.pm > MyFile.html
           pom2 pod  MyFile.pm > Myfile.pod

           pom2 format [options] MyFile.pm > Myfile.xyz

DESCRIPTION
       This script uses "Pod::POM" to convert a Pod document into text, HTML, back into Pod (e.g. to normalise a document to fix any markup errors), or any other format for which you have a view module.

       If the viewer is not one of the viewers bundled with "Pod::POM", the script searches for an installed "Pod::POM::View" module that matches the specified format.  For example if you have
       "Pod::POM::View::DocBook" installed then you could say:

           pod2 docbook MyFile.pm > MyFile.xml

       If any options other than "--help" are specified then they are passed to the constructor method of the view class.  For example:

           pod2 docbook --root=chapter --titlecasing MyFile.pm > MyFile.xml

       would convert the Pod document to a DocBook chapter document with the titlecasing option enabled.  Note that any string prefixed by ""--"" is taken as a valid option and passed to the constructor; if
       no value is specified then a value of 1 is passed in.

AUTHOR
       Andy Wardley <abw@kfs.org>

       extended by Andrew Ford <A.Ford@ford-mason.co.uk>

VERSION
       This is version 0.3 of pom2.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.

       Copyright (C) 2009 Andrew Ford.  All Rights Reserved.

       This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       For further information please see Pod::POM.

perl v5.28.1                                                                                       2019-02-26                                                                                          POM2(1p)
