pomigrate2(1)                                                                               Translate Toolkit 1.3.0                                                                               pomigrate2(1)

NAME
       pomigrate2 - Migrates PO files from an old version using new POT files.

SYNOPSIS
       pomigrate [options] from to new-templates

       Where from is a directory of existing PO files, to is the directory where the migrated PO files will be stored, and new-templates is the directory that contains the PO Template files.

DESCRIPTION
       pomigrate2 aims to move an existing translation to a new version based on updated PO Template files automatically without user intervention.  Therefore it is ideal for when you are migrating many lan‐
       guages or migrating from related but divergent products eg Mozilla to Firefox.

OPTIONS
       -F, --use-fuzzy-matching
              use fuzzy algorithms when merging to attempt to match strings

       -C, --use-compendium
              create and use a compendium built from the migrating files

       -C, --use-compendium=some-compendium.po
              use an external compendium during the migration

       --no-wrap
              do not wrap long lines

       --locale
              set locale for newly born files

       -q, --quiet
              suppress most output

       -p, --pot2po
              use pot2po(1) instead of msgmerge(1) to migrate (you cannot use compendia)

OPERATION
       pomigrate2 makes use of the Gettext tools msgmerge or Translate Toolkits pot2po to perform its merging tasks.

       It firstly finds all files with the same name and location in the from directory as in the new-template directory and copies these to the to directory. If there is no file in  the  from  directory  to
       match  one  needed  by the new-template directory then it will msgcat(1) all files in the from directory with the same name and copy them to the correct destination in the to directory. If all of that
       fails then msginit(1) is used to initialise any missing PO files.

       Lastly all the files in <to> are merged using msgmerge(1) or pot2po(1). This process updates the files to match the layout and messages in new-templates. Optionally, by using --use-compendium, a  com‐
       pendium of all the translations in from can be created to be used in the final merge process.

BUGS
       None known

                                                                                            Translate Toolkit 1.3.0                                                                               pomigrate2(1)
