POPPASSD(8)                                                                                                                                                                                     POPPASSD(8)

NAME
       poppassd - Password change server for Eudora and NUPOP mail clients

DESCRIPTION
       poppassd  runs from inetd and listens on TCP port 106 by default.  Its sole purpose in life is to engage in short FTP-like conversations from client applications and execute (or deny) remote pass‐
       word changes via the PAM facilities configured in /etc/pam.d/poppassd.  The conversation looks something like this:

              200 poppassd v1.8.4 hello, who are you?
              user adconrad
              200 Your password please.
              pass foo
              200 Your new password please.
              newpass bar
              200 Password changed, thank-you.
              quit
              200 Bye.

       As can be seen from the example above, unencrypted passwords are transmitted over the network.  Because of this, it is recommended that you use this daemon only for local loopback password  chang‐
       ing  (for instance, from Perl, Python, or PHP web applications on the same server) and block all non-local access to port 106, either via tcpwrappers (/etc/hosts.deny) or with appropriate firewall
       rules.

       If sending unencrypted passwords over the wire doesn't bug you terribly much (as in the case of an ISP with hundreds of POP3 mail accounts), this daemon can provide a simple way for some  of  your
       clients (those running mail clients that actually support this protocol) to easily change their passwords.

FILES
       /etc/pam.d/poppassd
              Contains  the  PAM  configuration for poppassd.  By default on Debian, it merely includes the common-auth and common-password files, which should work in most cases.  If this doesn't cut it
              for your site, tailor to suit.

SEE ALSO
       pam(7), inetd(8), hosts.deny(5)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Adam Conrad <adconrad@0c3.net> for the Debian operating system.

Debian                                                                                         19 March 2004                                                                                    POPPASSD(8)
