
POWERLINE-CONFIG(1)                                                                                Powerline                                                                                POWERLINE-CONFIG(1)

NAME
       powerline-config - Script used to obtain powerline configuration.

SYNOPSIS
          powerline-config [-pPATH]… tmux ACTION ( [-s |n )]
          powerline-config [-pPATH]… shell ACTION [COMPONENT] [-sSHELL]

DESCRIPTION
       -p, --config-path PATH
              Path to configuration directory. If it is present then configuration files will only be sought in the provided path. May be provided multiple times to search in a list of directories.

       -h, --help
              Display help and exit.

   Arguments specific to tmux subcommand
       ACTION If  action  is  source then version-specific tmux configuration files are sourced, if it is setenv then special (prefixed with _POWERLINE) tmux global environment variables are filled with data
              from powerline configuration. Action setup is just doing setenv then source.

       -s, --source
              When using setup: always use configuration file sourcing. By default this is determined automatically based on tmux version: this is the default for tmux 1.8 and below.

       -n, --no-source
              When using setup: in place of sourcing directly execute configuration files. That is, read each needed powerline-specific configuration file, substitute $_POWERLINE_… variables with appropriate
              values and run tmux config line. This is the default behaviour for tmux 1.9 and above.

       -h, --help
              Display help and exit.

   Arguments specific to shell subcommand
       ACTION If action is command then preferred powerline command is output, if it is uses then powerline-config script will exit with 1 if specified component is disabled and 0 otherwise.

       COMPONENT
              Only  applicable  for  uses subcommand: makes powerline-config exit with 0 if specific component is enabled and with 1 otherwise. tmux component stands for tmux bindings (e.g. those that notify
              tmux about current directory changes), prompt component stands for shell prompt.

       -s, --shell SHELL
              Shell for which query is run

       -h, --help
              Display help and exit.

AUTHOR
       Written by Kim Silkebækken, Nikolay Pavlov, Kovid Goyal and contributors. The glyphs in the font patcher are created by Fabrizio Schiavi.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report powerline-config bugs to https://github.com/powerline/powerline/issues.

SEE ALSO
       powerline(1)

beta                                                                                           December 08, 2020                                                                            POWERLINE-CONFIG(1)
