PPPOE-DISCOVERY(8)                                                                        System Manager's Manual                                                                        PPPOE-DISCOVERY(8)

NAME
       pppoe-discovery - perform PPPoE discovery

SYNOPSIS
       pppoe-discovery [ options ]
       pppoe-discovery { -V | -h }

DESCRIPTION
       pppoe-discovery  performs the same discovery process as pppoe, but does not initiate a session.  It sends a PADI packet and then prints the names of access concentrators in each PADO packet it re‐
       ceives.

OPTIONS
       -I interface
              The -I option specifies the Ethernet interface to use.  Under Linux, it is typically eth0 or eth1.  The interface should be “up” before you start pppoe-discovery, but should not be  config‐
              ured to have an IP address.  The default interface is eth0.

       -D file_name
              The -D option causes every packet to be dumped to the specified file_name.  This is intended for debugging only.

       -U
              Causes  pppoe-discovery to use the Host-Uniq tag in its discovery packets. The value of the tag is derived from the process's PID number.  This lets you run multiple instances of pppoe-dis‐
              covery and/or pppd without having their discovery packets interfere with one another.  You must supply this option to all instances that you intend to run simultaneously.   This  option  is
              mutually exclusive with -W.

       -W value
              Causes  pppoe-discovery  to use the Host-Uniq tag in its discovery packets. The value of the tag is taken from the option argument, encoded as a string of hexadecimal digits.  This lets you
              run multiple instances of pppoe-discovery and/or pppd without having their discovery packets interfere with one another.  You must supply this option to all instances that you intend to run
              simultaneously.  This option is mutually exclusive with -U.

       -S service_name
              Specifies the desired service name.  pppoe-discovery will only accept access concentrators which can provide the specified service.  In most cases, you should not specify this option.   Use
              it only if you know that there are multiple access concentrators or know that you need a specific service name.

       -C ac_name
              Specifies  the desired access concentrator name.  pppoe-discovery will only accept the specified access concentrator.  In most cases, you should not specify this option.  Use it only if you
              know that there are multiple access concentrators.  If both the -S and -C options are specified, they must both match.

       -Q
              Causes pppoe-discovery to avoid printing discovered access concentrator names.  This can be useful in scripts, which can use the exit code of the program to determine whether  any  matching
              access concentrators were discovered.

       -t timeout
              Changes the discovery timeout for PADI requests, in seconds.  The default value is 5 seconds.

       -a attempts
              Changes the number of PADI discovery attempts made.  By default, 3 attempts are made to discover access concentrators before giving up.

       -V | -h
              Either of these options causes pppoe-discovery to print its version number and usage information, then exit.

AUTHORS
       pppoe-discovery was written by Marco d'Itri <md@linux.it>, based on pppoe by David F. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.

SEE ALSO
       pppoe(8), pppoe-sniff(8)

                                                                                              12 January 2019                                                                            PPPOE-DISCOVERY(8)
