PPTEMPLATE(1)                                                                         User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                         PPTEMPLATE(1)

NAME
       pptemplate - script to generate Makefile.PL and PP file skeleton

SYNOPSIS
               # generate Makefile.PL and mymodule.pd in CWD
               pptemplate PDL::MyModule;

DESCRIPTION
       The pptemplate script is the easiest way to start a new module for PDL that contains PP code (see also PDL::PP). The usage is simply

         pptemplate modulename;

       As a result pptemplate will generate a perl Makefile for the new module (Makefile.PL) that contains the minimal structure to generate a module from PP code and also a skeleton file for your new
       module.

       The file will be called mymod.pd if you called "pptemplate" as

         pptemplate PDL::CleverAlgs::Mymod;

       I suppose you can work out the naming rule ";)". If not resort to experimentation or the source code.

       "pptemplate" will refuse to overwrite existing files of the same name to avoid accidents. Move them out of the way if you really want to scrap them.

   Options
       Currently there is only the "-i" option which switches "pptemplate" into the so called internal mode.  It should only be used when you are starting a new module within the main PDL tree that is
       supposed to be part of the PDL distribution and the normal PDL build process, e.g.

          cd PDL/IO;
          mkdir Mpthree; cd Mpthree;
          pptemplate -i PDL::IO::Mpthree;

BUGS
       Maybe ";)".  Feedback and bug reports are welcome.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2001, Christian Soeller. All Rights Reserved.  This module is free software. It may be used, redistributed and/or modified under the same terms as PDL itself (see <http://pdl.perl.org>).

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-08-16                                                                                     PPTEMPLATE(1)
