PREREX(1)                                                                                                                                           PREREX(1)

NAME
       prerex - interactive editor of prerequisite-chart descriptions

SYNOPSIS
       prerex [ options ]  [ basefile[.tex] [ chartfile[.tex] ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       prerex  is an interactive program for editing prerequisite-chart descriptions in the prerex(5) format.  The user does not normally have to be familiar
       with details of the format.  The editor supports add, remove, cut-and-paste, and edit operations on  diagram  elements,  and  vertical  or  horizontal
       shifts  of  a  list  of  specified  elements,  all  the elements in a rectangular region, or the entire diagram.  The edited diagram may be saved, re-
       processed, and viewed in a PDF viewer, without exiting the editor. Alternatively, vprerex(1) will open a prerex(1) window and display the  correspond‐
       ing PDF file alongside.

TERMINOLOGY
       A  prerequisite  chart  consists of several course boxes, linked by arrows.  Courses are either half or full, and may be required or optional (or nei‐
       ther).  Each course box contains a course code (upper left corner), a course title (lower half), and timetable information (upper right  corner).   An
       arrow  is  either  a  prerequisite (solid), a corequisite (dotted), or recommended (dashed).  When a conventional arrow would be inappropriate, a mini
       course just above a target box may be used.  A line of text may have been placed anywhere in the chart.

       In some implementations of the prerex(5) format, (some) arrows may be curved and by default have non-zero curvature.  The curvature of individual  ar‐
       rows  may  be  edited  using  the prerex(1) editor.  Negative curvatures are supported.  To modify the default curvature (or set it to zero), see pre‐
       rex.sty(7).

COORDINATE SYSTEM
       A conventional two-dimensional coordinate system is used to specify the locations of diagram elements; the origin (where x = 0 and y = 0)  is  at  the
       lower-left corner of the diagram.  For convenience, a coordinate grid is normally displayed in the background while a diagram is being edited.

       The  coordinates  of  a  box,  mini, or text-line are those of its centre point.  An arrow is described by the coordinates of the centre points of its
       source and target boxes/minis/text-lines.

       The notation x0,y0:x1,y1 denotes all the nodes (course boxes, minis, texts) in the rectangle whose northwest and southeast corners are at  coordinates
       x0,y0 and x1,y1.

USAGE
       If prerex is invoked on one existing file, a back-up copy is made of it, the x,y coordinate grid is turned on, the file is processed by using a system
       call to pdflatex(1), and then the user gets a command summary and an interactive prompt of the form

              file.tex>

       If no file argument is given on the command line, the user is prompted to supply a file name.  In either case, if the file name provided does not have
       a .tex extension, .tex is appended to it.

       If the file.tex file named does not already exist, a new "empty" chart file with that name is created, and then it is processed as above.

       If  a second filename is provided, the first filename is treated as the base file of a LaTeX document and the second as an included file that contains
       the chart environment to be edited.  This allows more than one document to share an included chart file and allows more than one chart to be  included
       in a single document.

       The user may enter commands at the interactive command prompt as follows:

       box x,y           edit a course box at x,y, if necessary, creating a new course box there

       mini x,y          edit a mini at x,y, if necessary, creating a new mini there

       text x,y          edit a text-line at x,y, if necessary, creating a new text-line there

       arrow x0,y0,x1,y1 edit an arrow from x0,y0 to x1,y1, if necessary, creating a new such arrow

       cut xi,yi ...     (temporarily) remove the box, mini, or text at xi,yi (including arrows into/out of the box/mini/text)

       paste [x,y]       re-insert most recently cut but not yet pasted box, mini, or text at x,y (including arrows into/out of the box/mini/text), or at the
                         original coordinates if  x,y omitted

       xchange x0,y0 x1,y1
                         exchange the box, mini or text at x0,y0 with that at x1,y1.  This is implemented as a sequence of two cuts followed by two pastes to
                         the same points.

       delete [ x,y  | x0,y0,x1,y1  | x0,y0:x1,y1 ] ...
                         remove the specified boxes, minis, texts, or arrows (including automatically all arrows into/out of each box/mini/text)

       undo              undo the most recent editing command (not already undone)

       shift  [-]s  [ x,y | x0,y0:x1,y1 ] ...
                         move specified diagram elements x units right [left]; if no elements are specified, the whole diagram is shifted

       raise [-]r [ x,y | x0,y0:x1,y1 ] ...
                         move specified diagram elements y units up [down]; if no elements are specified, the whole diagram is raised

       write, !          save to the current chartfile.tex and process the chart by calling pdflatex(1) on the base file.

       quit, exit, x, ^D turn off the coordinate grid, restore write-access, save to the current chartfile.tex, process the base file and exit.

       !cmd              restore  write access to chartfile.tex, execute shell command cmd, re-load and re-process the base file (in case the command changed
                         anything), and remove write-access.

       Backup            copy the current chartfile.tex to the back-up file .chartfile.tex; equivalent to !cp chartfile.tex .chartfile.tex

       Restore           delete the current chartfile.tex and editing buffer, and replace them using the current back-up in .chartfile.tex.

       grid [y/n]        turn on/off coordinate-grid background

       help, ?           print a command summary

       After most editing commands, the editing buffer is automatically saved to chartfile.tex and the basefile is processed; the cut and paste commands  are
       exceptions:  saving and processing take place only when all outstanding cuts have been pasted.  Saving and processing can be forced by using the write
       (or !)  command, or suppressed for all commands (except write and !)  by appending a ";" to the command immediately prior to entering it.  To exit the
       editor without saving to the current chartfile.tex, use quit; (.i.e., quit followed by a semi-colon) or a similar combination.   Starting  in  Version
       3.8, ^C and other interrupts result in the editing buffer being saved to chartfile.tex before the editor is exited.

OPTIONS
       -v      output program name and version number, and quit

       -h      output usage summary and quit

NOTES
       The main difference between mini and text is in the maximum lengths for the text displayed; the latter allows a full line of text, not merely a course
       code. Also a text-line does not have an associated URI (when the grid is off). The text "line" may actually be displayed as a paragraph by using a La‐
       TeX \parbox.

       To save the current state of chartfile.tex, use Backup or a comparable shell command.  A history list of interpreted commands is maintained and is ac‐
       cessible using the up-arrow key.

       If  processing of the chart fails, prerex will attempt to display the LaTeX error message from the log file.  The chart file can be fixed using a con‐
       ventional text editor or LaTeX-oriented  editor.  LaTeX processing should fail only if there is an initial problem or if ill-formed LaTeX  markup  has
       been inserted into a text field.

       Any (non-empty) prefix of a command suffices; for example, q, qu, or qui may be used instead of quit.  Some of the commands will begin a dialogue with
       the user in order to fill in or modify properties; the prompts should be self-explanatory.

       Since version 5.5, prerex no longer automatically calls a PDF viewer (because it may be embedded in an instance of vprerex(1) which already provides a
       PDF  display). If prerex is being used by itself, a PDF viewer may be invoked using the !cmd shell-escape mechanism.  Also, prerex no longer interacts
       with the user until a PDF file is available; this is for use with vprerex(1).  For example, if the .tex file is initially read-only, prerex aborts.

FILES
       A LaTeX style file prerex.sty(7) that implements the macro calls defined by the prerex(5) format must be available to  [pdf]latex(1)  to  process  the
       chart file.  Before any editing is allowed, chartfile.tex is copied to .chartfile.tex as a backup.

ENVIRONMENT
       The  most  convenient  viewing  program to use with prerex is one like gv(1), gsview(1), kghostview(1), kpdf(1) or okular(1) that may be configured to
       "watch" the pdf file and re-load the display automatically when the file changes.  evince(1) has a Reload button and xpdf(1) supports re-loading using
       the keystroke "R", but re-loading is much less convenient with acroread(1) and gpdf(1), which may have to be re-started.

       Recent versions of some PDF viewers show the URIs of hyperlinks in a tooltip or in the status bar; this mechanism is used by some  implementations  of
       prerex.sty(7)  to  allow display of the coordinates of a box, mini, text-line, or arrow when the mouse hovers over it (while the coordinate grid is on
       and the relevant chart file is presumably being edited).

       The prerex package at http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/graphics/prerex/ has source code for vprerex(1), a GUI front-end for prerex which is  prerex-en‐
       abled.

BUGS
       prerex  analyzes  chart  files  without using TeX; thus, macro calls are not expanded, and anything in the chart file before or after the (first) \be‐
       gin{chart} ... \end{chart} environment is ignored (but preserved) by the editor.  Lines that begin with "%" within the chart environment are preserved
       but other comments within the chart environment are not preserved and may interfere with command parsing.

       From  version 5.6, prerex no longer supports the latex -> dvips -> ps2pdf toolchain as an option.

AUTHOR
       R. D. Tennent (rdt@cs.queensu.ca)

DEPENDENCIES
       prerex uses the editline(3) library if available and the GNU readline(3) and history(3) libraries otherwise.

SEE ALSO
       acroread(1), evince(1), gpdf(1), gsview(1), gv(1), kghostview(1), kpdf(1), okular(1), pdflatex(1), prerex(5), prerex.sty(7), previewer(1), vprerex(1),
       xpdf(1).

prerex-6.8.0                                                              2019-11-15                                                                PREREX(1)
