PRIMA-CFGMAINT(1)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    PRIMA-CFGMAINT(1)

NAME
       cfgmaint - configuration tool for Visual Builder

SYNTAX
       cfgmaint [ -rbxop ] command object [ parameters ]

DESCRIPTION
       Maintains widget palette configuration for the Visual Builder.  It can
       be stored in the system-wide and the local user config files.
       "cfgmaint" allows adding, renaming, moving, and deleting the classes
       and pages in the Visual Builder widget palette.

USAGE
       "cfgmaint" is invoked with "command" and "object" arguments, where
       "command" defines the action to be taken, and "object" - the object to
       be handled.

   Options
       -r  Write configuration to the system-wide config file

       -b  Read configuration from both system-wide and user config files

       -x  Do not write backups

       -o  Read-only mode

       -p  Execute "use Prima;" code before start. This option might be
           necessary when adding a module that relies on the toolkit but does
           not invoke the code itself.

   Objects
       m   Selects a module. Valid for add, list, and remove commands.

       p   Selects a page. Valid for all commands.

       w   Selects a widget. Valid for list, remove, rename, and move
           commands.

   Commands
       a   Adds a new object to the configuration. Can be either a page or a
           module.

       d   Removes an object.

       l   Prints object name. In case object is a widget, prints all
           registered widgets. If the string is specified as an additional
           parameter, it is treated as a page name and only widgets from the
           page are printed.

       r   Renames an object to a new name, which is passed as additional
           parameter.  Can be either a widget or a page.

       m   If "object" is a widget, relocates one or more widgets to a new
           page.  If "object" is a page, moves the page before the page
           specified as an additional parameter, or to the end if no
           additional page specified.

EXAMPLE
       Add a new module to the system-wide configuration:

               cfgmaint -r a m CPAN/Prima/VB/New/MyCtrls.pm

       List widgets, present in both config files:

               cfgmaint -b l w

       Rename a page:

               cfgmaint r p General Basic

FILES
       Prima/VB/Config.pm, ~/.prima/vbconfig

AUTHOR
       Dmitry Karasik, <dmitry@karasik.eu.org>.

SEE ALSO
       VB, Prima::VB::CfgMaint

perl v5.26.3                      2020-11-02                 PRIMA-CFGMAINT(1)
