PRIMUSRUN(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              PRIMUSRUN(1)

NAME
       primusrun - run an application on a discrete NVIDIA video card

SYNOPSIS
       primusrun command

DESCRIPTION
       Primus implements low-overhead local-only client-side OpenGL offloading via GLX forking.

       It is currently intended to be used alongside Bumblebee and provides a drop-in replacement for optirun (i.e. "primusrun").

VARIABLES
       The following is a list of environment variables affecting primus library that may be relevant for end users:

       PRIMUS_SYNC
           Readback-display synchronization method (default: 0)
           0: no sync, 1: synced, display previous frame, 2: synced, display latest frame

       PRIMUS_VERBOSE
           Verbosity level (default: 1)
           0: only errors, 1: warnings, 2: profiling

       PRIMUS_DISPLAY
           The secondary Xorg server display number (default: :8)

EXAMPLES
       primusrun glxgears -info
              Runs the graphics demo supplied by mesa-utils to confirm whether the discrete card is being used for GL rendering.

       PRIMUS_VERBOSE=2 primusrun glxgears
              Runs the graphics demo supplied by mesa-utils with verbose output from primus.

       vblank_mode=0 primusrun glxgears
              Disable vblank synchronisation, typically used for benchmarking purposes.

ISSUES
       Since  compositing hurts performance, invoking primus when a compositing WM is active is not recommended. If you need to use primus with compositing and see flickering or bad performance, synchro‐
       nizing primus' display thread with the application's rendering thread may help.

       PRIMUS_SYNC=1 primusrun ...

       This makes primus display the previously rendered frame. Alternatively, with PRIMUS_SYNC=2 primus will display the latest rendered frame, trading frame rate for reduced visual latency.

AUTHOR
       Primus was created by Alexander Monakov <amonakov@gmail.com>.

       This manual page was written by Vincent Cheng <Vincentc1208@gmail.com>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

primusrun                                                                                      February 2013                                                                                   PRIMUSRUN(1)
