PRWD(1)                   BSD General Commands Manual                  PRWD(1)

NAME
     prwd — universal shell prompt

SYNOPSIS
     prwd [-aVh]

DESCRIPTION
     prwd is a replacement for your shell's PS1, it provides a simple templat‐
     ing language with commands to customize your prompt.  prwd keeps your
     prompt consistent between shells, provides fast template commands to dis‐
     play contextual information such as hostname, path, current git/hg branch
     without an inordinate amount of slow shell scripting.

     The command-line options are as follows:

     -V      Show current version.

     -h      Show usage.

     -t template
             Use the provided template instead of the one defined in the con‐
             figuration file or the one defined in the environment variable
             PRWD.  This is particularly useful for testing a new template.
             Use single quote (') around your template to avoid your shell to
             expand the $ variable.

     -a      Outputs all the aliases starting with '$' as shell variable
             exports. The output from this command is meant to be used with
             eval in your .profile file, see section ALIAS VARIABLES in the
             prwdrc(5) manual for more detailed information.

ENVIRONMENT
     prwd can read its template from a configuration file, a command-line
     parameters or the following environment variable:

     PRWD        The template used to render your prompt.  This value will
                 override the default internal template and can be overridden
                 by the configuration file.

FILES
     ~/.prwdrc  defines all the configuration, overrides PRWD and the internal
                defaults.  See prwdrc(5) for configuratiom syntax and parame‐
                ters.

SETUP
     You'll need to place this line in your ~/.profile (your mileage may
     vary):

           export PS1='`prwd`'

SEE ALSO
     prwdrc(5), pwd(1), csh(1), ksh(1), sh(1), getcwd(3)

AUTHORS
     prwd was written by Bertrand Janin <b@janin.com> and is distributed under
     an ISC license (BSD compatible, OSI compatible).

BSD                               May 9, 2013                              BSD
