PSCAN_CHIP(1)                                                           User Commands                                                           PSCAN_CHIP(1)

NAME
       pscan_chip - ChIP-based identifcation of TF binding sites

SYNOPSIS
       pscan_chip -r region_file.bed -M matrixfile.wil -g genome [OPTIONS]

OPTIONS
   MANDATORY OPTIONS:
       -r  [regionfile]  the BED file with the regions to be analyzed TFs enrichment (e.g. peaks from a ChIP-Seq experiment). PscanChIP will compute the cen‐
       tral position of each region and consider the genomic region surrounding it in its computations. The default length of the region surrounding the cen‐
       ter is 150bp but it can be modified using the -s option. For optimal results we suggest to use summits?? coordinates  when available instead  of  peak
       coordinates.

       -g [folder] the genome folder to which the BED file refers to. The directory must contain the genome files in RAW format (one file per chromosome).

       -M [matrixfile] the file containing the motif matrices to be used by Pscan_ChIP.

   OTHER OPTIONS:
       -s [size] the genomic regions size, default is 150bp. Leaving the default value assures optimal results in most cases. Beware that changing the region
       length makes the available background file(s) inconsistent, since they were computed for regions of 150 bp. Thus, to change the genomic region size to
       be analyzed you will also need to produce new background file(s) for the new region size. All in all, for a normal ChIP-Seq experiment it??s better to
       leave this parameter untouched.

       -m [matrixname] use this option to select a matrix from matrixfile and make Pscan_ChIP run in single matrix mode.

       -bg [bgfile] Background file, needed to compute global pvalues.

       -ss Single strand mode.

   OUTPUT:
       Output  files  will  be written in a regionfile.res file, with regionfile being the name of the BED file passed with the -r parameter. When running in
       single matrix mode the output file will have a ".ris" extension instead.

       EXAMPLES:

       1- Running PscanChIP with a precomputed background file using Jaspar matrices and human genome (hg19):

       pscan_chip -r input.bed -g hg19 -M jaspar.wil -bg BG/K562.jaspar.bg

       2- Running PscanChIP in single matrix mode to obtain the position of the best matches for a given matrix within the input regions (one match  per  re‐
       gion).

       pscan_chip -r input.bed -g hg19 -M jaspar.wil -m MA0493.1

       3- Preparing a new background file for a custom set of matrices or for a new set of accessible genomic locations.

       pscan_chip -r background.bed -g hg19 -M mymatrices.wil

       The background.bed.res file obtained can be used as a background file for successive PscanChIP runs using the same mymatrices.wil matrices file.

AUTHOR
       This manpage was written by Andreas Tille for the Debian distribution and can be used for any other usage of the program.

pscan_chip 1.1                                                          February 2019                                                           PSCAN_CHIP(1)
