psftp(1)                       PuTTY tool suite                       psftp(1)

NAME
       psftp - interactive SFTP (secure file transfer protocol) client

SYNOPSIS
       psftp [options] [user@]host

DESCRIPTION
       psftp  is  an  interactive  text-based  client  for  the SSH-based SFTP
       (secure file transfer) protocol.

OPTIONS
       The command-line options supported by psftp are:

       -V     Show version information and exit.

       -pgpfp Display the fingerprints of the PuTTY PGP Master Keys and  exit,
              to aid in verifying new files released by the PuTTY team.

       -b batchfile
              Use specified batchfile.

       -bc    Output batchfile commands.

       -be    Don't stop batchfile processing on errors.

       -v     Show verbose messages.

       -load session
              Load settings from saved session.

       -P port
              Connect to port port.

       -proxycmd command
              Instead of making a TCP connection, use command as a proxy; net‐
              work traffic will be redirected to the standard input and output
              of  command. command must be a single word, so is likely to need
              quoting by the shell.

              The special strings %host and %port in command will be  replaced
              by the hostname and port number you want to connect to; to get a
              literal % sign, enter %%.

              Backslash escapes are also supported, such as sequences like  \n
              being replaced by a literal newline; to get a literal backslash,
              enter \\. (Further escaping may be required by the shell.)

              (See the main PuTTY manual for full details of the supported  %-
              and backslash-delimited tokens, although most of them are proba‐
              bly not very useful in this context.)

       -l user
              Set remote username to user.

       -batch Disable interactive prompts.

       -no-sanitise-stderr
              By default, PSFTP will filter control characters from the  stan‐
              dard  error channel from the server, to prevent remote processes
              sending confusing escape sequences. This option forces the stan‐
              dard error channel to not be filtered.

       -pw password
              Set  remote password to password. CAUTION: this will likely make
              the password visible to other users of the  local  machine  (via
              commands such as `w').

       -1     Force use of SSH protocol version 1.

       -2     Force use of SSH protocol version 2.

       -ssh-connection
              Force  use  of  the `bare ssh-connection' protocol. This is only
              likely to be useful when connecting to a psusan(1) server,  most
              likely with an absolute path to a Unix-domain socket in place of
              host.

       -ssh   Force use of the SSH protocol. (This is usually not needed; it's
              only likely to be useful if you need to override some other con‐
              figuration of the `bare ssh-connection' protocol.)

       -4, -6 Force use of IPv4 or IPv6 for network connections.

       -C     Enable SSH compression.

       -i keyfile
              Private key file for user authentication. For SSH-2  keys,  this
              key  file must be in PuTTY's PPK format, not OpenSSH's format or
              anyone else's.

              If you are using an authentication agent, you can also specify a
              public  key  here  (in  RFC 4716 or OpenSSH format), to identify
              which of the agent's keys to use.

       -noagent
              Don't try to use an authentication agent.

       -agent Allow use of an authentication agent. (This option is only  nec‐
              essary to override a setting in a saved session.)

       -no-trivial-auth
              Disconnect  from  any  SSH  server  which accepts authentication
              without ever having asked for any kind of password or  signature
              or token. (You might want to enable this for a server you always
              expect to challenge you, for instance to ensure you don't  acci‐
              dentally  type  your  key  file's  passphrase into a compromised
              server spoofing PSFTP's passphrase prompt.)

       -hostkey key
              Specify an acceptable host public key. This option may be speci‐
              fied  multiple  times;  each  key  can  be  either a fingerprint
              (SHA256:AbCdE..., 99:aa:bb:..., etc) or a base64-encoded blob in
              OpenSSH's one-line format.

              Specifying  this option overrides automated host key management;
              only the key(s) specified on the command-line will  be  accepted
              (unless  a saved session also overrides host keys, in which case
              those will be added to), and the host  key  cache  will  not  be
              written.

       -sshlog logfile

       -sshrawlog logfile
              These  options  make psftp log protocol details to a file. (Some
              of these may be sensitive, although by default an effort is made
              to suppress obvious passwords.)

              -sshlog logs decoded SSH packets and other events (those that -v
              would print). -sshrawlog additionally  logs  the  raw  encrypted
              packet data.

       -logoverwrite
              If  PSFTP  is  configured  to  write  to a log file that already
              exists, discard the existing file.

       -logappend
              If PSFTP is configured to write  to  a  log  file  that  already
              exists, append new log data to the existing file.

COMMANDS
       For  a list of commands available inside psftp, type help at the psftp>
       prompt.

MORE INFORMATION
       For more information on psftp it's probably best to go and look at  the
       manual on the PuTTY web page:

       https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/

BUGS
       This  man page isn't terribly complete. See the above web link for bet‐
       ter documentation.

PuTTY tool suite                  2004‐03‐24                          psftp(1)
