PSPRESENT(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              PSPRESENT(1)

NAME
       pspresent - fullscreen PostScript presentation tool

SYNOPSIS
       pspresent [options] file.ps

DESCRIPTION
       pspresent is a tool that displays PostScript slides in fullscreen, for giving presentations.  Navigation is simple, and the display is double-buffered for seamless transitions between slides.  The
       actual rendering is done in the background using Ghostscript.

OPTIONS
       -h     Show summary of options.

       -o     Do not override window manager.  pspresent will attempt to disable decorations and resize itself to the size of the screen, but will otherwise co-operate with your window manager (which may
              mean that it is not truly fullscreen).

       -s     Limit pspresent to only use the given head on a XINERAMA display.

       -O Portrait|Landscape|Upside-Down|Seascape
              Override orientation.

       -l     Loop mode; go to start of document when at end, and vice versa.

       -t[delay]
              Automatic slideshow mode. The delay is optional, the default value is 20 seconds.

       -Tfile Automatic  slideshow  mode.  The  file contains one integer value per line, corresponding to the delay between the current slide and the next one. You must put a value for each page of your
              document (count overlays, too). A value of 0 will disable the timer for the current slide.

COMMANDS
       The following keys can be used from within pspresent to navigate the slides.  If Shift is depressed, then only the last page of each series of overlays is shown (an overlay set is identified as  a
       series of pages with the same logical page number).

       spacebar

       page down

       right arrow

       down arrow
              Move to the next slide.  If Shift is depressed, skips overlays.

       backspace

       page up

       left arrow

       up arrow
              Move to the previous slide.  If Shift is depressed, skips overlays.

       home   Warp to the start of the presentation.

       end    Warp to the end of the preesentation.

       number enter Warp to slide number.

       escape

       q      Quit the program.

       The mouse buttons can also be used to navigate through a presentation.

       left button
              Move to the next slide.

       middle button
              Quit the program.

       right button
              Move to the previous slide.

       If Shift is used together together with the navigation keys or buttons, then only the last page of each series of overlays is shown (an overlay set is identified as a series of pages with the same
       logical page number).

AUTHOR
       pspresent was written by Matt Chapman <matthewc@cse.unsw.edu.au>

       This manual page was originally written by Jamie Wilkinson <jaq@debian.org>.

                                                                                              January 24, 2005                                                                                 PSPRESENT(1)
