PSSVG(1)                         User commands                        PSSVG(1)

NAME
       pssvg - convert Photoshop速 gradients to SVG.

SYNOPSIS
       pssvg [-b rgb] [-f rgb] [-h] [-o file] [-t format] [-v] [-V] file

DESCRIPTION
       The pssvg program converts Photoshop grd5 gradients to the SVG format.
       Unlike most of the other file formats handled by the cptutils package,
       grd5 files may contain multiple gradients and all of the input
       gradients will be converted to gradients in the output file. One can
       then use svgx(1) to extract single gradients and convert them to other
       formats.

       Photoshop gradient files will often contain a number of gradients with
       the same name. These names are used as the basis for the SVG titles
       (the id attributes), but since these must be unique, the program will
       append _01, _02, ... to duplicate names in order to form the titles.
       Alternatively once can employ the --title option to generate a uniform
       sequence of titles.

       Atypically, the input Photoshop grd5 file is a mandatory argument. The
       program will write to stdout if the --output option is not specified.

OPTIONS
       In the following, all rgb specifications should be of the form
       red/green/blue where the colour components are integers in the range 0
       to 255.

       -b, --background rgb
           Set the background colour of the output.

       --backtrace-file path
           Specify a file to which to write a formatted backtrace. The file
           will only be created if there is a backtrace created, typically
           when an error occurs.

       --backtrace-format format
           Specify the format of the backtrace written to the files specified
           by --backtrace-file, one of plain, xml or json.

       -f, --foreground rgb
           Set the foreground colour of the output.

       -h, --help
           Brief help.

       -o, --output file
           Write the output to file, rather than stdout.

       -t, --title format
           This option generates the SVG gradient titles (the id attributes)
           according to the specified format.

           The format argument should be a printf(3) format string containing
           a single integer directive (and that directive will be replaced by
           the gradient number). Thus "gradient-%03i" will produce ids
           "gradient-001", "gradient-002", ...

       -v, --verbose
           Verbose operation.

       -V, --version
           Version information.

EXAMPLE
       Convert a Photoshop gradient, foo.grd, to a set of GIMP gradients,
       foo-001.ggr, foo-002.ggr, ...

           pssvg -v -t "foo-%03i" -o tmp.svg foo.grd
           svggimp -v -a tmp.svg

CAVEATS
       The program handles RGB, HSB, LAB, CMYK and greyscale colour stops,
       converting them all to RGB and then merging the results with the
       opacity channel to create SVG RGBA stops. Conversion of non-RGB stops
       is naive and takes no account of colour profiles, so the results are
       generally sub-optimal. Integration of a CMS (colour management system)
       into the program to perform these conversions is under investigation.

       The program does not handle "Book Colours" (PANTONE, COLOR FINDER, etc)
       for legal reasons.

       The SVG output format does not support back/foreground colours;
       consequently, if the input specifies any stops with back/fairground
       colours then these will be converted to the colour specified by the
       --background and --foreground options, respectively.

       The smoothness parameter used by Photoshop (which seems to parameterise
       some kind of spline) is not yet handled; the output contains only
       linear splines (corresponding to a smoothness of 0%). The result is
       that the SVG output will sometimes look more "angular" than the
       Photoshop input. Fixing this will require research into the precise
       nature of the spline parameterisation used in the input.

       Noise gradients would seem to be difficult to convert to SVG without
       using a huge number of stops in the output, so these will probably not
       be supported by this program.

NOTES
       Adobe Photoshop速 is a trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.  PANTONE速 is a
       trademark of Pantone LLC.  COLOR FINDER速 is a trademark of Toyo Ink
       Mfg. Co., Ltd.

       This program was written using the reverse-engineered specification of
       the grd5 format by Valek Filippov, Alexandre Prokoudine and Michel
       Mariani.

AUTHOR
       J. J. Green

SEE ALSO
       svgx(1).

CPTUTILS                          8 July 2020                         PSSVG(1)
