PTMASKER(1)                                                                                     LIBPANO13 TOOLS                                                                                     PTMASKER(1)

NAME
       PTmasker - Compute stitching masks

SYNOPSIS
       PTmasker [options] tiff_file(s)

DESCRIPTION
       PTmasker computes stitching masks. It implements the ability to increase depth-of-field by stacking images.

OPTIONS
       -p prefix
           Prefix for output files (defaults to masked%4d).

       -e feather
           Size of the feather (defaults to zero).

       -f  Force processing (do not stop on warnings).

       -x  Delete source files (use with care).

       -q  Quiet run.

       -h  Output help summary.

       -z  Enable Extended depth of field.

       -m  Focus estimation mask type.

           0 hard-edged masks, mutually exclusive
           1 hard-edged masks, stack of nested masks
           2 blended masks, stack of nested masks

           2 is default and strongly recommended: This option includes a smoothing computation that seems to help a lot.

       -w integer
           Focus estimation window size. Only available if -z.

           Recommended value is 0.51001114526f image width, e.g. 4 pixels for an 800-pixel image.

           Computation cost for focus estimation increases proportional to N^2.  Defaults to w4.

       -s integer
           Smoothing window size. Only available if -z.

           Recommended value is 0.50f image width, e.g. 4 pixels for an 800-pixel image.

           Computation cost for focus estimation increases proportional to N^2.  Defaults to w4.

AUTHORS
       Panorama Tools was originally created by Professor Helmut Dersch, it's now maintained by Bruno Postle <bruno@postle.net>.

       PTmasker was written by Daniel M German <dmgerman@uvic.ca>.

       This manpage was written by Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr> and is licensed under the same terms as the libpano13 package itself.

2.9.18                                                                                             2008-01-22                                                                                       PTMASKER(1)
