Ptyxis(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 Ptyxis(1)

NAME
       ptyxis - a container-oriented terminal

SYNOPSIS
       ptyxis [OPTION]...  [-- PROGRAM ARGUMENTS]

DESCRIPTION
       ptyxis  is  a container-oriented, designed for the GNOME desktop.  It provides tight integration with podman, toolbox, distrobox, and jhbuild to simplfy container-based development and system man‐
       agement.

       --version
              Show the version of the program.

       --preferences
              Show the preferences window.

       --new-window
              Open a new window in an existing instance of Ptyxis. If Ptyxis is not running, a new instance is started.

              May be combined with --working-directory and --execute and --title options.

       --tab  Open a new tab in the most-recently-used window of an existing Ptyxis instance. If Ptyxis is not running, a new instance is started.

              May be combined with --working-directory and --execute and --title options.

       -x, --execute
              Execute a custom command.

              This is similar to using -- to provide the custom command except that the entire command line should be provided as a single argument.

              In general, you should use -- instead of this option. This is primarily available to be similar to bash -c 'command'

              May be combined with --working-directory and --title options.

       -d, --working-directory
              Set the current working directory for a new tab [--tab], window [--window], or custom command [-- COMMAND...].

       --title=TITLE
              Sets the title for a new terminal page created with either --tab or --new-window.

       --maximize
              Maximize a newly created window.

       --fullscreen
              Fullscreen a newly created window.

       --tab-with-profile=PROFILE
              Creates a new tab in an existing instance using the specified profile. The profile should be a UUID string which can be found in the profile editor of the preferences dialog.

       -s, --standalone
              Start a new instance of Ptyxis, in single instance mode, ignoring any instances already running.

              Single instance mode is implied when running a -- command.

       -s, --gapplication-app-id=ID
              Override the application ID in single instance mode.

       -h, --help
              Show a summary of options.

       Other standard GNOME options not listed here are also supported.

SEE ALSO
       For further information, visit the website https://devsuite.app/ptyxis/

BUGS
       Bug reports can be found and filed at https://gitlab.gnome.org/chergert/ptyxis/issues

                                                                                                09 July 2024                                                                                      Ptyxis(1)
