pullcves(1)                     pullcves Manual                    pullcves(1)

NAME
       pullcves  - Update the local cvechecker CVE database and version match‐
       ing rules

SYNOPSIS
       pullcves pull or
       pullcves cleancache

DESCRIPTION
       The pullcves script will download the CVE entries from the Internet and
       store them in the local cvechecker databases. It will also download the
       latest version matching rules from the Internet and load them up in the
       cvechecker  database. It uses the wget tool for the downloads and xslt‐
       proc for the XML conversions.

       If cleancache is used, it will clean its internal cache. This will  ef‐
       fectively  remove the downloaded XML (and generated CSV) files, causing
       the next pull to redownload and reimport everything.

       The pullcves script uses the configuration file of cvechecker  for  the
       paths  of  the  various  locations  using  the same logic (if CVECHECK‐
       ER_CONFFILE is set as environment variable, then it has to point  to  a
       valid  configuration  file;  if the environment variable is not set, it
       ties     ~/.cvechecker.rc,      /usr/local/etc/cvechecker.conf      and
       /etc/cvechecker.conf in that order).

USAGE
       The command is simply pullcves pull or pullcves cleancache.

   RETURN CODES
       The returncode of pullcves depends on the actions it performed.

       In case of pull:

       • A  returncode  of  0 means that the CVE database and version matching
         rules were already up to date

       • A returncode of 1 means that the CVE database is updated

       • A returncode of 2 means that the version matching rules are updated

       • A returncode of 3 means that both the CVE database and version match‐
         ing rules are updated

AUTHOR
       pullcves  is  part of the cvechecker tool. pullcves was written by Sven
       Vermeulen <sven.vermeulen@siphos.be>.

August 17, 2013                 17 August 2013                     pullcves(1)
