PULL-PKG(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 PULL-PKG(1)

NAME
       pull-pkg - download a package for Debian, Ubuntu, UCA, or a PPA

SYNOPSIS
       pull-pkg [options] <package name> [release|version]

DESCRIPTION
       pull-pkg  downloads  the specified version of <package name>, or the latest version from the specified release.  To request a version from a particular pocket say release-pocket (with a magic -release
       for only the release pocket).  If no version or release is specified, the latest version in the development release will be downloaded.

       There are convenience scripts that set pull type and distribution appropriately: these are pull-lp-source, pull-lp-debs, pull-lp-ddebs, and pull-lp-udebs, which  all  pull  Ubuntu  packages;  pull-de‐
       bian-source, pull-debian-debs, pull-debian-ddebs, and pull-debian-udebs, which all pull Debian packages; pull-uca-source, pull-uca-debs, pull-uca-ddebs, and pull-uca-udebs, which all pull Ubuntu Cloud
       Archive packages; and pull-ppa-source, pull-ppa-debs, pull-ppa-ddebs, and pull-ppa-udebs, which all pull from a specified Personal Package Archive on Launchpad.  Each script pulls the file type in its
       name, i.e.  source, debs, ddebs, or udebs.

OPTIONS
       Listed below are the command line options for pull-pkg:

       package name
              This is name of the package to downloaded.  You can use either the source package name, or binary package name.

       version
              This is the version of the package to downloaded.

       release
              This  is the release to downloaded from.  For debian, you can use either the release name like jessie or sid, or you can use the special release names unstable, stable, or testing.  For ubuntu,
              you can use either the release name like xenial or the release-pocket like xenial-proposed.  For ubuntu cloud archive (uca) you can use either the uca release name like mitaka or the ubuntu and
              uca release names like trusty-mitaka.  Defaults to the current development release.

       -h, --help
              Display a help message and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose about what is being done.

       -d, --download-only
              Do not extract the source package (applies only to source packages).

       -m MIRROR, --mirror=MIRROR
              Use  the specified mirror server.  Should be in the form http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu or http://deb.debian.org/debian.  If not specified or if the package is not found on the specified mir‐
              ror, this will fall back to the default mirror(s) and/or mirror(s) from environment variables, and then will fall back to Launchpad or Debian Snapshot.  This can be specified multiple times  to
              try multiple mirrors.

       --no-conf
              Do not use mirrors from the default configuration, or from any environment variables.

       -a ARCH, --arch=ARCH
              Get binary packages from the ARCH architecture.  Defaults to the local architecture, if it can be deteected.

       -p PULL, --pull=PULL
              What to pull: source, debs, ddebs, udebs, or list.  The list action only lists all a package's source and binary files, but does not actually download any.  Defaults to source.

       -D DISTRO, --distro=DISTRO
              Pull from: debian, uca, ubuntu, or a ppa.  lp can be used instead of ubuntu.  Any string containing cloud can be used instead of uca.  If pulling from a ppa, you must specify the PPA.  Defaults
              to ubuntu.

       --ppa=ppa:USER/NAME
              Applies only when distro is ppa.  Can be provided either as a value to the --ppa option parameter, or as a plain option (like release or version).  When specified as a plain  option,  the  form
              must be ppa:USER/NAME; when specified as a value to the --ppa option parameter, the leading ppa: is optional.

ENVIRONMENT
       All of the CONFIGURATION VARIABLES below are also supported as environment variables.  Variables in the environment take precedence to those in configuration files.

CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
       The following variables can be set in the environment or in ubuntu-dev-tools(5) configuration files.  In each case, the script-specific variable takes precedence over the package-wide variable.

       UBUNTUTOOLS_UBUNTU_MIRROR
              The default mirror.

       PULL_PKG_UBUNTU_MIRROR
              The default mirror when using the pull-pkg script.

       PULL_[LP|DEBIAN|PPA|UCA]_[SOURCE|DEBS|DDEBS|UDEBS]_MIRROR
              The default mirror when using the associated script.

SEE ALSO
       dget(1),   pull-lp-source(1),   pull-lp-debs(1),   pull-lp-ddebs(1),  pull-lp-udebs(1),  pull-debian-source(1),  pull-debian-debs(1),  pull-debian-ddebs(1),  pull-debian-udebs(1),  pull-ppa-source(1),
       pull-ppa-debs(1), pull-ppa-ddebs(1), pull-ppa-udebs(1), pull-uca-source(1), pull-uca-debs(1), pull-uca-ddebs(1), pull-uca-udebs(1), pull-debian-debdiff(1), ubuntu-dev-tools(5)

AUTHOR
       pull-pkg was written by Dan Streetman <ddstreet@canonical.com>, based on the original pull-lp-source; it and this manual page were written by Iain Lane <iain@orangesquash.org.uk>.   All  are  released
       under the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later.

ubuntu-dev-tools                                                                                 28 August 2017                                                                                     PULL-PKG(1)
