puttygen(1)                    PuTTY tool suite                    puttygen(1)

NAME
       puttygen - public-key generator for the PuTTY tools

SYNOPSIS
       puttygen ( keyfile | -t keytype [ -b bits ] [ --primes method ] [ -q ] )
                [ -C new-comment ] [ -P ] [ --reencrypt ]
                [ -O output-type | -l | -L | -p | --dump ] [ -E fptype ]
                   [ --ppk-param key=value,... ]
                [ -o output-file ]

DESCRIPTION
       puttygen  is  a  tool to generate and manipulate SSH public and private
       key pairs. It is part of the PuTTY suite, although it can also interop‐
       erate with the key formats used by some other SSH clients.

       When  you  run puttygen, it does three things. Firstly, it either loads
       an existing key file (if you specified keyfile), or generates a new key
       (if  you specified keytype). Then, it optionally makes modifications to
       the key (such as changing the comment and/or the passphrase);  finally,
       it outputs the key, or some information about the key, to a file.

       All  three  of  these phases are controlled by the options described in
       the following section.

OPTIONS
       In the first phase, puttygen either loads or generates a key. Note that
       generating  a  key  requires  random  data, which can cause puttygen to
       pause, possibly for some time if your system does not have much random‐
       ness available.

       The options to control this phase are:

       keyfile
              Specify  a  key  file  to be loaded. (Use `-' to read a key file
              from standard input.)

              Usually this will be a private key, which  can  be  in  the  (de
              facto  standard)  SSH-1 key format, or in PuTTY's SSH-2 key for‐
              mat, or in either of the  SSH-2  private  key  formats  used  by
              OpenSSH and ssh.com's implementation.

              You  can  also specify a file containing only a public key here.
              The operations you can do are limited to outputting another pub‐
              lic  key format or a fingerprint. Public keys can be in RFC 4716
              or OpenSSH format, or the standard SSH-1 format.

       -t keytype
              Specify a type of key to generate. The  acceptable  values  here
              are  rsa,  dsa,  ecdsa,  eddsa,  ed25519, and ed448 (to generate
              SSH-2 keys), and rsa1 (to generate SSH-1 keys).

       -b bits
              Specify the size of the key to generate, in  bits.  Default  for
              rsa and dsa keys is 2048.

       --primes method
              Method  for generating prime numbers. The acceptable values here
              are probable (the default), proven, and proven-even;  the  later
              methods are slower. (Various synonyms for these method names are
              also accepted.)

              The `probable primes' method sounds unsafe, but  it's  the  most
              commonly  used  prime-generation  strategy. There is in theory a
              possibility that it might accidentally generate  a  number  that
              isn't  prime, but the software does enough checking to make that
              probability vanishingly small (less than 1  in  2^80,  or  1  in
              10^24). So, in practice, nobody worries about it very much.

              The  other methods cause PuTTYgen to use numbers that it is sure
              are prime, because it generates the output number together  with
              a  proof of its primality. This takes more effort, but it elimi‐
              nates that theoretical risk in the probabilistic method.

              You might choose to switch from probable to proven primes if you
              have  a local security standard that demands it, or if you don't
              trust the probabilistic argument for the  safety  of  the  usual
              method.

       --strong-rsa
              When  generating  an RSA key, make sure the prime factors of the
              key modulus are `strong primes'. A strong prime is a prime  num‐
              ber  chosen  to  have  a particular structure that makes certain
              factoring algorithms more difficult to apply, so  some  security
              standards  recommend their use. However, the most modern factor‐
              ing algorithms are unaffected, so this option  is  probably  not
              worth  turning  on  unless you have a local standard that recom‐
              mends it.

       -q     Suppress the progress display when generating a new key.

       --old-passphrase file
              Specify a file name; the first line will be read from this  file
              (removing  any trailing newline) and used as the old passphrase.
              CAUTION: If the passphrase is  important,  the  file  should  be
              stored  on  a temporary filesystem or else securely erased after
              use.

       --random-device device
              Specify device to read entropy from. By default,  puttygen  uses
              /dev/urandom, falling back to /dev/random if it has to.

       In  the  second phase, puttygen optionally alters properties of the key
       it has loaded or generated. The options to control this are:

       -C new-comment
              Specify a comment string  to  describe  the  key.  This  comment
              string  will  be  used by PuTTY to identify the key to you (when
              asking you to enter the passphrase, for  example,  so  that  you
              know which passphrase to type).

       -P     Indicate  that  you want to change the key's passphrase. This is
              automatic when you are generating a new key, but  not  when  you
              are modifying an existing key.

       --reencrypt
              For an existing private key saved with a passphrase, refresh the
              encryption without changing the passphrase.

              This is most likely to be useful with the --ppk-param option, to
              change some aspect of the key file's format or encryption.

       --ppk-param key=value,...
              When  saving  a  PPK  file  (the default private output type for
              SSH-2 keys), adjust details of the on-disk format.

              Aspects to change are specified as a series of  key=value  pairs
              separated by commas. The keys are:

              version
                     The  PPK  format  version.  Possible  values  are  3 (the
                     default) and 2 (which is less  resistant  to  brute-force
                     decryption, but which you might need if your key needs to
                     be used by old versions of PuTTY tools, or other PPK con‐
                     sumers).

                     The following keys only affect PPK version 3 files.

              kdf    The variant of the Argon2 key derivation function to use.
                     Options are argon2id (default, and recommended), argon2i,
                     and argon2d.

                     You  might  change  this if you consider your exposure to
                     side-channel attacks to be different to the norm.

              memory The amount of memory needed to decrypt the key, in Kbyte.
                     Default is 8192 (i.e., 8 Mbyte).

              time   Approximate  time,  on  this machine, required to attempt
                     decrypting the key, in milliseconds. Default is 100 (ms).

              passes Alternative to time: explicitly  specify  the  number  of
                     hash passes required to attempt decrypting the key.

              parallelism
                     Number  of  parallelisable  threads  that  can be used to
                     decrypt the key. Default is 1 (force  decryption  to  run
                     single-threaded).

       In the third phase, puttygen saves the key or information about it. The
       options to control this are:

       -O output-type
              Specify the type of output you want puttygen to produce. Accept‐
              able options are:

              private
                     Save  the  private  key in a format usable by PuTTY. This
                     will either be the standard SSH-1 key format, or  PuTTY's
                     own SSH-2 key format (`PPK'). This is the default.

              public Save  the  public  key only. For SSH-1 keys, the standard
                     public key format will be used  (`1024  37  5698745...').
                     For SSH-2 keys, the public key will be output in the for‐
                     mat specified by RFC 4716, which  is  a  multi-line  text
                     file  beginning with the line `---- BEGIN SSH2 PUBLIC KEY
                     ----'.

              public-openssh
                     Save the public key only, in a format usable by  OpenSSH.
                     For SSH-1 keys, this output format behaves identically to
                     public. For SSH-2 keys, the public key will be output  in
                     the  OpenSSH  format,  which  is  a single line (`ssh-rsa
                     AAAAB3NzaC1yc2...').

              fingerprint
                     Print a fingerprint of the public key. The -E option lets
                     you  specify  which  fingerprinting algorithm to use. All
                     algorithms are believed compatible with OpenSSH.

              private-openssh
                     Save an SSH-2 private key in OpenSSH's format, using  the
                     oldest  format available to maximise backward compatibil‐
                     ity. This option is not permitted for SSH-1 keys.

              private-openssh-new
                     As private-openssh, except that  it  forces  the  use  of
                     OpenSSH's newer format even for RSA, DSA, and ECDSA keys.

              private-sshcom
                     Save  an  SSH-2  private  key  in  ssh.com's format. This
                     option is not permitted for SSH-1 keys.

              text   Save a textual dump of the numeric components  comprising
                     the  key (both the public and private parts, if present).
                     Useful for debugging, or for using PuTTYgen as a key gen‐
                     erator for applications other than SSH.

                     The  output  consists  of  a  series of name=value lines,
                     where each value is either a  C-like  string  literal  in
                     double  quotes,  or  a  hexadecimal  number starting with
                     0x...

              If no output type is specified, the default is private.

       -o output-file
              Specify the file where puttygen should write its output. If this
              option  is not specified, puttygen will assume you want to over‐
              write the original file if the input and output file  types  are
              the same (changing a comment or passphrase), and will assume you
              want to output to stdout if you are asking for a public  key  or
              fingerprint. Otherwise, the -o option is required.

       -l     Synonym for `-O fingerprint'.

       -L     Synonym for `-O public-openssh'.

       -p     Synonym for `-O public'.

       --dump Synonym for `-O text'.

       -E fptype
              Specify  the  algorithm  to use if generating a fingerprint. The
              options are sha256 (the default) and md5.

       --new-passphrase file
              Specify a file name; the first line will be read from this  file
              (removing  any trailing newline) and used as the new passphrase.
              If the file is empty then the saved  key  will  be  unencrypted.
              CAUTION:  If  the  passphrase  is  important, the file should be
              stored on a temporary filesystem or else securely  erased  after
              use.

       The following options do not run PuTTYgen as normal, but print informa‐
       tional messages and then quit:

       -h, --help
              Display a message summarizing the available options.

       -V, --version
              Display the version of PuTTYgen.

       --pgpfp
              Display the fingerprints of the PuTTY PGP Master Keys, to aid in
              verifying new files released by the PuTTY team.

EXAMPLES
       To  generate  an  SSH-2  RSA key pair and save it in PuTTY's own format
       (you will be prompted for the passphrase):

       puttygen -t rsa -C "my home key" -o mykey.ppk

       To generate a larger (4096-bit) key:

       puttygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "my home key" -o mykey.ppk

       To change the passphrase on a key (you will be prompted for the old and
       new passphrases):

       puttygen -P mykey.ppk

       To change the comment on a key:

       puttygen -C "new comment" mykey.ppk

       To convert a key into OpenSSH's private key format:

       puttygen mykey.ppk -O private-openssh -o my-openssh-key

       To  convert  a  key  from  another  format (puttygen will automatically
       detect the input key type):

       puttygen my-ssh.com-key -o mykey.ppk

       To display the SHA-256 fingerprint of a key (some key types  require  a
       passphrase to extract even this much information):

       puttygen -l mykey.ppk

       To  add the OpenSSH-format public half of a key to your authorised keys
       file:

       puttygen -L mykey.ppk >> $HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys

PuTTY tool suite                  2004‐03‐24                       puttygen(1)
