puttytel(1)                    PuTTY tool suite                    puttytel(1)

NAME
       puttytel - GUI Telnet, Rlogin, and SUPDUP client for X

SYNOPSIS
       puttytel [ options ] [ host ]

DESCRIPTION
       puttytel  is a graphical Telnet, Rlogin, and SUPDUP client for X. It is
       a direct port of the Windows Telnet, Rlogin, and SUPDUP client  of  the
       same name, and a cut-down cryptography-free version of PuTTY.

OPTIONS
       The command-line options supported by puttytel are:

       --display display-name
              Specify  the  X  display  on  which to open puttytel. (Note this
              option has a double minus sign, even though none of  the  others
              do.  This  is  because  this option is supplied automatically by
              GTK. Sorry.)

       -fn font-name
              Specify the font to use for normal text displayed in the  termi‐
              nal. For example, -fn fixed, -fn "Monospace 12".

       -fb font-name
              Specify the font to use for bold text displayed in the terminal.
              If the BoldAsColour resource is set to  1  (the  default),  bold
              text will be displayed in different colours instead of a differ‐
              ent font, so this option will be ignored. If BoldAsColour is set
              to  0  or  2  and  you do not specify a bold font, puttytel will
              overprint the normal font to make it look bolder.

       -fw font-name
              Specify the font to use for double-width  characters  (typically
              Chinese, Japanese and Korean text) displayed in the terminal.

       -fwb font-name
              Specify  the font to use for bold double-width characters (typi‐
              cally Chinese, Japanese and Korean text). Like -fb, this will be
              ignored unless the BoldAsColour resource is set to 0 or 2.

       -geometry geometry
              Specify  the  size of the terminal, in rows and columns of text.
              See X(7) for more information on the syntax of geometry specifi‐
              cations.

       -sl lines
              Specify the number of lines of scrollback to save off the top of
              the terminal.

       -fg colour
              Specify the foreground colour to use for normal text.

       -bg colour
              Specify the background colour to use for normal text.

       -bfg colour
              Specify the foreground colour to  use  for  bold  text,  if  the
              BoldAsColour resource is set to 1 (the default) or 2.

       -bbg colour
              Specify  the  foreground  colour  to  use for bold reverse-video
              text, if the BoldAsColour resource is set to 1 (the default)  or
              2.  (This  colour  is best thought of as the bold version of the
              background colour; so it only appears when text is displayed  in
              the background colour.)

       -cfg colour
              Specify  the  foreground  colour  to use for text covered by the
              cursor.

       -cbg colour
              Specify the background colour to use for  text  covered  by  the
              cursor. In other words, this is the main colour of the cursor.

       -title title
              Specify  the  initial title of the terminal window. (This can be
              changed under control of the server.)

       -sb- or +sb
              Tells puttytel not to display a scroll bar.

       -sb    Tells puttytel to display a scroll bar: this is the opposite  of
              -sb-. This is the default option: you will probably only need to
              specify it explicitly if you have changed the default using  the
              ScrollBar resource.

       -log logfile, -sessionlog logfile
              This option makes puttytel log all the terminal output to a file
              as well as displaying it in the terminal.

       -cs charset
              This option specifies the character set in which puttytel should
              assume the session is operating. This character set will be used
              to interpret all the data received from  the  session,  and  all
              input  you  type  or  paste into puttytel will be converted into
              this character set before being sent to the session.

              Any character set name which is valid in a MIME header (and sup‐
              ported   by   puttytel)  should  be  valid  here  (examples  are
              `ISO-8859-1', `windows-1252' or `UTF-8').  Also,  any  character
              encoding  which is valid in an X logical font description should
              be valid (`ibm-cp437', for example).

              puttytel's default behaviour is to use the same character encod‐
              ing  as  its  primary font. If you supply a Unicode (iso10646-1)
              font, it will default to the UTF-8 character set.

              Character set names are case-insensitive.

       -nethack
              Tells puttytel to enable  NetHack  keypad  mode,  in  which  the
              numeric  keypad  generates  the NetHack hjklyubn direction keys.
              This enables you to play NetHack with the numeric keypad without
              having  to use the NetHack number_pad option (which requires you
              to press `n' before any repeat count). So you can move with  the
              numeric  keypad,  and enter repeat counts with the normal number
              keys.

       -help, --help
              Display a message summarizing the available options.

       -pgpfp Display the fingerprints of the PuTTY PGP Master Keys, to aid in
              verifying new files released by the PuTTY team.

       -load session
              Load  a  saved  session  by name. This allows you to run a saved
              session straight from the command  line  without  having  to  go
              through the configuration box first.

       -telnet, -rlogin, -supdup, -raw
              Select the protocol puttytel will use to make the connection.

       -proxycmd command
              Instead of making a TCP connection, use command as a proxy; net‐
              work traffic will be redirected to the standard input and output
              of  command. command must be a single word, so is likely to need
              quoting by the shell.

              The special strings %host and %port in command will be  replaced
              by the hostname and port number you want to connect to; to get a
              literal % sign, enter %%.

              Backslash escapes are also supported, such as sequences like  \n
              being replaced by a literal newline; to get a literal backslash,
              enter \\. (Further escaping may be required by the shell.)

              (See the main PuTTY manual for full details of the supported  %-
              and backslash-delimited tokens, although most of them are proba‐
              bly not very useful in this context.)

       -l username
              Specify the username to use when logging in to the server.

       -P port
              Specify the port to connect to the server on.

       -4, -6 Force use of IPv4 or IPv6 for network connections.

SAVED SESSIONS
       Saved sessions are stored in a  .putty/sessions  subdirectory  in  your
       home directory.

MORE INFORMATION
       For  more  information  on PuTTY and PuTTYtel, it's probably best to go
       and look at the manual on the web page:

       https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/

BUGS
       This man page isn't terribly complete.

PuTTY tool suite                  2004‐03‐24                       puttytel(1)
