PV(1)                                                                                          User Commands                                                                                          PV(1)

NAME
       pv - monitor the progress of data through a pipe

SYNOPSIS
       pv [OPTION]... [FILE]...

       pv -d|--watchfd PID[:FD] [OPTION]...

       pv -R|--remote PID [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       Show the progress of data through a pipeline by giving information such as time elapsed, percentage completed (with progress bar), current throughput rate, total data transferred, and ETA.

       Each FILE is copied to standard output.  With no FILE, or when FILE is “-”, standard input is read.  This is the same behaviour as cat(1).

OPTIONS
   Display switches
       If  no  display switches are specified, pv behaves as if “--progress”, “--timer”, “--eta”, “--rate”, and “--bytes” had been given.  Otherwise, only those display types that are explicitly switched
       on will be shown.

       -p, --progress
              Turn the progress bar on.  If any inputs are not files, or are unreadable, and no size was explicitly given with “--size”, the progress bar cannot  indicate  how  close  to  completion  the
              transfer  is,  so  it  will just move left and right to indicate that data is moving - or, with “--gauge”, the bar will indicate the current rate as a percentage of the maximum rate seen so
              far.

       -t, --timer
              Turn the timer on.  This will display the total elapsed time that pv has been running for.

       -e, --eta
              Turn the ETA countdown on.  This will estimate, based on current transfer rates and the total data size, how long it will be before completion.  The countdown is prefixed with “ETA”.   This
              option will have no effect if the total data size cannot be determined.

       -I, --fineta
              Turn  the ETA countdown on, but display the estimated local time at which the transfer will finish, instead of the amount of time remaining.  When the estimated time is more than 6 hours in
              the future, the date is shown as well.  The time is prefixed with “FIN” for finish time.  As with “--eta”, this option will have no effect if the total data size cannot be determined.

       -r, --rate
              Turn the rate counter on.  This will display the current rate of data transfer.  The rate is shown in square brackets “[]”.

       -a, --average-rate
              Turn the average rate counter on.  This will display the current average rate of data transfer, over the last 30 seconds by default (see “--average-rate-window”).  The average rate is shown
              in brackets “()”.

       -b, --bytes
              Turn the total byte counter on.  This will display the total amount of data transferred so far.

       -T, --buffer-percent
              Turn on the transfer buffer percentage display.  This will show the percentage of the transfer buffer in use.  Implies “--no-splice”.  The transfer  buffer  percentage  is  shown  in  curly
              brackets “{}”.

       -A NUM, --last-written NUM
              Show the last NUM bytes written.  Implies “--no-splice”.

       -F FORMAT, --format FORMAT
              Ignore all of the above options and instead use the format string FORMAT to determine the output format.  See the FORMATTING section below.

       -n, --numeric
              Numeric  output.   Instead  of  giving a visual indication of progress, write an integer percentage, one per line, on standard error, suitable for passing to a tool such as dialog(1).  Note
              that “--force” is not required if “--numeric” is being used.

              Combining “--numeric” with “--bytes” will cause the number of bytes processed so far to be output instead of a percentage.  Adding “--line-mode” as well as “--bytes” writes  the  number  of
              lines  instead  of  bytes  or  a  percentage.   Adding  “--rate”  adds the transfer rate to each output line (if “--bytes” is also in use, the rate comes after the byte/line count).  Adding
              “--timer” prefixes each output line with the elapsed time so far, as a decimal number of seconds.

              Combining “--numeric” with “--format” allows for custom output.  The default format string components for “--numeric” are “%t %b %r %{progress-amount-only}” in that order, each  item  being
              active or inactive according to the rules above (so the default with no other options is “%{progress-amount-only}”.

       -q, --quiet
              No output.  Useful if the “--rate-limit” option is being used on its own to limit the transfer rate of a pipe.

   Output modifiers
       -8, --bits
              Use bits instead of bytes for the byte and rate counters.  The output suffix will be “b” instead of “B”.

       -k, --si
              Display  and  interpret  suffixes  as multiples of 1000 rather than the default of 1024.  Note that this only takes effect on options after this one, so for consistency, specify this option
              first.

       -W, --wait
              Wait until the first byte has been transferred before showing any progress information or calculating any ETAs.  Useful if the program you are piping to or from requires  extra  information
              before it starts, such as when piping data into gpg(1) or mcrypt(1) which require a passphrase before data can be processed.

       -D SEC, --delay-start SEC
              Wait until SEC seconds have passed before showing any progress information, for example in a script where you only want to show a progress bar if it starts taking a long time.  The value of
              SEC can be a decimal such as “0.5”.

       -s SIZE, --size SIZE
              Assume  the  total  amount  of  data  to  be  transferred  is  SIZE bytes when calculating percentages and ETAs.  A suffix of “K”, “M”, “G”, or “T” can be added to denote kibibytes (*1024),
              mebibytes, gibibytes, tebibytes.  If “--si” appears before this option, suffixes will denote kilobytes (*1000), megabytes, and so on instead.

              If SIZE starts with “@”, the size of file whose name follows the @ will be used.

       -g, --gauge
              If the progress bar is shown but the size is not known, then instead of moving the bar left and right to show progress, show the current transfer rate as a percentage of  the  maximum  rate
              seen so far.

       -l, --line-mode
              Instead of counting bytes, count lines (newline characters).  The progress bar will only move when a new line is found, and the value passed to “--size” will be interpreted as a line count.

              If  this  option is used without “--size”, the "total size" (in this case, total line count) is calculated by reading through all input files once before transfer starts.  If any inputs are
              pipes or non-regular files, or are unreadable, the total size will not be calculated.

       -0, --null
              Count lines as terminated with a null byte instead of with a newline.  This option implies “--line-mode”.

       -i SEC, --interval SEC
              Wait SEC seconds between updates.  The default is to update every second.  The value of SEC can be a decimal such as “0.1”.

       -m SEC, --average-rate-window SEC
              Compute current average rate over a SEC seconds window for average rate and ETA calculations.  The default is 30 seconds.  The value must be an integer.

       -w WIDTH, --width WIDTH
              Assume the terminal is WIDTH columns wide, instead of trying to work it out (or assuming 80 if it cannot be guessed).  If this option is used, the output width will not be adjusted  if  the
              width of the terminal changes while the transfer is running.

       -H HEIGHT, --height HEIGHT
              Assume  the  terminal  is HEIGHT rows high, instead of trying to work it out (or assuming 25 if it cannot be guessed).  If this option is used, the output height will not be adjusted if the
              height of the terminal changes while the transfer is running.

       -N NAME, --name NAME
              Prefix the output information with NAME.  Useful in conjunction with “--cursor” if you have a complicated pipeline and you want to be able to tell different parts of it apart.

       -u STYLE, --bar-style STYLE
              Change the default progress bar style shown by “--progress”, or by the “--format” sequences “%{progress}” or “%{progress-bar-only}”, to STYLE.  The STYLE can be one of plain (the  default),
              block, granular, or shaded.  These styles are described in the FORMATTING section below.

       -x SPEC, --extra-display SPEC
              As well as displaying progress to the terminal, also write it to SPEC.  The SPEC must start with a comma-separated list of destinations, and can optionally be followed by a colon and a for‐
              mat  string.   The destinations can be windowtitle or window for the xterm window title, and processtitle, proctitle, process, or proc for the process title displayed by ps(1).  If a format
              string is not supplied, the same format is used as for the terminal.  For example, “-x 'window,process:%t %b %r'” will show the elapsed time, bytes transferred, and rate, in both the window
              title and the process title.

       -v, --stats
              At the end of the transfer, write an additional line showing the transfer rate minimum, maximum, mean, and standard deviation.  The values are always in bytes  per  second  (or  bits,  with
              “--bits”).

       -f, --force
              Force output.  Normally, pv will not output any visual display if standard error is not a terminal.  This option forces it to do so.

       -c, --cursor
              Use cursor positioning escape sequences instead of just using carriage returns.  This is useful in conjunction with “--name” if you are using multiple pv invocations in a single pipeline.

   Data transfer modifiers
       -o FILE, --output FILE
              Write data to FILE instead of standard output.  If the file already exists, it will be truncated.

       -L RATE, --rate-limit RATE
              Limit the transfer to a maximum of RATE bytes per second.  The same suffixes as “--size” can be used.

       -B BYTES, --buffer-size BYTES
              Use  a  transfer  buffer  size of BYTES bytes.  The same suffixes as “--size” can be used.  The default buffer size is the block size of the input file's filesystem multiplied by 32 (512KiB
              max), or 400KiB if the block size cannot be determined.  This can be useful on platforms like macOS with pipelines that perform better with specific buffer  sizes  such  as  1024.   Implies
              “--no-splice”.

       -C, --no-splice
              Never  use splice(2), even if it would normally be possible.  The splice(2) system call is a more efficient way of transferring data from or to a pipe than regular read(2) and write(2), but
              means that the transfer buffer may not be used.  This prevents “--buffer-percent” and “--last-written” from working, cannot work with “--discard”, and makes  “--buffer-size”  redundant,  so
              using any of those options automatically switches on “--no-splice”.  Switching on this option results in a small loss of transfer efficiency.  It has no effect on systems where splice(2) is
              unavailable.

       -E, --skip-errors
              Ignore read errors by attempting to skip past the offending sections.  The corresponding parts of the output will be null bytes.  At first only a few bytes will be skipped, but if there are
              many errors in a row then the skips will move up to chunks of 512.  This is intended to be similar to “dd conv=sync,noerror”.

              Specify “--skip-errors” twice to only report a read error once per file, instead of reporting each byte range skipped.

       -Z BYTES, --error-skip-block BYTES
              When  ignoring  read errors with “--skip-errors”, instead of trying to adaptively skip by reading small amounts and skipping progressively larger sections until a read succeeds, move to the
              next file block of BYTES bytes as soon as an error occurs.  There may still be some shorter skips where the block being skipped coincides with the end of the transfer buffer.  The same suf‐
              fixes as “--size” can be used.

              This option can only be used with “--skip-errors” and is intended for use when reading from a block device, such as “--skip-errors --error-skip-block 4K” to skip in 4 kibibyte blocks.  This
              will speed up reads from faulty media, at the expense of potentially losing more data.

       -S, --stop-at-size
              If a size was specified with “--size”, stop transferring data once that many bytes have been written, instead of continuing to the end of input.

       -Y, --sync
              After every write operation, synchronise the buffer caches to disk with fdatasync(2).  This has no effect when the output is a pipe.  Using “--sync” may improve the accuracy of the progress
              bar when writing to a slow disk.

       -K, --direct-io
              Set the O_DIRECT flag on all inputs and outputs, if it is available.  This will minimise the effect of caches, at the cost of performance.  Due to memory alignment requirements, it also may
              cause read or write failures with an error of “Invalid argument”, especially if reading and writing files across a variety of filesystems in a single pv call.  Use this option with caution.

       -X, --discard
              Instead of transferring input data to standard output, discard it.  This is equivalent to redirecting  standard  output  to  /dev/null,  except  that  write(2)  is  never  called.   Implies
              “--no-splice”.

       -U FILE, --store-and-forward FILE
              Instead of passing data through immediately, do it in two stages - first read all input and write it to FILE, and then once the input is exhausted, read all of FILE and write it to the out‐
              put.  FILE remains in place afterwards, unless it is “-”, in which case pv creates a temporary file for this purpose, and automatically removes it afterwards.

              This  can  be  useful if you have a pipeline which generates data (your input) quickly but you don't know the size, and you wish to pass it to some slower process, once all of the input has
              been generated and you know its size, so you can see its progress.  Note that when doing this with relatively small amounts of data, “--no-splice” may be preferable so that  pipe  buffering
              doesn't affect the progress display.

   Alternative operating modes
       -d PID[:FD], --watchfd PID[:FD]
              Instead  of transferring data, watch file descriptor FD of process PID, and show its progress.  The pv process will exit when FD either changes to a different file, changes read/write mode,
              or is closed; other data transfer modifiers - and remote control - may not be used with this option.

              If only a PID is specified, then that process will be watched, and all regular files and block devices it opens will be shown with a progress bar.  The pv process will exit when process PID
              exits.

       -R PID, --remote PID
              Remotely control another instance of pv with process ID PID, making it act as though it had been given this instance's command line.  For example, if “pv --rate-limit 123K” is running  with
              process ID 9876, then running “pv --remote 9876 --rate-limit 321K” will cause process 9876 to start using a rate limit of 321KiB instead of 123KiB.  Note that some options cannot be changed
              while running, such as “--cursor”, “--line-mode”, “--force”, “--delay-start”, “--skip-errors”, and “--stop-at-size”.

   Other options
       -P FILE, --pidfile FILE
              Save  the process ID of pv in FILE.  The file will be replaced if it already exists, and will be removed when pv exits.  While pv is running, FILE will contain a single number - the process
              ID of pv - followed by a newline.

       -h, --help
              Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.

       -V, --version
              Print version information on standard output and exit successfully.

FORMATTING
       Format strings used by “--format” and “--extra-display” can contain the following sequences:

       %p, %{progress}
              Progress bar (suffixed with a percentage if the size is known).  Equivalent to “--progress”.  Expands to fill the remaining space unless prefixed by a number  to  set  the  width,  such  as
              “%20p” or “%20{progress}”.

       %{progress-bar-only}
              Progress bar, without any sides, and without any percentage displayed afterwards.  Expands to fill the remaining space unless prefixed by a number.

       %{progress-amount-only}
              The percentage completion (or maximum rate, with “--gauge” when the size is unknown).

       %{bar-plain}
              Progress bar in the standard plain format, without any sides, and without any percentage displayed afterwards.  Expands to fill the remaining space unless prefixed by a number.

       %{bar-block}
              Progress  bar using Unicode full blocks, without any sides, and without any percentage displayed afterwards.  Expands to fill the remaining space unless prefixed by a number.  If UTF-8 out‐
              put is not available, the plain format is used.

       %{bar-granular}
              Progress bar using Unicode full blocks, and 1/8th blocks for partial fills, providing a more granular display.  Like the other “%{bar}” strings this shows the bar  without  any  sides,  and
              without any percentage displayed afterwards, and expands to fill the remaining space unless prefixed by a number.  If UTF-8 output is not available, the plain format is used.

       %{bar-shaded}
              Progress  bar  using  Unicode  full  blocks and shade characters - dark and medium shade are used for partial fills, and the light shade is used for the background.  Like the other “%{bar}”
              strings this shows the bar without any sides, and without any percentage displayed afterwards, and expands to fill the remaining space unless prefixed by a number.  If UTF-8 output  is  not
              available, the plain format is used.

       %t, %{timer}
              Elapsed time.  Equivalent to “--timer”.

       %e, %{eta}
              ETA as time remaining.  Equivalent to “--eta”.

       %I, %{fineta}
              ETA as local time at which the transfer will finish.  Equivalent to “--fineta”.

       %r, %{rate}
              Current data transfer rate.  Equivalent to “--rate”.

       %a, %{average-rate}
              Average data transfer rate.  Equivalent to “--average-rate”.

       %b, %{bytes}, %{transferred}
              Bytes transferred so far (or lines if “--line-mode” was specified).  Equivalent to “--bytes”.  If “--bits” was specified, “%b” shows the bits transferred so far, not bytes.

       %T, %{buffer-percent}
              Percentage  of  the  transfer buffer in use.  Equivalent to “--buffer-percent”.  Displays “{----}” if the transfer is being done with splice(2), since splicing to or from pipes does not use
              the buffer.

       %nA, %n{last-written}
              Show the last n bytes written (for example, “%16A” shows the last 16 bytes).  Shows only dots if the transfer is being done with splice(2), since splicing to or from pipes does not use  the
              buffer.

       %nL, %n{previous-line}
              Show the first n bytes of the most recently written line (for example, “%40L” shows the first 40 bytes).  If no n is given, then this expands to fill the available space.  Shows only spaces
              if the transfer is being done with splice(2).

       %N, %{name}
              Show the name prefix given by “--name”.  Padded to 9 characters with spaces, and suffixed with “:”.

       %{sgr:colour,...}
              Emit  ECMA-48 SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) codes if the terminal supports colours, where colour,... is a comma-separated list of any of the keywords below, or the numeric values from con‐
              sole_codes(4).  If colour support is not available, nothing is emitted.

              Supported keywords are: reset or none, black, red, green, brown or yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white, fg-black, fg-red, fg-green,  fg-brown  or  fg-yellow,  fg-blue,  fg-magenta,  fg-cyan,
              fg-white,  fg-default,  bg-black,  bg-red,  bg-green,  bg-brown or bg-yellow, bg-blue, bg-magenta, bg-cyan, bg-white, bg-default, bold, dim, italic, underscore or underline, blink, reverse,
              no-bold or no-dim, no-italic, no-underscore or no-underline, no-blink, no-reverse.

              With colours, the optional "fg-" prefix indicates foreground; a prefix of "bg-" indicates background.

              For example, “%{sgr:green,bold}TEXT%{sgr:reset}“ will make TEXT bold green on supported terminals.

       %%     A single “%”.

       Any other contents are reproduced in the progress display as-is.

       The format string equivalent of the default display switches is “%b %t %r %p %e”.

EXAMPLES
       Some suggested common switch combinations:

       pv -ptebar
              Show a progress bar, elapsed time, estimated completion time, byte counter, average rate, and current rate.

       pv -betlap
              Show a progress bar, elapsed time, estimated completion time, line counter, and average rate, counting lines instead of bytes.

       pv -btrpg
              Show the amount transferred, elapsed time, current rate, and a gauge showing the current rate as a percentage of the maximum rate seen - useful in a pipeline where the  total  size  is  un‐
              known.  (If the size is known, these options will show the percentage completion instead of the rate gauge).

       pv -t  Show only the elapsed time - useful as a simple timer, such as “sleep 10m | pv -t”.

       pv -pterb
              The default behaviour: progress bar, elapsed time, estimated completion time, current rate, and byte counter.

       On macOS, it may be useful to specify “--buffer-size 1024” in a pipeline, as this may improve performance.

       To watch how quickly a file is transferred using nc(1):

           pv file | nc -w 1 somewhere.com 3000

       A similar example, transferring a file from another process and passing the expected size to pv:

           cat file | pv --size 12345 | nc -w 1 somewhere.com 3000

       To watch the progress of creating a tar.gz archive:

           tar cf - directory/ \
           | pv --size $(du -sb directory/ | awk '{print $1}') \
           | gzip -9 \
           > out.tar.gz

       Taking an image of a disk, skipping errors:

           pv -EE /dev/your/disk/device > disk-image.img

       Writing an image back to a disk:

           pv disk-image.img > /dev/your/disk/device

       Zeroing a disk:

           pv < /dev/zero > /dev/your/disk/device

       Note  that  if  the  input  size  cannot  be  calculated,  and  the  output  is  a  block  device,  then the size of the block device will be used and pv will automatically stop at that size as if
       “--stop-at-size” had been given.

       (Linux and macOS only): Watching file descriptor 3 opened by another process 1234:

           pv --watchfd 1234:3

       (Linux and macOS only): Watching all file descriptors used by process 1234:

           pv --watchfd 1234

       Rate-limiting the transfer between two processes in a pipeline, with no display:

           producer | pv --quiet --rate-limit 1M | consumer

       Sending logs to a processing script, showing the most recent line as part of the progress display:

           pv --format '%a %p : %L' big.log | processing-script

       Showing progress as lines of JSON data:

           pv --numeric --format '{"elapsed":%t,"bytes":%b,"rate":%r,"percentage":%{progress-amount-only}}' big.log | processing-script

EXIT STATUS
       An exit status of 1 indicates a problem with the “--remote” or “--pidfile” options.

       Any other exit status is a bitmask of the following:

        2   One or more files could not be accessed, stat(2)ed, or opened.

        4   An input file was the same as the output file.

        8   Internal error with closing a file or moving to the next file.

        16  There was an error while transferring data from one or more input files.

        32  A signal was caught that caused an early exit.

        64  Memory allocation failed.

       A zero exit status indicates no problems.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables may affect pv:

       HOME   The current user's home directory.  This may be used by “--remote” to exchange messages between pv instances: if the /run/user/UID/ directory does not exist (where UID is the  current  user
              ID), then $HOME/.pv/ will be used instead.

       TMPDIR, TMP
              The  directory  to  create per-tty lock files for the terminal when using “--cursor”.  If TMPDIR is set to a non-empty value, it is the directory under which lock files are created.  Other‐
              wise, TMP is used.  If neither are set, then /tmp is used.

NOTES
       In some versions of bash(1) and zsh(1), the construct “<(pv filename)” will not output any progress to the terminal when run from an interactive shell, due to the subprocess being run in  a  sepa‐
       rate process group from the one that owns the terminal.  In these cases, use “--force”.

       If pv is used in a pipeline in zsh version 5.8, and the last command in the pipeline is based on shell builtins, zsh takes control of the terminal away from pv, preventing progress from being dis‐
       played.  For example, this will produce no progress bar:

           pv InputFile | { while read -r line; do sleep 0.1; done; }

       To work around this, put the last commands of the pipeline in normal brackets to force the use of a subshell:

           pv InputFile | ( while read -r line; do sleep 0.1; done; )

       Refer to issue #105 for full details.

       The “--remote” option requires that either /run/user/<uid>/ or $HOME/ can be written to, for inter-process communication.

       The “--size” option has no effect if used with “--watchfd PID” to watch all file descriptors of a process, but will work with “--watchfd PID:FD” to watch a single file descriptor.

       If the input size cannot be calculated, and the output is a block device, then pv will read the output device's size, use that as if it had been passed to “--size”, and activate “--stop-at-size”.

       The “%nA” and “%nL” format sequences may not be effective with small input files, and “%nL” may be a few lines out due to buffering within the pipeline itself.

       Numbers  passed  to  “--size”,  “--rate-limit”,  “--buffer-size”,  and  “--error-skip-block” may all be expressed as decimals if followed by a suffix, so for example “--size 1.5G” is equivalent to
       “--size 1536M”.

       Numbers passed to “--interval” and “--delay-start” may be integers or decimals, but may not have a suffix.

       Numbers passed to “--last-written”, “--width”, “--height”, “--average-rate-window”, and “--remote” must be integers with no suffix.

REPORTING BUGS
       Please report any bugs to pv@ivarch.com.

       Alternatively, use the issue tracker linked from the pv home page.

SEE ALSO
       cat(1), splice(2), fdatasync(2), open(2) (for O_DIRECT), console_codes(4)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2002-2008, 2010, 2012-2015, 2017, 2021, 2023-2025 Andrew Wood.

       License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later.

       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

       Please see the package's ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS file for a complete list of contributors.

pv-1.9.31                                                                                        2025-01-28                                                                                           PV(1)
