BNETD.CONF(5)                                                                               BNETD User's Manual                                                                               BNETD.CONF(5)

NAME
       bnetd.conf - configuration for the Unix Battle.net daemon

DESCRIPTION
       The file bnetd.conf contains information used by the Unix Battle.net daemon bnetd(1) to obtain system-specific information such as file locations and policies.

       The file consists of a list of configuration entries and comments.  A comment starts with a pound (#) sign and continues to the end of the line.  Blank lines and whitespace are ignored between en‐
       tries.  A configuration entry is composed of two fields separated by an equals (=) sign:

              directive = value

       The  directive field contains the name of the configuration item you want to set to the value of value.  If the value contains spaces it should be surrounded by quotation marks (").  The value may
       not contain quotation marks.  Multiple entries are not allowed on a single line.

       If the field is Boolean, any of true, false, yes, no, 1, or 0 may be used.  If the field is numeric, it must be in base ten.  If the field is an address list, it must be delimited by commas.  Each
       element may contain a hostname (or IP) and a port number.  If a port number is given, it must be preceded by a colon (:).  A colon by itself may be used to represent the wildcard address.  If  the
       field  is  a file or directory path, use of an absolute pathname is recommended.  The values for iconfile, tosfile, and mpqauthfile are not pathnames but just the names of the files.  They must be
       in the filedir directory.

       Recognized values for directive include:

              filedir   Specifies the path where downloadable files are stored.  These files are include the TOS (terms of service), icons, and ad banners.  (Normally "files/")

              userdir   Specify the path where user accounts are stored.  (Normally "users/")

              reportdir Specify the path where game reports are stored.  (Normally "reports/")

              chanlogdir
                        Specify the path where channel logs are stored.  (Normally "chanlogs/")

              defacct   Specify the path of the default account file.  This file contains all default account attributes which are used when an attribute is  not  set  on  an  actual  account.  (Normally
                        "bnetd_default_user")

              motdfile  Specify the path of the "message of the day" text file.  This is displayed when a user enters the first chat channel.  (Normally "bnmotd.txt")

              channelfile
                        Specify the path of the permanent channel list.  (Normally "channel.list")

              newsfile  Specify the path of the file that is printed when the /news command is used.  If no file is specified or the file doesn't exist then the server prints "No news today" to the user.
                        (Normally "news.txt")

              adfile    Specify the path of the ad banner list which determines which banners to display at which times.  (Normally "ad.list")

              ipbanfile Specify the path of the IP ban file which can be used to block connections from certain addresses.  (Normally "bnban")

              helpfile  Specify the path of the chat command help file.  (Normally "bnhelp")

              transfile Specify  the  path of the game address translation file which can be used to allow players from behind a NAT firewall to play with those outside of the firewall.  (Normally "game‐
                        trans")

              mpqfile   Specify the path of the autoupdate MPQ archive list.  It chooses which versions of which clients to update.  (Normally "autoupdate")

              logfile   Specifies the file where the server appends the event messages selected with the loglevels field.  (Normally "bnetd.log")

              pidfile   Specify the path of the file where the server records its process ID.  (Normally "bnetd.pid")

              fortunecmd
                        The path for the program to be executed when /fortune is used.  See fortune(6).  (Normally "/usr/games/fortune")

              loglevels Specify A comma-delimited list of message levels to log.  The avaliable levels are:

                        trace  flow tracing statements

                        debug  debugging information

                        info   potentially useful informational

                        warn   potentially serious events

                        error  error messages and unexpected events

                        fatal  fatal errors

              iconfile  Specify the name of the BNI chat icons file which must be inside of the filedir directory.  (Normally "icons.bni")

              tosfile   Specify the name of the TOS file which must be inside of the filedir directory.  (Normally "tos.txt")

              allow_autoupdate
                        Enable or disable to automatic client update facility.  If you want to allow different client versions to connect, set this to false.  If you want to update  all  clients  to  the
                        same version, be sure to also download the MPQ auth file, and the update MPQ.

              mpqauthfile
                        Specify  the  name of the MPQ authorization file which must be inside of the filedir directory.  This file is used to determine the current client version.  This is only needed if
                        allow_autoupdate is turned on.  (Normally "IX86ver1.mpq")

              usersync  Specify the time in seconds between account file saves.  A value of 0 means to wait until shutdown to save account files and not do do periodic updates.

              userflush Specify the number of seconds of inactivity before a user is unloaded from memory (only checked during file account updates, see usersync.  After the account has been unloaded, it
                        must be read from disk when accessed again.

              latency   How often to send user latency tests to the user, in seconds.  These are used to decide how many "lag bars" to print next to users in channels.

              shutdown_delay
                        Specify the amount of time in seconds to delay shutting down the server when it receives a SIGTERM or SIGINT signal(7).

              shutdown_decr
                        You can decrease the amount of time to wait by this value by sending another SIGTERM or SIGINT signal(7).

              newaccounts
                        If this value is true then new accounts may be created by users on the system.  Administrators can always use the /addacct chat command.

              kick_oldlogin
                        If this value is true then a second login by the same user will kick off the first, otherwise the second login will get message saying that they are already logged in.

              ask_new_channel
                        If this value is true, a user using the "Channels" button to join a non-existing channel will be asked if they wish to create it just like Battle.net.  Otherwise, the channel will
                        be created silently.

              report_all_games
                        If this value is true, all games with more than one player lasting for more than 5 minutes will be logged.  Otherwise, only ladder games are logged.

              hide_pass_games
                        If this value is true, private (passworded) games will not be shown in the game list just like Battle.net.  Otherwise all games will be listed.

              hide_started_games
                        If this value is true, games which have already stated will not be sent to the clients.  The clients filter these games out for Starcraft and Brood War already.

              hide_temp_channels
                        If this value is true, private channels will not be shown in the channel list just like Battle.net.  Otherwise all channels will be listed.

              extra_commands
                        If this value is true then all the extended chat commands are enabled, otherwise only those which exist on Battle.net are enabled.

              disc_is_loss
                        If this value is true then any disconnect will be treated as a loss (regardless of the setting in ladder games).

              enable_conn_all
                        If this value is true then all users may use the /con and /connections commands.  Otherwise only administrators may use them.

              hide_addr If this value is true then IP addresses will be hidden from non-admins in the output of the /con, /games, /gameinfo, and /netinfo commands.

              chanlog   If this value is true then private channels will be logged to files in the chanlogdir direcotry.  The logging of public (permanent) channels is controlled in the channelfile file.

              track     Set this value to 0 to disable sending updates to the tracking server.  Any other number will set the number of seconds between tracking packets.  Try to use  a  number  above  60
                        seconds unless you know the tracking server administrator doesn't mind being spammed.

              trackaddrs
                        Specify a comma-delimited list of addresses of tracking servers to send updates to.  The address for the master server is "track.bnetd.org".  A port may be specified after a colon
                        numerically or by name from /etc/services(5).  If a port number is not specified, it defaults to 6114.

              location  Give a description of the physical location of the server such as "San Diego, CA, USA".  This is reported to the tracking server.

              description
                        Give a description of title or role of the server such as "Joe's Spiffy Server".  This is reported to the tracking server.

              url       Give a URL for the homepage or contact for the server such as "http://www.foo.com/joeserv.html".  This is reported to the tracking server.

              contact_name
                        Give the name of the contact for the server such as "Joe Blockhead".  This is reported to the tracking server.

              contact_email
                        Give the email address of the contact for the server such as "joe@foo.com".  This is reported to the tracking server.

              use_keepalive
                        If this value is set to true, the server will enable the TCP keepalive option to allow the system to detect stale connections.

              servaddrs Specify  the  comma-delimited list of addresses the server should listen on.  A port may be specified after a colon numerically or by name from /etc/services(5).  If a port number
                        is not specified, it defaults to 6112.

              udptest_port
                        The UDP port number which is assumed for clients if they don't send SESSIONADDR packets.  If it is set to zero, the server will use the remote TCP port number as the  default  UDP
                        port number.

SEE ALSO
       bnetd(1)

AUTHOR
       Rob Crittenden (rob@bnetd.org), Ross Combs (ross@bnetd.org)

BNETD                                                                                          12 June, 2000                                                                                  BNETD.CONF(5)
