PWHOIS(1)                                                                             User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                             PWHOIS(1)

NAME
       phwois - Get Whois information of domains and IP addresses.

VERSION
       version 2.99031

SYNOPSIS
               pwhois perl.com
               pwhois gnu.org
               pwhois -s police.co.il
               pwhois -c there.is.no.tld.called.foobar
               pwhois yahoo.com whois.networksolutions.com
               pwhois -T 10 funet.fi

       etc etc.....

DESCRIPTION
       Just invoke with a domain name, optionally with a whois server name.  Switches:
           -s attempt to strip the copyright message or disclaimer.
           -c attempts to return an empty answer for failed searches.
           -e forces die if connection rate to server have been exceeded.
           -T set timeout for connection attempts
           -t enables caching.
           -a specify an ip address that should be used as source address
           -d enables debugging messages.
           -F returns results of the first query of recursive whois requests
           -L returns results of the last query of recursive whois requests (the default)
           -A returns results of the all queries of recursive whois requests

NAME
       pwhois   - Perl written whois client

AUTHORS
       Ariel Brosh schop@cpan.org Walery Studennikov despair@cpan.org

       Current Maintainer: Alexander Nalobin nalobin@cpan.org

SEE ALSO
       Net::Whois::Raw.

AUTHOR
       Alexander Nalobin <alexander@nalobin.ru>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       This software is copyright (c) 2002-2020 by Alexander Nalobin.

       This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-22                                                                                         PWHOIS(1)
