eduactiv8(6)                                                                                       Games                                                                                       eduactiv8(6)

NAME
       eduactiv8 -  Educational Activities for Kids

SYNOPSIS
       eduactiv8

DESCRIPTION
       eduActiv8  is  a set of educational activities and games for children aged between 3 and 10. The activities are grid based and can be played all in a single window. eduActiv8 includes maths, read‐
       ing, writing, painting, and memory activities.

FEATURES
       - Letter flashcards, jumbled abc, word mazes, sort letters

       - Learn to write (best used with touchscreens or drawing tablets)

       - Maths: count, basic operations, sort numbers, fractions, shapes, patterns, time, elapsed time

       - Learn colour names

       - Short term memory training activities

       - Mazes and puzzles

REQUIREMENTS
       - python 2.7+

       - python-pygame

       - espeak

USAGE
       The game will start by default in windowed mode, but it can be changed into a fullscreen mode. The configuration will be maintained whenever it is started again later.

       Initially a login screen will be presented to the user. Users can either create an offline account for themselves or use the default Guest account. When logging into the game a desired age (school
       year) can be selected to fine tune the difficulty of activities.

       When logged in, the game will present a starting screen with 3 main groups of categories of activities to choose from. When a group is selected a list of all categories suitable for previously se‐
       lected age group will be shown. Further selection of a category will display a list of available activities. Upon clicking on an activity icon it will start taking up the whole screen. A back but‐
       ton is located in the top left corner to go back to the previous screen.

       There are two steps to selecting a language. The language selected on the login screen will change the language of the login screen only, but also will be used as a default language for new users.
       After logging in individual users can choose a different language - the icon to access the language selection screen is located in the bottom left corner of the home screen - the language selected
       here will be saved for each user individually. This allows users to use the program to learn other languages.

FILES
       The game data for each user is stored at ~/.local/share/eduactiv8/

SEE ALSO
       You can find more information at https://www.eduactiv8.org

                                                                                                  4.20.01                                                                                      eduactiv8(6)
