PYTEST-WATCHER(1)                                                                              User Commands                                                                              PYTEST-WATCHER(1)

NAME
       pytest-watcher - Automatically rerun Python tests on code changes

DESCRIPTION
       pytest-watcher is a tool to automatically rerun tests (using pytest by default) whenever your code changes.  It is designed to be simple, effective, and compatible with most Python projects out of
       the box.

       The watcher listens for file creation, deletion, modification, and move events. Upon detecting changes, it re-runs your tests with the most recent code state.

       Unlike  tools  that  rely  on  polling,  pytest-watcher uses the native system file monitoring API (where supported) to efficiently detect file system events. For a list of supported platforms and
       caveats, see the watchdog documentation in the LINKS section.

       pytest-watcher offers an interactive mode with handy keyboard shortcuts.

USAGE
       Specify the path that you want to watch:

              ptw .

              or

              ptw /home/repos/project

              pytest-watcher passes all arguments following <path> to the test runner (defaulting to pytest), except for its own reserved options (see OPTIONS).  For example:

              ptw . -x --lf --nf

              This will invoke the test runner as:

              pytest -x --lf --nf

OPTIONS
       The following options are reserved for pytest-watcher and will not be passed to the test runner:

       --runner
              Specify an alternative test runner.

       --patterns
              Specify file patterns to watch.

       --ignore-patterns
              Specify file patterns to ignore.

       --now  Run tests immediately after starting the watcher.

       --delay
              Specify the delay before running tests.

       --clear
              Clear the terminal screen before each test run.

LINKS
       Watchdog documentation: https://python-watchdog.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html#supported-platforms-and-caveats

LICENSE
       MIT

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2021 Olzhas Arystanov

MAN PAGE
       Enkelena Haxhija (EnkelenaH) created this man page based on the upstream README

pytest-watcher 0.4.3                                                                             June 2025                                                                                PYTEST-WATCHER(1)
