PYTHON-COVERAGE(1)                                                                                Coverage                                                                               PYTHON-COVERAGE(1)

NAME
       python-coverage - measure code coverage of Python program execution

SYNOPSIS
       python-coverage command [ option ... ]
       python-coverage help [ command ]

DESCRIPTION
       python-coverage executes a Python program, measures which of its statements are executed and which are not, and reports these coverage measurements.

COMMAND OVERVIEW
       python-coverage annotate
              Annotate source files with execution information.

       python-coverage combine
              Combine a number of data files.

       python-coverage debug
              Display diagnostic information about the internals of this program.

       python-coverage erase
              Erase previously collected coverage data.

       python-coverage help
              Get help on using coverage.py.

       python-coverage html
              Create an HTML report.

       python-coverage report
              Report coverage stats on modules.

       python-coverage run
              Run a Python program and measure code execution.

       python-coverage xml
              Create an XML report of coverage results.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       --help, -h
              Describe how to use Coverage, in general or a command.

       --rcfile RCFILE
              Specify configuration file RCFILE. Defaults to .coveragerc.

       --omit PATTERN ...
              Omit files when their filename matches one of these PATTERNs.  Usually needs quoting on the command line.

       --include PATTERN ...
              Include files only when their filename path matches one of these PATTERNs. Usually needs quoting on the command line.

COMMAND REFERENCE
       annotate
          Options:

          -d DIR, --directory DIR
                 Write the output files to DIR.

          -i, --ignore-errors
                 Ignore errors while reading source files.

       combine PATH PATH [ ... ]
          Combine data from multiple coverage files PATH, collected with run -p. The combined results are written to a single file representing the union of the data.

       debug topic
          Display information on the internals of coverage.py, for diagnosing problems.

          Topics are:

          • data, to show a summary of the collected data.

          • sys, to show installation information.

       erase
          Erase previously collected coverage data.

       help [ command ]
          Describe how to use Coverage.

       html [ option ... ] [ MODULE ... ]
          Create an HTML report of the coverage of each MODULE file. Each file gets its own page, with the source decorated to show executed, excluded, and missed lines.

          Options:

          -d DIR, --directory DIR
                 Write the output files to DIR.

          --title TITLE
                 Use the text string TITLE as the title on the HTML.

          --fail-under MIN
                 Exit with a status of 2 if the total coverage is less than MIN.

          -i, --ignore-errors
                 Ignore errors while reading source files.

       report [ option ... ] [ MODULE ... ]
          Report coverage statistics on each MODULE.

          Options:

          --fail-under MIN
                 Exit with a status of 2 if the total coverage is less than MIN.

          -i, --ignore-errors
                 Ignore errors while reading source files.

          -m, --show-missing
                 Show line numbers of statements in each module that weren't executed.

       run [ options ... ] PROGRAMFILE [ program_options ]
          Run a Python program PROGRAMFILE, measuring code execution.

          Options:

          -a, --append
                 Append coverage data to .coverage, otherwise it is started clean with each run.

          --branch
                 Measure branch coverage in addition to statement coverage.

          --debug DEBUGOPT,...
                 Debug options DEBUGOPT, separated by commas

          -L, --pylib
                 Measure coverage even inside the Python installed library, which isn't done by default.

          -p, --parallel-mode
                 Append the machine name, process id and random number to the .coverage data file name to simplify collecting data from many processes.

          --timid
                 Use a simpler but slower trace method. Try this if you get seemingly impossible results!

          --source SOURCE ...
                 A list of packages or directories of code to be measured.

       xml [ options ... ] [ MODULES ... ]
          Generate an XML report of coverage results on each MODULE.

          Options:

          --fail-under MIN
                 Exit with a status of 2 if the total coverage is less than MIN.

          -i, --ignore-errors
                 Ignore errors while reading source files.

          -o OUTFILE
                 Write the XML report to OUTFILE. Defaults to coverage.xml.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       COVERAGE_FILE
          Path to the file where coverage measurements are collected to and reported from. Default: .coverage in the current working directory.

       COVERAGE_OPTIONS
          Space-separated series of command-line options to python-coverage. Default: empty.

HISTORY
       The python-coverage command is a Python program which calls the coverage Python library to do all the work.

       The library was originally developed by Gareth Rees, and is now developed by Ned Batchelder.

       This  manual  page was written to document the python-coverage command for Debian. This is free software: you may copy, modify and/or distribute this work under the terms of the GNU General Public
       License, version 3 or later <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
        as published by the Free Software Foundation, version 3 or later. No warranty expressed or implied.

       On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License version 3 can be found in the file /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-3.

AUTHOR
       Ben Finney <ben+python@benfinney.id.au>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2010–2017 Ben Finney <bignose@debian.org>

                                                                                                 2020-09-06                                                                              PYTHON-COVERAGE(1)
