CYCLOPTS(1)                                                                                 Cyclopts CLI Manual                                                                                 CYCLOPTS(1)

NAME
     cyclopts - command-line interface for running and documenting Cyclopts applications

SYNOPSIS
     cyclopts [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGUMENTS]

     cyclopts run SCRIPT [ARGS...]

     cyclopts generate-docs [OPTIONS] SCRIPT [ARGS]

DESCRIPTION
     cyclopts  is a command-line tool for working with applications built using the Cyclopts Python framework. It allows users to dynamically execute CLI applications defined in Python scripts and gener‐
     ate structured documentation automatically.

     Cyclopts is particularly useful for developers building CLI tools, as it provides automatic argument parsing, shell completion, and documentation generation based on Python type hints.

     The two primary workflows are:

     1.  Execute a CLI app from a Python script using cyclopts run.

     2.  Generate documentation from the same script using cyclopts generate-docs.

OPTIONS
     -h, --help
            Show help message and exit.

     --version
            Display application version and exit.

     --install-completion
            Install shell completion support persistently for the current user.

            Note: When installed via the Debian package, shell completion for bash, zsh, and fish is automatically available system-wide without requiring this command.

COMMANDS
   run
     cyclopts run SCRIPT [ARGS...]
            Run a Cyclopts application from a Python script.

     The script may optionally specify the application object using the syntax: script.py:app_object.

     All arguments after the script path are passed directly to the loaded application.

   generate-docs
     cyclopts generate-docs SCRIPT
            Generate documentation for a Cyclopts application.

     -o, --output FILE
            Write output to the specified file instead of stdout.

     -f, --format FORMAT
            Specify output format.

     Supported formats include: markdown, md, html, htm, rst, rest, restructuredtext.

     --include-hidden
            Include hidden commands in the generated documentation.

     --heading-level LEVEL
            Set the starting heading level for Markdown output.  Default is 1.

     --usage-name NAME
            Override the application name shown in usage lines.

     Useful when the runtime command differs from the script name.

EXAMPLES
   Running an application
     Run a Cyclopts app from a Python script:

            $ cyclopts run app.py

     Run specifying the app object:

            $ cyclopts run app.py:cli

     Pass arguments to the application:

            $ cyclopts run app.py --help
            $ cyclopts run app.py command --option value

   Generating documentation
     Generate Markdown documentation:

            $ cyclopts generate-docs app.py -o docs.md

     Generate HTML documentation:

            $ cyclopts generate-docs app.py -o docs.html

     Print documentation to stdout:

            $ cyclopts generate-docs app.py

     Include hidden commands:

            $ cyclopts generate-docs app.py --include-hidden

     Customize heading level:

            $ cyclopts generate-docs app.py --heading-level 2

NOTES
     cyclopts run executes Python scripts dynamically, so ensure that all dependencies required by the script are installed in the current environment.

     When using the script.py:app_object notation, the specified object must be a valid Cyclopts application instance.

     The documentation generated by cyclopts generate-docs is derived directly from the application's structure, ensuring that CLI documentation stays consistent with the source code.

FILES
     *.py   Python scripts containing Cyclopts applications.

LICENSE
     Refer to the Cyclopts project license at /usr/share/doc/python3-cyclopts/copyright

AUTHOR
     This manual page was written by Nilson Ferreira da Silva for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

SEE ALSO
     python3(1)

4.11.0                                                                                           2026-04-25                                                                                     CYCLOPTS(1)
