qdel(1B)                                                                                              PBS                                                                                              qdel(1B)

NAME
       qdel - delete pbs batch job

SYNOPSIS
       qdel [-a] [-c] [-m message] [-p] [-t array_range] [-W delay] [-b secs] job_identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       The  qdel  command deletes jobs in the order in which their job identifiers are presented to the command.  A job is deleted by sending a Delete Job batch request to the batch server that owns the job.
       A job that has been deleted is no longer subject to management by batch services.

       A batch job may be deleted by its owner, the batch operator, or the batch administrator.

       A batch job being deleted by a server will be sent a SIGTERM signal following by a SIGKILL signal.  The time delay between the two signals is an attribute of the execution queue from which the job was
       run (settable by the administrator).  This delay may be overridden by the -W option.

       See the PBS ERS section 3.1.3.3, "Delete Job Request", for more information.

OPTIONS
       -W delay       Specify the delay between the sending of the SIGTERM and SIGKILL signals.   The argument delay specifies a unsigned integer number of seconds.

       -a             Request the job(s) be deleted asynchronously, which for a Running job means that the reply will return before the MOM is requested to delete the job.

       -b seconds     Defines  the  maximum number of seconds qsub will block attempting to contact pbs_server.  If pbs_server is down, or for a variety of communication failures, qsub will continually retry
                      connecting to pbs_server for job submission.  This value overrides the CLIENTRETRY parameter in torque.cfg.  This is a non-portable TORQUE extension.  Portability-minded users  can  use
                      the PBS_CLIENTRETRY environmental variable.  A negative value is interpreted as infinity.  The default is 0.

       -c             Clean  up unreported jobs from the server.  This should only be used if the scheduler is unable to purge unreported jobs.  This option is only available to a batch operator or the batch
                      administrator.

       -p             Forcibly purge the job from the server.  This should only be used if a running job will not exit because its allocated nodes are unreachable.  The admin should make every attempt at re‐
                      solving  the  problem on the nodes.  If a job's mother superior recovers after purging the job, any epilogue scripts may still run.  This option is only available to a batch operator or
                      the batch administrator.

       -m message     Specify a comment to be included in the email.  The argument message specifies the comment to send.  This option is only available to a batch operator or the batch administrator.

       -t array_range The array_range argument is an integer id or a range of integers. Multiple ids or id ranges can be combined in a comma delimted list (examples: -t 1-100 or -t 1,10,50-100). The  command
                      acts on the array (or specified range of the array) just as it would on an individual job.

OPERANDS
       The qdel command accepts one or more job_identifier operands of the form:
           sequence_number[.server_name][@server]
             or
           'all'

STANDARD ERROR
       The qdel command will write a diagnostic messages to standard error for each error occurrence.

EXIT STATUS
       Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the qdel command, the exit status will be a value of zero.

       If the qdel command fails to process any operand, the command exits with a value greater than zero.

SEE ALSO
       qsub(1B), qsig(1B), and pbs_deljob(3B)

Local                                                                                                                                                                                                  qdel(1B)
