fitsmd5(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         fitsmd5(1)

NAME
       fitsmd5 - Compute/update the DATAMD5 keyword/value

SYNOPSIS
       fitsmd5 [-u] [-s] [-a] <FITS files...>

DESCRIPTION
       fitsmd5  computes  the MD5 signature of all data sections in a FITS file, and prints out the results on stdout. This command can optionally update the
       main FITS header in modifying the value of the DATAMD5 key.

       This command is useful to give a unique ID to a FITS file. The algorithm simply browses through all data sections in the input  file  and  passes  the
       data blocks to an MD5 hash function. The final result is a 128-bit signature that can be used to uniquely identify the file.

       This approach is meant to provide a tool to tag FITS files with unique IDs, it is not meant to be used as a checksum for file integrity (the CKSUM key
       is  the  solution  for  that), although it could be used in that spirit. The main point is that only data sections are taken into account, leaving the
       possibility of changing the headers without affecting the data signature.

       MD5 hashing is cryptographically strong, which means the probability of having two different FITS files getting the same ID is almost zero. It  should
       be  good  enough to assign a unique ID to several tens of thousands of frames. Since there is still a tiny but non-zero possibility that two different
       files will get an identical key, this approach is not recommended to tag very large numbers of files (typically: millions of them). If you do  have  a
       large database of FITS files, using a timestamp is usually a better approach.

       The MD5 signature is a good solution to tag a list of FITS files which might have originated from various sources on which the database maintainer has
       no control. Typically, calibration databases holding calibration frames for a given instrument, receive data from different actors who might not be in
       sync with unique file naming conventions. This command makes sure it is always possible to assign a unique ID to each frame.

       Notice  that  if the input FITS file has no data section, the returned MD5 key will be non-zero (it is exactly d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e). This
       signature also offers the interesting property that if two files have exactly the same pixels (bit-wise comparisons) they will get the same  ID,  this
       is useful e.g. for regression tests.

       If you want to produce files containing the DATAMD5 key in their main headers, you should use the qfits library, which always inserts this key. If you
       are  working with other FITS-processing software, you should allocate an empty DATAMD5 placeholder and apply this command with the -u option to update
       the value.

       Notice that this command can also compute the MD5 sum of a complete file, not just its data sections (see -a option). In this  mode,  the  command  is
       completely  identical  to  the GNU md5sum command, which is used to compute checksums on files. Input files in that case need not be FITS, though they
       still need to be regular files.

OPTIONS
       -u     Try to update the DATAMD5 keyword in the main header if present.

       -s     Silent mode: run without printing any message.

       -a     Compute the MD5 sum on all bits in the file. In this mode, the command behaves like the GNU md5sum command, to be used e.g. as a checksum. This
              option excludes all others.

FILES
       Input files to fitsmd5 shall comply with the FITS format, except when used with -a option.

                                                                         01 Aug 2001                                                               fitsmd5(1)
