ql-dynamic-tgt-disc(8)                                              System Administration                                              ql-dynamic-tgt-disc(8)

NAME
       ql-dynamic-tgt-lun-disc - Scans for newly added LUNs.

SYNOPSIS
       ql-dynamic-tgt-lun-disc [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Dynamic TGT-LUN Discovery Utility

       This utility scans for newly added LUNs. After adding new LUNs, you do not need to unload, then load the QLogic FC driver or reboot the system

       To begin scanning the LUNs issue following command:

              # /usr/sbin/ql-dynamic-tgt-lun-disc

       -al,   --allow-lip
              LIP is not issued by default, even if it is required for scanning new LUNs Setting this option, allows the utility to issue LIP.

       -cl, --current-luns
              Displays LUNS currently present

       -e,  --extended-scan
              Use  this  option  as  "-e | --extended-scan". to rescan LUNs. This will identify any change in attributes of existing LUNs. This option can be
              used in combination of scan/refresh or max luns

       -h,  --help, ?
              Prints this help message

       -i,  --interactive
              Use this option to use the menu driven program

       -is,  --iscsi
              Use this option to operate on ISCSI HBAs, this option can be used in combination of any other supported option.

       -m,  --max-lun
              To set the maximum LUNs to be scanned

       -p,  --proc
              Use PROC file system for LUN scanning

       -r,  --refresh
              To refresh, that is remove LUNs that are lost use the options "-r|--refresh". This will remove the LUNs which no more exist.

       -s,  --scan [ -r|--refresh ]
              The QLogic LUN scan utility re-scans all the devices connected to the QLogic HBA

SEE ALSO
       ql-lun-state-online(8), ql-hba-snapshot(8), ql-set-cmd-timeout(8)

Matthias Schmitz <matthias@sigxcpu.org>                                   July 2009                                                    ql-dynamic-tgt-disc(8)
