QMIDIARP(1)                                                        General Commands Manual                                                        QMIDIARP(1)

NAME
       qmidiarp - MIDI arpeggiator and LFO

SYNOPSIS
       qmidiarp [OPTION] [file]
       qmidiarp { --help | --version }

DESCRIPTION
       QMidiArp  is an advanced MIDI arpeggiator, programmable step sequencer and LFO.  It runs with either JACK MIDI or ALSA MIDI. It can hold any number of
       arpeggiator or LFO modules running in parallel. The arpeggiator modules produce sequences depending on the notes sent to their input  port,  which  is
       typically  connected  to a keyboard or another sequencer. The step sequencer modules allow you to create simple linear, monophonic and globally trans‐
       posable sequences similar to the first analog sequencers. The MIDI LFOs independently produce MIDI controller data of adjustable waveform, time  reso‐
       lution,  amplitude  and duration. For each module, an input note filter is available, and the output port and channel can be set independently.  Since
       the modules use a common sequencer queue, they are automatically in sync with each other. QMidiArp works with an internal tick resolution of 192 ticks
       per beat. The queue can be synchronized to an incoming MIDI realtime clock or as a JACK transport client. Most of the relevant  control  elements  are
       accessible  via  MIDI  controller through a MIDI-learn infrastructure.  QMidiArp also has a log tool displaying the history of incoming MIDI events in
       colors depending on their type.  QMidiArp is based on the Qt4 toolkit.

   General Operation
       When no commandline options are given, QMidiArp starts as a JACK MIDI client with an input port and two output ports. For starting QMidiArp as an ALSA
       client, use the -a option.  A new arpeggiator or LFO module can be created by clicking one of the Add Arp..., Add LFO...   or  Add  Step  Sequencer...
       buttons,  which  will show a new tab with the chosen module in the main area. The modules can be renamed or removed using the corresponding buttons or
       menu functions. Modules can be detached from the main window to control and view them in parallel. They can be brought back to the main  window  again
       by  clicking on the icon on the left side of each module title bar. They can also be aligned side-by-side within the same window if the main window is
       stretched sufficiently before reinserting a module. The entire setup containing all arps, sequences and LFOs in the tab bar along with the  parameters
       set  in  the Settings window can be saved to or loaded from a QMidiArp XML file (.qmax). The tempo of the queue can be set in beats per minute and af‐
       fects all modules. The queue is started and stopped by the blue arrow button.

   MIDI Clock operation (ALSA MIDI only)
       In ALSA mode, QMidiArp runs using its own clock and tempo, but it can optionally use incoming MIDI  clock  events  as  clock  and  start/stop  control
       source.   If  the MIDI clock button right of the tempo box is pressed, the running ALSA queue is stopped, and QMidiArp will wait for an incoming "MIDI
       Clock Start" event from an external source connected to QMidiArp's MIDI input. Once this event is received, the queue is started using  MIDI  realtime
       clock  events  as  clock  source. QMidiArp will best remain in sync with the incoming MIDI clock if its internal tempo value (see above) approximately
       corresponds to that of the incoming clock. The MIDI clock tempo is, however, measured while the queue is running. Therefore, if the tempos of the MIDI
       clock and that of QMidiArp differ, synchronization should become stable from the second queue start. The queue will stop when a MIDI Clock Stop  event
       is received. During MIDI Clock operation, QMidiArp's own clock start and stop functions as well as adding or loading new setups are disabled. They are
       enabled again by unchecking the MIDI clock button.

   JACK Transport Client Operation
       When the Jack Transport Connect button is pressed, QMidiArp will try to connect to a running Jack server and then function as a Jack Transport client,
       i.e.  set  its  tempo  and  remain  synchronized to a running Jack Transport master. Note that QMidiArp will restart its queue from zero whenever Jack
       transport is starting regardless of Jack Transport's position. This also applies in case of a looping Jack Transport queue. The Jack  button  will  be
       released automatically if QMidiArp gets disconnected from Jack by a possible Jack shutdown or if Jack is not available at connection time.

       Note:  MIDI Clock and Jack Transport button states will be saved with the QMidiArp session file, and get active or inactive when a new session file is
       loaded.

   Arpeggiator Modules
       QMidiArp's arpeggiators can produce complex patterns derived from the notes played on a MIDI keyboard. QMidiArp's arpeggiator modules were inspired by
       the MAP1 hardware arpeggiator by Rudi Linhard.

       Input and Output panels

       Each arpeggiator has an Input and an Output panel. The Input panel defines the note range and the MIDI channel to which the  arp  is  assigned.  Notes
       that  pass this Input filter are sorted by pitch and added to the internal note buffer of the arpeggiator. Incoming notes that do not match any filter
       can either be discarded or forwarded to a selectable MIDI port (see Settings ). The Output panel holds settings for the MIDI channel and  output  port
       to which the arpeggiator notes will be sent.

       Arpeggiator Patterns

       Arpeggio  patterns  can be selected and edited in the Pattern panel.  Pattern presets are selectable from a combo box. The currently active pattern is
       displayed as a piano roll type screen showing the base notes as streaks. The y-scale of the graphics window corresponds to the index of the  notes  in
       the  pattern. Octave changes (see Editing patterns ) are shown as additional horizontal lines.  The notes that are eventually sent depend on the input
       notes received by the arpeggiator. The received notes notes are attributed in ascending order to the notes defined in the pattern. For example, a sin‐
       gle streak on the bottom of the arp display ("simple" presets) means that at the first pass through the pattern, the lowermost note played on the key‐
       board is played.  If a chord is played on the keyboard and only one note is present in the pattern, only the lowermost pressed note is output  at  the
       first  pass  through the pattern. For the following repetitions of the pattern, the chosen "repeat mode" is used to determine the following notes.  If
       the pattern contains stacked note streaks (chord mode), chords played on the keyboard are also output as chords with polyphony up  to  the  number  of
       notes defined in the stack.

       Repeat Mode

       This  setting  defines the behavior of the arpeggio over several repetitions of the pattern when the number of notes pressed on the keyboard is higher
       than the number of notes present in the pattern.  When Repeat Mode is "Up", the next higher note played on the keyboard is played at each  repetition.
       With "Down", the next lower note is played. With a single note present in the arp pattern, this creates classical linear arpeggios. This way even sim‐
       ple patterns like "01" (or even "0") will generate a complete arpeggio.  When "Static" is selected, this classical arpeggio mode will be disabled, and
       the output notes remain constant.

       Trigger mode

       QMidiArp's  arpeggiators can run in three modes. "No trigger" will cause the arp running continuously in synchronization with the internal or external
       clock source. Even when new notes are played, they will be output quantized to the running queue. "Kbd restart" will cause a reset of the playhead po‐
       sition upon the next note to be output, but the output pattern stays quantized to the queue. When "Kbd trigger" is selected, each new note  played  in
       stakato will trigger the pattern with the timing of the played note.

       Editing Arp patterns

       Arp  patterns  are defined by a text sequence containing the notes themselves as numbers along with control changes for chord, tempo, velocity and oc‐
       tave changes. When the Edit pattern button in the pattern panel is clicked, the current pattern preset appears as a text input line. The  edited  pat‐
       tern  can  be  stored  in the preset list by clicking on the Store pattern button. The currently active pattern can be removed from the preset list by
       clicking on the Remove pattern button. All preset patterns are immediately saved in the .qmidiarprc resource file when a pattern is stored or removed,
       and the new pattern list is made available to the other arps in the tab bar. Pattern presets are automatically loaded on each application start.

       The syntax for the pattern text is as follows:

       0..9 : Note indices
          + : One octave up
          - : One octave down
          = : Reset to standard octave
          > : Double tempo
          < : Half tempo
          . : Reset to standard tempo
        ( ) : Chord, begin..end,
              e.g. (012) would be a chord of the
              lowermost three notes in the buffer
          / : Volume up by 20%
          \ : Volume down by 20%
          d : Double length
          h : Half length
          p : Pause

       Any token is valid until the end of a pattern is reached. The token > will e.g. double the tempo for all following notes of  the  pattern.   When  the
       loop jumps back to the beginning of the pattern, the tempo is reset to its initial value, i.e. a quarter note.

       Random

       The  timing,  velocity  and length of the output notes can be randomized using the sliders in the Random panel. These settings can be used to make the
       arpeggiator sound less mechanical, but if they are set to higher values, they add interesting accents to the patterns.

       Envelope

       QMidiArp can modulate the velocity of the arpeggios with an envelope function defined by Attack time and Release time. If an attack time is  set,  the
       velocities of the output notes are ramped up during the attack time defined in seconds. If a release time is set, notes released from the keyboard are
       continued  to  be output while their velocity is ramped down linearly and until the release time has reached its end. The envelope function only makes
       sense if the sound driven by the arp is velocity-sensitive. It works best with highly polyphonic patterns such as "Chord Oct 16 A".

       Groove

       The Groove sliders control a linear shift of timing, length and velocity within each beat of the output pattern. This can be used to create swing tim‐
       ing and accent. The Groove settings are adjusted for all arps simultaneously.

   LFO Modules
       In parallel to the arps, QMidiArp can send MIDI controller data in form of a low frequency oscillator (LFO) to the assigned output. The LFO data  con‐
       sist  of  controller events that are in sync with the arpeggiator queue. The queue has to be in running state to enable the LFO. Each LFO module has a
       waveform panel to define the shape of the outgoing data and an output panel to define MIDI Channel, ALSA port and controller number  to  be  produced.
       The waveform can currently be set to Sine, Saw Up, Saw Down, Triangle, Square and Custom. The frequency of the LFO can be set in muliples and divisors
       of  the arp tempo, such that frequency of 1 produces one full wave per beat. If frequencies lower than 1 are selected, the length of the wavetable has
       to be adjusted correspondingly to produce a full wave. The time resolution of the LFO determines the number of events produced every beat and  can  be
       adjusted  to  up  to 192 events per beat.  Amplitude and offset of the waveform can be adjusted from 0...127. Low resolutions lead to audibly discrete
       rythmic controller changes whereas higher resolution values lead to more continuous waves.

       Muting individual wave points

       Individual wave points can be muted/unmuted by clicking on the corresponding location in the wave display with the right mouse button.  A  muted  wave
       point is shown in darker color.

       Custom Waveforms

       When  Custom  is selected, the waveform can be drawn with the left mouse button in the waveform display. A calculated waveform is copied to the custom
       waveform whenever it is being modified by the mouse. This will overwrite the previous custom waveform with the currently displayed  waveform.  As  all
       LFO operations, drawing and muting can be done while the queue is running, and becomes effective immediately.

       Play direction and looping

       The play mode can be switched between:

         ->_> : Forward and Loop
         <_<- : Backward and Loop
         ->_< : Forward and Bounce
         >_<- : Backward and Bounce
         ->_| : Forward Single shot
         |_<- : Backward Single shot

       The direction and loop settings apply immediately when changed on the fly.

       Recording

       The  LFO records incoming controller data as selected in the Input panel, when the Record button is pressed. Note that the Record button itself can be
       attributed to a MIDI toggle controller so that it provides a convenient implementation of a controller motion sampler and looper.

       LFO Input panel

       The input panel contains settings on which MIDI CC is to be recorded, how the LFO acts to note events received on the input. As the arpeggiators,  the
       LFO  can  be restarted or (re-) triggered by notes played on the keyboard, and the wave output can be stopped or not when Note Off events are received
       on the input Channel

       LFO Output panel

       The LFO output panel contains the port, channel and controller number settings of the LFO data produced by each LFO tab. You can also  mute  each  LFO
       wave.

   Step Sequencer Modules
       By  clicking Add Step Sequencer...  in the control tool bar, a new Seq module can be added to the tab bar. Each of these modules produce a simple lin‐
       ear (monophonic) sequence, similar to the first analog hardware sequencers. The Seq modules are controllable while running, also in a similar  way  to
       analog step sequencers.

       Programming a sequence

       As QMidiArp's LFO modules, the step sequencer can be programmed by adjusting notes with left mouse clicks on the sequence display. The octave range is
       fixed  to  4. The lowest note is C2 if the global transpose is set to 0. Notes can be muted with the right mouse click. The sequence length can be ad‐
       justed between 1 and 8 beats, and the time resolution can be set to values between 1 and 16 per beat. A resolution of 4 means that 4 notes are  output
       every beat, i.e. sixteenth notes.  The sequence can also be programmed using the Record function. When the Record button is pressed, notes received on
       the input port will be recorded step-by-step starting from the last modified note. Programming can be done on the fly also when the sequencer queue is
       running.

       Controlling the sequence globally

       There are sliders to adjust the global velocity (volume), note length and transpose of the sequence in semitones.

       Seq Input and Output panels

       The Seq Input panel determines how to handle incoming notes on the MIDI Channel set in the channel box. If Note is checked, the sequence will be glob‐
       ally  transposed  with the incoming note as transpose value. If Velocity is checked in addition, the sequence will output notes with the same velocity
       as that received on its input. The Input panel also determines how the sequence behaves when incoming notes are received. It can be  restarted,  trig‐
       gered and stopped with the timing of received notes as the LFO modules.

       The Seq Output panel is equivalent to that of arpeggiator and LFO modules.

       Note  that  accents within a pattern can be produced by running LFO modules in parallel to the Seq module, and by sending to the same channel and port
       as the Seq module.

   Settings
       The Settings window allows one to configure if and to which port incoming events that do not match any module's input filter are forwarded ( unmatched
       events). It also allows one to set whether incoming controller events are recognized for muting and controlling the modules separately. If this option
       is set, QMidiArp will recognize MIDI control events that can be attributed to different parameters (see MIDI Control ). By checking the compact module
       style all new created modules will show with small GUI elements to be more economic in space when distributed as separate windows over the desktop.

       All settings in this dialog are stored along with the module data in the qmax session file.

   MIDI control
       QMidiArp supports MIDI control events if the Modules controllable by MIDI CC option is checked in the Settings dialog.

       MIDI Learn

       Controllers can be attributed by right-clicking on the sliders or mute checkbox in each module and selecting MIDI Learn.  QMidiArp will then wait  for
       MIDI  control events, and moving a MIDI controller connected to QMidiArp's input will attribute this controller to the control item. It is possible to
       add several MIDI controllers to one item. If MIDI Forget is selected, all controllers for that item are removed. If Cancel MIDI learning is  selected,
       the learn process is stopped.

       Note  that by default, mute controllers are interpreted as toggles, i.e.  the mute state is toggled on reception of a value of 127 from the attributed
       controller.

       Control Editor

       The Control Editor is accessible from the View menu. Controls can be edited by MIDI control number, channel, and the minimum and maximum  values  that
       are  sent to the control item. Mute controllers have a special behaviour. If minimum and maximum are equal, the controller acts as toggler upon recep‐
       tion of the adjusted value.  If minimum is different from maximum, the corresponding module will be muted upon reception of minimum and  unmuted  upon
       reception of maximum as values.

       If  Remove is pressed, the currently selected line will be removed, pressing Revert reloads the current controller settings. Pressing Cancel quits the
       control editor without applying changes, and only if OK is pressed, the edited control list becomes active.

   Global Storage
       There is another dock window available for storing and restoring most of the parameters of all modules at once. In this window, each  module  and  its
       storages  appear as a column, the first column representing switches for all modules globally. When the small Store button on the left is clicked, all
       modules will store their parameters in a location given by the current row, and the next available storage location appears. Module  storages  can  be
       recalled  by  clicking  on  the buttons of each individual module or globally (numbered buttons in the first column). Storage locations can be removed
       again by clicking on the "arrow" button on the bottom of the list.  When a new module is added at a time when  storage  locations  already  exist  for
       other modules, the storage locations for the new module will be empty and can be filled by using Store again at this location.

       When QMidiArp is running, the switch behavior will depend on the selection made in the comboboxes in the first row of the window.

       End  of  will  cause parameter switches to occur when the module in the second combobox reaches its pattern end. When individual switches are done the
       module in the column of the clicked module determines the switch time.

       After will do parameter switches at the end of the number of beats selected in the second combobox after the restore button is clicked.

       The switch can be done by MIDI controller assigned by the MIDI Learn context menu of the top button of each column. Note that it is the the controller
       value that corresponds to the storage location, and that you may want to adjust the range of controllers to your needs using the MIDI  Control  Editor
       With  the  Global  Storage handler, QMidiArp can act as a simple but handy live sequencer tool.  But the Golbal Storage button in the View menu and in
       the main toolbar toggles visibility of the Global Storage window.

   Event Log
       The Event Log displays incoming MIDI events. It is displayed in the bottom area by default, but can be hidden if not needed or set floating as a  top-
       level window on the desktop. Logging can also be disabled generally or for MIDI Clock events only.

   Example Files
       There are currently three demo arpeggios.  The demo.qma arpeggio was intended to be used with the following sound types: Ch 1: Marimba, Ch 2: Celesta,
       Ch 3: Acoustic Bass, but you can get interesting results if you use other instrument settings.

       The  demo_seqlfo.qmax  setup shows the use of the new sequencer and LFO modules playing in parallel. The sequencer outputs should be routed to percus‐
       sive synthesizer sounds. The LFO data is intended to act on filter cutoff, which has the standard controller CC#74. ZynAddSubFX by Paul  Nasca  reacts
       on these filter cutoff controllers. The "Bass 1" and "Plucked 3" presets from this synthesizer work well with this demo file.

OPTIONS
       --portCount <num>
              Set the number of available ALSA output ports to <num>. The default is 2.

       --help Print possible command-line options and exit.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

       --alsa Use the ALSA MIDI backend

       --jack Use the JACK MIDI backend (default)

       file   Name of a valid QMidiArp (.qmax) XML file to be loaded on start.

FILES
       *.qmax
              QMidiArp XML files containing session data in XML text format.

EXAMPLES
       Example QMidiArp files can be found in /usr/share/qmidiarp or in /usr/local/share/qmidiarp

NOTES
       Errors and warnings are written to stderr(3).

SUPPORT
       qmidiarp-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

AUTHORS
       Frank Kober, Nedko Arnaudov, Guido Scholz and Matthias Nagorni. This manual page was written by Frank Kober <emuse@users.sourceforge.net>.

                                                                          2011-11-07                                                              QMIDIARP(1)
