qmove(1B)                                                                                             PBS                                                                                             qmove(1B)

NAME
       qmove - move pbs batch job

SYNOPSIS
       qmove destination job_identifier ...

DESCRIPTION
       To  move  a  job is to remove the job from the queue in which it resides and instantiate the job in another queue.  The qmove command issues a Move Job batch request to the batch server that currently
       owns each job specified by job_identifier.

       A job in the Running , Transiting , or Exiting state cannot be moved.

OPERANDS
       The first operand is the new destinationfor
           queue
           @server
           queue@server
       See the PBS ERS section , "Destination Identifiers".

       If the destination operand describes only a queue, then qmove will move jobs into the queue of the specified name at the job's current server.

       If the destination operand describes only a batch server, then qmove will move jobs into the default queue at that batch server.

       If the destination operand describes both a queue and a batch server, then qmove will move the jobs into the specified queue at the specified server.

       All following operands are job_identifiers which specify the jobs to be moved to the new destination.  The qmove command accepts one or more job_identifier operands of the form:
           sequence_number[.server_name][@server]

STANDARD ERROR
       The qmove command will write a diagnostic messages to standard error for each error occurrence.

EXIT STATUS
       Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the qmove command, the exit status will be a value of zero.

       If the qmove command fails to process any operand, the command exits with a value greater than zero.

SEE ALSO
       qsub(1B), pbs_movejob(3B)

Local                                                                                                                                                                                                 qmove(1B)
