QOTDD(8)                                                                                    System Manager's Manual                                                                                    QOTDD(8)

NAME
       qotdd - A daemon to provide an interesting quote every day.

SYNOPSIS
       qotdd [OPTION]...

       qotdd [--help | --version]

DESCRIPTION
       QOTD  (quote  of the day) is specified in RFC 865 as a way of broadcasting a quote to users. On both TCP and UDP, port 17 is officially reserved for this purpose. qotdd(8) is meant to provide a simple
       QOTD daemon on IPv4 and/or IPv6 on either TCP or UDP.

       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

       -f, --foreground
              Do not fork, but run in the foreground.

       -c, --config config-file
              Specify an alternate configuration file location. The default is at `/etc/qotd.conf'. (Overrides a previous -c or -N option)

       -N, --noconfig
              Do not read from a configuration file, but use the default options instead. (Overrides a previous -c option)

       --lax  Disable strict configuration parsing. Without this option, the daemon will perform security checks on input files. Be aware that using this option  makes  the  program  vulnerable  to  confused
              deputy attacks.

       For more information on the following three options, see qotd.conf(5):

       -P, --pidfile pidfile
              Override the pidfile name given in the configuration file with the given file instead.

       -s, --quotes quotes-file
              Override the quotes file given in the configuration file with the given file instead.

       -j, --journal journal-file
              Overrides the journal file given in the configuration file with the given file instead.

       -4, --ipv4
              Only listen on IPv4. The default behavior is to listen on both IPv4 and IPv6.

       -6, --ipv6
              Only listen on IPv6.

       -t, --tcp
              Use TCP instead of UDP. This is the default behavior.

       -u, --udp
              Use UDP instead of TCP. (Not fully implemented yet)

       -q, --quiet
              Only output error messages. This is the same as using `--journal /dev/null'.

       --help List all options and what they do.

       --version
              Print the version and some basic license information.

RETURN CODES
       qotdd has the following return codes:

       0      success

       1      general error

       17     invalid arguments

       18     invalid configuration file or settings

       19     failed a security check

       20     out of memory

       21     I/O or network error

       22     SIGSEGV or SIGINT killed the process

       23     unsupported operation

       24     internal error

SEE ALSO
       qotd.conf(5), telnet(1), netcat(1)

AUTHOR
       Ammon Smith (ammon.i.smith@gmail.com)

qotd 0.11.1                                                                                        2016-01-29                                                                                          QOTDD(8)
