qsig(1B)                                                                                              PBS                                                                                              qsig(1B)

NAME
       qsig - signal pbs batch job

SYNOPSIS
       qsig [-s signal] job_identifier ...

DESCRIPTION
       The qsig command requests that a signal be sent to executing batch jobs.  The signal is sent to the session leader of the job.

       If the -s option is not specified, `SIGTERM' is sent.  The request to signal a batch job will be rejected if:

       -      The user is not authorized to signal the job.

       -      The job is not in the running state.

       -      The requested signal is not supported by the system upon which the job is executing.

       The qsig command sends a Signal Job batch request to the server which owns the job.

OPTIONS
       -s signal      Declares which signal is sent to the job.

                      The  signal argument is either a signal name, e.g.  SIGKILL, the signal name without the SIG prefix, e.g. KILL, or a unsigned signal number, e.g. 9.  The signal name SIGNULL is allowed;
                      the server will send the signal 0 to the job which will have no effect on the job, but will cause an obituary to be sent if the job is no longer executing.  Not all signal names will be
                      recognized by qsig. If it doesn't recognize the signal name, try issuing the signal number instead.

                      Two special signal names, "suspend" and "resume", are used to suspend and resume jobs.  Cray systems use the Cray-specific suspend()/resume() calls.

                      On  non-Cray  system,  suspend  causes a SIGTSTP to be sent to all processes in job's top task, wait 5 seconds, and then send a SIGSTOP to all processes in all tasks on all nodes in the
                      job.  This differs from TORQUE 2.0.0 which did not have the ability to propogate signals to sister nodes.  Resume sends a SIGCONT to all processes in all tasks on all nodes.

                      When suspended, a job continues to occupy system resources but is not executing and is not charged for walltime.  The job will be listed in the "S" state.  Manager or operator privilege
                      is required to suspend or resume a job.

                      Note that interactive jobs may not resume properly because the top-level shell will background the suspended child process.

OPERANDS
       The qsig command accepts one or more job_identifier operands of the form: sequence_number[.server_name][@server]

STANDARD ERROR
       The qsig command will write a diagnostic messages to standard error for each error occurrence.

EXIT STATUS
       Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the qsig command, the exit status will be a value of zero.

       If the qsig command fails to process any operand, the command exits with a value greater than zero.

SEE ALSO
       qsub(1B), pbs_sigjob(3B), pbs_resources_*(7B) where * is system type, and the PBS ERS.

Local                                                                                                                                                                                                  qsig(1B)
