QTSCROB(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                QTSCROB(1)

NAME
       qtscrob - a last.fm and libre.fm submitter for portable devices

SYNOPSIS
       qtscrob [options]

OPTIONS
       This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes ('-').  A summary of options is included below.

       -c, --config
              Optional  location of the config file. If this is not specified, then qtscrob will use the default platform specific location for its config file, e.g.  ~/.config/qtscrob.conf on Linux, the
              Registry on Windows, etc. Specifying a config location allows qtscrob to run in a portable mode.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -v, --verbose <level>
              Output verbosity level

DESCRIPTION
       QTScrobbler is a program to submit information about tracks which have been listened to from a portable music player to last.fm (previously known as Audioscrobbler), libre.fm and/or a custom  site
       of  your  choice.   QTScrobbler  can  read this information from .scrobbler.log files (i.e. produced by the open Rockbox firmware), from iPod databases, or from devices that use MTP (aka Plays for
       Sure).  In addition to this, QTScrobbler can adjust the date/time information relating to when the track was listened to before uploading.  This can be useful if your device is set to a  different
       timezone to the machine you upload from.  QTScrobbler also allows you to view and edit the track information before uploading.

WWW
       http://qtscrob.sourceforge.net

       This manual page was written by Robert Keevil <rkeevil@gmail.com>, and is licensed under version 2 of the GPL.

                                                                                               April 23, 2010                                                                                    QTSCROB(1)
