QUAKE(6)                                                                                        Games Manual                                                                                       QUAKE(6)

NAME
       quake - classic first person shooter

SYNOPSIS
       quake [WRAPPER-OPTIONS] [ENGINE-OPTIONS] [ENGINE-COMMANDS]...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the quake command.

       Quake  is  a popular first-person shooter game that appeared in 1996, released by iD Software.  This wrapper script will launch the Quake engine.  The game data needs to be installed independently
       using the 'game-data-packager' program, and by default it will be looked for at /usr/share/games/quake.

       This wrapper script accepts the two common GNU-style options to get information on the program.  Any further arguments are passed to the engine unmodified.  Consult the  engine  documentation  for
       full  details,  but most engines support a syntax whereby engine switches are prefixed with a minus sign, and you can give console commands by prefixing with a plus sign.  See the examples section
       for some common cases.

       Additionally, if quake is run via a symbolic link whose name is quake-armagon or quake-dissolution, it will play one of the Quake mission packs, Scourge of Armagon (by Hipnotic Software) or Disso‐
       lution of Eternity (by Rogue Entertainment). Similarly, if run via a symbolic link whose name is quake-dopa it will play Quake Episode 5: Dimensions of the Past (by  MachineGames).  This  requires
       that additional data files are installed.

OPTIONS
       These options are accepted for WRAPPER-OPTIONS in the synopsis.

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       -v, --version
              Show version of program.

       --debugger=DEBUGGER
              Prepend a debugger or other prefix (such as strace) to the engine command line

       --print-backtrace
              Use gdb(1) to get a backtrace if the engine crashes (the gdb package must be installed)

EXAMPLES
       These are all engine dependent.

       Play the Zerstoerer mod:
              quake -game zer

       Play a specific map using the Drake expansion:
              quake -game drake +map sludge1

       Connect to a server for multiplayer:
              quake +connect dm.quakeone.net:27000

SEE ALSO
       quake-server(6), quakespasm(6), game-data-packager(6).

AUTHOR
       This manual page, and the Quake wrapper script, were written by David Banks <amoebae@gmail.com>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).  The package was based on the quake3 package by
       Simon McVittie.

                                                                                                 2016-01-16                                                                                        QUAKE(6)
