QucsVeri(1)                                                                                      User Commands                                                                                      QucsVeri(1)

NAME
       QucsVeri - A wrapper script for digital simulations.

SYNOPSIS
       qucsveri [OPTION] infile outfile time dir bindir

DESCRIPTION
       Qucs  is  an  integrated circuit simulator which means you are able to setup a circuit with a graphical user interface (GUI) and simulate the large-signal, small-signal and noise behaviour of the cir‐
       cuit.  After that simulation has finished you can view the simulation results on a presentation page or window.

       The software aims to support all kinds of circuit simulation types, e.g. DC, AC, S-parameter, harmonic balance analysis, noise analysis, etc.

       QucsVeri is a wrapper script for digital simulations performed by Qucs.  The program utilizes the Icarus Verilog compiler in order to convert the Verilog output of Qucs into a iverilog program.   This
       file is then executed using vvp and its VCD output file is converted to a Qucs dataset.

OPTIONS
        INFILE
              the filename of the Verilog file to be simulated located in the directory specified in DIR

        OUTFILE
              the filename of the Qucs dataset file to be produced

        TIME  duration of the digital simulation

        DIR   the name of the directory where the simulation is going to be performed

        BINDIR
              the location where the qucsconv program is installed

AVAILABILITY
       The latest version of Qucs can always be obtained from www.sourceforge.net or www.freshmeat.net

REPORTING BUGS
       Known bugs are documented within the BUGS file.  Report bugs to <qucs-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007 Stefan Jahn <stefan@lkcc.org>

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

AUTHORS
       Written by Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de> and Stefan Jahn <stefan@lkcc.org>.

Debian/GNU Linux                                                                                   March 2007                                                                                       QucsVeri(1)
