QucsAttenuator(1)                                                                                User Commands                                                                                QucsAttenuator(1)

NAME
       QucsAttenuator - An attenuator synthesis application.

SYNOPSIS
       qucsattenuator [OPTION] ...

DESCRIPTION
       Qucs  is  an  integrated  circuit simulator which means you will be able to setup a circuit with a graphical user interface (GUI) and simulate the large-signal, small-signal and noise behaviour of the
       circuit.  After that simulation has finished you will be able to present the simulation results on a presentation page or window.

       The software aims to support all kinds of circuit simulation types, e.g. DC, AC, S-parameter, harmonic balance analysis, noise analysis, etc.

       QucsAttenuator is the attenuator synthesis tool used by Qucs.  By use of an input dialog the user can create an attenuator which is then copied into the system-wide clipboard.  In Qucs the user  opens
       an empty schematic and presses CTRL-V (paste from clipboard). The attenuator schematic is now inserted and can be simulated.

       Available attenuator topologies types are: Tee, Pi and Bridged-Tee.

AVAILABILITY
       The latest version of Qucs can always be obtained from www.sourceforge.net or www.freshmeat.net

REPORTING BUGS
       Known bugs are documented within the BUGS file.  Report bugs to <qucs-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2006 Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de>

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

AUTHORS
       Written by Toyoyuki Ishikawa <toyoishi@gmail.com> and Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de>.

Debian/GNU Linux                                                                                   July 2006                                                                                  QucsAttenuator(1)
