QucsLib(1)                                                                                       User Commands                                                                                       QucsLib(1)

NAME
       QucsLib - A component library manager for Qucs.

SYNOPSIS
       qucslib [OPTION] ...

DESCRIPTION
       Qucs  is  an  integrated circuit simulator which means you are able to setup a circuit with a graphical user interface (GUI) and simulate the large-signal, small-signal and noise behaviour of the cir‐
       cuit.  After that simulation has finished you can view the simulation results on a presentation page or window.

       The software aims to support all kinds of circuit simulation types, e.g. DC, AC, S-parameter, harmonic balance analysis, noise analysis, etc.

       QucsLib is a program to manage Qucs component libraries. On the left side of the application window the available libraries can be browsed to find the wanted component.  By clicking on  the  component
       name its description can be seen on the right side. The selected component is transported to the Qucs application by clicking on the button "Copy to Clipboard".  Being back in the schematic window the
       component can be inserted by pressing CTRL-V (paste from clipboard).

AVAILABILITY
       The latest version of Qucs can always be obtained from www.sourceforge.net or www.freshmeat.net

REPORTING BUGS
       Known bugs are documented within the BUGS file.  Report bugs to <qucs-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005 Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de>

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

AUTHORS
       Written by Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de> and Stefan Jahn <stefan@lkcc.org>.

Debian/GNU Linux                                                                                   July 2005                                                                                         QucsLib(1)
