QucsFilter(1)                                                                                    User Commands                                                                                    QucsFilter(1)

NAME
       QucsFilter - A filter synthesis application.

SYNOPSIS
       qucsfilter [OPTION] ...

DESCRIPTION
       Qucs  is  an  integrated  circuit simulator which means you will be able to setup a circuit with a graphical user interface (GUI) and simulate the large-signal, small-signal and noise behaviour of the
       circuit.  After that simulation has finished you will be able to present the simulation results on a presentation page or window.

       The software aims to support all kinds of circuit simulation types, e.g. DC, AC, S-parameter, harmonic balance analysis, noise analysis, etc.

       QucsFilter is the filter synthesis tool used by Qucs.  By use of an input dialog the user can create a filter which is then copied into the system-wide clipboard.  In Qucs  the  user  opens  an  empty
       schematic and presses CTRL-V (paste from clipboard). The filter schematic is now inserted and can be simulated.

       Available filter types are: Butterworth, Bessel, Chebyshev, Cauer.

AVAILABILITY
       The latest version of Qucs can always be obtained from www.sourceforge.net or www.freshmeat.net

REPORTING BUGS
       Known bugs are documented within the BUGS file.  Report bugs to <qucs-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005 Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de>

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

AUTHORS
       Written by Toyoyuki Ishikawa <toyoishi@gmail.com> and Michael Margraf <michael.margraf@alumni.tu-berlin.de>.

Debian/GNU Linux                                                                                   April 2005                                                                                     QucsFilter(1)
