QXW(6)                                                                                          Games Manual                                                                                         QXW(6)

NAME
       qxw - create and publish crosswords

SYNOPSIS
       qxw [options] [file]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page briefly documents the qxw command.

       Qxw  is  a  program that can help you create and publish crosswords, from the simplest blocked grid to sophisticated thematic puzzles. It can make rectangular-, hexagonal- or circular-format grids
       with blocks, bars or both. It has an automatic grid-filling facility that can handle a wide range of answer treatments and you can even add your own answer treatment methods. Grids can  be  filled
       using letters, digits, or a mixture of both; non-Roman and custom alphabets are also supported. Qxw can produce output in a range of formats ready for publication.

       Qxw  can  run  interactively with a GUI (the default) or non-interactively. In non-interactive mode it can be used to solve a wide range of word-based constraint satisfaction problems and can help
       automate the exploration of grid designs.

       In interactive mode the optional argument is the name of a crossword description file in Qxw's native format to load at start-up. In non-interactive mode the argument is mandatory, and specifies a
       problem for Qxw's filler to solve.

OPTIONS
       -?     Show usage summary including built-in alphabets, along with version and licence information.

       -d file
              Load specified dictionary at start-up. This option may be repeated to load multiple dictionaries.

       -a alphabet
              Load specified alphabet at start-up. The list of built-in alphabets is output as part of the usage summary information.

       -b     Enable batch (non-interactive) mode.

       The program also accepts the standard GTK options, which only have effect in interactive mode.

       Exit status is 0 for normal exit and 16 for a file format error, an internal error or other catastrophic failure. In addition, in non-interactive mode, an exit status of 4 indicates that no  solu‐
       tion was found to the problem specified.

SEE ALSO
       gtk-options(7).

       Further documentation, including a PDF manual, can be found at <https://www.quinapalus.com/qxw.html>.

AUTHOR
       Qxw was written by Mark Owen.

       This manual page was written by Mark Owen <debian@quinapalus.com>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                               March 22, 2019                                                                                        QXW(6)
