RACONVERT(1)                General Commands Manual               RACONVERT(1)

NAME
       raconvert  - convert comma-separated ASCII argus(8) data, to binary ar‐
       gus(8) data.

SYNOPSIS
       raconvert -r input -w output

DESCRIPTION
       Raconvert reads comman separated ASCII argus data from a file or stdin,
       and  converts  the ASCII representation to binary format.  In order for
       raconver to process the delimited data correctly, the  file  should  be
       created  by ra.1 like programs, using the "-c <char>" option to specify
       a field separator.  Column delimiters can be any non-ambiguous  charac‐
       ter, and are automatically discovered from the files title string.

       Because  raconvert.1 expects the first valid string in the file to be a
       ra.1 column title line, the ra.1 program must use the equivalent of the
       "-L 0" option.

       The  file can present its column oriented data in any order, and racon‐
       vert will accomodate.  Duplicate columns on the same line are  allowed,
       but  the  final  value  in  the resulting argus record with be the last
       value encountered.

       raconvert.1 can read gzip and bzip2 compressed files, based on the file
       extension.

USES
       Raconvert  is  predominately used for reading ASCII represented archive
       data.  Argus data is routinely converted to ASCII  for  inspection  and
       archiving,  due to the good compressibility offered by gzip and others.
       Argus data is also converted from binary to ASCII and back  to  binary,
       as a routine process to enforce content policies.  The conversion, with
       ASCII inspection ensures that specific data of interest isn't leaked.

INVOCATION
       ra -L0 c , -r argusfile > argus.ascii.csv
       raconvert -r argus.ascii.csv -w argusfile

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

SEE ALSO
       ra(1), rarc(5), argus(8),

FILES
AUTHORS
       Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).

BUGS
raconvert 3.0.8                 07 October 2003                   RACONVERT(1)
