RADIUM(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  RADIUM(8)

NAME
       radium - argus record multiplexor

SYNOPSIS
       radium [ options ] [ raoptions ]

DESCRIPTION
       Radium  is  a  real-time  Argus Record multiplexor that processes Argus
       records and Netflow records and outputs them to any  number  of  client
       programs  and  files.   Radium is a combination of the features of ra.1
       and argus.8, supporting access for upto 128 client  programs  to  argus
       records originating from remote data sources and/or local managed argus
       data files.  Using radium you can construct complex  distribution  net‐
       works  for collecting and processing argus data, and providing a single
       point of access to archived argus data.

       Designed to run as a daemon, radium generally reads argus  records  di‐
       rectly  from a remote argus, and writes the transaction status informa‐
       tion to a log file or open socket connected to an argus client (such as
       ra(1)).   Radium provides the same data access controls as argus.8, in‐
       cluding remote filtering, source address based access control, indivual
       oriented  strong  authentication and confidentiality protection for the
       distributed data, using SASL and tcp_wrapper technology.  Please  refer
       to  the  INSTALL  and README files for each distribution for a complete
       description.

       Radium is normally configured from a system /etc/radium.conf configura‐
       tion  file,  or from a configuration file either in the $RADIUMHOME di‐
       rectory, or specified on the command line.

RADIUM SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Radium, like all ra based clients, supports a number of ra options  in‐
       cluding  remote  data access, reading from multiple files and filtering
       of input argus records through a terminating  filter  expression.   ra‐
       dium(8) specific options are:

OPTIONS
       -B <addr>
            Specify  the bind interface address for remote access.  Acceptable
            values are IP version 4 addresses.  The default is to bind to  IN‐
            ADDR_ANY address.

       -d   Run  radium  as a daemon.  This will cause radium to do the things
            that Unix daemons do and return, if there were no errors, with ra‐
            dium running as a detached process.

       -e <value>
            Specify  the source identifier for this radium.  Acceptable values
            are numbers, hostnames or ip address.

       -f <radium.conf>
            Use radium.conf as a source of configuration information.  Options
            set  in this file override any other specification, and so this is
            the last word on option values. This file is read after the system
            /etc/radium.conf file is processed. See radium.conf.5 for the con‐
            figuration file format.

       -O   Turn off Berkeley Packet Filter optimizer.  No reason to  do  this
            unless you think the optimizer generates bad code.

       -p   Override  the  persistent  connection facility.  Radium provides a
            fault tolerant feature for its remote argus data access  facility.
            If  the  remote argus data source closes, radium will maintain its
            client connections, and attempt to reestablish its connection with
            remote  source.   This option overrides this behavior, causing ra‐
            dium to terminate if any of its remote sources closes.

       -P <portnum>
            Specifies the <portnum> for remote client connection.  The default
            is  to  not  support remote access.  Setting the value to zero (0)
            will forceably turn off the facility.

       -S   <host[:port][//full/path/to/argus.data.file]> Attach to a specific
            remote  host  to  receive  argus  records. Append an optional port
            specifier to attach to a port value other than  the  default  561.
            Without  the  optional  full  pathname,  radium  will continuously
            transmit a stream of real-time flow records as they are  received.
            With  the  optional  filename, radium will open the argus datafile
            specified, and stream the contents, closing  the  connection  with
            the file EOF.

       -T threshold[smh] (secs)
            Indicate that radium should correct the timestamps of received ar‐
            gus records, if they  are  out  of  sync  by  threshold  secconds.
            Threshold can be specified with the extensions s, m, or h for sec‐
            onds, minutes or hours.  -X Clear existing  radium  configuration.
            This  removes  any  initialization done prior to encountering this
            flag.  Allows you to eliminate the effects of the /etc/radium.conf
            file, or any radium.conf files that may have been loaded.

SIGNALS
       Radium catches a number of signal(3) events.  The three signals SIGHUP,
       SIGINT, and SIGTERM cause  radium  to  exit,  writing  TIMEDOUT  status
       records for all currently active transactions.  The signal SIGUSR1 will
       turn on debug reporting, and subsequent SIGUSR1 signals, will increment
       the  debug-level.  The signal SIGUSR2 will cause radium to turn off all
       debug reporting.

ENVIRONMENT
       $RADIUMHOME - Radium Root directory
       $RADIUMPATH - Radium.conf search path (/etc:$RADIUMHOME:$HOME)

FILES
       /etc/radium.conf         - radium daemon configuration file
       /var/run/radium.#.#.pid  - PID file

EXAMPLES
       Run radium as a daemon, reading records from a remote host, using  port
       561,  and  writing  all  its transaction status reports to output-file.
       This is a typical mode.
              radium -S remotehost:561 -d -e `hostname` -w output-file

       Collect records from multiple argi, using port 561 on one and port  430
       on the other, and make all of these records available to other programs
       on port 562.
              radium -S host1:561 -S host2:430 -de `hostname` -P 562

       Collect records from multiple Cisco Netflow sources, using the  default
       port, and make the resulting argus records available on port 562.
              radium -C -S host1 -S host2 -de `hostname` -P 562

       Radium  supports  both input filtering and output filtering, and radium
       supports multiple output streams, each with their own independant  fil‐
       ters.

       If  you  are  interested in distributing IP traffic only (input filter)
       and want to separate traffic into  differing  files  based  on  traffic
       type, this simple example separates ICMP traffic from other traffic.
              radium -w file1 "icmp" -w file2 "not icmp" - ip

       Audit  the  network  activity  that  is flowing between the two gateway
       routers,   whose   ethernet   addresses   are   00:08:03:2D:42:01   and
       00:00:0C:18:29:F1.   Make  records  available to other programs through
       port 430/tcp.
              radium -S source -P 430 - ether host (0:8:3:2d:42:1 and 0:0:c:18:29:f1) &

       Process argus records from a remote source only between 9am and 5pm ev‐
       ery day and provide access to this stream on port 562.
              radium -S remotehost -t 9-17 -P 562

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient, LLC   All rights reserved.

AUTHORS
       Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com)

SEE ALSO
       radium.conf(5),  argus(8),  hosts_access(5), hosts_options(5), tcpd(8),
       tcpdump(1)

radium 3.0.8                    21 October 2001                      RADIUM(8)
