RAGRAPH(1)                  General Commands Manual                 RAGRAPH(1)

NAME
       ragraph - graph argus(8) data.

SYNOPSIS
       ragraph  metric [object] [-M mode] [options] [raoptions] [-- filter-ex‐
       pression]

DESCRIPTION
       Ragraph reads argus(8) data from an argus-file, and  graphs  fields  of
       interest  from  matching argus flow activity records.  You must specify
       the metric(s), the flow object/identifier(s) and the  time  granularity
       required for the graph.  Standard raoptions are available to filter in‐
       put and specify the time range of interest, and  graphing  options  are
       provided  to specify x and y axis labels, titles, upper and lower range
       limits, and plot sizes.  Support for logorithmic scaling, object stack‐
       ing, and split graphing are provided to provide some flexibility in the
       graphs you can produce.

       Ragraph supports graphing most metrics  that  are  available  in  argus
       data,  including, bytes, packet counts, average duration, loss, jitter,
       load, and rate.  These metrics can be graphed in association with  flow
       identifiers,  such  as  source or destination address, network address,
       source identifier, protocol, port numbers, services, vlan id, mpls tag,
       ttl, and tos values.  Currently, there are limits to the number of met‐
       rics and objects that can be graphed at one time, so  assume  that  ra‐
       graph is a simple graphing tool.

       By default ragraph writes its output to ragraph.png, in the current di‐
       rectory.  Use the '-w' raoption to specify an  alternate  output  file‐
       name.

       Ragraph is implemented as a perl script front-end to the routine rabins
       and rrd-tool, which is used to generate PNG formatted graphs. As a  re‐
       sult  ragraph  supports all the raoption and most of the options to the
       rrd-tool graphing functions.

RA OPTIONS
       Ragraph, like all ra based clients, supports a number of ra options in‐
       cluding  filtering  of input argus records through a terminating filter
       expression, and specifying an output filename using the -w option.

       See ra(1) for a complete description of ra options.

RRDTOOL GRAPH OPTIONS
       Ragraph, when using rrdtool as the graphing backend, will pass rrdgraph
       specific options to the appropriate rrdtool module.  These are the spe‐
       cific rrdtool options that are supported.

Appearance
       -fill
           Turn off area fill.

       -stack
           Turn off data stacking.

       -split
           Turn off axis splitting for src/dst(in/out) traffic.

       -invert
           Invert a split graph, so that src and dest data are flipped.

       -rigid
           Pass rrdtool rigid parameter to rrdgraph.

Labels
       -title string
           Specify a graph title.

       -vertical-label string
           Specify a vertically placed yaxis label.

Size
       -height pixels
           Specify height in pixels for the graph (275 pixels)

       -width pixels
           Specify width in pixels for the graph (800 pixels)

       -only-graph
           Generate only the graph with out any borders, title,  labels,  leg‐
           end.

Limits
       -upper value
           Specify upper bounds for graphing data (automatic).

       -lower value
           Specify  lower  bounds for graphing data (automatic).  When data is
           split, you need to specify the value as a negative number.

       -alt-autoscale

       -alt-autoscale-max
           Use rrdtool alternate y-axis  autoscale  algorithm.   See  rrdgraph
           manpage for information.

       -no-gridfit
           Disable  rrdtool  grid scale modification strategies.  See rrdgraph
           manpage for information.

Grid
       -x-grid GTM:GST:MTM:MST:LTM:LST:LPR:LFM | none
           Modify rrdtool x-axis label definition.  See rrdgraph  manpage  for
           information.

       -y-grid 'grid step:label factor' | none
           Modify  rrdtool y-axis label definition.  The use of ' is important
           to parsing the option correctly. See rrdgraph manpage for  informa‐
           tion.

       -alt-y-grid
           Modify  rrdtool  default y-grid behavior.  See rrdgraph manpage for
           information.

       -log
           Use logarithmic scale for y-axis.

       -units-exponent value
           Set the 10** exponent scaling of the y-axis.  See rrdgraph  manpage
           for information.

       -units-length value
           Set  the  width of the y-axis border.  See rrdgraph manpage for in‐
           formation.

       -units=si
           Turn off expoenential notation for logarithmic  graphs.   See  rrd‐
           graph manpage for information.

Miscellaneous
       -imginfo printfstr
           Adds img information to the graph.  See rrdgraph manpage for infor‐
           mation.

       -zoom factor
           Zoom the graphics by the given factor.  See  rrdgraph  manpage  for
           information.

       -font FONTTAG:size:[font]
           Modify  rrdgraph  default  font.  See rrdgraph manpage for informa‐
           tion.

       -font-render-mode {normal,light,mono}
           Modify rrdgraph font smoothing strength.  See rrdgraph manpage  for
           information.

       -font-smoothing-threshold size
           Modify rrdgraph font smoothing font size.  See rrdgraph manpage for
           information.

       -slope-mode
           Modify rrdgraph slope-mode option.  See rrdgraph manpage for infor‐
           mation.

       -no-legend
           Supress generation of the legend.

       -watermark string
           Adds the given string as a watermark.  See rrdgraph manpage for in‐
           formation.

       -norrdwmark
           Disables the default rrdtool watermark from appearing on the graph.

EXAMPLES
       To graph the total load for the data in an argus-file argus.data at  10
       second intervals:
              ragraph bytes -M 10s -r argus.data -title "Total Load"

       To  graph  the  rate (pkt/sec) on a destination port basis for the data
       from a specific probe in an argus-file argus.data at  1  minute  inter‐
       vals:
              ragraph bytes dport -M 1m -r argus.data - srcid 192.168.0.10

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2000-2016 QoSient. All rights reserved.

AUTHORS
       Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).

SEE ALSO
       rrdtoolhttp://oss.oetiker.sh/rrdtool  ragraph(5),  ra(1),  rarc(5), ar‐
       gus(8)

ragraph 3.0.8                    21 July 2001                       RAGRAPH(1)
