Raincat(6)                                                                                                                                                                                       Raincat(6)

NAME
       raincat - 2D puzzle game featuring a fuzzy little cat

DESCRIPTION
       Raincat  is a 2D puzzle game similar to the Incredible Machine and Lemmings series. Your goal is simple: guide the cat safe and dry to the end of each level. Just mind the rain, puddles, and loose
       fire hydrants in your path!

       Project Raincat is a game developed by Carnegie Mellon students through GCS during the Fall 2008 semester. Raincat features game play inspired from classics Lemmings and  The  Incredible  Machine.
       Everything is programmed in Haskell.

       Finally, we'd like to mention that Project Raincat placed first in GCS Gold during the following spring semester release party. Now, would you care to play?

USAGE
       It's always raining in Pittsburgh, which makes for gray days while cats are just adorable—perfect for brightening up such days.

       Raincat  in  Bubble Your goal is simple: guide the fuzzy cat safe and dry to the end of each level. There are multiple ways to clear any given level; such flexible solutions hope to provide a more
       enjoyable game play experience.

SEE ALSO
       You can find more about the game on its homepage: http://bysusanlin.com/raincat/

AUTHORS
       Garrick Chin
              Project Leader, Programmer, Level Designer

       Susan Lin
              Artist

       SooHyun Jang
              Artist

       Anthony Maurice
              Programmer

       William Wang
              Programmer

       Andrew Zheng
              Programmer

       Rachel Berkowitz
              Composer

       Spencer Ying
              Artist, Level Designer

       Tal Stramer
              Level Editor Programmer

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Raincat(6)
