lg_intro(7)                                                                           Miscellaneous Information Manual                                                                          lg_intro(7)

NAME
       lg_intro - introduction to the looking glass

INTRODUCTION
       The  looking  glass  offers  a  web based interface to routers to users without their needing permission to login to the router.  This may be a perfect interface for customer support or less savvy
       folks, and many ISPs have given public access to such an interface as a "route server."

DESCRIPTION
       The looking glass consists of two CGI perl(1) scripts, lg.cgi and lgform.cgi, and the lg.conf(5) configuration file.

       Both of these scripts begin with reading the configuration file.  If there is an error in the file's syntax or if the file can not be found, error messages will  be  displayed  on  standard-error.
       The Apache http server redirects standard-error to its error log file by default.

       lgform.cgi  displays  a  html  form consisting of a list of possible router commands that can be run and a scrolling list of routers that these commands may be run on.  When the form is submitted,
       lg.cgi is run.

       lg.cgi begins by performing some basic checks on the arguments passed to it.  If these checks pass, lg.cgi either displays cached data from a previous invocation, if that data exists and is within
       the cache interval, or uses clogin(1) to login to the device and execute the command.  The results of the command are cached if applicable and displayed for the user.

GETTING STARTED
       Besides lg.conf(5), additional instructions for setting up the looking glass can be found in the README file under /var/lib/rancid/README.lg.

       Note that the looking glass scripts require a few perl modules not included with rancid.  Rancid's configure process does not check for these.  See the README file.

SEE ALSO
       cloginrc(5), clogin(1), lg.conf(5)

HISTORY
       Rancid's looking glass is based on Ed Kern's (included by permission, thanks Ed!), which could once be found on http://nitrous.digex.net/ but has apparently been removed.  Support for Juniper  and
       Foundry devices, use of rancid's device login scripts, and additional commands and checks have been added to the original.

                                                                                                24 Jan 2001                                                                                     lg_intro(7)
