
RASDAEMON(8)                                                 RAS memory controller admin utility                                                 RASDAEMON(8)

NAME
       rasdaemon - RAS daemon to log the RAS events.

SYNOPSIS
       rasdaemon [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       The  rasdaemon  program  is a daemon which monitors the platform Reliablity, Availability and Serviceability (RAS) reports from the Linux kernel trace
       events. These trace events are logged in /sys/kernel/debug/tracing, reporting them via syslog/journald. If syslog-ng is  installed,  the  events  will
       logged at /var/log/rasdaemon.

OPTIONS
       --usage
              Display a brief usage message and exit.

       --help Display a help message and exit.

       --disable
              Disable RAS tracing events and exit.

       --enable
              Enable RAS tracing events and exit.

       --foreground
              Executes in foreground, printing the events at console. Useful for testing it, and to be used by systemd or Unix System V respan.  If not spec‐
              ified, the program runs in daemon mode.

       --record
              Record RAS events via Sqlite3. The Sqlite3 database has the benefit of keeping a persistent record of the RAS events. This feature is used with
              the ras-mc-ctl utility. Note that rasdaemon may be compiled without this feature.

       --version
              Print the program version and exit.

CONFIG FILE
       The  rasdaemon  program  supports  a  config  file  to  set  rasdaemon  systemd service environment variables. By default the config file is read from
       /etc/sysconfig/rasdaemon.

       The general format is environmentname=value.

LOG LEVEL
       Each log entry has a level prefix that describes the severity of the log to help users determine which logs are more valuable.  Currently, three  lev‐
       els are used:.TP

       ALERT The uncorrected hardware error has been fixed, but cause side effects.

       CRIT   The uncorrected hardware error has been detected.

       ERROR  The corrected hardware error has been detected.

SEE ALSO
       ras-mc-ctl(8)

                                                                                                                                                 RASDAEMON(8)
