
RASSPLIT(1NCARG)                                                                                   NCAR VIEW                                                                                   RASSPLIT(1NCARG)

NAME
       rassplit - split a multi-frame rasterfile into single-frame rasterfiles.

SYNOPSIS
       rassplit [-f f1 f2 f3 ...]  [-ofmt output-format] [-verbose] [-Version] rasterfile

DESCRIPTION
       The  program rassplit will open rasterfile and copy each frame to it's own separate output file. By default, all frames are extracted but the user can optionally request a specific set of frames using
       the -f option. The output format defaults to be the same as the input format, but the user can also optionally select a new output format using the -ofmt option.

       The names of the output rasterfiles are derived from the name of the source rasterfile, the output format, and the frame numbers. The examples given below will demonstrate this.

OPTIONS
       -f f1 f2 f3 ...
              This option allows the user to specify a list of frames to be extracted from the input rasterfile.

       -ofmt output-format
              The user can specify output-format to be the desired format e.g.  hdf, rgb, etc.

       -help  Print help information.

       -verbose
              Print a message each time an output rasterfile is written.

       -Version
              Print the version number.

EXAMPLES
       Assume you have a file called 'temp.nrif' that has three frames and that you'd like to split it into three separate frames, also in NRIF format.

                 rassplit temp.nrif

       This will result in three output files named temp.0001.nrif, temp.0002.nrif, and temp.003.nrif.

       Assume you only want frames two and three, and you want them produced in HDF format instead of NRIF.

                 rassplit -fmt hdf -f 2 3 temp.nrif

       This will result in two output files named temp.0001.hdf and temp.0002.hdf.

CAVEATS
       If you're splitting an HDF file, ask for a non-HDF output format. Otherwise you'll just get the first frame over and over again.

SEE ALSO
       rasview(1NCARG),rascat(1NCARG),rasls(1NCARG), rasgetpal(1NCARG),ras_formats(5NCARG),ras_palette(5NCARG)

       Hardcopy: NCAR Graphics Fundamentals, UNIX Version

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1987-2009
       University Corporation for Atmospheric Research

       The use of this Software is governed by a License Agreement.

NCARG                                                                                             January 1993                                                                                 RASSPLIT(1NCARG)
