RIBBON(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 RIBBON(1)

NAME
       ribbon - Raster3D molecular graphics package ribbon-drawer

SYNOPSIS
          "ribbon" [-h] [-d[0123456]] pdbfile
        or
          "ribbon" [-h] -d[0123456] -     (to take PDB records from stdin)

       Ribbon reads a PDB coordinate file and produces a file on stdout containing Raster3D descriptor records for a ribbon representation constructed from a triangular mesh.  The file produced by ribbon
       may be fed directly to render or it may be combined with descriptor files produced by other Raster3D utilities.

EXAMPLES
       To describe a the entire protein chain as a single ribbon colored smoothly from blue at the N-terminus to red at the C-terminus:

            ribbon -d2 protein.pdb | render > chain_picture.png

       To color a multi-chain protein with specified colors for each chain:

            cat chaincolors.pdb protein.pdb | ribbon -d5 - > chains.r3d

OPTIONS
       -h

       Suppress  header  records  in  output.  By default ribbon will produce an output file which starts with header records containing a default set of scaling and processing options.  The -h flag will
       suppress these header records so that the output file contains only triangle descriptors.  This option is useful for producing files which describe only part of a scene, and which are to be  later
       combined with descriptor files produced by other programs.

       -d[0123456]

       By  default  ribbon requires interactive input to select ribbon parameters and coloring information.  Five default coloring schemes are implemented, however, and these may be selected as a command
       line option to bypass any interactive input.

        -d or -d0 same as -d2 below

        -d1  solid color ribbon (defaults to blue)

        -d2  shade from blue at N-terminus to red at C-terminus

        -d3  one surface of ribbon is blue, other surface is grey

        -d4  shade front surface from blue to red, back surface is grey

        -d5  color separate chains using successive color cards
            from input stream. Note that pattern matching on the color records is _not_ done; colors are simply taken sequentially as new chains are encountered.

        -d6  Color by nearest CA atom as taken from the COLOUR
            records at the head of the input file

DESCRIPTION
       The input to ribbon consists of a single text file containing colour information [optional] and atomic coordinates in PDB data bank format.  Only CA and carbonyl O atom records are  required;  all
       other  input  atoms  are  ignored.  Ribbon parameters and colouring specified interactively when the program is run.  Keyboard interaction may be bypassed by selecting one of the default colouring
       schemes using the -d flag.  A triangular mesh ribbon is output as Raster3D descriptor records.  By default the output file contains a set of header records as required by the render program.   The
       header  is  constructed  to include a TMAT matrix corresponding to the transformation matrix contained in file setup.matrix (if it exists), or to the Eulerian angles contained in file setup.angles
       (if it exists).

       Ribbon produces a continuous smooth trace of the protein backbone.  For more complicated representations of protein secondary structure it is better to use a  different  program,  e.g.  MOLSCRIPT,
       rather than ribbon.

ENVIRONMENT
       The files setup.matrix and setup.angles, if they exist, affect the header records produced by ribbon.

SOURCE
       anonymous ftp site:
             ftp.bmsc.washington.edu

       web URL:
             http://www.bmsc.washington.edu/raster3d/raster3d.html

       contact:
             Ethan A Merritt
             University of Washington, Seattle WA 98195
             merritt@u.washington.edu

SEE ALSO
       MOLSCRIPT(l), render(l), rods(l), balls(l)

AUTHORS
       Original ribbon code written by Phil Evans for the CCP4 version of FRODO.  Modification to describe solid ribbons as triangular mesh for Phong shading in Raster3D package by Ethan A Merritt.

Raster3D                                                                                         8 May 1999                                                                                       RIBBON(1)
