RATOP(1)                    General Commands Manual                   RATOP(1)

NAME
       ratop - display and update sorted network flow data

SYNOPSIS
       ratop [raoptions] [-- filter-expression]

DESCRIPTION
       Ratop  reads  argus(8)  data  from an argus-file, or from a remote data
       source, and  periodically  displays  a  sorted  list  of  network  flow
       records.   When  read  from  a  file, ratop displays the resulting flow
       caches when the file is completed, updating  its  status  display  line
       with  each  input.   When  reading from a live argus data stream, ratop
       will display data, asynchronously in realtime, as it is  received  from
       the source.

       Flow  data is aggregated as its read, (see racluster.1), resulting in a
       single line for  each  network  transaction  encountered  in  the  data
       stream.   The  default sorting key is total packets per flow, but other
       keys can be used instead.  Flow records that have been  idle  for  more
       than  the default 60s are removed.  Various output options, such as the
       specific columns of data to display, the entry idle timeout value,  the
       screen refresh rate, etc ... are all configurable.

       ratop  uses  ncurses  and readline.3, when available, to provide a vi.1
       look and feel for displaying, navigating  and  modifying  network  flow
       data.

       While running ratop a lot of help can be obtained from the on-line help
       system, using the ":h" command.

OPTIONS
       Command line option specifications are processed from  left  to  right.
       Options  can  be  specified more than once.  If conflicting options are
       specified, later specifications override earlier ones.  This  makes  it
       viable to create a shell alias for ratop with preferred defaults speci‐
       fied, then override those preferred defaults as desired on the  command
       line.

       ratop,  like  all ra based clients, supports a number of ra options in‐
       cluding filtering of input argus records through a  terminating  filter
       expression,  and  the  ability  to specify the output style, format and
       contents for printing data.  See ra(1) for a complete description of ra
       options.  ratop(1) specific options are:

       -m aggregation object
           Supported aggregation objects are:
              none           use a null flow key.
              srcid          argus source identifier.
              smac           source mac(ether) addr.
              dmac           destination mac(ether) addr.
              soui           oui portion of the source mac(ether) addr.
              doui           oui portion of the destination mac(ether) addr.
              smpls          source mpls label.
              dmpls          destination label addr.
              svlan          source vlan label.
              dvlan          destination vlan addr.
              saddr/[l|m]    source IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
              daddr/[l|m]    destination IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
              matrix/l       sorted src and dst IP addr/cidr len.
              proto          transaction protocol.
              sport          source port number. Implies use of 'proto'.
              dport          destination port number. Implies use of 'proto'.
              stos           source TOS byte value.
              dtos           destination TOS byte value.
              sttl           src -> dst TTL value.
              dttl           dst -> src TTL value.
              stcpb          src -> dst TCP base sequence number.
              dtcpb          dst -> src TCP base sequence number.
              inode[/l|m]]   intermediate  node  IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k],
                             source of ICMP mapped events.
              sco            source ARIN country code, if present.
              dco            destination ARIN country code, if present.
              sas            source node origin AS number, if available.
              das            destination node origin AS number, if available.
              ias            intermediate node origin AS number, if available.

       -M modes
           Supported modes are:
              correct        Attempt to correct the direction of flows by also
                             searching  the reverse flow key, if a match isn't
                             found in the cache.  This mode is on  by  default
                             when using the default full 5-tuple flow key def‐
                             initions.
              nocorrect      Turn off flow  correction  for  direction.   This
                             mode  is used by default if the flow key has been
                             changed.
              preserve       Preserve fields when  aggregating  matching  flow
                             data.
              nopreserve     Do  not preserve fields when aggregating matching
                             flow data.
              norep          Do not generate an aggregate statistic  for  each
                             flow.   This  is  used  primarily when the output
                             represents a single object.  Primarily used  when
                             merging  status  records to generate single flows
                             that represent single transactions.
              rmon           Generate data suitable for producing  RMON  types
                             of metrics.
              nocurses       Do  not use the curses interface to present data.
                             This option  is  primarily  used  when  debugging
                             ratop,  to get around the issues of screen maniu‐
                             plation within a debugger like gdb or lldb.

DISPLAY
       The first several lines of the ratop display show global state. The top
       line  shows how ratop is running, with the list of command line options
       that are in effect.  In the upper most  right  corner  is  the  current
       time.  The next line is the column title line, that labels each column.
       The bottom line is the command line, where you will see and prepare ':'
       commands.   The  line above the bottom line is the status line, showing
       the number of flows that are in the ratop process queue, display queue,
       the  total number of flows read, the rate of flow records read, and the
       current status, whether it is Active, reading records,  or  Idle,  when
       all input is complete.  This line can be toggled on or off using ^G.

       Flows caches are displayed one per row and are sorted by total pkts, by
       default.  ratop sorting can  be  configured  using  the  rarc  variable
       RA_SORT_ALGORITHMS, or by using the ":P" command.

       ratop  supports  3  basic  filters.  Like all other ra* programs, ratop
       will send its command line filter to its remote argus data sources,  to
       limit  the load on the wire.  This is the "remote" filter.  Also, ratop
       supports a "local" filter, that is applied to flow record input.   Nor‐
       mally  this  is  used when the remote argus data source doesn't support
       the syntax of the specific filter.  ratop also support a "display" fil‐
       ter,  that  is  used  to select which flow records are to be displayed.
       This filter does not have any impact on the internal flow  caches  that
       ratop  is  tracking, so you can change the "display" filter at any time
       and see the current state of other flows.

COLOR
       ratop supports color which is configured  using  the  rarc  file.   The
       RA_COLOR_CONFIG  file  is  a fall through specification of flow filters
       and field color definitions.  For flows that match a  filter,  specific
       fields  in  the  row will be painted the configured color.  Because the
       filter specification supports the " cont " directive, a single row  can
       be painted by any number of color definitions.

       When color is enabled ratop will attempt to color IP addresses to indi‐
       cate that local host address, and the  local  network.   This  is  very
       helpful  in  mobile  host installations, where you may not know what IP
       address has been assigned the localhost.  ratop also supports  coloring
       local addresses based on the RA_LOCAL rarc variable.

       See racolor.conf.5.

ARGUS EVENTS
       Introduced  in  argus-3.0.8,  ratop  supports  correlating specific AR‐
       GUS_EVENT data with flow data, which can be turned on through  the  use
       of  the  RA_CORRELATE_EVENTS  rarc variable.  ratop will process argus-
       lsof event data generated by host bourne argi, and label flow data with
       user, pid and process name metadata.  While experimental, it is produc‐
       tion level functionality, and can be used with other  ra*  programs  to
       enhance  flow  data  with host os process information.  See argus-3.0.8
       documentation on ARGUS_EVENTS.

EXAMPLES
       ratop -r argus.file -s rank stime dur:14 saddr daddr proto pkts bytes

              Read the file argus.file, and display the  resulting  aggregated
              and sorted list of flow records, using the default sorting meth‐
              ods.

       ratop -S localhost
              Run ratop as a live display of realtime flow traffic.

SEE ALSO
       rarc(5) racluster(1) racluster.conf(5)

ratop 3.0.8                    12 November 2007                       RATOP(1)
