RAZOR-AGENT.CONF(5)                                                                 User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                 RAZOR-AGENT.CONF(5)

NAME
       "razor-agent.conf" - Configuration file for Razor Agents

DESCRIPTION
       "razor-agent.conf" is a configuration file read by the razor agents, which include razor-check(1), razor-admin(1), razor-report(1), and razor-revoke(1). The format is "attribute = value" pairs,
       one pair per line. Lines that begin with `#' are treated as comments.

ATTRIBUTES
       Following attributes can be specified:

       razorhome
           Directory  where  Razor Agents look for files.  All files in "razor-agent.conf" without a full path will be relative to "razorhome".  The default is "/etc/razor/" for root, and "~/.razor/" for
           every other user.  If "razorhome" does not exist, it will be created.

       logfile
           Log file for the Razor Agents.  The default is "razor-agent.log".

       debuglevel
           Controls the amount of messages written to logfile.  It is an integer between 0 and 20.  For Example, a value of 1 logs only startup and error messages, 5 includes every transaction  with  the
           server,  and  14  is extremely verbose information intended for debugging use only.  NOTE: 15 and higher create debug files on your filesystem -- do not use unless you know what you are doing.
           The default is 5.

       identity
           Specify an identify file to use for storing a newly registered identity during razor-admin(1).  For razor-report(1) and razor-revoke(1),  use  this  identity  when  authenticating  with  Razor
           Servers.  If not specified, "<razorhome>/identity-<user>" is used.

       listfile_nomination
           File  where  Razor  Nomination  Servers are listed, in order of closest TCP ping time.  Nomination Servers are used by razor-report(1) and razor-revoke(1).  This file is created automatically.
           The default is "servers.nomination.lst".

       listfile_catalogue
           File where Razor Catalogue Servers are listed, in order of closest TCP ping time.  Catalogue Servers are  used  by  razor-check(1).   This  file  is  created  automatically.   The  default  is
           "servers.catalogue.lst".

       listfile_discovery
           File where Razor Discovery Servers are listed, in random order.  This file is created automatically using DNS.  The default is "servers.discovery.lst".

       rediscovery_wait_dns
           Max time in seconds Razor Agents will wait before computing a new "listfile_discovery" using DNS.  The default is 604800, which is 7 days.

       rediscovery_wait
           Max time in seconds Razor Agents will wait before computing a new "listfile_nomination" and a new "listfile_catalogue".  The default is 172800, which is 2 days.

       turn_off_discovery
           Turns off closest host discovery.  When set to 1, "listfile_catalogue" and "listfile_nomination" will not be updated and "listfile_discovery" is not read or updated.  The default is 0.

       ignorelist
           Automatically ignore mailing list posts.  If set to 0, mailing list posts will be handled like all other mail.  The default is 0.

       whitelist
           Name of whitelist file. Razor Agents can consult a whitelist of addresses and SHA1 hashes before checking a mail with Razor Servers.  If the address/hash is found on the whitelist, the mail is
           marked `not spam', without checking against the server. The format of the whitelist can be found in razor-whitelist(5) manpage.  The default is "razor-whitelist".

       min_cf
           When  checking  spam,  the  server  optionally  returns  a spam confidence value ranging from 0 (not confident) to 100 (absolutely or 100% confident).  To be considered spam, the server's spam
           confidence value must be greater than or equal to "min_cf".  "min_cf" can be a number or an expression containing ac, the average confidence published by a Razor Server.  Examples: 0, 60, 100,
           ac, ac + 10, ac - 20.  If an expression evaluates to less than 0 it becomes 0, likewise those greater than 100 become 100.  The default is "ac".

       report_headers
           When reporting spam, the entire email (headers and body) is sent to a Razor Nomination Server.  When set to 0, all the headers are removed  except  headers  beginning  with  "Content-"  before
           sending, and a special header beginning with "X-Razor2" is added to note this action.  The default is 1.

AUTHORS
       Vipul Ved Prakash, <mail@vipul.net> and Chad Norwood <chad@samo.org>

SEE ALSO
       razor-agents(1), razor-check(1), razor-admin(1), razor-report(1), razor-revoke(1), razor-whitelist(5)

perl v5.40.1                                                                                     2025-05-24                                                                             RAZOR-AGENT.CONF(5)
