RBOOTD(8)                                                                                  System Manager's Manual                                                                                RBOOTD(8)

NAME
       rbootd — HP remote boot server

SYNOPSIS
       rbootd [-ad] [-i interface] [config_file]

DESCRIPTION
       The  rbootd  utility  services boot requests from Hewlett-Packard workstations over a local area network.  All boot files must reside in the boot file directory; further, if a client supplies path
       information in its boot request, it will be silently stripped away before processing.  By default, rbootd only responds to requests from machines listed in its configuration file.

       The options are as follows:

       -a          Respond to boot requests from any machine.  The configuration file is ignored if this option is specified.

       -d          Run rbootd in debug mode.  Packets sent and received are displayed to the terminal.

       -i interface
                   Service boot requests on specified interface.  If unspecified, rbootd searches the system interface list for the lowest numbered,  configured  ``up''  interface  (excluding  loopback).
                   Ties are broken by choosing the earliest match.

       Specifying config_file on the command line causes rbootd to use a different configuration file from the default.

       The configuration file is a text file where each line describes a particular machine.  A line must start with a machine's Ethernet address followed by an optional list of boot file names.  An Eth‐
       ernet  address  is specified in hexadecimal with each of its six octets separated by a colon.  The boot file names come from the boot file directory.  The ethernet address and boot file(s) must be
       separated by white-space and/or comma characters.  A pound sign causes the remainder of a line to be ignored.

       Here is a sample configuration file:

       #
       # ethernet addr     boot file(s)        comments
       #
       08:00:09:0:66:ad    SYSHPBSD            # snake (4.3BSD)
       08:00:09:0:59:5b                        # vandy (anything)
       8::9:1:C6:75        SYSHPBSD,SYSHPUX    # jaguar (either)

       Rbootd logs status and error messages via syslog(3).  A startup message is always logged, and in the case of fatal errors (or deadly signals) a message is logged announcing the  server's  termina‐
       tion.  In general, a non-fatal error is handled by ignoring the event that caused it (e.g. an invalid Ethernet address in the config file causes that line to be invalidated).

       The following signals have the specified effect when sent to the server process using the kill(1) command:

               SIGHUP   Drop all active connections and reconfigure.

               SIGUSR1  Turn on debugging, do nothing if already on.

               SIGUSR2  Turn off debugging, do nothing if already off.

FILES
       /etc/rbootd.conf
                        configuration file
       /tmp/rbootd.dbg  debug output
       /var/lib/rbootd  directory containing boot files
       /var/run/rbootd.pid
                        process id

SEE ALSO
       kill(1), socket(2), signal(3), syslog(3),

BUGS
       If  multiple  servers are started on the same interface, each will receive and respond to the same boot packets.  The interface should be specified in a configuration file rather than having to be
       put on the command line as an argument.  Also the location of the boot images is hardcoded into the binary at compile time.

Debian                                                                                       December 11, 1993                                                                                    RBOOTD(8)
