RDIFF-BACKUP-STATISTICS(1)                                                                        User Manuals                                                                       RDIFF-BACKUP-STATISTICS(1)

NAME
       rdiff-backup-statistics - summarize rdiff-backup statistics files

SYNOPSIS
       rdiff-backup-statistics [--begin-time time] [--end-time time] [--minimum-ratio ratio] [--null-separator] [--quiet] repository

DESCRIPTION
       rdiff-backup-statistics reads the matching statistics files in a backup repository made by rdiff-backup and prints some summary statistics to the screen.  It does not alter the repository in any way.

       The required argument is the pathname of the root of an rdiff-backup repository.  For instance, if you ran "rdiff-backup in out", you could later run "rdiff-backup-statistics out".

       The  output  has  two  parts.   The  first  is simply an average of the all matching session_statistics files.  The meaning of these fields is explained in the FAQ included in the package, and also at
       https://rdiff-backup.net/docs/FAQ.html#statistics.

       The second section lists some particularly significant files (including directories).  These files are either contain a lot of data, take up increment space, or contain a lot of  changed  files.   All
       the files that are above the minimum ratio (default 5%) will be listed.

       If a file or directory is listed, its contributions are subtracted from its parent.  That is why the percentage listed after a directory can be larger than the percentage of its parent.  Without this,
       the root directory would always be the largest, and the output would be boring.

OPTIONS
       --begin-time time
              Do not read statistics files older than time.  By default, all statistics files will be read.  time should be in the same format taken by --restore-as-of.  (See TIME FORMATS in the rdiff-backup
              man page for details.)

       --end-time time
              Like --begin-time but exclude statistics files later than time.

       --minimum-ratio ratio
              Print all directories contributing more than the given ratio to the total.  The default value is .05, or 5 percent.

       --null-separator
              Specify  that the lines of the file_statistics file are separated by nulls (\0).  The default is to assume that newlines separate.  Use this switch if rdiff-backup was run with the --null-sepa‐
              rator when making the given repository.

       --quiet
              Suppress printing of the "Processing statistics from session..."  output lines.

BUGS
       When aggregating multiple statistics files, some directories above (but close to) the minimum ratio may not be displayed.  For this reason, you may want to set the minimum-ratio lower than need.

AUTHOR
       Ben Escoto <ben@emerose.org>, based on original script by Dean Gaudet.

SEE ALSO
       rdiff-backup(1), python(1).  The rdiff-backup web page is at https://rdiff-backup.net/.

Version 2.0.5                                                                                     August 2020                                                                        RDIFF-BACKUP-STATISTICS(1)
