get-edid(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               get-edid(1)

NAME
       get-edid, parse-edid - read-edid tools to retrieve and interpret monitor specifications using the VESA VBE DDC protocol

SYNOPSIS
       get-edid [OPTIONS] | parse-edid
       get-edid [OPTIONS] > filename
       parse-edid < filename

DESCRIPTION
       The read-edid utility comprises two tools: get-edid and parse-edid.

       get-edid  uses real mode calls to perform Data Display Channel (DDC) transfers, or Linux i2c calls to perform Enhanced DDC transfers to retrieve information from monitors, including identification
       strings, supported sync ranges, available video modes, and video mode parameters. Such information can be useful for configuring X Window System servers in certain cases.

       get-edid returns the raw Extended Display Identification Data (EDID) block directly from the monitor, so the parse-edid command is available to interpret it and generate a human-readable block  of
       text information that can also be included in a X11 xorg.conf file.

       Generally the output of get-edid is piped directly to parse-edid.

       New in version 3.0.0, get-edid takes a few options.

       -b BUS, --bus BUS
              only scan the i2c bus BUS (if built with i2c support)

       -c, --classiconly
              only use the older VBE interface (if built with i2c and VBE support)

       -h, --help
              display a basic help message

       -i, --i2conly
              only use the newer i2c interface (if built with i2c and VBE support)

       -m NUM, --monitor NUM
              try to return information about monitor number NUM (VBE only)

       -q, --quiet
              do not output messages over stderr

       parse-edid still does not take any options. --help will show you which options your build of read-edid supports.

AUTHOR
       read-edid  is  originally the work of John Fremlin and others. Since 1.4.2, the new maintainer and programmer has been Matthew Kern. Nearly all of the code for this project, as well as this manual
       page, has been rewritten for 3.0.0 by Matthew Kern. See AUTHORS for more details.

SEE ALSO
       Matthew Kern's read-edid website at <http://polypux.org/projects/read-edid>

                                                                                                 2013-08-29                                                                                     get-edid(1)
