REALMSET(1)           User Contributed Perl Documentation          REALMSET(1)

NAME
       realmset - Modifies entries in a DNSSEC-Tools realm file

SYNOPSIS
         realmset [options] realm-file

DESCRIPTION
       realmset modifies fields in the realm file specified by realm-file.
       Multiple options may be combined in a single realmset execution.
       realmset operates quietly unless it is given the -verbose option.

       All records in the specified realm file will be modified, unless the
       -name option is given.  In that case, only the named zone will be
       modified.

OPTIONS
       -administrator addr
           The zone administrator's email address is set to addr.

       -args arglist
           Provides additional arguments for the realm manager.  These
           arguments will override the arguments in the DNSSEC-Tools defaults
           file, the DNSSEC-Tools configuration file, and the realms' rollrec
           files.  The manager's argument list is given in arglist.  If more
           than one argument is given, the set of arguments should be enclosed
           in quotes.

           Given the realmset argument processing, the new arguments cannot be
           specified as they would from a command line.  Instead, the
           arguments should be given in the following manner.  The leading
           dash should be replaced with an equals sign.  If the option takes
           an argument, the space that would separate the option from the
           option's argument should also be replaced by an equals sign.
           realmset translates these arguments to the appropriate format for
           the realm manager.  These examples should clarify the argument
           modifications:

               normal rollerd option               -args options
               ------------------------            ---------------
                   -display                           =display
                   -logfile /dt/log.file              =zskcount=/dt/log.file

           The following are valid uses of -args:

               # realmset -args =display example.realm
               # realmset -args "=loglevel=phase =sleep=3600" example.realm

           The -args and -del-args options are mutually exclusive.

       -configdir configdir
           The directory to hold the realm's configuration files is set to
           confdir.

       -del-administrator
           The administrator line is deleted from the selected realm records.
           The -administrator and -del-administrator options are mutually
           exclusive.

       -del-args
           The args line is deleted from the selected realm records.  The
           -args and -del-args options are mutually exclusive.

       -del-display
           The display line is deleted from the selected realm records.  The
           -display, -nodisplay, and -del-display options are mutually
           exclusive.

       -del-manager
           The manager line is deleted from the selected realm records.  The
           -manager and -del-manager options are mutually exclusive.

       -del-user
           The user line is deleted from the selected realm records.  The
           -user and -del-user options are mutually exclusive.

       -display
           Turn on the GUI display of the selected realms.  The -display,
           -nodisplay, and -del-display options are mutually exclusive.

       -manager manager-program
           The manager program for the selected realms is set to manager-
           program.

       -name realmname
           The realm whose name matches realmname is selected as the only
           realm that will be modified.  If this name is not given, then all
           realm records will be modified.

       -newname new-name
           The realm's name is changed to new-name.  The new name cannot be
           the name of an existing realm in the file.  This option must be
           used in conjunction with the -name option.

       -nocheck
           If this option is given, the realmchk command will not be run on
           the modified realm file.

       -nodisplay
           Turn off the GUI display of the selected realms.  The -display,
           -nodisplay, and -del-display options are mutually exclusive.

       -realmdir realmdir
           The directory to hold the realm's files is set to realmdir.

       -rollrec rollrec-file
           The rollrec file in the selected realm records is modified to be
           rollrec-file.

       -state newstate
           The realm's state is set to newstate.  This must be either "active"
           or "inactive".

       -statedir statedir
           The directory to hold the realm's state files is set to statedir.

       -user username
           The user name in the selected realm records is modified to be
           username.

       -verbose
           Display information about every modification made to the realm
           file.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for realmset and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2012-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       dtrealms(8), lsrealm(8), realmchk(8), realminit(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::realmmgr.pm(3), Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::realm.pm(3)

       file-realm(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                       REALMSET(1)
