REBUILDRESET(1)                                                                       User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                       REBUILDRESET(1)

NAME
       rebuildreset - Reset package for rebuild

SYNOPIS
           rebuilreset [--config FILE] [--changed] < PACKAGE_LIST

DESCRIPTION
       This tool resets packages listed on standard input or in a file named in positional arguments, so that next rebuildperl(1) will consider the packages as not yet rebuilt.

       This is a helper for rebuildperl(1) and it assumes the packages have already been populated by rebuildperl. It will reset the local repository and removes all stage locks except .clone. It will also
       edit all, done, and failed package lists (see the configuration) accordingly. (It will remove changed packaged from done and failed list.)

       With other options, the set of packages to reset can be reduced more.

OPTIONS
   --config FILE
       Read configuration from FILE, or ~/.rebuildperlrc if not specified.

   --changed
       Reset only packages whose remote repository has changed (e.g. there is a newer version). It compares local copy of origin GIT repository with repository on the remote server and if it finds the HEADs
       are different it will reset the package. Otherwise the package will not be reset.

       If failedtemp configuration option is defined and there is an error while checking the remote repository, the faulting package will be logged into the failedtemp file. This is because talking to a GIT
       server can result into intermittent network error that can disappear on next retry.

FILES
   ~/.rebuildperlrc
       Configuration is in Config::Tiny format. Following options are needed:

           done = done
           failed = failed
           failedtemp = failedtemp
           workdir = workdir
           dist = rawhide
           loadthreads = 4

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-07-22                                                                                   REBUILDRESET(1)
