
RECON(1)                                                                                           LAM TOOLS                                                                                           RECON(1)

NAME
       recon - Check if LAM can be started.

SYNOPSIS
       recon [-a] [-b] [-d] [-h] [-v] [-nn] [-np] [-ssi key value] [bhost]

OPTIONS
       -a      Report all host errors.

       -b      Assume local and remote shell are the same.  This means that only one remote shell invocation is used to each node.  If -b is not used, two remote shell invocations are used to each node.

       -d      Turn on debugging.

       -h      Print the command help menu.

       -ssi key value
               Send arguments to various SSI modules.  See the "SSI" section, below.

       -v      Be verbose.

       -nn     Don't add "-n" to the remote agent command line

       -np     Do not force the execution of $HOME/.profile on remote hosts

DESCRIPTION
       In order for LAM to be started on a remote UNIX machine, several requirements have to be fulfilled:

       1)     The machine must be reachable via the network.

       2)     The  user must be able to remotely execute on the machine with the default remote shell program that was chosen when LAM was configured.  This is usually rsh(1), but any remote shell program is
              acceptable (such as ssh(1), etc.).  Note that remote host permission must be configured such that the remote shell program will not ask for a password when a command is invoked on remote host.

       3)     The remote user's shell must have a search path that will locate LAM executables.

       4)     The remote shell's startup file must not print anything to standard error when invoked non-interactively.

       If any of these requirements is not met for any machine declared in bhost, LAM will not be able to start.  By running recon first, the user will be able to quickly identify and correct problems in the
       setup that would inhibit LAM from starting.

       The local machine where recon is invoked must be one of the machines specified in bhost.

       The  bhost file is a LAM boot schema written in the host file syntax.  See bhost(5).  Instead of the command line, a boot schema can be specified in the LAMBHOST environment variable.  Otherwise a de‐
       fault file, bhost.def, is used.  LAM seaches for bhost first in the local directory and then in the installation directory under etc/.

       recon tests each machine defined in bhost by attempting to execute on it the tkill(1) command using its "pretend" option (no action is taken).  This test, if successful, indicates  that  all  the  re‐
       quirements listed above are met, and thus LAM can be started on the machine.  If the attempt is successful, the next machine is checked.  In case the attempt fails, a descriptive error message is dis‐
       played and recon stops unless the -a option is used, in which case recon continues checking the remaining machines.

       If recon takes a long time to finish successfully, this will be a good indication to the user that the LAM system to be started has slow communication links or heavily loaded machines, and it might be
       preferable to exclude or replace some of the machines in the system.

   SSI (System Services Interface)
       The  -ssi  switch  allows  the passing of parameters to various SSI modules.  LAM's SSI modules are described in detail in lamssi(7).  SSI modules have direct impact on MPI programs because they allow
       tunable parameters to be set at run time (such as which boot device driver to use, what parameters to pass to that driver, etc.).

       The -ssi switch takes two arguments: key and value.  The key argument generally specifies which SSI module will receive the value.  For example, the key "boot" is used to select which RPI to  be  used
       for starting processes on remote nodes.  The value argument is the value that is passed.  For example:

       recon -ssi boot tm
           Tells LAM to use the "tm" boot module for native launching in PBSPro / OpenPBS environments (the tm boot module does not require a boot schema).

       recon -ssi boot rsh -ssi rsh_agent "ssh -x" boot_file
           Tells LAM to use the "rsh" boot module, and tells the rsh module to use "ssh -x" as the specific agent to launch executables on remote nodes.

       And so on.  LAM's boot SSI modules are described in lamssi_boot(7).  This page should be consulted for specific actions that are taken by, and how to tweak the run-time behavior of each boot module.

       The  -ssi  switch  can  be  used multiple times to specify different key and/or value arguments.  If the same key is specified more than once, the values are concatenated with a comma (",") separating
       them.

       Note that the -ssi switch is simply a shortcut for setting environment variables.  The same effect may be accomplished by setting corresponding environment variables before running lamboot.  The  form
       of the environment variables that LAM sets are: LAM_MPI_SSI_key=value.

       Note  that the -ssi switch overrides any previously set environment variables.  Also note that unknown key arguments are still set as environment variable -- they are not checked (by lamwipe) for cor‐
       rectness.  Illegal or incorrect value arguments may or may not be reported -- it depends on the specific SSI module.

   Remote Executable Invocation
       All tweakable aspects of launching executables on remote nodes during recon are discussed in lamssi(7) and lamssi_boot(7).  Topics include (but are not limited to): discovery of remote shell, run-time
       overrides of the agent use to launch remote executables (e.g., rsh and ssh), etc.

FILES
       laminstalldir/etc/lam-bhost.def   default boot schema file, where "laminstalldir" is the directory where LAM/MPI was installed.

EXAMPLES
       recon -v mynodes
           Check if LAM can be started on all the UNIX machines described in the boot schema mynodes.  Report about important steps as they are done.

       recon -v -a
           Check  if LAM can be started on all the UNIX machines described in the default boot schema.  Report about important steps as they are done.  Check all the machines; do not stop after the first er‐
           ror message.

SEE ALSO
       rsh(1), tkill(1), bhost(5), lamboot(1), lamwipe(1), lam-helpfile(5), lamssi(7), lamssi_boot(7)

LAM 7.1.4                                                                                          July, 2007                                                                                          RECON(1)
