REGISTRY(7)                                                        REGISTRY(7)

NAME
       registry - The JavaScript Package Registry

   Description
       To  resolve  packages by name and version, npm talks to a registry web‐
       site that implements the CommonJS Package  Registry  specification  for
       reading package info.

       npm  is  configured  to  use  the  npm  public registry at https://reg‐
       istry.npmjs.org by default. Use of the npm public registry  is  subject
       to terms of use available at https://docs.npmjs.com/policies/terms.

       You can configure npm to use any compatible registry you like, and even
       run your own registry. Use of someone else's registry may  be  governed
       by their terms of use.

       npm's  package  registry  implementation supports several write APIs as
       well, to allow for publishing packages and managing user account infor‐
       mation.

       The  npm  public  registry  is  powered by a CouchDB database, of which
       there is a public mirror at https://skimdb.npmjs.com/registry.

       The registry URL used is determined by the scope of  the  package  (see
       npm help scope. If no scope is specified, the default registry is used,
       which is supplied by the registry config parameter.  See npm help  con‐
       fig,  npm  help  npmrc,  and npm help config for more on managing npm's
       configuration.

       When the default registry is used in a package-lock  or  shrinkwrap  is
       has  the special meaning of "the currently configured registry". If you
       create a lock file while using the default registry you can  switch  to
       another  registry  and npm will install packages from the new registry,
       but if you create a lock file while using a  custom  registry  packages
       will  be  installed from that registry even after you change to another
       registry.

   Does npm send any information about me back to the registry?
       Yes.

       When making requests of the registry npm adds two headers with informa‐
       tion about your environment:

       • Npm-Scope  –  If your project is scoped, this header will contain its
         scope. In the future npm hopes to build registry  features  that  use
         this  information  to allow you to customize your experience for your
         organization.

       • Npm-In-CI – Set to "true" if npm believes this install is running  in
         a  continuous integration environment, "false" otherwise. This is de‐
         tected by looking for the following environment  variables:  CI,  TD‐
         DIUM,  JENKINS_URL,  bamboo.buildKey. If you'd like to learn more you
         may   find   the    original    PR    https://github.com/npm/npm-reg‐
         istry-client/pull/129  interesting.   This  is  used to gather better
         metrics on how npm is used by humans, versus build farms.

       The npm registry does not try to correlate  the  information  in  these
       headers  with  any  authenticated accounts that may be used in the same
       requests.

   How can I prevent my package from being published in the official registry?
       Set "private": true in your package.json to prevent it from being  pub‐
       lished  at all, or "publishConfig":{"registry":"http://my-internal-reg‐
       istry.local"} to force it to be published only to your internal/private
       registry.

       See  npm  help  package.json  for  more  info on what goes in the pack‐
       age.json file.

   Where can I find my own, & other's, published packages?
       https://www.npmjs.com/

   See also
       • npm help config

       • npm help config

       • npm help npmrc

       • npm help developers

                                 October 2021                      REGISTRY(7)
