REMCTL(1)                                                                                          remctl                                                                                         REMCTL(1)

NAME
       remctl - Remote execution tool

SYNOPSIS
       remctl [-dhv] [-b source-ip] [-p port] [-s service]
           [-t timeout] host command [subcommand [parameters ...]]

DESCRIPTION
       remctl is a program that allows a user to execute commands remotely on a server that is running the remctld daemon.  remctl does not interpret the commands given to it.  It passes them to the
       server and displays the return message.  The commands must be defined on the server-side before a remctl client can execute them, and the user running remctl must be authorized to execute the
       particular command on the server.

       Access to remote commands is authenticated via Kerberos GSS-API, so a user must have a ticket granting ticket to use remctl.  All transmissions to and from the remctld server are encrypted using
       GSS-API's security layer.

       host is the hostname of the target server.  command and subcommand together specify the command to run and correspond to the command names in the configuration file on the server.  parameters are
       any additional command-line parameters to pass to the remote command.

OPTIONS
       The start of each option description is annotated with the version of remctl in which that option was added with its current meaning.

       -b source-ip
           [3.0]  When  connecting  to  the  remote  remctl  server,  use source-ip as the source IP address.  This can be useful on multihomed systems where the remctl connections need to be made over a
           particular network.  source-ip must be an IP address, not a hostname, and can be either an IPv4 or IPv6 address (assuming IPv6 is supported).

       -d  [1.10] Turn on extra debugging output of the client-server interaction.

       -h  [1.10] Show a brief usage message and then exit.

       -p port
           [1.0] Connect to the server on port.  If this option isn't given, the client first tries the registered remctl port (4373) and then falls back on the legacy port (4444) if that fails.

       -s service
           [1.0] Authenticate to the server with a service ticket for service rather than the default server identity of host/hostname.  This may be necessary with, for instance, a server  where  remctld
           is not running as root.

       -t timeout
           [3.16] Set the timeout for all network operations to timeout (in seconds).

           This  is  a  timeout  on  network  activity, not on a complete operation; for example, a timeout of ten seconds just requires that the server send some data at least every ten seconds.  If the
           server sends only tiny amounts of data at a time, the complete operation could take much longer without triggering the timeout.

       -v  [1.10] Print the version of remctl and exit.

EXIT STATUS
       remctl will exit with the exit status returned by the remote command.  If some network or authentication error occurred and remctl was unable to run the remote command or retrieve its exit status,
       or if remctl was called with invalid arguments, remctl will exit with status 1.

EXAMPLES
       Release an AFS volume called ls.tripwire:

           remctl lsdb afs release ls.tripwire

COMPATIBILITY
       The default port was changed to the IANA-registered port of 4373 in version 2.11.

       Support for IPv6 was added in version 2.4.

CAVEATS
       If no principal is specified with -s, remctl canonicalizes the server host name using DNS before connecting.  This ensures that the network connection and the GSS-API authentication use  the  same
       server name even if some common DNS-based load-balancing schemes are in use.  To disable this canonicalization, specify the server principal using -s.

       The  default behavior, when the port is not specified, of trying 4373 and falling back to 4444 will be removed in a future version of remctl in favor of using the "remctl" service in /etc/services
       if set and then falling back on only 4373.  4444 was the poorly-chosen original remctl port and should be phased out.

       When using Heimdal with triple-DES keys and talking to old servers that only speak version one of the remctl protocol, remctl may have problems with MIC  verification.   This  doesn't  affect  new
       clients and servers since the version two protocol doesn't use MICs.  If you are using Heimdal and run into MIC verification problems, see the COMPATIBILITY section of gssapi(3).

NOTES
       The remctl port number, 4373, was derived by tracing the diagonals of a QWERTY keyboard up from the letters "remc" to the number row.

AUTHOR
       remctl was originally written by Anton Ushakov.  Updates and current maintenance are done by Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 2018 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

       Copyright 2002-2011, 2014 The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

       Copying  and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered
       as-is, without any warranty.

       SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

SEE ALSO
       kinit(1), remctld(8)

       The current version of this program is available from its web page at <https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/remctl/>.

3.18                                                                                             2022-05-09                                                                                       REMCTL(1)
