REPOSD(8)                                                                                   Linux Programmers Manual                                                                                  REPOSD(8)

NAME
       reposd - SBLIM metric repository daemon

SYNOPSIS
       reposd [argument]

DESCRIPTION
       The reposd program is a system daemon that maintains a temporary repository of raw performance metrics for various system components. Raw metric data is forwarded from a seperate collection daemon
       that is located either locally or remotely (see gatherd(8)). The calculation of usable metrics from raw data is performed via repository metric plugins. The repository communication port, location of
       plugin directory, and other controllable configuration options are described in the configuration file man page (see reposd.conf(5)).

       The reposd daemon can be controlled at runtime by way of the reposctl(8) command. This provides the ability to query metric values or load and unload metric plugins online without the need to restart
       reposd.

       The primary goal of the the sblim-gather package is to implement the DMTF's Base Metric Model (DSP1053). While, reposd, gatherd(8), and their plugins can be used standalone, the greatest benefit comes
       from using their CIM provider layer in conjuction with a CIM Object Manager (see cimserver(1)). For more information about CIM and the Base Metric Model refer to the Distrubuted Management Task Force
       (DMTF) at http://www.dmtf.org.

OPTIONS
       argument
           reposd daemonizes by default. Passing any value on the command line will cause it to run in the terminal.

FILES
       /etc/reposd.conf
           This file contains the daemon configuration settings. See reposd.conf(5) for more information.

BUGS
       The SBLIM project maintains a mailing list to which you should direct all questions regarding sfcb, sfcc, wbemcli, the metric data gatherer, or any of the SBLIM providers. To subscribe to this list
       visit:

           https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/sblim-issues

       Please report bugs you discover to the bug tracker. The SBLIM project bug tracking page can be found at:

           https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=128809&atid=712784

AUTHORS
       Please refer to the AUTHORS file distributed with sblim-gather.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2003-2012 IBM Corp.

LICENSE
       reposd is distributed under the terms of the Eclipse Public License ("Agreement"). Any use, reproduction or distribution of this program constitutes recipeients acceptance of the agreement.

       You can obtain a current copy of the Eclipse Public License from http://www.opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php

SEE ALSO
       reposctl(8), reposd.conf(5), gatherd(8), cimserver(1)

sblim-gather-2.2.9                                                                                 08/25/2021                                                                                         REPOSD(8)
