Mono(resgen)                                                      Mono(resgen)

NAME
       resgen, resgen2 - Mono/CLI Resource Generator

SYNOPSIS
       resgen source.ext [dest.ext]

       resgen /compile source.ext[,dest.resources] [...]

       resgen2

DESCRIPTION
       Convert a resource file from one format to another.

       The currently supported formats are text, resources, resx and po.

       .txt, .text

              Used  to  process  text files, the format of the text file is of
              the form:

                   key=value

              The value argument can contain special  characters  as  long  as
              they are escaped.   The escape sequences currently supported are
              \n, \r, \t, \\ (to get the escape sequence itself) and with res‐
              gen2  unicode  escape  sequences  are  supported with the \uXXXX
              escape sequence, where XXXX is a four digit number.

              Lines that start with the # or ; character are  considered  com‐
              ments and ignored.

       '.resources'

              This   is  the  binary  file  format  implemented  by  the  Sys‐
              tem.Resources.ResourceReader class, part of mscorlib.dll

       '.resx'

              This  is  the  binary  file  format  implemented  by  the   Sys‐
              tem.Resources.ResXResourceReader  class.  This class is not part
              of mscorlib.dll, this class is part of System.Windows.Forms.

       '.po'.

              PO files are the source files used by the  Unix  gettext  infra‐
              structure  that  is  typically used to internationalize applica‐
              tions.

              Lines starting with the '#' character are comment lines.

              The file contains many instance of strings like this:

                   msgid KEY
                   msgstr VALUE

              The KEY is typically the string to translate and  the  VALUE  is
              the  translation.  On PO files instead of using codes as the KEY
              (as it is customary with resource files) the KEY is typically  a
              complete english message that applications embed in their source
              code and will be used as a fallback if no translation  resources
              are used.

              Since resources are key value pairs, the extended features in PO
              files are not supported (plurals and support for N-cases).

              To learn more about the po file format, use  your  info  browser
              and point it to the "(gettext)PO Files" node.

       If  the  destination  file  is  not specified, source.resources will be
       used.

       The /compile option takes a list of .resX or .txt files to  convert  to
       the output file name.

OPTIONS
       -compile

              This switch instructs resgen to compile multiple files.  It must
              appear before any resources are specified on the command line.

       -usesourcepath

              This option is only available for resgen2, and it instructs res‐
              gen  to  resolve  relative paths using the directory of the resx
              file as current directory.

FILES
       This program will load referenced assemblies  from  the  Mono  assembly
       cache.

MAILING LISTS
       Visit    http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list   for
       details.

WEB SITE
       Visit: http://www.mono-project.com for details

SEE ALSO
       mcs(1),mono(1),mono-config(5).

                                                                  Mono(resgen)
