retrv(1)                                                                                           ShapeTools                                                                                          retrv(1)

NAME
       retrv - retrieve a revision of a file

SYNOPSIS
       retrv [ version binding options ] [ options ] files ..

       Options: [ -?cfilq ] [ -help ] [ -copy ] [ -dest path ] [ -fix ] [ -force ] [ -intent message ] [ -lock ] [ -quiet ] [ -stdin ] [ -version ] [ -xpoff ]

       vcat [ version binding options ] [ options ] files ..

       Options: [ -?q ] [ -help ] [ -quiet ] [ -version ] [ -xpoff ]

DESCRIPTION
       Retrv  retrieves a specified, previously saved version of a file from the version object base. The version archive is expected to reside in the AtFS subdirectory. A selected version will by default be
       retrieved into a file in the directory where it was originally saved.  If just a copy of a file version shall be retrieved, this behavior can be overridden with the -dest option. If a busy version  is
       created  with  the -lock option, it must be created in the directory from where it was saved. This is necessary to maintain the spatial relationship between the busy version and the corresponding his‐
       tory archive, residing in the AtFS subdirectory.

       Retrieve tries to be careful if an attempt is made to overwrite an existing busy-version: unless -f (-force) is specified, retrv will ask the caller for permission.  If no busy version exists, one  is
       created with the same modes as the formerly saved version. If a busy version exists, its modes are preserved.

       If  the  program  is invoked as vcat, the specified version(s) will be printed on standard output. No status change of the object base will occur in this case.  vcat behaves similar to the cat(1) com‐
       mand: if just a filename is given, vcat displays the most recent status of the referenced object. If a busy version does exist it will be selected as most recent status. If  no  busy  version  exists,
       vcat displays the most recently saved version.

ATTRIBUTE CITATIONS
       It  is  possible to cite any of a file-version's attributes within the the body of the version. This can be done by using attribute citation expressions. These expressions have the form "$__attribute‐
       name$".  Version attributes that are cited within the text of a stored revision are expanded by default. In this case, the citation expression will be substituted by the cited attribute's value. For a
       list of predefined attribute names, check the vadm(1) manual page.

       There  are  three  basic  kinds  of attribute values: genuine values, reference values, and execution values. Genuine values are simply strings that are assigned to an attribute.  Reference values are
       pointers to files or AtFS-versions whose contents will be substituted in place of an attribute-citation.  Reference values are strings that begin with a  circumflex-character,  typically  followed  by
       pathname, e.g.  ^/usr/local/lib/std-header[2.4]. Execution values are names of executable programs, whose standard output is substituted in place of an attribute-citation. Execution values are strings
       that begin with an exclamation-mark character, typically followed by the name of the program, e.g. !/bin/date. Execution values can be used to generate highly dynamic attributes or a primitive form of
       event-triggers.

       When  expanding  an attribute citation, retrv first looks for an attribute of the mentioned name within the version's set of associated attributes. If no attribute of that name can be found, the envi‐
       ronment is searched for a variable of that name. In case the cited attribute exists and has a value, the value is itself searched for attribute-citations that are expanded recursively.  If neither  an
       attribute  nor  an  environment  variable  of the cited name can be found, no substitution takes place and the expression will be left unchanged. The same is true if a referenced object of a reference
       value does not exist, or an execution value happens to not be executable.  Attribute citation expressions are also left unchanged if a revision is retrieved with the -lock option.  Expansion of attri‐
       bute citation within documents can be controlled by the pseudo-attribute citations "$__xpoff$" and "$__xpon$".

OPTIONS
       For version selection, any version binding option, as described on the vbind(1) manual page, may be given, or a version bind directive may be given in brackets added to the file name.

       Additional options are:

       -?, -help
              print brief instructions about using this program.

       -c, -copy
              Do  not  check for equality. Usually, retrv checks whether an existing destination file is identical to the version to be retrieved and suppresses copying in this case. This behaviour is mainly
              for efficiency reasons and may be disabled by the -c switch.

       -dest path
              retrieve the specified version from the object base and install a copy it in the directory denoted by path. As this directory may be a long way apart from the directory containing the AtFS  ar‐
              chives,  this copy of the retrieved version is separated from its history and subsequently unrelated to the object history it came from. Proper object histories require a constant spatial rela‐
              tionship of any busy versions and the corresponding archives. This relationship requires the archives to reside in a subdirectory named AtFS.

       -fix   attempt to reserve the privilege to add a new version to an old generation (insert a new minor revision into an old major revision) within the object history. If successful, the user who issued
              the  command  holds  a generation lock. There can be only one lock per generation, preventing simultaneous updates of the generation. The generation lock is, by convention, a revision lock (see
              vadm -lock) attached to the version with the highest version number within a generation.

              The -fix switch is intended to support concurrency of the main development process and maintenance activities (such as bug fixing) for older releases. When a version is retrieved with the  pur‐
              pose  to  fix  it, it is called the fixpoint version. The fixpoint version accumulates all fixes applied to a baseline version within a generation. One important advantage of this policy is the
              elimination of the need to create a branch for each fix that must later be merged with the ``mainline'' version, containing previous fixes. So, if retrv is invoked with ``-fix'' it will restore
              the fixpoint version (the most recent minor revision within the implied generation) rather than the explicitly referenced version. However, retrv issues a warning, if the baseline- and the fix‐
              point version are not identical.

              To insert a fix into an old generation, use the -fix option of the save command.  When setting a lock on a generation, the requesting user is prompted for an optional description of the planned
              changes.  The -fix switch is incompatible with -lock.

       -f, -force
              force the reinstallation of the specified version as busy version without asking the user, even if a writable (possibly unsaved) busy version exists.

       -i message
              set  message  as  intent  text describing the changes that are intended to be applied to a busy version that is installed by retrv. When message starts with an at sign (@), it is interpreted as
              filename and the text contained in the file is takes as intent text. If message is ``-'', the change intent is read from standard input. The latter case is identical to specifying  the  command
              line switch -stdin. This option requires the -lock switch to be set in order to be effective.

       -l, -lock
              attempt  to reserve the privilege to add a new version to the main development line of an object history, thus preventing multiple programmers working upon the same object base from interfering
              with each other by saving concurrent updates.  When setting a new lock on an object history, prompt the requesting user for an optional description of the planned changes.  The -lock switch  is
              incompatible with -fix.

       -q, -quiet
              quiet  operation.  No messages are printed on standard output.  If a current busy version exists, it will not be overwritten by the specified version unless -f is set. This option is useful for
              batch operation.

       -stdin force retrv to read the message describing the change intent from stdin rather than fork an editor.

       -version
              print version identification for this program.

       -xpoff Do not expand attribute citations in the restored file.

FILES
       All revisions of documents are retrieved from archive files located in the subdirectory AtFS.

SEE ALSO
       vbind(1), save(1), vadm(1)

BUGS
       Redirection of stdin in conjunction with option -stdin doesn't work.

AUTHOR
       Axel.Mahler@cs.tu-berlin.de

retrv-4.5                                                                                   Thu Jun 17 14:03:56 1993                                                                                   retrv(1)
