RGBFIX(1)                                                           General Commands Manual                                                         RGBFIX(1)

NAME
       rgbfix — Game Boy header utility and checksum fixer

SYNOPSIS
       rgbfix  [-hjsVvw] [-C | -c] [--color when] [-f fix_spec] [-i game_id] [-k licensee_str] [-L logo_file] [-l licensee_id] [-m mbc_type] [-n rom_version]
              [-o out_file] [-p pad_value] [-r ram_size] [-t title_str] [-W warning] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       The rgbfix program changes headers of Game Boy ROM images, typically generated by rgblink(1), though it will work with any Game Boy ROM.  It also per‐
       forms other correctness operations, such as padding.  rgbfix only changes the fields for which it has values specified.   Developers  are  advised  to
       fill  those fields with 0x00 bytes in their source code before running rgbfix, and to have already populated whichever fields they don't specify using
       rgbfix.

ARGUMENTS
       rgbfix accepts the usual short and long options, such as -V and --version.  Options later in the command line override those set earlier,  except  for
       when duplicate options are considered an error.  Options can be abbreviated as long as the abbreviation is unambiguous: --ver is --version, but --v is
       invalid because it could also be --validate.

       Unless  otherwise  noted,  passing ‘-’ (a single dash) as a file name makes rgbfix use standard input (for input files) or standard output (for output
       files).  To suppress this behavior, and open a file in the current directory actually called ‘-’, pass ‘./-’ instead.  Using standard input or  output
       for more than one file in a single command may produce unexpected results.

       rgbfix  accepts  decimal, hexadecimal, octal, and binary for numeric option arguments.  Decimal numbers are written as usual; hexadecimal numbers must
       be prefixed with either ‘$’ or ‘0x’; octal numbers must be prefixed with either ‘&’ or ‘0o’; and binary numbers must be prefixed with  either  ‘%’  or
       ‘0b’.  (The prefixes ‘$’ and ‘&’ will likely need escaping or quoting to avoid being interpreted by the shell.)  Leading zeros (after the base prefix,
       if  any)  are  accepted,  and  letters  are not case-sensitive.  For example, all of these are equivalent: ‘42’, ‘042’, ‘0x2A’, ‘0X2A’, ‘0x2a’, ‘&52’,
       ‘0o52’, ‘0O052’, ‘0b00101010’, ‘0B101010’.

       The following options are accepted:

       -C, --color-only
               Set the Game Boy Color–only flag (0x143) to 0xC0.  This overrides -c if it was set prior.

       -c, --color-compatible
               Set the Game Boy Color–compatible flag: (0x143) to 0x80.  This overrides -c if it was set prior.

       --color when
               Specify when to highlight warning and error messages with color: ‘always’, ‘never’, or ‘auto’.  ‘auto’ determines whether to use colors  based
               on the ‘NO_COLOR: https://no-color.org/’ or ‘FORCE_COLOR: https://force-color.org/’ environment variables, or whether the output is to a TTY.

       -f fix_spec, --fix-spec fix_spec
               Fix  certain  header values that the Game Boy checks for correctness.  Alternatively, intentionally trash these values by writing their binary
               inverse instead.  fix_spec is a string containing any combination of the following characters:

               l   Fix the Nintendo logo (0x104–0x133).
               L   Trash the Nintendo logo.
               h   Fix the header checksum (0x14D).
               H   Trash the header checksum.
               g   Fix the global checksum (0x14E–0x14F).
               G   Trash the global checksum.

       -h, --help
               Print help text for the program and exit.

       -i game_id, --game-id game_id
               Set the game ID string (0x13F–0x142) to a given string.  If it's longer than 4 characters, it will be truncated.

       -j, --non-japanese
               Set the non-Japanese region flag (0x14A) to 0x01.

       -k licensee_str, --new-licensee licensee_str
               Set the new licensee string (0x144–0x145) to a given string.  If it's longer than 2 characters, it will be truncated.

       -L logo_file, --logo logo_file
               Specify a logo file to use instead of the official Nintendo logo.  The file must be 48 bytes of 1bpp tile data; the source image should be  48
               pixels wide and 8 pixels tall.

       -l licensee_id, --old-licensee licensee_id
               Set the old licensee code (0x14B) to a given value from 0 to 0xFF.  This value is deprecated and should be set to 0x33 in all new software.

       -m mbc_type, --mbc-type mbc_type
               Set the MBC type (0x147) to a given value from 0 to 0xFF.

               This  value  may  also be an MBC name.  The list of accepted names can be obtained by passing ‘help’ or ‘list’ as the argument.  Any amount of
               whitespace (space and tabs) is allowed around plus signs, and the order of "components" is free, as long as the MBC name is first.  There  are
               special considerations to take for the TPP1 mapper; see the “TPP1” section below.

       -n rom_version, --rom-version rom_version
               Set the ROM version (0x14C) to a given value from 0 to 0xFF.

       -o out_file, --output out_file
               Write  the modified ROM image to the given file, or '-' to write to standard output.  If not specified, the input files are modified in-place,
               or written to standard output if read from standard input.

       -p pad_value, --pad-value pad_value
               Pad the ROM image to a valid size with a given pad value from 0 to 255 (0xFF).  rgbfix will automatically pick a size from 32 KiB, 64 KiB, 128
               KiB, ..., 8192 KiB.  The cartridge size byte (0x148) will be changed to reflect this new size.  The recommended  padding  value  is  0xFF,  to
               speed up writing the ROM to flash chips, and to avoid "nop slides" into VRAM.

       -r ram_size, --ram-size ram_size
               Set the RAM size (0x149) to a given value from 0 to 0xFF.

       -s, --sgb-compatible
               Set the SGB flag (0x146) to 0x03.  This flag will be ignored by the SGB unless the old licensee code (-l) is 0x33!

       -t title, --title title
               Set  the  title string (0x134–0x143) to a given string.  If the title is longer than the maximum length, it will be truncated.  The max length
               is 11 characters if the game ID (-i) is specified, 15 characters if the CGB flag (-c or -C) is specified but the game ID is not, and 16  char‐
               acters otherwise.

       -V, --version
               Print the version of the program and exit.

       -v, --validate
               Equivalent to -f lhg.

       -W warning, --warning warning
               Set  warning flag warning.  A warning message will be printed if warning is an unknown warning flag.  See the “DIAGNOSTICS” section for a list
               of warnings.

       -w      Disable all warning output, even when turned into errors.

       @at_file
               Read more options and arguments from a file, as if its contents were given on the command line.  Arguments are separated by whitespace or new‐
               lines.  Lines starting with a hash sign (‘#’) are considered comments and ignored.

               No shell processing is performed, such as wildcard or variable expansion.  There is no support for escaping or quoting whitespace  to  be  in‐
               cluded  in  arguments.  The standard ‘--’ to stop option processing also disables at-file processing.  Note that while ‘--’ can be used inside
               an at-file, it only disables option processing within that at-file, and processing continues in the parent scope.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Warnings are diagnostic messages that indicate possibly erroneous behavior that does not necessarily compromise the header-fixing process.   The  fol‐
       lowing options alter the way warnings are processed.

       -Werror
               Make all warnings into errors.  This can be negated as -Wno-error to prevent turning all warnings into errors.

       -Werror=
               Make  the  specified warning or meta warning into an error.  A warning's name is appended (example: -Werror=obsolete), and this warning is im‐
               plicitly enabled and turned into an error.  This can be negated as -Wno-error= to prevent turning a specified warning into an error,  even  if
               -Werror is in effect.

       The  following  warnings are “meta” warnings, that enable a collection of other warnings.  If a specific warning is toggled via a meta flag and a spe‐
       cific one, the more specific one takes priority.  The position on the command-line acts as a tie breaker, the last one taking effect.

       -Wall   This enables warnings that are likely to indicate an error or undesired behavior, and that can easily be fixed.

       -Weverything
               Enables literally every warning.

       The following warnings are actual warning flags; with each description, the corresponding warning flag is included.  Note that  each  of  these  flags
       also has a negation (for example, -Wobsolete enables the warning that -Wno-obsolete disables; and -Wall enables every warning that -Wno-all disables).
       Only the non-default flag is listed here.  Ignoring the “no-” prefix, entries are listed alphabetically.

       -Wno-mbc
               Warn when there are inconsistencies with or caveats about the specified MBC type.

       -Wno-obsolete
               Warn when obsolete features are encountered, which have been deprecated and may later be removed.

       -Wno-overwrite
               Warn when overwriting different non-zero bytes in the header.

       -Wno-sgb
               Warn when the SGB flag (-s) conflicts with the old licensee code (-l).

       -Wno-truncation
               Warn when truncating values to fit the available space.

EXAMPLES
       Most  values  in  the ROM header do not matter to the actual console, and most are seldom useful anyway.  The bare minimum requirements for a workable
       program are the header checksum, the Nintendo logo, and (if needed) the CGB/SGB flags.  It is a good idea to pad the image to a  valid  size  as  well
       (“valid” meaning a power of 2, times 32 KiB).

       The following will make a plain, non-color Game Boy game without checking for a valid size:

             $ rgbfix -v foo.gb

       The following will make a SGB-enabled, color-enabled game with a title of “foobar”, and pad it to a valid size.  (The Game Boy itself does not use the
       title, but some emulators or ROM managers do.)

             $ rgbfix -vcs -l 0x33 -p 255 -t foobar baz.gb

       The following will duplicate the header of the game “Survival Kids”, sans global checksum:

             $ rgbfix -cjsv -k A4 -l 0x33 -m 0x1B -p 0xFF -r 3 -t SURVIVALKIDAVKE SurvivalKids.gbc

TPP1
       TPP1  is  a  homebrew  mapper  designed as a functional superset of the common traditional MBCs, allowing larger ROM and RAM sizes combined with other
       hardware features.  Its specification, as well as more resources, can be found online at https://github.com/aaaaaa123456789/tpp1.

   MBC name
       The MBC name for TPP1 is more complex than standard mappers.  It must be followed with the revision number, of  the  form  ‘major.minor’,  where  both
       ‘major’  and  ‘minor’  are  decimal, 8-bit integers.  There may be any amount of spaces or underscores between ‘TPP1’ and the revision number.  rgbfix
       only supports 1.x revisions, and will reject everything else.

       Like other mappers, the name may be followed with a list of optional, ‘+’-separated features; however, ‘RAM’ should not be specified, as the TPP1 map‐
       per implicitly requests RAM if a non-zero RAM size is specified.  Therefore, rgbfix will ignore the ‘RAM’ feature on a TPP1 mapper.

   Special considerations
       TPP1 overwrites the byte at 0x14A, usually indicating the region destination (see -j), with one of its three identification bytes.  Therefore,  rgbfix
       will warn about and ignore -j if used in combination with TPP1.

BUGS
       Please report bugs or mistakes in this documentation on GitHub: https://github.com/gbdev/rgbds/issues.

SEE ALSO
       rgbasm(1), rgblink(1), rgbgfx(1), gbz80(7), rgbds(7)

HISTORY
       rgbfix  was  originally written by Carsten Sørensen as a standalone program called GBFix, which was then packaged in ASMotor, and was later repackaged
       in RGBDS by Justin Lloyd.  It is now maintained by a number of contributors at https://github.com/gbdev/rgbds.

Debian                                                                 January 1, 2026                                                              RGBFIX(1)
