RIPIT(1)                                                                                   Ripit audio converter                                                                                   RIPIT(1)

NAME:
       Ripit - Perl script to create flac, ogg, mp3, m4a (aac), als (mp4), mpc, wv or other files from an audio CD.

SYNOPSIS:
       ripit [options]

DESCRIPTION:
       This  Perl  script  makes  it a lot easier to extract and compress sound files from an audio CD or a local directory with wav/flac files. Although Ripit ensures exact copy of the digital data with
       different verification possibilities, it aims to enhance the audio content for a more userfriendly experience. Tracks can be merged or partially ripped, hidden tracks (aka pregap tracks  or  HTOA)
       and  ghost  songs  are  detected and can be split, like all other tracks, into chunks of sound where silence has been trimmed away. Data tracks can be omitted to prevent ripper failure or waste of
       time on such tracks.

       Ripit supports Flac, Lame, Oggenc, Faac, mp4als, Musepack, Wavpack and ffmpeg. Artist and song titles are retrieved either with the CDDB_get.pm perl module from freedb.org or using WebService::Mu‐
       sicBrainz.pm from MusicBrainz.org. Several encoder formats and qualities or compression levels can be used in the same run (even the same encoder) and encoded into different directories.  Distrib‐
       uted encoding and launch of more than one encoder process in the same time is possible.

       Retrieval and different modifications of metadata is possible to ensure highly customized tagging, e.g. adding coverart, detection of Various Artists style at different levels of strictness or al‐
       bum gain, freedom to add any kind of personal tags and change of encoding format for tags used in mp3.  External commands can be launched before and after ripping / encoding is done (providing ac‐
       cess to all internal variables containing metadata), e.g. to ensure presence of coverart if not retrieved from coverartarchive.org or discogs.com.

       Additional  processes  take  care of calculation of md5sums, generation of playlist files, creation of toc, cue or inf files e.g. enableing to burn the WAV files with text and no gaps in DAO mode.
       It is possible to submit and edit CDDB entries at freedb.org or submission of MusicBrainz data (ISRCs only) provided a login to access the MB site and of course to save this metadata  locally  for
       later use.

VERSION:
       Ripit Version 4.0.0

OPTIONS:
       [track_selection]
              Tracks to rip from.  If not specified,  all tracks will be ripped. Specify a single track by using a single number, or a selection of tracks using numbers separated by commas or hyphens, e.
              g. 2,6,10, or 3,5,7-9.  Using a number followed by a comma or hyphen will rip from that track to the end of the CD i. e. 3,5- rips track 3 and from track 5 to the last one.

              To rip only audio tracks and to skip all data tracks (trailing or even in between) the tweeked argument 1-a might be useful. In this case Ripit will try to detect the number of audio tracks
              using cdparanoia toc query.

              Default: not set.

       --merge ordered list of comma separated intervals.
              Place a hyphen (-) or a plus (+) between first and last track number to be merged. Omitting the last number will merge all subsequent tracks.  Separate several intervals with commas. Do not
              use this option to merge the whole disc into one track, use option --cdcue or --book instead.  Default: not set.

       -I, --span starttime-endtime
              Define  an  interval  to be ripped when using cdda2wav or cdparanoia. The hyphen is mandatory.  The format of start and end-time is according to cdparanoia hh:mm:ss.ff in hours/minutes/sec‐
              onds/frames, but precision is set to seconds, i. e.  frames will be ignored. Zero fields need not be specified and the value of seconds may be larger than 60 if no  minutes  and  hours  are
              stated.  When  using  cdda2wav  this option translates the values to the -o and -d options of cdda2wav. When using option merge, end time is related to the last track in the selection.  De‐
              fault: not set.

       -o, --outputdir dir
              Full path of directory where the sound should go. If not set, $HOME will be used. Default: not set.

       -d, --device cddevice
              Path of the device containing the audio CD, default: /dev/cdrom.

       --scsidevice cddevice
              Device name for special devices if the non ripping commands (except eject commands) shall be executed on a different device node. This might be useful for some old SCSI devices. If not  set
              the cddevice of option --device will be used. Default: not set.

       -r, --ripper number
              CD ripper to use, 0 - dagrab, 1 - cdparanoia, 2 - cdda2wav, 3 - rip (Morituri) (breaking parallelism, experimental), 4 - cdd (support not ensured).  When data tracks are encountered because
              special track selection 1-a has not been used, cdparanoia and dagrab are supposed to immediately fail and therefore allow Ripit to create an error.log so that the encoder process can termi‐
              nate if problems were encountered.  This might not be the case depending the type of "copyprotection" is used and on the other hand it could be that cdd2wav may fail on such data tracks and
              enables Ripit to continue to rip and encode without endless looping. Use the appropriate ripper according to your needs and switch the ripper if needed or use the special track selection to
              omit data tracks.

              Note when using rip (Morituri) alle directories must be defined with option --dirtemplate, including a separate wav directory which will be created by rip (Morituri). Further inconveniences
              might be due to the programs limitations and its recent development activity with behaviour changing almost dayly, breaking every wrappers capabilities.

              Default: 1 - cdparanoia.

       --ripopt options
              User definable options for specific ripper. Quote them if necessary. Note that changing the ripper implies to update this option. Default: not set.

       --offset number
              User  definable  sample offset for the CD ripper. This will trigger option -O when using cdparanoia and option -o when using rip (Morituri).  Icedax (cdda2wav) seems not to provide a sample
              offset.  Default: not set.

       -Q, --accuracy number
              Check ripped files at AccurateRip using Morituri (rip) which must be installed. One might need to specify a sample offset (see option --offset) to achieve accuracy. Default: off.

       -Y, --verify number
              When using cdparanoia rip track number times until md5sum for 2 rips match, maximum tries is the number given as argument, default: 1, i.e. no checks will be done.

       --nicerip number
              Set niceness of ripping process, default: 0.

       -Z, --disable-paranoia [number]
              When using dagrab, the number of retries will be set to 3, with cdparanoia this option is equal to the -Z option of cdparanoia.  The number can be set to 0 (paranoia  on),  to  1  (paranoia
              off)  or  to  2  to switch paranoia off if a track fails or gets a timeout. Ripit will retry that failed track without paranoia or give up.  Ripping will then continue with paranoia on. De‐
              fault: 0 ‐ off, i. e.  use paranoia mode.

       --ghost
              Analyze each wav for gaps and split it into chunks if gaps are detected and/or try to trim lead-in/out. This may override option merge. Delete blank tracks if only  silence  ("zero  bytes")
              are found. Experimental!  Default: off.

       --extend seconds
              When  using  option  --ghost  and only if a chunk of sound is detected, enlarge chunk by amount of seconds at end if possible (no silence will be added), or track may be trimmed if value is
              small (e.g. 0.3), use with caution. Default: 2.0.

       --prepend seconds
              When using option --ghost and only if a chunk of sound is detected, enlarge chunk by amount of seconds at beginning, if possible (no silence will be added), or track may be trimmed if value
              is small (e.g. 0.3), use with caution. Default: 2.0.

       -c, --coder number
              Encoder(s) to use, 0 - Lame (for mp3), 1 - Oggenc, 2 - Flac, 3 - Faac, 4 - mp4als, 5 - Musepack, 6 - Wavpack, 7 - ffmpeg, a comma separated list, or as an array. The  same  encoder  may  be
              stated more than once, but different output-directories must be specified (to prevent overwriting files with identical path) stating the --dirtemplate for each encoder or using the $quality
              parameter in option --dirtemplate or stating the --tracktemplate for each encoder. See below.  Default: 0.

       --faacopt Faac-options
              Pass  other  options  to  the encoder. If the same encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Do not use this option for compression level, use option --quality in‐
              stead. Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --flacopt Flac-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. If the same encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Do not use this option for compression level,  use  option  --quality  in‐
              stead. Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --flacdecopt Flac decoding options
              Additional options for flac when used to decode flac files. Might be needed to force (over) writing existing wav files: Default: -s (silent).

       --lameopt Lame-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. If the same encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Do not use this option for quality settings, use option --quality instead.
              Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --museopt Musepack-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. If the same encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Do not use this option for quality settings, use option --quality instead.
              Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --musenc Musepack-encoder
              Choose Musepack encoder to be used, either mpcenc or mppenc for older versions; default: mpcenc.

       --mp4opt Mp4als-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. Option -MP4 of encoder mp4als is mandatory to enable tagging of sound files. Use the appropriate options to alter compression level and speed. If the same
              encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --oggencopt Oggenc-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. If the same encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Do not use this option for quality settings, use option --quality instead.
              Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --wavpackopt Wavpack-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. If the same encoder has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --ffmpegopt ffmpeg-options
              Pass other options to the encoder. If the ffmpeg has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       --ffmpegsuffix ffmpeg-suffix
              The suffix of the formats to be encoded. If ffmpeg has been stated more than once, use a comma separated list. Quote them with double quotes if needed; default: not set.

       -q, --quality quality
              A  comma separated list of values or the word "off", passed in the same order as the list of encoders. If no encoders passed, follow the order of the config file. This options name might be
              misleading as lossless encoders do not have a quality but a compression level instead. Depending the encoder it refers, this option means: quality for oggenc: (1-10), highest = 10; compres‐
              sion level for Flac: (0-8), lowest (but fastest) compression = 0; quality for Lame in vbr mode: (0-9),  best quality = 0; or quality for Faac: (10-500), highest = 500; mp4als seems  not  to
              accept  any  compression level, set to zero; quality for Musepack: (0-10), best quality = 10; default: 5,3,5,100,0,5. Wavpack and ffmpeg have no quality switch, use encoder options instead.
              The value "off" turns option quality off, if supported by the encoder.  Encoders that need a quality or compression level will use default value in case "off" is used.
              E. g. --coder 2,0,1,3 --quality 3,4,5,300 sets compression level for Flac to 3, Lame-quality to 4, Oggenc-quality to 5 and Faac quality to 300.

       -v, --vbrmode mode
              Option vbrmode defines variable-bitrate, only used with Lame, the mode is either new or old, see the Lame manpage. The Lame-option quality will be changed to -V instead of -q if vbr-mode is
              used; default: not set.

       -b, --bitrate rate
              Encode "mp3" at this bitrate for Lame. If option --vbrmode used, bitrate is equal to the -b option, so one might want to set it "off";  or  set  if  "off"  if  all  options  are  passed  to
              --lameopt.  Default: 128.

       -B, --maxrate rate
              Option maxrate (bitrate) for Lame when using --vbrmode is translated to the -B option in Lame or the -M option in Oggenc, default: 0.

       -S, --preset mode
              Use the preset switch when encoding with Lame. Combined with option --vbrmode new the "preset fast" setting will be used.  Use --vbrmode old not to use fast VBR. Mode is one of: insane (320
              kbps @ CBR), extreme (256 kbps), standard (192 kbps) or medium (160 kbps) or any other valid bitrate. Default: off.

       -W, --chars [list]
              Exclude special characters in file names and path. The argument is optional. The argument accepts a list of any characters. One might escape the characters or use double quotes to pass them
              on  the  command line. The argument also accepts the presets NTFS, HFS or off. Following characters will be erased, if no argument stated or the word NTFS is passed: |\:*?$  plus blanks and
              periods at beginning and end of file names and directories. When using the word HFS, only colons will be purged plus blanks and periods at beginning of file names and directories. Pass  the
              word "off" as argument to set the option off again. Default: off.

       --comment comment
              Specify  a  comment for the comment-tag for Lame, Faac, Musepack and Wavpack, or the description-tag for Oggenc and Flac. The special comment cddbid or discid will place the cddbid (used by
              freedb) or the discid (used for MusicBrainz) into the comment. See also option --mp3tags, --flactags or --oggtags for more special tags to be added; default: not set.

       -g, --genre genre
              Specify (and override CDDB) genre, must be a valid ID3-genre if using Lame, can (but shouldn't) be anything if using other encoders; default: not set.

       -y, --year year
              Specify (and override CDDB) the year of year-tag for Lame, Faac, Musepack and Wavpack or the date-tag for Oggenc and Flac; default: not set.

       --coverart number
              A number or comma separated list of numbers (if several encoders are used) according to option --coder with values 0 (no) or 1 (yes); default 0.

       --coverpath path
              Path to the coverart picture to be included in the metadata of the sound files. The picture must be present or acquired using e.g. the --precmd option to call a specific script taking  care
              of  the  process  finding  coverart  or option --coverorg in combination with option --mb (see below). This option is mandatory in case --coverart is used. The full path might be given with
              variables according to the --dirtemplate and using same quoting rules. Absolutely no checks about existence of path will happen and a missing path will not be created so that a wrong  argu‐
              ment  might lead to failed downloads when using --coverorg. No checks about existence of coverart will be done if --interaction is set off. In case of re-encoding the variable $inputdir can
              be stated.  Default: not set.

       --coverorg number
              Retrieve coverart from coverartarchive.org using the MusicBrainz release ID (not to be confused with the discid, used to find the release on MusicBrainz).  Furthermore  as  an  experimental
              feature  discogs.com will be used in case a discogs release ID was listed on the MusicBrainz release page. But this might be out of order any time as discogs changes page layout frequently.
              If a cover is downloaded from coverartarchive.org all other files will get suffixes in their file names not to overwrite any files. Note that the --coverpath must be set to save the  cover‐
              art and must reflect an existing path.  Possible values 0 (no) or 1 (yes), default 0.

       --coversize format
              Resize  the provided coverart picture to a fix value according to ImageMagicks convert command, either values in the format XXXxYYY or only a width to keep aspect ratio. The original cover‐
              art file will be renamed. Possible values: any valid format, default: not set.

       --copycover path
              Full path to any kind of file (e.g. the coverart picture) to be copied into all directories containing encoded files. The argument might consist of variables according to the  --dirtemplate
              and using same quoting rules. In case of re-encoding the variable $inputdir can be stated, default: not set.

       --flactags FRAME=tag
              Additional  tags  for  flac not passed by the encoder to ensure evaluation of special tags similar to mp3tags. Use option --flacopt "--tag=FRAME=foo" for additional hard coded tags instead.
              When using MusicBrainz additional metadata provided can be added as tags using the scheme FRAME=frame. Supported are ASIN, BARCODE, CATALOGNUMBER (using tag "catalog"), CDDID, DGID,  DISCID
              aka  MUSICBRAINZ_DISCID  (using  tag  "discid") and MBREID aka MUSICBRAINZ_ALBUMID (using tag mbreid) with the tag in lower case, e.g. adding an asin: --flactags=ASIN=asin will evaluate the
              lower case asin if the variable is defined. Nothing is added if the metadata is not available.  The option is an array, for each additional frame/tag to be added state the option once.  De‐
              fault: not set

       --mp3tags FRAME=[DESCRIPTION]tag
              Additional  tags  to be added to the mp3 file(s) if encoder does not provide options for the FRAME or if some unofficial FRAMEs shall be used (e.g. a compilation tag set to 1: TCMP=1). This
              option only supports basic (id3v2.4) frames in the format FRAME=tag (e.g. WCOP=http://id3.org/id3v2.4.0-frames) or FRAME=[DESCRIPTION]tag (e.g. a user defined text annotation  for  the  de‐
              scription  ASIN:  TXXX=[ASIN]B003ZYEQ30). Note that the braces must be stated with some content and do not stand for optional content.  More than one --mp3tags statement can be used if sev‐
              eral tags shall be added. Do not add a COMM frame here as this tag is supported by (older versions of) Lame and the corresponding option exists in Ripit. The same goes for  the  APIC  frame
              which has its own option in Ripit. Newer versions of Lame may support this tags using Lame option --tv to be passed with Ripits option --lameopt.
              No checks on encoding will happen on content stated here, in case option --utftag is switched off operator has to ensure encoding of the tags.
              Special  tags  will  be evaluated in case the metadata is provided e.g.  when using MB and the TXXX tag. Supported are ASIN, CATALOG, BARCODE, CDDBID, DGID, DISCID aka "MusicBrainz Disc Id"
              and MBREID aka "MusicBrainz Album Id" with the tag in lower case, e.g. --mp3tags  TXXX=[ASIN]asin will replace asin with the value if the variable is defined. Default: not set.

       --oggtags FRAME=tag
              Additional tags for ogg files similar to --flactags. Default: not set.

       --vatag number
              Analyze track names for "various artists" style and split the metadata in case one of the delimiters (colon, hyphen, slash or parenthesis) are found.  Use  unpair  numbers  for  the  scheme
              "artist  ?  tracktitle"  and pair numbers in the opposite case. The artist will be compared to the argument of option --vastring (see below).  If the artist must be like --vastring and each
              track have a delimiter, use 1 (2), if the artist must be like --vastring while only some tracks contain the delimiter, use 3 (4), if no restrictions apply for the artist but all track names
              must have a delimiter, use 5 (6) and finally, if only a few tracks contain a delimiter to be used as splitting point, set --vatag to 7 (8). Default: not set.

       --vastring string
              A string (regular expression) that defines the "various artists" style, e.g. Varios|VA. Default: \bVA\b|Variou*s|Various\sArtists|Soundtrack|OST

       -D, --dirtemplate '"foo parameters"'
              Use single and double quotes to pass the parameters of the templates!  Allowed are any legal characters, slashes for multi-level  directories  and  following  parameters:  $album,  $artist,
              $iletter, $genre, $quality, $suffix, $trackname, $tracknum, $year and $trackno; example: '"$suffix $quality/my_snd_dir/$iletter/$artist/$year ‐ $album"'.  The parameter $iletter is the ini‐
              tial  letter of the artist name; $trackno is the total number of tracks of the release, this might be helpful to distinguish different releases with exactly the same name; $quality might be
              needed, if one wants to encode the same format at different qualities in the same run. Note that $quality reflects the encoder options and not the arguments of option --quality which  might
              be set to "off". Or state different dirtemplates: the option is an array, so one can use several different dirtemplates in the same order as the encoders. If less dirtemplates than encoders
              are  stated, the last dirtemplate will be used for subsequent encoders and the wav-directory, see EXAMPLES below, but must be defined for all formats including wav in case rip (Morituri) is
              used. Default: '"$artist - $album"'.

       -T, --tracktemplate '"foo parameters"'
              See above. The tracktemplate is not an array, only one can be stated.  Additionally it allows two more variables helpful in case  VA-style  is  detected:  $trackartist,  $tracktitle;  note:
              trackartist  will be filled with the value of artist in case no track artist has been found to respect the templates settings, and tracktitle will hold the pure trackname. Additional album-
              artist tags will be written, e.g. TPE2 tag for Lame and the artist field will contain the track artist tag. Default: '"$tracknum $trackname"'.

       --trackoffset number
              Give a trackoffset to be added to the $tracknum variable (see above).  Might be useful to join multi disc releases into one directory (and to switch option --overwrite to "y"). Default: 0.

       --addtrackoffset
              When using MusicBrainz, check for multi discs releases and automatically add a calculated --trackoffset to the track counter. Ripit will try to detect already ripped multi disc releases and
              temporarily switch option --overwrite to "y" in case the first track of a multi disc release is not present in an existing directory corresponding to the dirtemplate.
              Negate to switch option off again. Default: not set.

       --discno number
              Set a counter for the disc when using a multi disc release.  This option accepts any integer; when using MB and --discno is set to 1 the discnumber will be set to the  discnumber  according
              to the presented data (read as: switch option on). Using a number > 1 will force this number and will not be altered if MB gives a different disc number. Default: 0.

       --sshlist list
              Comma  separated  list of remote machines where Ripit should encode. The output path must be the same for all machines. Specify the login (login@machine) only if not the same for the remote
              machine. Else just state the machine names. See EXAMPLES for more information, default: not set.

       --scp  If the file system can not be accessed on the remote machines, scp (copy) the WAV files to the remote machines, default: off.

       --local
              Only used with option --sshlist; if all encoding shall be done on remote machines, use --nolocal, default: on.

       --mb   Access MusicBrainz DB via WebService::MusicBrainz module instead of freedb (see below). One needs the discid calculation perl module or command to be installed and in the  path.  Negate  to
              switch option off again. A non interactive freedb look-up will be done to retrieve a genre. Default: off.

       --mbrels number
              Check each track for additional relationships, only vocal and work relationships are handled.  Possible values 0 (no) or 1 (yes); default: 0.

       --mbname login
              Give the users MusicBrainz login name to submit ISRCs to the database.  Saved in plain when using a config, default: not set.

       --mbpass password
              Give the users MusicBrainz password to submit ISRCs to the database.  Saved in plain when using a config, default: not set.

       --isrc number
              Enable ISRC detection with number = 1 (using icedax) and submission to MusicBrainz. Note that option --mb must be switched on. Possible values 0 (no) or 1 (yes); default: 0.

       --cdtext numer
              Check for CD text if no DB entry found, possible values 0 (no) or 1 (yes); default 0; default: 0

       -C, --cddbserver server
              CDDB  server,  either  freedb.org,  freedb2.org  or  musicbrainz.org.   Default  freedb.org.  Note,  the full address is "mirror".freedb.org, i. e.  default is freedb.freedb.org. Exception:
              freedb2.org and musicbrainz.org have no mirrors, their full addresses are: freedb2.org and freedb.musicbrainz.org on port 80 (see transfer mode).

       -t, --transfer mode
              Transfer mode, cddb or http, will set default port to 8880 or 80 (for http), default: cddb. Note: use http mode with CDDB servers freedb2.org or musicbrainz.org.

       -m, --mirror mirror
              Choose "freedb" or one of the possible freedb mirrors, default: freedb. For more information check the web page www.freedb.org.  There is no list of mirrors available these days.  This  op‐
              tion might be obsolete as freedb uses random servers, but the default setting is mandatory.

       -L, --protocol level
              CDDB protocol level for CDDB query. Level = 6 supports UTF-8 and level = 5 not. Use level = 5 to suppress UTF-8. Cf. option --utftag below. Default: 6.

       -P, --proxy address
              The http proxy to use when accessing the cddb server. The CDDB protocol must be http. Default: not set.

       -n, --nice number
              Set niceness of encoding process, default: 0.

       -a, --archive
              Read  and/or  save  CDDB  files in $HOME/.cddb/"category" directory using the xmcd format, where the "category" is one of the 11 CDDB categories or in case MusicBrainz is used an additional
              category "musicbrainz" will be used. Default: off.

       -e, --eject
              Ejects the CD when finished, if hardware supports it. Use --noeject to switch it off. Default: off.

       --ejectcmd command
              Command to be used for ejection or loading of CD tray. Should be specified within FreeBSD even if option --eject is not used to enable Ripit to load the CD tray. One does not need  to  men‐
              tion the words close or eject or options like -t, Ripit does it. Default: eject.

       --ejectopt options
              Options for ejection command to be used for ejection or loading of CD tray.  Default: the path to the CD device.

       --halt Powers off the machine when finished if configuration supports it, default: off.

       -s, --submission
              Specify --nosubmission if the computer is offline and the created file cddb.toc shall be saved in the home directory instead of being submitted. With option  --archive it will also be saved
              in  the  $HOME/.cddb  directory. The purpose of this option is also to permit the user to edit the CDDB data for the own track names & tags and not to overwrite the original CDDB entry. De‐
              fault: on.

       -M, --mail address
              Users return email address, needed for submitting an entry to freedb.org. Default: not set.

       --mailopt options
              Additional options, added to sendmail command. The reply-to address will be used with option -r as defined above. Default: -t

       -A, --book number
              Create an audiobook file, i. e. merge all tracks into one single file, option --ghost will be switched off.
              If encoder faac is used file suffix will be m4b instead of m4a and a chapter file will be written for chapter marks. The installed version of faac must support the -w option to write tags.
              Note that options --wav and --cdtoc should also be switched off.  Possible values 0 (off) or 1 (on); default: off.

       --cdcue number
              Number n = 1 or 2 to create cue sheets to burn the wavs with CD-Text.  The cue sheets will be copied to the other file formats. Number 1 will switch option --ghost on to eliminate chunks of
              silence. Number 2 is experimental but does not switch option --ghost on and may be used if number 1 fails.  Default: off.

       --cdtoc number
              Number n = 1 to create a toc file to burn the wavs with CD-Text using cdrdao or cdrecord. Default: off.

       --inf number
              Number n = 1 to create inf files to burn the wavs with CD-Text using wodim or cdrecord. Default: off.

       -p, --playlist number
              Create the m3u playlist file, or use --playlist 0.  For file names without full path use --playlist 2.  Default is full path for file names. Default 1 - on.

       -i, --interaction
              Specify --nointeraction if ripit shall take the first entry found and rip without any questioning. Default: on.

       --lcd  Use lcdproc to display status, default: not set.

       --lcdhost
              Specify the lcdproc host, default: localhost.

       --lcdport
              Specify the lcdport, default: 13666.

       --infolog file
              Log operations (system calls, file/directory creation) to file given with full path; default: not set.

       -l, --lowercase number
              Lowercase file names and or directories (from tracktemplate and dirtemplate): number n = 0, off, 1, on for file names and directories, 2, only for file names, 3, only for  directories,  de‐
              fault: off.

       -u, --underscore
              Use underscores (_) instead of spaces in file names, default: off.

       --uppercasefirst
              Uppercase first letter of each word in file names and tags. Use this option if the CDDB entry is uppercase only. Default: off.

       -U, --utftag
              Keep Lame-tags in UTF-8 or decode them (but not the file names) from UTF-8 to ISO8859-1. Applies only to mp3 (Lame). May be useful for tags with special characters and if mp3-player doesn't
              support Unicode.  Using Musepack one might want to pass the Musepack option --unicode to option museopt. Note that combining with options --threads (and or --sshlist) may lead to issues and
              must be regarded as experimental.  Default: off.

       --rip  Rip  the  CD,  to be used as --norip if wav (or flac) files are present.  Previously used for debugging, may be useful to re-encode existing wav or flac files in a given --inputdir (see be‐
              low). Option --inputdir is mandatory in case --norip is used. Default: not set.  Note: this option can not be defined in the config file.

       --inputdir directory
              Full path to the directory with wav or flac files to be re-encoded using option --norip. See also option --cdid to get awereness on some unexpected behaviour. Default: not set.  Note:  this
              option can not be defined in the config file.

       --cdid id
              Give a freedb.ord CDDBID or a musicbrainz discid in case lookup shall be done when re-encoding wav or flac files and existing track names (of wavs) or tags (in flac files) should be updated
              when  using --norip. If not stated, ripit will try to detect an ID in playlist, toc or log files or cue sheets to retrieve local or online metadata. This means: a look-up may happen even if
              this option is not stated. This may lead to some unexpected effects, e.g. differing directory or track names from those stated in option --inputdir, new tracknumbers in case ghost songs are
              present, merged multi disc releases and so on.  Default: not set. Note: this option can not be defined in the config file.

       --encode
              Do encode the wavs. If only the wav-files shall be created, prevent encoding with --noencode (and use option --wav, see below). Default: on.

       -w, --wav
              Keep the wav files after encoding instead of deleting them, default: off.

       -N, --normalize
              Normalizes the wave-files to a given dB-value (default: -12dB). Default: off.
              This is useful when encoding

              *  for hardware or software that doesn't support the replaygain‐feature

              *  to audio formats without replaygain capabilities.

       --normcmd
              Command to use for normalizing, default: normalize.

       -z, --normopt
              Options to pass to normalize.  Possible values:
                  -a -nndB   :   Normalize to -nn dB, default is -12dB,
                  Value range:   All values <= 0dB
                  Example    :   normalize -a -20dB *.wav
                  -b         :   Batch mode ‐ loudness differences between
                                 individual tracks of a CD are maintained
                  -m         :   Mix mode ‐ all track are normalized to the
                                 same loudness
                  -v         :   Verbose operation
                  -q         :   Quiet operation

              For further options see normalize documentation (http://normalize.nongnu.org).  Please note that normalizing to a high dB value, e.g. -6dB or less will lead to severe compression of the au‐
              dio signal, thus losing sound quality. Keeping the default value of -12dB is recommended.
              Default: -b Option v (q) will be set according to verbosity chosen.

       -h, --help
              Print this and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print version and exit.

       -x, --verbose number
              Run silent (do not output comments, status etc.) (number n = 0), with minimal output (n = 1), normal without encoder messages (n = 2), normal (n = 3), verbose (n = 4), extremely verbose  (n
              = 5).  Default 3.

       --config
              Read  parameters  from  config file or specify --noconfig to prevent reading it. A local config file in $HOME/.ripit/ will have higher priority, only if the local file does not exist, ripit
              will try to read /etc/ripit/config. Default: on.

       --confname
              Read parameters from a specific configuration file if special options are needed, this might be useful if operator wants different settings for discs containing music than e.g. audio books.
              Default: config.

       --confdir
              Read parameters from a config file in a specific directory, default is $HOME/.ripit/.

       --save Add parameters passed on command line to an existing config file. This does not overwrite other existing settings. Options of an existing config file will be adopted and the old file  saved
              as config.old no matter if a file named config.old already exists. Default: off.

       --savenew
              Save all parameters passed on command line to a new config file, backup an existing file to config.old  no matter if a file named config.old already exists. Creates a default config file if
              no options are passed on command line. Default: off.

       --loop value
              After ejection of the previous CD continue ripping and encoding as soon as a new CD has been fed. This option forces ejection (--eject). The value is either 0 for normal use (single run) or
              1  for  (standard) looping.  Experimental value 2 might be used to force immediate restart of the ripping process even if encoder did not yet complete. This will spoil the output, this will
              show the prompt although a child process is running (waiting for a new CD) and must be terminated explicitly.
              The config file will be read out on each run just before ejection of the disc. In case one alters the config file after ejection, close the tray with the disc already  done  for  re-reading
              the  config  and  re-ejection of the disc. Therefore it might be useful to pass as few options as possible on the CL when using option --loop, because options passed on the CL can of course
              not be alterd with the config file during a loop.
              Default: off.

       --quitnodb value
              Give up CD if no CDDB entry found. Useful if option --loop or --nointeraction are on. Default behaviour is to let operator enter data or to use default artist, album and track names. Possi‐
              ble values: 0 - off, 1 - on, default: off

       --resume
              Resume a previously started session. Default: off.

       -O, --overwrite argument
              Default behaviour of Ripit is not to overwrite existing directories, a suffix will be added if directory name exists. Use option overwrite to prevent this and either  overwrite  a  previous
              rip (y) or force Ripit to quit (q) or even eject the disc (e). If ejection is chosen, the disc will be ejected even if option --eject has not been switched on. Default: off (n)

       --dpermission number
              Change the directory permission to number. Default: 0755.

       --fpermission number
              Change the file permission to number. Default: 0644.

       --md5sum
              Create a MD5-sum file for each type of sound files.

       --threads number
              Comma  separated  list  of  numbers  giving maximum of allowed encoders to run at the same time. In conjunction with option sshlist the number for the local machine is mandatory and must be
              stated first.  Default: 1.

       -X, --execmd command
              State a command to be executed when ripit finished. The same variables as in the dirtemplate can be stated. When using MusicBrainz one can try to use $cd{asin} to pass the ASIN to the  com‐
              mand to be executed. Make sure to escape the command if needed. Default: not set.

       --precmd command
              State  a  command to be executed before ripping started. The same variables as in the dirtemplate can be stated. When using MusicBrainz one can try e.g. to use $cd{asin} to pass the ASIN to
              the command to be executed, which might be useful when executing a script to retrieve coverart from a site. Make sure to escape the command if needed.  Default: not set.

EXAMPLES
       To specify a CD device, type

              ripit --device /dev/sr1

       To specify the output directory, type

              ripit --outputdir /foo/paths/

       To rip and encode a special track selection, type

              ripit 1,3-6,8-11

       To use several encoders in the same run, type

              ripit --coder 1,0,2 --quality 3,5,6

       In case many encoders are desired, option --threads may be handy on a multicore CPU (omitting any quality settings in this example)

              ripit --coder 0,1,2,4 --threads 4

       To use Lame with variable bitrate (VBR), type

              ripit --vbrmode new --bitrate 0

       Note, one should reset the --bitrate to 0 (zero) if the -b option of Lame is not desired. According to VBR mode in Lame, use "new" or "old".

       It is recommended to use the preset switches for Lame, (see Lame man-page) and specify fast encoding with --vbrmode new (use --vbrmode old to switch off the fast encoding)

              ripit --preset extreme --vbrmode new

       To pass options related to the encoder use the according encoder option switch: e.g. to use the managed mode with oggenc:

              ripit -c 1 --oggencopt "--managed -b 192 -M 224 -m 96" --quality "off"

       Check for ghost songs and trim very long lead-in/out of each track:

              ripit --ghost --prepend 2.0 --extend 2.0

       Encode the same format in 2 qualities, at low quality for a portable, at high quality for home:

              ripit --dirtemplate '"cbr/$artist/$year ‐ $album"' \
                    --dirtemplate '"preset/$artist ‐ $album"' \
                    --coder 0,0 --bitrate off --quality off,off \
                    --lameopt "-b 128 -q 2,--preset extreme"

       Force Ripit to use one and the same directory for all sound files:

              ripit --dirtemplate '"/"' --outputdir="/media/sound" \
                    --resume

       To normalize the wave-files prior to encoding:

              ripit --normalize

       To normalize the files to -18dB using "mix mode" (see normalize documentation)

              ripit --normalize --normopt "-m -a -18dB"

       Add coverart retrieved from coverartarchive to the encoded files. Note that instead of a full path ('"/home/me/$artist - $album/cover.jpg"') the evaluated internal variable $wavdir has  been  used
       to ensure that the cover goes to the right place in case Ripit alters the $wavdir with some suffix to preven overwriting.

              ripit --noconfig -d /dev/cdrom -r 1 -c 2 --mb \
                    --coverart 1 --coverorg 1 --coverpath '"/$wavdir/cover.jpg"'

       Update a config file in ~/home/.ripit/ with options: to use Lame and Oggenc, don't create a m3u file, archive the CDDB entry files in ~/.cddb/"category"/ and to eject CD when done, type

              ripit --coder 0,1 --playlist 0 --archive --eject --save

       To do the job without any interaction, type

              ripit --nointeraction

       Re-encode  wav  or  flac  files  in  inputdir using a special configuration file with settings according for re-encoding (e.g. switched overwrite mode on and use MusicBrainz to enable detection of
       track-offsets)

              ripit --confname config_4.0.0_reenc --inputdir "/home/me/sound/2c - We shall see/flac" --norip

       Rip only first 30 seconds of each track (useful for testing)

              ripit --span 0-30

       To use a network for encoding, make sure that the output paths are equal on all machines.

              ripit --sshlist sun,saturn,earth

       where sun, saturn and earth are remote machines on which a user can login via ssh without entering a password or passphrase! Note that the paths must be equal for the user on all remote  machines!
       If the login is different on some machines, try

              ripit --sshlist login1@sun,login2@saturn,login3@earth

       If there is "no" identical path on the remote machines, then the user might enter e.g. /tmp/ as output directory.  If the file-system is not mounted on each remote machine, one can try to copy the
       wavs to the remote machines using option --scp.

              ripit --sshlist sun,saturn,earth --scp

FILES
       User config file (/etc/ripit/config will only be used if there is no $HOME/.ripit/config):

              $HOME/.ripit/config
              /etc/ripit/config

              /usr/share/doc/packages/ripit/README
              /usr/share/doc/packages/ripit/HISTORY
              /usr/share/doc/packages/ripit/LICENSE

BUGS
       Probably there are more than some.

SEE ALSO
       cdparanoia(1), lame(1), oggenc(1), flac(1), normalize(1), cdda2wav(1), ffmpeg(1)

AUTHORS
       Ripit is maintained by Felix Suwald, please send bugs, wishes comments to ripit_[at]_suwald_[dot]_com with a concise subject.
       For bugs, wishes and comments about lcdproc, please contact
       max.kaesbauer_[at]_gmail_[dot]_com.
       Former maintainer:  Mads Martin Joergensen;  RipIT was originally developed by Simon Quinn.

       This manpage was originally created for the Debian GNU/Linux system by help2man 1.36 and optimized by Elimar Riesebieter <riesebie@lxtec.de>, enhanced and updated by the maintainer.

ripit                                                                                          May 8th, 2014                                                                                       RIPIT(1)
