RIPPERX(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                RIPPERX(1)

NAME
       ripperX — graphical (GTK) frontend for ripping and OGG/FLAC/MP3 encoding CD tracks

SYNOPSIS
       ripperX

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the ripperX command. It was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution because the program originally did not have a manual page.

       ripperX  is  an X-based program that uses cdparanoia to convert (a.k.a. "rip") CD audio tracks to WAV files, and then calls the Vorbis/Ogg encoder oggenc to convert the WAV to an OGG file.  It can
       also call flac to perform loss-less compression on the WAV file, resulting in a FLAC file.  If you have an MP3 encoder installed such as toolame, lame or bladeenc, it can convert the  WAV  into  a
       MP3 file instead.

       Besides a nice GUI interface, ripperX also supports CDDB queries to retrieve song and album information, progress meters, and pausing while ripping.

OPTIONS
       This program takes no command line arguments.  After starting the application, select the Config button and cycle through the tabs to learn what options are configurable.

       Because Vorbis/Ogg typically uses variable bit rates, there is not a direct correlation between the bitrate selected for encoding and the rate used by oggenc.  The bitrates selected in the MP3 tab
       of the Configuration dialog are passed to oggenc with the -b switch.  Enabling or disabling VBR when using Vorbis/Ogg has no effect on the encoding process.

       The FLAC encoding currently does not accept any bitrate arguments, so any bitrate you specify in the config dialog will be ignored for this type of encoding.

SEE ALSO
       cdparanoia (1).

       oggenc (1).

       flac (1).

       toolame (1).

       Documentation in /usr/share/doc/ripperx/

BUGS
       Many, to be sure...  Please report them as you find them!

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by tony mancill tmancill@debian.org for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIPPERX(1)
