RLINETD.CONF(5)                                                                                rlinetd 0.9.3                                                                                RLINETD.CONF(5)

NAME
       rlinetd.conf - rlinetd configuration file

DESCRIPTION
       rlinetd.conf holds configuration information for rlinetd.  There are a small number of similar top level constructs, differing chiefly in which options can be meaningfully used with them.

       All strings are quoted with the " character. In some situations (e.g. the log, exec, and chroot directives), there are a number of variables that can be substituted into the string.
       Unless stated otherwise, all numbers must be positive.

       service "name" {
              ...
       }

              This  construct  describes a service. The name parameter is for naming convenience alone, it simply serves to distinguish logging messages and provides a default for options which can logi‐
              cally accept a name as an argument.

              enabled
                     This construct allows easily enabling or disabling service.  The argument can be either yes or no.  The default value is yes.  Setting this to no disables service.

                     Example:
                       enabled no;

              port
                     This lists the ports that the service should be made available on. The ports can be listed in either string or numeric format. If unspecified, this defaults to the name of  the  ser‐
                     vice unless the service is an RPC service, in which case the port value will be dynamically assigned by the system.

                     Example:
                       port "telnet", "rcmd", 56, 99;

              interface
                     This  specifies  which interfaces the listed ports should be bound on. It takes a list of IP addresses as an argument, corresponding to the configured addresses of the interfaces re‐
                     quired. If this keyword is not given or when a special value any is assigned to it, the service will bind to all available interfaces.

                     Examples:
                       interface 192.168.1.1, 192.168.1.2;

                       interface any;

              exec
                     This specifies the invocation of the service. A number of substitutions can be made within the string; please see String Modifiers below.

                     Example:
                       exec "/usr/sbin/in.telnetd -d";

              server
                     This specifies the binary to be executed, if different to exec.

                     Example:
                       server "/usr/sbin/tcpd";

              protocol
                     This specifies the socket protocol to use when listening on ports for the service. The argument can be either tcp or udp.  The default setting for this variable is tcp.

                     Example:
                       protocol tcp;

              user
                     This specifies the userid under which this service should run. It will accept an argument in either symbolic or numeric form. Unless group (see below) is given, the groupid  is  also
                     set to the user's primary group.

                     Example:
                       user "nobody";

              group
                     This specifies the groupid under which this service should run. It will accept an argument in either symbolic or numeric form.

                     Example:
                       group "system";

              backlog
                     This is the backlog argument which will be passed to the listen(2) system call.

                     Example:
                       backlog 30;

              instances
                     This specifies the maximum number of service instances that can be running at any one time. The default setting for this variable is 40.

                     Example:
                       instances 50;

              wait
                     This  directive  emulates the inetd(8) wait behaviour.  The argument can be either yes or no.  The default value is no.  Setting this to yes also resets the value of instances option
                     to 1.

                     Example:
                       wait yes;

              nice
                     This specifies the process priority to run this service at. The argument is passed directly to the setpriority(2) system call. The value may be negative.

                     Example:
                       nice -5;

              rpc
                     This specifies that the service should be registered with the system's portmap(8) mapper as an RPC service. It accepts a list of arguments as follows.

                     rpc {
                            name "string"; version 3,6,9-15,22;
                     }

                     The name parameter is optional, and defaults to the service name.

              chroot
                     This specifies the root directory for the service. The string argument can accept modifiers as detailed in String Modifiers below.

                     Example:
                       chroot "/tftpboot/%O";

              log
                     This directive takes two arguments. The first must be either the symbolic name of a previously specified log directive (see below), or the unquoted word syslog.  If the  latter,  the
                     message will be logged via the syslog(3) call. The second argument is the message that will be logged, subject to the modifiers detailed in String Modifiers below.

                     Example:
                       log syslog "Service from %O complete";

              tcpd
                     This   directive  causes access controls as specified by tcp_wrappers to be applied. This has the same effect as invoking a service with a server argument of /usr/sbin/tcpd (or wher‐
                     ever your tcpd(8) program is kept), but saves the additional step of starting the program. It will accept up to two additional arguments. The first is a service name to apply against
                     its rules, and the second is a block of instructions to execute if matched. If no name is specified, it defaults to the name of the service. If the instruction block  is  not  speci‐
                     fied, it defaults to 'exit;'.

                     Examples:
                       tcpd "in.telnetd";

                       tcpd { exec "/usr/local/bin/winnuke %O"; }

                       tcpd "pointless" { echo "Hi guys, come on in."; }

                       tcpd "defiant" { echo "500 Access denied from %O."; exit; }

              exit
                     This  directive  is  only  useful in an instruction block argument to the tcpd directive. Note well - not using it (and not specifying some other terminating directive, such as exec)
                     will result in the service being run forever.

                     Example:
                       exit;

              capability
                     This directive specifies the capabilities that this service should have when running. The argument is a string that is passed directly to cap_from_text(3).  I know, that's  a  pretty
                     lousy description, but this feature is of limited utility until and unless you read the README.capabilities file anyway.

                     Example:
                       capability "cap_setuid=ep";

              rlimit
                     This  directive takes two arguments. The first is a symbol specifying the type of limit required. These are listed below. The second argument takes one of two forms. It can either be
                     a single numeric value, in which case both of the soft and hard limits of the resource in question will be set to this value. Alternatively, it can be a list in the form:

                     rlimit type {
                            soft x; hard y;
                     }

                     In which case the hard and soft limits will be set appropriately. In either case, the word unlimited can be specified instead of a numeric value, thus removing any  restriction.  The
                     values are passed directly to the setrlimit(2) syscall, and should be specified in that context.

                     Types:
                       cpu, fsize, data, stack, core, rss, nproc, nofile, memlock

                     Example:
                       rlimit cpu 15;

              initgroups
                     The  argument  can  be  either  yes  or  no.  This directive causes initgroups(3) to be called at service startup, which sets the supplementary groups of the service according to the
                     /etc/group file.

                     Example:
                       initgroups yes;

              family
                     This directive specifies the protocol family that rlinetd should bind sockets on for this service. Currently, this can be either ipv4 or ipv6.  If unspecified, this defaults to some‐
                     thing appropriate for the system.

                     Example:
                       family ipv6;

              banner
                     This directive lets you dump a file as output to a connection.

                     Example:
                       banner "/etc/nologin";

              echo
                     This directive allows you to output a dynamically generated line to the connection.

                     Example:
                       echo "500 Service denied from your IP (%O)";

              filter
                     This directive allows you to specify a Linux Socket Filter program to be associated with the listening socket. These can be generated with a tool such as lsfcc(1).

                     Example:
                       filter "/usr/local/lib/rlinetd/filters/privport";

              chargen
                     This directive loops eternally, outputting data to any connection. If no argument is given, it echoes a subset of the printable characters. However, a filename can be supplied as  an
                     argument, in which case the contents of that file are output in a loop.

                     Example:
                       chargen "/usr/local/lib/spam";

       log "name" {
              ...
       }

              This construct describes a logging target. The name parameter is used as an argument to the log directive in service configurations.

              path
                     This specifies the filename for this logfile.

                     Example:
                       path "/var/log/service.log";

              mode
                     This specifies the file permissions for the logfile. The argument is required to be numeric, and defaults to 0640 if not specified.

                     Example:
                       mode 0600;

              user
                     This specifies the uid of the logfile, and can be specified as either a numeric uid, or username.

                     Example:
                       user "adm";

              group
                     This specifies the gid of the logfile, and can be specified as either a numeric gid, or groupname.

                     Example:
                       group "adm";

       defaults {
              ...
       }

              This construct takes the same parameters as a service declaration, but instead of specifying a service sets defaults for all services specified subsequently.

       directory "path" "match" "ignore";
              This  construct specifies a directory which contains additional configuration files to be parsed. Parsing of these additional files does not commence until the current file is complete. The
              match and ignore arguments are optional, and if specified, are used to filter the files in the directory. Filenames must match the match regexp, if given, and must not match the ignore reg‐
              exp, if given. Filenames beginning with a period ('.') are skipped in all cases. Directories are not recursed into.

   String Modifiers
       There are a number of variables which can be substituted into arguments to some directives. Although they can all be used in the same places, the information accessed by  some  is  unavailable  in
       certain cases.

       %O     The source IP address of the connection.

       %P     The source port of the connection.

       %C     The total CPU time used.

       %U     The user CPU time used.

       %S     The system CPU time.

       %r     Maximum resident set size.

       %m     Shared memory size.

       %d     Unshared data size.

       %s     Unshared stack size.

       %f     Page reclaims.

       %F     Page faults.

       %p     Swaps.

       %i     Block input operations.

       %o     Block output operations.

       %n     Messages sent.

       %c     Messages received.

       %k     Signals received.

       %w     Voluntary context switches.

       %W     Involuntary context switches.

       %e     Exit code.

       %t     Running time.

       %M     The current time expressed as seconds since epoch 1980, dumped as a network order 32 bit word. This has absolutely no use other than in implementing the inetd-like time functionality.

       %I     The current time and date, in pretty-printed ctime(3) format.

SEE ALSO
       rlinetd(8), hosts_access(5)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Mikolaj J. Habryn <dichro-doc@rcpt.to>.  Modified by Robert Luberda <robert@debian.org>.

Debian                                                                                      November 11th, 2013                                                                             RLINETD.CONF(5)
