RMKDEPEND(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                                RMKDEPEND(1)

NAME
       rmkdepend - create dependencies in makefiles (ROOT Version)

SYNOPSIS
       rmkdepend  [  -Dname=def ] [ -Dname ] [ -Iincludedir ] [ -Yincludedir ] [ -a ] [ -fmakefile ] [ -oobjsuffix ] [ -pobjprefix ] [ -sstring ] [ -wwidth ] [ -v ] [ -m ] [ -- otheroptions -- ] sourcefile [
       -ttargetfilename ] ...

DESCRIPTION
       The rmkdepend program reads each sourcefile in sequence and parses it like a C-preprocessor, processing all #include, #define, #undef, #ifdef, #ifndef, #endif, #if, #elif and #else directives so  that
       it  can  correctly tell which #include, directives would be used in a compilation.  Any #include, directives can reference files having other #include directives, and parsing will occur in these files
       as well.

       Every file that a sourcefile includes, directly or indirectly, is what rmkdepend calls a dependency.  These dependencies are then written to a makefile in such a  way  that  make(1)  will  know  which
       object files must be recompiled when a dependency has changed.

       By default, rmkdepend places its output in the file named makefile if it exists, otherwise Makefile.  An alternate makefile may be specified with the -f option.  It first searches the makefile for the
       line

           # DO NOT DELETE THIS LINE -- make depend depends on it.

       or one provided with the -s option, as a delimiter for the dependency output.  If it finds it, it will delete everything following this to the end of the makefile and put the output after  this  line.
       If  it  doesn't  find it, the program will append the string to the end of the makefile and place the output following that.  For each sourcefile appearing on the command line, rmkdepend puts lines in
       the makefile of the form

            sourcefile.o: dfile ...

       Where sourcefile.o is the name from the command line with its suffix replaced with ``.o'', and dfile is a dependency discovered in a #include directive while parsing sourcefile or one of the files  it
       included.

NOTE
       The  rmkdepend  application  is  based  on makedepend(1) from the X Consortium, but modified slightly to fit the needs of the ROOT system. This man(1) page is more or less identical to the manpage for
       makedepend(1), except for this notice, and the SEE ALSO and AUTHORS  sections.

EXAMPLE
       Normally, rmkdepend will be used in a makefile target so that typing ``make depend'' will bring the dependencies up to date for the makefile.  For example,
           SRCS = file1.c file2.c ...
           CFLAGS = -O -DHACK -I../foobar -xyz
           depend:
                   rmkdepend -- $(CFLAGS) -- $(SRCS)

OPTIONS
       The program will ignore any option that it does not understand so that you may use the same arguments that you would for cc(1).

       -Dname=def or -Dname
            Define.  This places a definition for name in rmkdepend's symbol table.  Without =def the symbol becomes defined as ``1''.

       -Iincludedir
            Include directory.  This option tells rmkdepend to prepend includedir to its list of directories to search when it encounters a #include directive.  By default, rmkdepend only searches the  stan‐
            dard include directories (usually /usr/include and possibly a compiler-dependent directory).

       -Yincludedir
            Replace all of the standard include directories with the single specified include directory; you can omit the includedir to simply prevent searching the standard include directories.

       -a   Append the dependencies to the end of the file instead of replacing them.

       -fmakefile
            Filename.   This allows you to specify an alternate makefile in which rmkdepend can place its output.  Specifying ``-'' as the file name (i.e., -f-) sends the output to standard output instead of
            modifying an existing file.

       -oobjsuffix
            Object file suffix.  Some systems may have object files whose suffix is something other than ``.o''.  This option allows you to specify another suffix, such as ``.b'' with -o.b or  ``:obj''  with
            -o:obj and so forth.

       -pobjprefix
            Object file prefix.  The prefix is prepended to the name of the object file. This is usually used to designate a different directory for the object file.  The default is the empty string.

       -sstring
            Starting string delimiter.  This option permits you to specify a different string for rmkdepend to look for in the makefile.

       -wwidth
            Line width.  Normally, rmkdepend will ensure that every output line that it writes will be no wider than 78 characters for the sake of readability.  This option enables you to change this width.

       -v   Verbose operation.  This option causes rmkdepend to emit the list of files included by each input file on standard output.

       -m   Warn  about  multiple inclusion.  This option causes rmkdepend to produce a warning if any input file includes another file more than once.  In previous versions of rmkdepend this was the default
            behavior; the default has been changed to better match the behavior of the C compiler, which does not consider multiple inclusion to be an error.  This option is provided for backward compatibil‐
            ity, and to aid in debugging problems related to multiple inclusion.

       -- options --
            If  rmkdepend encounters a double hyphen (--) in the argument list, then any unrecognized argument following it will be silently ignored; a second double hyphen terminates this special treatment.
            In this way, rmkdepend can be made to safely ignore esoteric compiler arguments that might normally be found in a CFLAGS make macro (see the EXAMPLE section above).  All  options  that  rmkdepend
            recognizes and appear between the pair of double hyphens are processed normally.

       -ttargetfilename
            Filename.  This allows you to specify an alternate target filename to be use for the preceding file.  For example if you call

                 rmkdepend -sobj -pbuild file.cxx -tlibrary.so

            rather than inserting the line

                 build/file.obj: ...

            rmkdepend will insert:

                 library.so: ...

ALGORITHM
       The  approach  used  in this program enables it to run an order of magnitude faster than any other ``dependency generator'' I have ever seen.  Central to this performance are two assumptions: that all
       files compiled by a single makefile will be compiled with roughly the same -I and -D options; and that most files in a single directory will include largely the same files.

       Given these assumptions, rmkdepend expects to be called once for each makefile, with all source files that are maintained by the makefile appearing on the command line.   It  parses  each  source  and
       include  file exactly once, maintaining an internal symbol table for each.  Thus, the first file on the command line will take an amount of time proportional to the amount of time that a normal C pre‐
       processor takes.  But on subsequent files, if it encounters an include file that it has already parsed, it does not parse it again.

       For example, imagine you are compiling two files, file1.c and file2.c, they each include the header file header.h, and the file header.h in turn includes the files def1.h and def2.h.  When you run the
       command

           rmkdepend file1.c file2.c

       rmkdepend will parse file1.c and consequently, header.h and then def1.h and def2.h.  It then decides that the dependencies for this file are

           file1.o: header.h def1.h def2.h

       But when the program parses file2.c and discovers that it, too, includes header.h, it does not parse the file, but simply adds header.h, def1.h and def2.h to the list of dependencies for file2.o.

SEE ALSO
       cc(1), make(1), root(1), root-cint(1)

       See also the ROOT webpages: http://root.cern.ch

BUGS
       rmkdepend  parses,  but  does not currently evaluate, the SVR4 #predicate(token-list) preprocessor expression; such expressions are simply assumed to be true.  This may cause the wrong #include direc‐
       tives to be evaluated.

       Imagine you are parsing two files, say file1.c and file2.c, each includes the file def.h.  The list of files that def.h includes might truly be different when def.h is included by file1.c than when it
       is included by file2.c.  But once rmkdepend arrives at a list of dependencies for a file, it is cast in concrete.

AUTHOR
       Todd Brunhoff, Tektronix, Inc. and MIT Project Athena. Modified by Christian Holm Christensen <cholm@nbi.dk> for the ROOT distribution.

4th Berkeley Distribution                                                                          Version 3                                                                                       RMKDEPEND(1)
