RMLIGS-GERMAN(1)                                                                                User Manuals                                                                               RMLIGS-GERMAN(1)

NAME
       rmligs-german - remove incorrectly used ligatures from German LaTeX documents

SYNOPSIS
       rmligs-german [options] FILE(s) ...

DESCRIPTION
       rmligs-german  is  a  program  for  removing incorrectly used ligatures from LaTeX documents.  This version is intended for German language texts only. Words like `Auflage' e.g. will be changed to
       `Auf"|lage' which is typographically correct.

       The wordlist data is based on the igerman98 dictionary.

       The input data may be ISO-8859-1/15 or UTF-8 encoded text. Also the German LaTeX like encoding of umlauts ("a, "u etc.) is treated correctly.

OPTIONS
       --filter, -f
              filter mode. This is useful for streaming.

       --test, -t
              test mode. This just shows what would be changed but nothing will be written (read-only). This does not make sense in filter mode.

       --interactive, -i
              prompt before applying changes

       --quiet, -q
              quiet operation

SEE ALSO
       The German language /usr/share/doc/rmligs-german/README.ligatures file from the documentation of this program,

       Duden (the German's orthography bible),

       nice and mostly older hand-set books

BUGS
       There is no sanity checking of LaTeX files; rmligs-german will happily correct words in all files - even binaries! For safety reasons there is always a .bak file created.

       checking latin1 text in UTF-8 locales might throw out some error messages about malformed UTF-8 but that does not matter - the file is processed correctly.

AUTHOR
       Bjoern Jacke

       Send mail to bjoern [at] j3e.de for bug reports and suggestions.

Linux                                                                                          November 2002                                                                               RMLIGS-GERMAN(1)
