roffit(1)                                                                                      roffit Manual                                                                                      roffit(1)

NAME
       roffit - convert nroff to HTML

SYNOPSIS
       roffit [options] < inputfile > outputfile

DESCRIPTION
       roffit converts the inputfile to outputfile. The inputfile must be an nroff formatted man page, and the outputfile will be an HTML document.

OPTIONS
       --bare The output HTML will not include any HTML, HEAD or BODY tags. Also not that when this is selected, there will be no inlined CSS but you will have to define the necessary classes yourself.

       --version
              Display version number and exit

       --mandir=<dir>
              Set a directory in which roffit will check for other man pages (in nroff [name].[num] format) that this one refers to. If found, a <a href> link will be made to that page with a html exten‐
              sion instead of the number. The file name in the generated link will be prefixed by the dir given with --hrefdir.

              This works for references specified as manpage(3) (within the emhpasis foformatting) and in a plain .BR section (often used in the SEE ALSO section).

       --hrefdir=<dir>
              Specify a directory to prefix generated href links created with the --mandir option. This defaults to ".".

       --preserve-case
              When  used,  this makes roffit preserve the case in SH (section header) in the output instead of uppercasing the first letter and doing the rest lowercase.  The case changing was introduced
              in roffit 0.13.

CSS CLASSES
       h2.nroffsh
              The nroff ".SH" section. These are normally the "headlines" before each sub section within the man page.

       p.nroffip
              The nroff ".IP" section. These are normally the bullet kind used to list each option out of several in a list. Usually followed by a p.level0 containining the descriptive text.

       p.level0
              Normal text at the first level. Normally not indented.

       p.level1
              Text at next logical indent level. Normally indented one level right.

       p.level2
              Text at the second logical indent level. Normally indented two levels right.

       span.bold
              Text marked to be bold.

       span.manpage
              Text marked as a reference to another man page.

       span.emphasis
              Text marked to be emphasized.

       p.roffit
              Used for the advertising final paragraph.

WWW
       https://daniel.haxx.se/projects/roffit

roffit 0.13                                                                                    October 5 2021                                                                                     roffit(1)
