roff2dvi(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 roff2dvi(1)

NAME
       roff2dvi - transform roff code into dvi mode

SYNOPSIS
       roff2dvi [groffer-option ...] [--] [filespec ...]

       roff2dvi -h
       roff2dvi --help

       roff2dvi -v
       roff2dvi --version

       The  options  -v and --version print the version information of the program to standard output and exit.  The options -h and --help print a usage information of the program to standard output and stop
       the program instantly.

       All other options are assumed to be groffer options.  They are internally passed to groffer.  They override the behavior of the program.  The options are optional, they can be omitted.

       The filespec arguments correspond to the filespec arguments of groffer.  So they are either the names of existing, readable files or - for standard input, or the name of a man page or a groffer(1) man
       page search pattern.  If no filespec is specified standard input is assumed automatically.

DESCRIPTION
       roff2dvi transforms roff code into dvi mode.  Print the result to standard output.

       There are more of these programs for generating other formats of roff input.

       roff2html(1)
              generates HTML output.

       roff2pdf(1)
              outputs pdf mode.

       roff2ps(1)
              prints PostScript format to standard output.

       roff2text(1)
              generates text output in the groff device latin1.

       roff2x(1)
              prints the output in the groff device X that is suitable for programs like gxditview(1) or xditview(1).

AUTHORS
       roff2dvi was written by Bernd Warken ⟨groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de⟩.

SEE ALSO
       groff(1), groffer(1), roff2html(1), roff2pdf(1), roff2ps(1), roff2text(1), roff2x(1), gxditview(1).

groff 1.22.4                                                                                     21 March 2020                                                                                      roff2dvi(1)
