ROLLSET(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           ROLLSET(1)

NAME
       rollset - Modifies entries in a DNSSEC-Tools rollrec file

SYNOPSIS
         rollset [options] rollrec-file

DESCRIPTION
       rollset modifies fields in the rollrec file specified by rollrec-file.
       Multiple options may be combined in a single rollset execution.
       rollset operates quietly unless it is given the -verbose option.

       All records in the specified rollrec file will be modified, unless the
       -name option is given.  In that case, only the named zone will be
       modified.

OPTIONS
       -admin addr
           The zone administrator's email address is set to addr.

       -check
           If this option is given, the rollchk command will be run on the
           modified rollrec file.

       -del-admin
           The administrator line is deleted.  The -admin and -del-admin
           options are mutually exclusive.

       -del-directory
           The directory line is deleted.  The -directory and -del-directory
           options are mutually exclusive.

       -del-loglevel
           The loglevel line is deleted.  The -loglevel and -del-loglevel
           options are mutually exclusive.

       -del-zg
           The zonegroup line is deleted.  The -zg and -del-zg options are
           mutually exclusive.

       -del-zsargs
           The zsargs line is deleted.  The -zsargs and -delzsargs options are
           mutually exclusive.

       -directory dir
           The directory to hold the zone's files is set to dir.

       -display
           Turn on the GUI display of the zones in the selected rollrecs.
           This option is mutually exclusive of the -nodisplay option.

       -file zone-file
           The zone file in the selected rollrec records is modified to be
           zone-file.

       -keyrec keyrec-file
           The keyrec file in the selected rollrec records is modified to be
           keyrec-file.

       -loglevel logging-level
           The logging level of the selected rollrec records is set to
           logging-level.  The valid logging levels are defined in
           rollmgr.pm(3).

       -name rollrec-name
           The rollrec whose name matches zonename is selected as the only
           rollrec that will be modified.  If this name is not given, then all
           rollrec records will be modified.

       -nodisplay
           Turn off the GUI display of the zones in the selected rollrecs.
           This option is mutually exclusive of the -display option.

       -rename
           The rollrec's name is changed to match the specified name.  The new
           name cannot be the name of an existing rollrec in the file.  This
           option must be used in conjunction with the -name option.

       -reset-zonename
           The zonename field is set to match the name of the rollrec record.
           This option is mutually exclusive of the -zonename option.

       -roll
           Convert the selected rollrecs to be active ("roll") records.  This
           option is mutually exclusive of the -skip option.

       -skip
           Convert the selected rollrecs to be inactive ("skip") records.
           This option is mutually exclusive of the -roll option.

       -zg zonegroup-name
           The zonegroup in the selected rollrec records is modified to be
           zonegroup-name.  This field may contain a single zonegroup name or
           a comma-separated list of names.  If a list is given, then there
           may be whitespace before or after each name, but it is not
           recognized as being part of the zonegroup name itself.  Whitespace
           within the name is considered part of the name.  Zonegroup names
           are considered case insensitive.  The names may be given with
           whatever case the user desires, but names whose only differences
           are the case of the letters are considered to be the same name.

       -zonename zone-name
           The zone name in the selected rollrec records is modified to be
           zone-name.

       -zsargs arglist
           Provides additional zonesigner arguments.  These arguments will
           override the arguments in the DNSSEC-Tools defaults file, the
           DNSSEC-Tools configuration file, and the zones' keyrec files.  The
           zonesigner argument list is given in arglist.  If more than one
           argument is given, the set of arguments should be enclosed in
           quotes.

           Given the rollset argument processing, the new arguments for
           zonesigner cannot be specified as expected.  Instead, the arguments
           should be given in the following manner.  The leading dash should
           be replaced with an equals sign.  If the option takes an argument,
           the space that would separate the option from the option's argument
           should also be replaced by an equals sign.  rollset translates
           these arguments to the appropriate format for zonesigner.  These
           examples should clarify the argument modifications:

               normal zonesigner option            -zsargs options
               ------------------------            ---------------
                   -nokrfile                          =nokrfile
                   -zskcount 5                        =zskcount=5

           The following are valid uses of -zsargs:

               # rollset -zsargs =ksklength=2048 example.rollrec
               # rollset -zsargs "=ksklen=2048 =zsklen=2048" example.rollrec

           The -zsargs and -delzsargs options are mutually exclusive.

       -verbose
           Display information about every modification made to the rollrec
           file.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for rollset and the DNSSEC-Tools
           package.

       -help
           Display a usage message.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2006-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       lsroll(8), rollchk(8), rollerd(8), rollinit(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::rollmgr.pm(3),
       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::rollrec.pm(3)

       file-rollrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                        ROLLSET(1)
