ROLLREC-EDITOR(1)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    ROLLREC-EDITOR(1)

NAME
       rollrec-editor - DNSSEC-Tools Rollrec GUI Editor

SYNOPSIS
         rollrec-editor [options] <rollrec-file>

DESCRIPTION
       rollrec-editor provides the capability for easy GUI-based management of
       rollrec files.  A rollrec file contains one or more rollrec records.
       These records are used by the DNSSEC-Tools rollover utilities (rollerd,
       etc.) to describe zones' rollover state.  Each zone's rollrec record
       contains such information as the zone file, the rollover phase, and
       logging level.  rollrec files are text files and may be edited by any
       text editor.  rollrec-editor allows editing of only those records a
       user should change and performs error checking on the data.

       When rollrec-editor starts, a window is created that has "buttons" for
       each rollrec record in the given rollrec file.  (In this documentation,
       this window is called the Button Window.)  Clicking on the buttons
       selects (or deselects) that zone.  After one or more zones are
       selected, one of several commands may be executed.  Commands allow
       modification and deletion of existing rollrec records, creation of new
       rollrec records, merging of rollrec files, and verification of file
       validity.

       rollrec-editor's commands are available through the menus and most have
       a keyboard accelerator.  The commands are described below in the
       COMMANDS section.

       When a rollrec record is selected for modification, a new window is
       created to hold the editable fields of the record.  The fields may be
       modified in place.  When editing is complete, the record is "saved".
       This does not save the modified rollrec into its on-disk file; the file
       must be saved explicitly from the Button Window.

       As stated above, verification checks are performed when saving an
       edited rollrec record.  One set of checks ensures that files and
       directories associated with a zone actually exist.  This check may be
       turned off at command start-up with the -ignore-warns command line
       option.  It may be modified during execution with the "Ignore Edit
       Warnings" menu command.

   Button Window Layout
       The Button Window contains a button for each rollrec record in the
       selected file.  The buttons are arranged in a table that with at least
       three columns.  The number of columns may be set at command start-up
       with the -columns command line option.  It may be modified during
       execution with the "Columns in Button Window" menu command.

       When setting the number of columns, rollrec-editor minimizes the space
       required to display the selected file's rollrec buttons.  This will
       sometimes cause the number of columns to differ from that requested.

       For example, assume a rollrec file has 12 rollrec records.  The
       following table shows how many rows and columns are given for each of
       the given column selections.

               column count    rows    columns
                     1          12        1
                     2          6         2
                     3          4         3
                     4          3         4
                     5          3         4
                     6          2         6
                     7          2         6
                     8          2         6
                     9          2         6
                     10         2         6
                     11         2         6
                     12         1         12

       The actual rows and columns for a requested column count will vary in
       order to allow a "best-fit".

   UNDOING MODIFICATIONS
       The "undo" capability is not currently implemented.

       rollrec-editor has the ability to reverse modifications it has made to
       a rollrec file.  This historical restoration will only work for
       modifications made during a particular execution of rollrec-editor;
       modifications made during a previous execution may not be undone.

       After a "Save" operation, the data required for reversing modifications
       are deleted.  This is not the case for the "Save As" operation.

OPTIONS
       rollrec-editor supports the following options.

       -columns columns
           This option allows the user to specify the number of columns to be
           used in the Button Window.

       -ignore-warns
           This option causes rollrec-editor to ignore edit warnings when
           performing validation checks on the contents of rollrec records.

       -no-filter
           This option turns off name filtering when rollrec-editor presents a
           file-selection dialog for choosing a new rollrec file.  If this
           option is not given, then the file-selection dialog will only list
           regular files with a suffix of .rrf.

       -Version
           Displays the version information for rollrec-editor and the DNSSEC-
           Tools package.

COMMANDS
       rollrec-editor provides the following commands, organized by menus:
       File, Edit, Commands, Rollrecs, and Options.

   File Menu
       The File Menu contains commands for manipulating rollrec files and
       stopping execution.

       Open
           Open a new rollrec file.  If the specified file does not exist, the
           user will be prompted for the action to take.  If the user chooses
           the "Continue" action, then rollrec-editor will continue editing
           the current rollrec file.  If the "Quit" action is selected, then
           rollrec-editor will exit.

       Save
           Save the current rollrec file.  The data for the "Undo Changes"
           command are purged, so this file will appear to be unmodified.

           Nothing will happen if no changes have been made.

       Save As
           Save the current rollrec file to a name selected by the user.

       Quit
           Exit rollrec-editor.

   Edit Menu
       The Edit Menu contains commands for general editing operations.

       Undo Changes
           Reverse modifications made to the rollrec records.  This is only
           for the in-memory version of the rollrec file.

           Not currently implemented.

   Commands Menu
       The Commands Menu contains commands for modifying rollrec records.

       New Rollrec
           Create a new rollrec record.   The user is given a new window in
           which to edit the user-modifiable rollrec fields.  A button for the
           new rollrec record will be inserted into the Button Window.

           After editing is completed, the "Save" button will add the new
           rollrec record to the in-memory rollrec file.  The file must be
           saved in order to have the new rollrec added to the file.

           Potentially erroneous conditions will be reported to the user at
           save time.  If the ignore-warnings flag has been turned on, then
           these warnings will not be reported.  Errors (e.g., invalid log
           conditions) will always be reported.

       Delete Selected Rollrecs
           Delete the selected rollrec records.  The buttons for each selected
           record will be removed from the Button Window.

       Edit Selected Rollrecs
           Modify the selected rollrec records.   For every record selected
           for modification, the user is given a new window in which to edit
           the user-modifiable rollrec fields.  When the edit window goes away
           (after a "Save" or "Cancel"), the rollrec record's button is
           deselected.

           After editing is completed, the "Save" button will add the new
           rollrec record to the in-memory rollrec file.  The file must be
           saved in order to have the new rollrec added to the file.

           Potentially erroneous conditions will be reported to the user at
           save time.  If the ignore-warnings flag has been turned on, then
           these warnings will not be reported.  Errors (e.g., invalid log
           conditions) will always be reported.

       Rename Selected Rollrec
           Rename the selected rollrec record.   The name in the rollrec's
           "roll" or "skip" line will be changed to the new name.  Only one
           rollrec may be renamed at a time, and it may not be edited while
           the rename is taking place.

           If the rollrec has been modified, the new contents must be written
           to disk prior to the rename happening.  The user will be prompted
           to ensure that this the user wishes to continue.

       Merge Rollrec Files
           Merge a rollrec file with the currently open rollrec file.  After a
           successful merge, the rollrec records in the second file will be
           added to the end of the currently open rollrec file.

           If there are any rollrec name collisions in the files, then the
           user will be asked whether to continue with the merge or cancel it.
           If the merge continues, then the conflicting rollrec records from
           the "new" file will be discarded in favor of the currently open
           rollrec file.

       Verify Rollrec File
           Verify the validity of the rollrec file.  The user-editable fields
           in the open rollrec file are checked for validity.  An edit window
           is opened for each rollrec record that registers an error or
           warning.

           If the ignore-warnings flag has been turned on, then potentially
           erroneous conditions will not be reported.  Errors (e.g., invalid
           log conditions) will always be reported.

       Summarize Problems
           Summarize the warning and error counts of the rollrec file.  Each
           rollrec record in the open rollrec file is checked for validity.
           If any warnings or errors are found, a window is displayed that
           lists the name of each rollrec record and its warning and error
           counts.

           If the ignore-warnings flag has been turned on, then potentially
           erroneous conditions will not be reported.  Errors (e.g., invalid
           log conditions) will always be reported.

   View Menu
       The View Menu contains miscellaneous commands for viewing edit windows.

       Select All Rollrecs/Unselect All Rollrecs
           Select or unselect all rollrec buttons.  All the buttons in the
           Button Window will be selected or unselected.  If any of the
           buttons are not selected, this command will cause all the buttons
           to become selected.  If all of the buttons are selected, this
           command will cause all the buttons to be deselected.

           This command is a toggle that switches between Select All Rollrecs
           and Unselect All Rollrecs.

       Reveal Rollrec Edit Windows
           Raise all rollrec edit windows.  This command brings all rollrec
           edit windows to the front so that any that are hidden behind other
           windows will become visible.

       Close Rollrec Edit Windows
           Close all rollrec edit windows.  This command closes and deselects
           all rollrec edit windows.

   Options Menu
       The Options Menu allows the user to set several options that control
       rollrec-editor behavior.

       Ignore Edit Warnings/Don't Ignore Edit Warnings
           Certain operations perform validation checks on the contents of
           rollrec records.  Warnings and errors may be reported by these
           checks.  This option controls whether or not warnings are flagged
           during validation.  If they are flagged, then the operation will
           not continue until the warning condition is fixed or the operation
           canceled.  If the warnings are ignored, then the operation will
           complete without the condition being fixed.

           This command is a toggle that switches between Ignore Edit Warnings
           mode and Don't Ignore Edit Warnings mode.

       Filter Name Selection/Don't Filter Name Selection
           When opening rollrec files for editing or merging, a file-selection
           dialog box is displayed to allow the user to select a rollrec file.
           This option controls whether a filename filter is used by the
           dialog box.  If Filter Names Selection mode is used, then only
           regular files with a suffix of .rrf will be displayed by the dialog
           box.  If Don't Filter Name Selection mode is used, then all regular
           files will be displayed by the dialog box.

           This command is a toggle that switches between Filter Name
           Selection display and Don't Filter Name Selection display.

       Columns in Button Window
           Set the number of columns used in the Button Window.  See the
           Button Window Layout section for more information on columns in the
           Button Window.

   Help Menu
       The Help Menu contains commands for getting assistance.

       Help
           Display a help window.

KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
       Below are the keyboard accelerators for the rollrec-editor commands:

           Ctrl-A  Select All Rollrecs

           Ctrl-D  Delete Selected Rollrecs

           Ctrl-E  Edit Selected Rollrecs

           Ctrl-H  Help

           Ctrl-K  Close Rollrec Edit Windows

           Ctrl-M  Merge Rollrec Files

           Ctrl-N  New Rollrec

           Ctrl-O  Open

           Ctrl-Q  Quit

           Ctrl-R  Reveal Rollrec Edit Windows

           Ctrl-S  Save

           Ctrl-U  Undo Changes  (not currently implemented)

           Ctrl-V  Verify Rollrec File

       These accelerators are all lowercase letters.

REQUIREMENTS
       rollrec-editor is implemented in Perl/Tk, so both Perl and Perl/Tk must
       be installed on your system.

KNOWN ISSUES
       The following are known issues.  These will be resolved in the fullness
       of time.

       •   There is an issue with the column count and adding new rollrecs.
           It doesn't always work properly, thus occasionally leaving some
           rollrec buttons undisplayed.

       •   There is no undo command.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2007-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       lsroll(1), rollchk(8), rollerd(8) rollinit(8), rollset(8),
       zonesigner(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::rollrec(3)

       file-rollrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                 ROLLREC-EDITOR(1)
