rootsh(1)                                                                                       Gerhard Lausser                                                                                       rootsh(1)

NAME
       rootsh - a logging wrapper for shells

SYNOPSIS
       rootsh [OPTION]... [--] [COMMANDS]

DESCRIPTION
       Start a shell with logging of input/output.  Rootsh must be started via sudo if you want to become root.  It does not raise your privileges on it's own.  You can run rootsh as a standalone application
       if you only want to log your own user's session.  If you call rootsh with additional commands, these will be passed to the shell.

       -i, --initial
              Make the shell a login shell

       -u, --user=USER
              Run the shell as a non-root user

       -f, --logfile=FILE
              Name of the file you want to write the logs (standalone only)

       -d, --logdir=DIR
              Directory where you want your logfile written (standalone only)

       --no-logfile
              Switch off logging to a file (standalone only)

       --no-syslog
              Switch off logging to syslog (standalone only)

       -h, --help
              Display this help and exit

       -V, --version
              Output version and capability information and exit

       --     Stop scanning for command line options. Everything found after -- will be passed to the shell with -c

       No parameters mean start a rootshell

EXAMPLES
       sudo rootsh
              Start a logged root shell

       sudo rootsh -u oracle
              Start a logged shell in the context of user oracle.

       rootsh -f mysession.log --no-syslog
              Start a new shell for your user id, write protocol into mysession.log, do not send anything to syslog.  This is identical to "script -f mysession.log"

       rootsh -i -u oracle lsnrctl stop
              Run command "lsnrctl stop" as user oracle. (this will call sh -c "lsnrctl stop")

       rootsh -i -u oracle -- ls -l
              Run command "ls -l" as user oracle. (this will call sh -c "ls -l")

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to Corey Henderson <corman@cormander.com>

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for rootsh can be found at http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/rootsh

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

rootsh                                                                                             July 2004                                                                                          rootsh(1)
