ROTT(6)                                                                                      Rise of the Triad                                                                                      ROTT(6)

NAME
       rott - Rise of the Triad

SYNOPSIS
       rott [options]

       rott-shareware [options]

       rott-commercial [options]

DESCRIPTION
       ROTT  is  a  port  of  Apogee's  3D action title Rise of the Triad, originally released in 1994.  This port duplicates the functionality of the original game on modern operating systems, including
       Linux, Win32, and Mac OS X.

       The rott-shareware and rott-commercial binaries start the Shareware Version and Commercial Version (including the CD Version and the Site License CD Version ) of the game, respectively.  The  rott
       binary is a symbolic link to one of these and is handled via Debian's update-alternatives mechanism.

OPTIONS
       aim    Give aim crosshair.

       fullscreen
              Start in fullscreen mode.

       window Start in windowed mode.

       resolution widthxheight
              Specify the screen resolution to use (next parameter is widthxheight).  Valid resolutions are 320x200 and 640x480.

       nojoys Disable check for joystick.

       nomouse
              Disable check for mouse.

       nosound
              Disable sound.

       ver    Version number.

       mapstats
              Dump Map statistics to ERROR.

       tilestats
              Dump Tile statistics to ERROR.

       mono   Enable mono-monitor support.

       screenshots
              Clean screen capture for shots.

       pause  Pauses startup screen information.

       enablevr
              Enable VR helmet input devices.

       noecho Turn off sound reverb.

       demoexit
              Exit program when demo is terminated.

       warp level
              Warp to specific ROTT level (next parameter is level to start on).

       timelimit time
              Play ROTT in time limit mode (next parameter is time in seconds).

       maxtimelimit time
              Maximum time to count down from (next parameter is time in seconds).

       dopefish
              ?

AUTHORS
       ROTT was created and published as shareware by Apogee Software, Ltd. and was published commercially by FormGen, Inc.

       The primary contributors to the icculus.org port are: Steven Fuller, Ryan C. Gordon, John Hall and Dan Olson.

       This manual page was written by Fabian Greffrath <fabian@debian-unofficial.org> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

1.0                                                                                              2008-04-23                                                                                         ROTT(6)
