ROTT(6)                                                                                        Rise of the Triad                                                                                        ROTT(6)

NAME
       rott-registered - Rise of the Triad

SYNOPSIS
       rott-registered [options]

DESCRIPTION
       ROTT  is  a  port of Apogee's 3D action title Rise of the Triad, originally released in 1994.  This port duplicates the functionality of the original game on modern operating systems, including Linux,
       Win32, and Mac OS X.

OPTIONS
       aim    Give aim crosshair.

       fullscreen
              Start in fullscreen mode.

       window Start in windowed mode.

       resolution widthxheight
              Specify the screen resolution to use (next parameter is widthxheight).  Valid resolutions are 320x200, 640x480 and 800x600.

       spaceball
              Enable check for Spaceball.

       nojoys Disable check for joystick.

       nomouse
              Disable check for mouse.

       nosound
              Disable sound.

       cyberman
              Enable check for Cyberman.

       assassin
              Enable check for Wingman Assassin.

       ver    Version number.

       mapstats
              Dump Map statistics to ERROR.

       tilestats
              Dump Tile statistics to ERROR.

       mono   Enable mono-monitor support.

       screenshots
              Clean screen capture for shots.

       pause  Pauses startup screen information.

       enablevr
              Enable VR helmet input devices.

       noecho Turn off sound reverb.

       demoexit
              Exit program when demo is terminated.

       warp level
              Warp to specific ROTT level (next parameter is level to start on).

       timelimit time
              Play ROTT in time limit mode (next parameter is time in seconds).

       maxtimelimit time
              Maximimum time to count down from (next parameter is time in seconds).

       dopefish
              ?

AUTHORS
       ROTT was created and published as shareware by Apogee Software, Ltd. and was published commercially by FormGen, Inc.

       The primary contributors to the icculus.org port are: Steven Fuller, Ryan C. Gordon, John Hall and Dan Olson.

       This manual page was written by Fabian Greffrath <fabian@debian-unofficial.org> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

1.0                                                                                                2008-04-23                                                                                           ROTT(6)
