pdsh(1)                     General Commands Manual                    pdsh(1)

NAME
       pdcp - copy files to groups of hosts in parallel
       rpdcp - (reverse pdcp) copy files from a group of hosts in parallel

SYNOPSIS
       pdcp [options]... src [src2...] dest
       rpdcp [options]... src [src2...] dir

DESCRIPTION
       pdcp  is  a variant of the rcp(1) command.  Unlike rcp(1), which copies
       files to a single remote host, pdcp can copy files to  multiple  remote
       hosts  in parallel.  However, pdcp does not recognize files in the for‐
       mat ``rname@rhost:path,'' therefore all source files  must  be  on  the
       local  host machine.  Destination nodes must be listed on the pdcp com‐
       mand line using a suitable target nodelist option (See the OPTIONS sec‐
       tion below).  Each destination node listed must have pdcp installed for
       the copy to succeed.

       When pdcp receives SIGINT (ctrl-C), it  lists  the  status  of  current
       threads.   A  second  SIGINT  within one second terminates the program.
       Pending threads may be canceled by issuing ctrl-Z within one second  of
       ctrl-C.  Pending threads are those that have not yet been initiated, or
       are still in the process of connecting to the remote host.

       Like pdsh(1), the functionality of pdcp may be supplemented by  dynami‐
       cally  loadable modules. In pdcp, the modules may provide a new connect
       protocol (replacing the standard rsh(1)  protocol),  filtering  options
       (e.g.  excluding  hosts  that  are down), and/or host selection options
       (e.g. -a selects all nodes from a local config file).  By default, pdcp
       requires  at least one "rcmd" module to be loaded (to provide the chan‐
       nel for remote copy).

REVERSE PDCP
       rpdcp performs a reverse parallel copy.  Rather than copying  files  to
       remote hosts, files are retrieved from remote hosts and stored locally.
       All directories or files retrieved will be  stored  with  their  remote
       hostname  appended  to  the  filename.   The destination file must be a
       directory when this option is used.

       In other respects, rpdcp is exactly like pdcp, and  further  statements
       regarding pdcp in this manual also apply to rpdcp.

RCMD MODULES
       The  method  by  which pdcp connects to remote hosts may be selected at
       runtime using the -R option (See OPTIONS below).  This functionality is
       ultimately  implemented  via  dynamically  loadable modules, and so the
       list of available options may be different from installation to instal‐
       lation.  A  list  of  currently  available rcmd modules is printed when
       using any of the -h, -V, or -L options. The default  rcmd  module  will
       also be displayed with the -h and -V options.

       A list of rcmd modules currently distributed with pdcp follows.

       rsh     Uses  an internal, thread-safe implementation of BSD rcmd(3) to
               run commands using the standard rsh(1) protocol.

       ssh     Uses a variant of popen(3) to run multiple copies of the ssh(1)
               command.

       mrsh    This module uses the mrsh(1) protocol to execute jobs on remote
               hosts.  The mrsh protocol uses a credential  based  authentica‐
               tion,  forgoing  the  need to allocate reserved ports. In other
               aspects, it acts just like rsh.

       krb4    The krb4 module allows users to execute remote  commands  after
               authenticating  with  kerberos. Of course, the remote rshd dae‐
               mons must be kerberized.

       xcpu    The xcpu module uses the xcpu service to  execute  remote  com‐
               mands.

OPTIONS
       The  list of available pdcp options is determined at runtime by supple‐
       menting the list of standard pdcp options with any options provided  by
       loaded  rcmd and misc modules.  In some cases, options provided by mod‐
       ules may conflict with each other. In  these  cases,  the  modules  are
       incompatible and the first module loaded wins.

Standard target nodelist options
       -w TARGETS,...
              Target  and  or  filter  the specified list of hosts. Do not use
              with any other node selection options (e.g. -a, -g, if they  are
              available).  No  spaces are allowed in the comma-separated list.
              Arguments in the TARGETS list may include normal host  names,  a
              range of hosts in hostlist format (See HOSTLIST EXPRESSIONS), or
              a single `-' character to read the list of hosts on stdin.

              If a host or hostlist is  preceded  by  a  `-'  character,  this
              causes those hosts to be explicitly excluded. If the argument is
              preceded by a single `^' character, it is taken to be  the  path
              to  file  containing  a list of hosts, one per line. If the item
              begins with a `/' character, it is taken  as a  regular  expres‐
              sion  on which to filter the list of hosts (a regex argument may
              also be optionally trailed by another '/',  e.g.   /node.*/).  A
              regex or file name argument may also be preceeded by a minus `-'
              to exclude instead of include thoses hosts.

              A list of hosts may also be preceded by  "user@"  to  specify  a
              remote username other than the default, or "rcmd_type:" to spec‐
              ify an alternate rcmd connection type for these hosts. When used
              together,   the   rcmd   type  must  be  specified  first,  e.g.
              "ssh:user1@host0" would use ssh to  connect  to  host0  as  user
              "user1."

       -x host,host,...
              Exclude  the  specified  hosts.  May be specified in conjunction
              with other target node list options such  as  -a  and  -g  (when
              available).  Hostlists  may  also  be specified to the -x option
              (see the HOSTLIST EXPRESSIONS section below).  Arguments  to  -x
              may  also  be  preceeded  by  the filename (`^') and regex ('/')
              characters as described above, in which case the resulting hosts
              are  excluded as if they had been given to -w and preceeded with
              the minus `-' character.

Standard pdcp options
       -h     Output usage menu and quit. A list  of  available  rcmd  modules
              will be printed at the end of the usage message.

       -q     List  option  values  and  the  target nodelist and exit without
              action.

       -b     Disable ctrl-C status feature so that a single ctrl-C kills par‐
              allel copy. (Batch Mode)

       -r     Copy directories recursively.

       -p     Preserve modification time and modes.

       -e PATH
              Explicitly  specify  path to remote pdcp binary instead of using
              the locally executed path. Can also be set via  the  environment
              variable PDSH_REMOTE_PDCP_PATH.

       -l user
              This  option  may be used to copy files as another user, subject
              to authorization. For BSD rcmd, this means the invoking user and
              system  must  be  listed  in  the  user´s .rhosts file (even for
              root).

       -t seconds
              Set the connect timeout. Default is 10 seconds.

       -f number
              Set the maximum number of simultaneous remote copies to  number.
              The default is 32.

       -R name
              Set  rcmd  module  to  name. This option may also be set via the
              PDSH_RCMD_TYPE environment variable. A list  of  available  rcmd
              modules may be obtained via either the -h or -L options.

       -M name,...
              When multiple misc modules provide the same options to pdsh, the
              first module initialized "wins" and subsequent modules  are  not
              loaded.   The -M option allows a list of modules to be specified
              that will be  force-initialized  before  all  others,  in-effect
              ensuring  that  they load without conflict (unless they conflict
              with  eachother).  This  option  may  also  be   set   via   the
              PDSH_MISC_MODULES environment variable.

       -L     List info on all loaded pdcp modules and quit.

       -d     Include more complete thread status when SIGINT is received, and
              display connect and command time statistics on stderr when done.

       -V     Output pdcp version information, along with  list  of  currently
              loaded modules, and exit.

HOSTLIST EXPRESSIONS
       As  noted  in  sections  above, pdcp accepts ranges of hostnames in the
       general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc.,  as  an
       alternative  to  explicit lists of hosts.  This form should not be con‐
       fused with  regular  expression  character  classes  (also  denoted  by
       ``[]'').  For  example,  foo[19]  does  not represent foo1 or foo9, but
       rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

       This range syntax is meant only as a convenience  on  clusters  with  a
       prefixNN  naming  convention  and specification of ranges should not be
       considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could be specified as  such,
       or by the range foo[1,9].

       Some examples of range usage follow:

       Copy /etc/hosts to foo01,foo02,...,foo05
           pdcp -w foo[01-05] /etc/hosts /etc

       Copy /etc/hosts to foo7,foo9,foo10
           pdcp -w foo[7,9-10] /etc/hosts /etc

       Copy /etc/hosts to foo0,foo4,foo5
           pdcp -w foo[0-5] -x foo[1-3] /etc/hosts /etc

       As  a  reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets ('['
       and ']') for pattern matching.  Depending on your shell, it may be nec‐
       essary  to  enclose  ranged lists within quotes.  For example, in tcsh,
       the first example above should be executed as:

           pdcp -w "foo[01-05]" /etc/hosts /etc

ORIGIN
       Pdsh/pdcp was originally a rewrite of IBM dsh(1) by Jim  Garlick  <gar‐
       lick@llnl.gov>  on  LLNL's  ASCI Blue-Pacific IBM SP system.  It is now
       also used on Linux clusters at LLNL.

LIMITATIONS
       When using ssh for remote execution, stderr of ssh to be folded in with
       that  of  the remote command.  When invoked by pdcp, it is not possible
       for ssh to prompt for confirmation if a host key  changes,  prompt  for
       passwords  if RSA keys are not configured properly, etc..  Finally, the
       connect timeout is only adjustable with ssh  when  the  underlying  ssh
       implementation  supports it, and pdsh has been built to use the correct
       option.

SEE ALSO
       pdsh(1)

                                   linux-gnu                           pdsh(1)
