RPI-IMAGER(1)                                                                           General Commands Manual                                                                          RPI-IMAGER(1)

NAME
       rpi-imager - Flash disk images to removable storage

SYNOPSIS
       rpi-imager [--debug] [--repo url] [--qm translations] [--disable-telemetry] [image-uri]

       rpi-imager --cli [--debug] [--quiet] [--disable-verify] [--sha256 expected-hash] image-uri destination-device

       rpi-imager --version

       rpi-imager --help

DESCRIPTION
       rpi-imager is a utility for writing a disk image file, which may optionally be compressed, to a removable destination disk, such as a micro-SD card or a USB-attached SSD drive.

       When run without further command line arguments, the utility presents a simple graphical interface with controls for image-file selection, target drive selection, and one to start writing. In
       this  mode, the Raspberry Pi server (and potentially third party servers) will be queried for available OS images.  You may also specify an image-uri (which may be a local file, or an HTTP or
       HTTPS URL) to flash directly on the command line.

       When run with the --cli argument, the utility directly flashes the image-uri given to the specified destination-drive.  In this case, the --sha256 option can be used to pass in  the  expected
       SHA256 checksum of the image.

OPTIONS
       --cli  Do not launch the graphical interface; just flash the image given to the specified drive. In this mode, the image-uri and destination-device must both be specified.

       --debug
              Output extra debugging information on the console.

       --disable-telemetry
              Do not report OS writes to http://rpi-imager-stats.raspberrypi.com/

       --disable-verify
              After writing the image, do not attempt to verify that the image was written correctly.  Only valid when run with --cli.

       --help Display a synopsis of the command line syntax and exit.

       --quiet
              Suppress all console output.  Only valid when run with --cli.

       --qm translations
              Specify an alternate Qt message translations file to use with the GUI.

       --repo url
              Instead  of  querying  the Raspberry Pi servers for the list of available OS images, query this URL instead. The URL will be expected to return a JSON file conforming to the format de‐
              scribed in the associated json-schema.

       --sha256 expected-hash
              Verify that the image matches the expected-hash before writing it to the specified destination.  Only valid when run with --cli.

       --version
              Report the version of the utility, and the default URI it will attempt to query to determine the available OS images.

       image-uri
              If specified, the URI of the image to write to the destination. This may be a local file, or a remote URL supporting the HTTP or HTTPS protocols. This  must  be  specified  when  using
              --cli.

       destination-device
              The device to which to write the specified image, e.g.  /dev/mmcblk0.  Only valid when run with --cli.

EXAMPLES
       rpi-imager
              Launch the graphical interface.

       rpi-imager --repo http://localhost:8080/os_list_utility.json
              Test a locally hosted version of the OS list with the graphical interface.

       rpi-imager --cli --disable-verify test.img /dev/mmcblk0
              Write test.img to /dev/mmcblk0 without any verification of the image itself, and no check that the image flashed correctly. This also avoids launching the graphical interface.

SEE ALSO
       dd(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                         RPI-IMAGER(1)
