RREP(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   RREP(1)

NAME
       rrep - replace patterns in files.

SYNOPSIS
       rrep [OPTIONS] PATTERN REPLACEMENT [FILE...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  rrep  utility  searches input FILEs for matches to a given PATTERN and replaces those matches by a given REPLACEMENT.  The pattern is, by default, a basic regular expression.  The replacement
       string may contain special characters to refer to portions of the matched pattern.

       Binary files are, by default, ignored.  A file is regarded as binary if it contains the null character.

OPTIONS
       -E, --extended-regexp
              PATTERN is interpreted as an extended regular expression (ERE).

       -F, --fixed-strings
              PATTERN and REPLACEMENT are interpreted as fixed strings, not as regular expressions or escape sequences.

       -R, -r, --recursive
              Each directory that is given on the command line is processed recursively.  Files and sub-directories starting with the .  character are, by default, ignored.

       --include=FILE_PATTERN
              Only files are processed that match the pattern FILE_PATTERN, except for files that are specifically given on the command line.  *, ?, and [...] can be used as  wildcards  in  FILE_PATTERN.
              Wildcards and backslash characters can be quoted with \.

       --exclude=FILE_PATTERN
              Files that match the pattern FILE_PATTERN will be skipped, except for files that are specifically given on the command line (using wildcard matching as described under --include).

       --exclude-dir=PATTERN
              Directories that match PATTERN will be skipped, except for files that are specifically given on the command line (using wildcard matching as described under --include).

       -V, --version
              Print the version number of rrep.

       -S SUFFIX, --suffix=SUFFIX
              Override default backup suffix.  This option implicitly activates backups.

       -a, --all
              Files and sub-directories starting with the . character in recursively processed directories (see --recursive) are processed as well.

       -b     Backup before overwriting files.  The backup files are written into the directory of the original file.  Equivalent to using --backup=existing.

       --backup[=CONTROL]
              Like  -b  but  accepts a version control argument.  The file name of the backup file is appended by a ~ character.  The backup suffix is ~, unless set with --suffix or SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX.
              The version control method may be selected via the --backup option or through the VERSION_CONTROL environment variable. Here are the values:
                none, off       never make backups
                                (even if --backup is given)
                numbered, t     make numbered backups
                existing, nil   numbered if numbered backups exist, simple
                                otherwise
                simple, never   always make simple backups

       --binary
              Do not ignore binary files.  A file is regarded as binary if it contains the null character \0.

       --dry-run
              The replacement is just simulated.  No file is actually modified.

       -e PATTERN, --regexp=PATTERN
              Use PATTERN for matching.  This option can be used to specify a pattern beginning with -.

       -h, --help
              Display a help message that describes the command line options and exit afterwards.

       -i, --ignore-case
              Case distinctions in PATTERN are ignored.

       --keep-times
              The original access and modification times of files and directories are restored after processing.

       -p REPLACEMENT, --replace-with=REPLACEMENT
              Use REPLACEMENT for substitution.

       --interactive
              Each time before a file is modified the user is prompted and can cancel the modification.

       -q, --quiet, --silent
              All normal output messages are suppressed.

       -s, --no-messages
              All error messages are suppressed.

       -w, --word-regexp
              Only those matches of PATTERN are replaced that match whole words.

       -x, --line-regexp
              Only those matches of PATTERN are replaced that match whole lines.

EXIT STATUS
       Exit status is 1 if any error occurs, 0 otherwise.

AUTHOR
       Written by Arno Onken.

REPORTING BUGS
       If you find a bug in rrep, please send electronic mail to <asnelt@asnelt.org>.  Include the version number, which you can find by running rrep --version.  Also include in your message  the  output
       that the program produced and the output you expected.

       If  you have other questions, comments or suggestions about rrep, contact the author via electronic mail to <asnelt@asnelt.org>.  The author will try to help you out, although he may not have time
       to fix your problems.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2011, 2013, 2019, 2022 Arno Onken

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
   Regular Manual Pages
       find(1), grep(1), sed(1), xargs(1), regex(7).

   TeXinfo Documentation
       The full documentation for rrep is maintained as a TeXinfo manual.  If the info and rrep programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info rrep

       should give you access to the complete manual.

User Commands                                                                                    rrep 1.3.7                                                                                         RREP(1)
