rsbackup-graph(1)                                                                         General Commands Manual                                                                         rsbackup-graph(1)

NAME
       rsbackup-graph - graphical representation of rsbackup state

SYNOPSIS
       rsbackup-graph [OPTIONS] [--] [SELECTOR...]

DESCRIPTION
       rsbackup-graph generates a graphical representation of the current set of backups known to rsbackup.

       For configuration options which affect this program, see the section Graph Directives in rsbackup(5).

OPTIONS
       --config PATH, -c PATH
              The path to the configuration file.  The default is /etc/rsbackup/config.

       --database, -D PATH
              Override the path to the backup database.

       --output, -o PATH
              Set the output path.  To write to standard output, use -o -.  The default is rsbackup.png.

       --fonts, -F
              Lists the known font families to standard output.

       --help, -h
              Display a usage message.

       --version, -V
              Display the version number.

   Volume Selection
       The list of selectors on the command line determines what subset of the known volumes are displayed.  The following selectors are possible:

       HOST            Select all volumes for the host.

       HOST:VOLUME     Select the volume.

       -HOST           Deselect all volumes for the host.

       -HOST:VOLUME    Deselect the volume.

       *               Select all volumes.

       If no hosts or volumes are specified on the command line then all volumes are selected for display.

SEE ALSO
       rsbackup(1), rsbackup.cron(1), rsbackup-mount(1), rsbackup-snapshot-hook(1), rsync(1), rsbackup(5)

AUTHOR
       Richard Kettlewell <rjk@greenend.org.uk>

                                                                                                                                                                                          rsbackup-graph(1)
