RT-EMAIL-DASHBOARDS(1)                                                                User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                RT-EMAIL-DASHBOARDS(1)

NAME
       rt-email-dashboards - Send email dashboards

SYNOPSIS
           rt-email-dashboards [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This tool will send users email based on how they have subscribed to dashboards. A dashboard is a set of saved searches, the subscription controls how often that dashboard is sent and how it's
       displayed.

       Each subscription has an hour, and possibly day of week or day of month. These are taken to be in the user's timezone if available, UTC otherwise.

SETUP
       You'll need to have cron run this script every hour. Here's an example crontab entry to do this.

           0 * * * * /usr/sbin/rt-email-dashboards

       This will run the script every hour on the hour. This may need some further tweaking to be run as the correct user.

OPTIONS
       This tool supports a few options. Most are for debugging.

       -h
       --help  Display this documentation

       --dryrun
               Figure out which dashboards would be sent, but don't actually generate or email any of them

       --time SECONDS
               Instead of using the current time to figure out which dashboards should be sent, use SECONDS (usually since midnight Jan 1st, 1970, so 1192216018 would be Oct 12 19:06:58 GMT 2007).

       --epoch SECONDS
               Back-compat for --time SECONDS.

       --all   Ignore subscription frequency when considering each dashboard (should only be used with --dryrun for testing and debugging)

       --user User NAME or ID
               Only check the specified user's subscriptions

       --log LEVEL
               Adjust LogToSTDERR config option

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-10-05                                                                            RT-EMAIL-DASHBOARDS(1)
