RT-IMPORTER(1)                                                                        User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                        RT-IMPORTER(1)

NAME
       rt-importer - Import a serialized RT database on top of the current one

SYNOPSIS
           rt-importer path/to/export/directory

       This script is used to import the contents of a dump created by "rt-serializer".  It will create all of the objects in the dump in the current database; this may include users, queues, and tickets.

       It is possible to stop the import process with ^C; it can be later resumed by re-running the importer.

       Certain records (notably queues and groups) will have their original Organization name prepended to them on import. This is primarily to avoid duplicate names (for example importing a General queue
       into an RT that already has one would otherwise cause a name collision error). If you are confident you won't have any name collisions in queues or groups, you may suppress this behavior by passing
       the --exclude-organization flag to "rt-importer".

   OPTIONS
       --list
           Print a summary of the data contained in the dump.

       --originalid cfname
           Places the original ticket organization and ID into a global custom field with the given name.  If no global ticket custom field with that name is found in the current database, it will create
           one.

       --exclude-organization
           Ordinarily certain records (groups, queues, the --originalid custom field) include the organization name of the original RT instance. Use this option to suppress that behavior and use the original
           name directly.

       --ask
           Prompt for action when an error occurs inserting a record into the database.  This can often happen when importing data from very old RTs where some attachments (usually spam) contain invalid
           UTF-8.

           The importer will pause and ask if you want to ignore the error and continue on or abort (potentially to restart later).  Ignoring errors will result in missing records in the database, which may
           cause database integrity problems later.  If you ignored any errors, you should run "rt-validator" after import.

       --ignore-errors
           Ignore all record creation errors and continue on when importing.  This is equivalent to running with "--ask" and manually typing "ignore" at every prompt.  You should always run "rt-validator"
           after importing with errors ignored.

           This option can be dangerous and leave you with a broken RT!

       --dump class[,class]
           Prints Data::Dumper representations of the objects of type class in the serialized data.  This is mostly useful for debugging.

           Works only in conjunction with "--list".

CLONED DATA
       Some dumps may have been taken as complete clones of the RT system, which are only suitable for inserting into a schema with no data in it.  You can setup the required database state for the receiving
       RT instance by running:

           /usr/sbin/rt-setup-database --action create,schema,acl --prompt-for-dba-password

       The normal "make initdb" step will not work because it also inserts core system data.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-10-05                                                                                    RT-IMPORTER(1)
