RT-SETUP-DATABASE(1)                                                                  User Contributed Perl Documentation                                                                  RT-SETUP-DATABASE(1)

NAME
       rt-setup-database - Set up RT's database

SYNOPSIS
           rt-setup-database --action ...

OPTIONS
       action
           Several actions can be combined using comma separated list.

           init
               Initialize the database. This is combination of multiple actions listed below.  Create DB, schema, setup acl, insert core data and initial data.

           upgrade
               Apply all needed schema/acl/content updates (will ask for version to upgrade from)

           create
               Create the database.

           drop
               Drop the database.  This will ERASE ALL YOUR DATA.

           schema
               Initialize only the database schema

               To use a local or supplementary datafile, specify it using the '--datadir' option below.

           acl Initialize only the database ACLs

               To use a local or supplementary datafile, specify it using the '--datadir' option below.

           coredata
               Insert data into RT's database. This data is required for normal functioning of any RT instance.

           insert
               Insert data into RT's database.  By default, will use RT's installation data.  To use a local or supplementary datafile, specify it using the '--datafile' option below.

       datafile
           file path of the data you want to action on

           e.g. "--datafile /path/to/datafile"

       datadir
           Used to specify a path to find the local database schema and acls to be installed.

           e.g. "--datadir /path/to/"

       dba dba's username

       dba-password
           dba's password

       prompt-for-dba-password
           Ask for the database administrator's password interactively

       skip-create
           for 'init': skip creating the database and the user account, so we don't need administrator privileges

       root-password-file
           for 'init' and 'insert': rather than using the default administrative password for RT's "root" user, use the password in this file.

       package
           the name of the entity performing a create or upgrade. Used for logging changes in the DB. Defaults to RT, otherwise it should be the fully qualified package name of the extension or plugin making
           changes to the DB.

       ext-version
           current version of extension making a change. Not needed for RT since RT has a more elaborate system to track upgrades across multiple versions.

       upgrade-from
           for 'upgrade': specifies the version to upgrade from, and do not prompt for it if it appears to be a valid version.

       upgrade-to
           for 'upgrade': specifies the version to upgrade to, and do not prompt for it if it appears to be a valid version.

perl v5.34.0                                                                                       2021-10-05                                                                              RT-SETUP-DATABASE(1)
