rtpengine(8)                                                                                   NGCP rtpengine                                                                                  rtpengine(8)

NAME
       rtpengine - NGCP proxy for RTP and other UDP based media traffic

SYNOPSIS
       rtpengine --interface=addr...  --listen-tcp|--listen-udp|--listen-ng|--listen-tcp-ng|--listen-http|--listen-https=addr...  [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  Sipwise  NGCP  rtpengine is a proxy for RTP traffic and other UDP based media traffic.  It is meant to be used with the Kamailio SIP proxy and forms a drop-in replacement for any of the other
       available RTP and media proxies.

OPTIONS
       Most of these options are indeed optional, with two exceptions.  It’s mandatory to specify at least one local IP address through --interface, and at least one of the --listen-... options  must  be
       given.

       All options can (and should) be provided in a config file instead of at the command line.  See the --config-file option below for details.

       • --help

         Print the usage information.

       • -v, --version

         If called with this option, the rtpengine daemon will simply print its version number and exit.

       • --codecs

         Print a list of supported codecs and exit.

       • --config-file=FILE

         Specifies the location of a config file to be used.  The config file is an .ini style config file, with all command-line options listed here also being valid options in the config file.  For all
         command-line  options,  the long name version instead of the single-character version (e.g. table instead of just t) must be used in the config file.  For boolean options that are either present
         or not (e.g. no-fallback), a boolean value (either true or false) must be used in the config file.  If an option is given in both the config file and at the command line, the command-line  value
         overrides  the  value  from  the  config file.  Options that can be specified multiple times on the command line must be given only once in the config file, with the multiple values separated by
         semicolons (see section INTERFACES below for an example).

         As a special value, none can be passed here to suppress loading of the default config file /etc/rtpengine/rtpengine.conf.

       • --config-section=STRING

         Specifies the .ini style section to be used in the config file.  Multiple sections can be present in the config file, but only one can be used at a time.  The default value is rtpengine.  A con‐
         fig file section is started in the config file using square brackets (e.g. [rtpengine]).

       • -t, --table=INT

         Takes an integer argument and specifies which kernel table to use for in-kernel packet forwarding.  See the section on in-kernel operation in the README.md for more  detail.   Optional  and  de‐
         faults to zero.  If in-kernel operation is not desired, a negative number can be specified.

       • --nftables-chain=CHAIN

         Name  of  the netfilter chain in which to create the custom forwarding rule required for in-kernel packet forwarding.  Defaults to rtpengine.  Only used if in-kernel packet forwarding is enabled
         (table set to zero or higher).

         At startup rtpengine creates a new netfilter chain with this name (in the filter table) if it doesn’t yet exist, or flushes (empties out) the chain if it already exists.  It then creates a  sin‐
         gle forwarding rule in this chain to direct media packets into the kernel module for processing.

         The rule and the chain are deleted during shutdown.

         Explicitly setting this option to an empty string disables managing of a netfilter chain and prevents creation of the custom forwarding rule.

       • --nftables-base-chain=CHAIN

         Name  of  the netfilter base chain to use as entry point for in-kernel packet forwarding.  Defaults to INPUT to match legacy iptables setups.  Only applicable if the option nftables-chain is ac‐
         tive.

         If the chain with this name doesn’t exist during startup, rtpengine will create it as a base chain.  It then adds a single immediate-goto (jump) rule to the chain given by the nftables-chain op‐
         tion.  During shutdown this rule is again deleted.

         If this option is explicitly set to an empty string, then rtpengine will directly create the chain given by nftables-chain as a base chain and skip creating the immediate-goto rule.

         If this option is set to the special string none, then rtpengine will create its custom chain and rule as it normally would, but will skip adding an immediate-goto rule to the custom chain.  Do‐
         ing so requires the operator to manually create this immediate-goto rule somewhere themselves.  Otherwise in-kernel packet forwarding would be left inoperable.

       • --nftables-append

         With this option set, the netfilter rule created in the base chain is appended to the list of existing rules.  The default is to prepend it (insert it at the beginning).

       • --nftables-family=ip|ip6|ip,ip6

         Configure for which netfilter address family to manage tables, chains, and rules.  The default is to manage both IPv4 and IPv6 address families.

       • --nftables-start

       • --nftables-stop

         Instructs rtpengine to execute the actions described under nftables-chain and nftables-base-chain and then immediately exit.  Useful to manually re-create the rule(s) if they  have  gotten  lost
         during runtime, and/or to manually manage creation and deletion of these rules from a script (typically in combination with an empty nftables-chain= in the main config file).

       • --nftables-status

         Instructs rtpengine to check for the existence of the managed netfilter rules and chains, print the result of check, and exit.  The process will exit with code 0 if the check was successful, and
         1 otherwise.

       • -F, --no-fallback

         Will prevent fallback to userspace-only operation if the kernel module is unavailable.  In this case, startup of the daemon will fail with an error if this option is given.

       • --templates=STR

         Name of the config file section to contain signalling templates.  Requires a configuration file to be in use (i.e. not --config-file=none).  Default value is unset (i.e. no templates supported).

         If  set,  then each entry within the given config section corresponds to a named signalling template, which can then be used by referencing it via the template=... key in a signalling message to
         rtpengine.

         See section SIGNALLING TEMPLATES below.

       • -S, --save-interface-ports

         Will bind ports only on the first available local interface, of desired family, of logical interface.  If no ports available on any local interface of desired family, give an error message.

         In this case, ICE will be broken.

       • -i, --interface=[NAME/]IP[!IP]

         Specifies a local network interface for RTP.  At least one must be given, but multiple can be specified.  See the section INTERFACES just below for details.

       • -l, --listen-tcp=[IP:]PORT

       • -u, --listen-udp=[IP46:]PORT

       • -n, --listen-ng=[IP46:]PORT

       • -n, --listen-tcp-ng=[IP46:]PORT

         These options each enable one of the 4 available control protocols if given and each take either just a port number as argument, or an address:port pair, separated by colon.   At  least  one  of
         these 3 options must be given.

         The tcp protocol is obsolete.  It was used by old versions of OpenSER and its mediaproxy module.  It is provided for backwards compatibility.

         The udp protocol is used by Kamailio’s rtpproxy module.  In this mode, rtpengine can be used as a drop-in replacement for any other compatible RTP proxy.

         The  ng protocol is an advanced control protocol and can be used with Kamailio’s rtpengine module.  With this protocol, the complete SDP body is passed to rtpengine, rewritten and passed back to
         Kamailio.  Several additional features are available with this protocol, such as ICE handling, SRTP bridging, etc.

         The tcp-ng protocol is in fact the ng protocol but transported over TCP.

         It is recommended to specify not only a local port number, but also 127.0.0.1 as interface to bind to.

         Each option can be given multiple times to open multiple control ports of the same type.  In the config file, the option can be given only once, with multiple addresses and  ports  separated  by
         semicolons.

       • -c, --listen-cli=[IP46:]PORT

         TCP IP and port to listen for the CLI (command line interface).

         This option can be given multiple times to open multiple CLI ports.  In the config file, the option can be given only once, with multiple addresses and ports separated by semicolons.

       • -g, --graphite=IP46:PORT

         Address of the graphite statistics server.

       • -w, --graphite-interval=INT

         Interval of the time when information is sent to the graphite server.

       • --graphite-prefix=STRING

         Add a prefix for every graphite line.

       • --graphite-timeout=INT

         Sets after how much time (seconds) to force fail graphite socket connection, when graphite server is filtered out.  If set to 0, there are no changes.

       • -t, --tos=INT

         Takes  an  integer  as argument and if given, specifies the TOS value that should be set in outgoing packets.  The default is to leave the TOS field untouched.  A typical value is 184 (Expedited
         Forwarding).

       • --control-tos=INT

         Takes an integer as argument and if given, specifies the TOS value that should be set in the control-ng interface packets.  The default is to leave the TOS field untouched.  This  parameter  can
         also be set or listed via rtpengine-ctl.

       • --control-pmtu=want|dont

         Forces a specific PMTU discovery behaviour on IPv4 UDP control sockets, overriding the system-wide default.  If set to want then path MTU discovery is performed, initially enabling the DF (don’t
         fragment)  bit  on  outgoing  IPv4  packets until the path MTU has been discovered through reception of a “fragmentation needed” ICMP packet.  If set to dont then path MTU discovery is disabled,
         leaving the DF bit unset, and relying on the routers within the network path to perform any necessary fragmentation.

         The setting of dont is useful in broken IPv4 environments without functioning PMTU discovery, for example in networks which unconditionally block all ICMP.

       • -o, --timeout=SECS

         Takes the number of seconds as argument after which a media stream should be considered dead if no media traffic has been received.  If all media streams belonging to a particular call go  dead,
         then the call is removed from rtpengine’s internal state table.  Defaults to 60 seconds.

       • -s, --silent-timeout=SECS

         Ditto as the --timeout option, but applies to muted or inactive media streams.  Defaults to 3600 (one hour).

       • -a, --final-timeout=SECS

         The number of seconds since call creation, after call is deleted.  Useful for limiting the lifetime of a call.  This feature can be disabled by setting the parameter to 0.  By default this time‐
         out is disabled.

       • --offer-timeout=SECS

         This timeout (in seconds) is applied to calls which only had an offer but no answer.  Defaults to 3600 (one hour).

       • -p, --pidfile=FILE

         Specifies a path and file name to write the daemon’s PID number to.

       • -f, --foreground

         If given, prevents the daemon from daemonizing, meaning it will stay in the foreground.  Useful for debugging.

       • -m, --port-min=INT

       • -M, --port-max=INT

         Both take an integer as argument and together define the local port range from which rtpengine will allocate UDP ports for media traffic relay.  Default to 30000 and 40000 respectively.

         If multiple interfaces are configured and if the new configuration-file based syntax is in use, then different port ranges can be configure for different interfaces (see below).

       • -L, --log-level=INT

         Takes  an integer as argument and controls the highest log level which will be sent to syslog.  This is merely the default log level used for logging subsystems (see below) that don’t explicitly
         have a separate log level configured.

         The log levels correspond to the ones found in the syslog(3) man page.  The default value is 6, equivalent to LOG_INFO.  The highest possible value is 7 (LOG_DEBUG) which will log everything.

         During runtime, the log level can be decreased by sending the signal SIGURS1 to the daemon and can be increased with the signal SIGUSR2.

       • --log-level-subsystem=INT

         Configures a log level for one of the logging subsystems.  A logging subsystem which doesn’t have a log level configured explicitly takes its default value from the log-level  setting  described
         above, with the exception of the internals subsystem which by default has all logging disabled.

         The  full list of logging subsystems can be viewed by pulling up the --help online help.  Some (if not all) subsystems are: core, spandsp (messages generated by SpanDSP itself), ffmpeg (messages
         generated by ffmpeg libraries themselves), transcoding (messages related to RTP/media transcoding), codec (messages related  to  codec  negotiation),  rtcp,  ice,  crypto  (messages  related  to
         crypto/SRTP/SDES/DTLS negotiation), srtp (messages related to RTP/SRTP en/decryption), internals (disabled by default), http (includes WebSocket), control (messages related to control protocols,
         including SDP exchanges), dtx.

       • --log-facilty=daemon|local0|...|local7|...

         The syslog facilty to use when sending log messages to the syslog daemon.  Defaults to daemon.

       • --log-facilty-cdr=daemon|local0|...|local7|...

         Same as --log-facility with the difference that only CDRs are written to this log facility.

       • --log-facilty-rtcp=daemon|local0|...|local7|...

         Same as --log-facility with the difference that only RTCP data is written to this log facility.  Be careful with this parameter since there may be a lot of information written to it.

       • --log-facilty-dtmf=daemon|local0|...|local7|...

         Same as --log-facility with the difference that only DTMF events are written to this log facility.  DTMF events are extracted from RTP packets conforming to RFC 4733, are encoded in JSON format,
         and written as soon as the end of an event is detected.

       • --log-format=default|parsable

         Selects  between multiple log output styles.  The default is to prefix log lines with a description of the relevant entity, such as [CALLID] or [CALLID port 12345].  The parsable output style is
         similar, but makes the ID easier to parse by enclosing it in quotes, such as [ID=“CALLID”] or [ID=“CALLID” port=“12345”].

       • --dtmf-log-dest=IP46:PORT

         Configures a target address for logging detected DTMF event.  Similar to the feature enabled by --log-facilty-dtmf, but instead of writing detected DTMF events to syslog,  this  sends  the  JSON
         payload to the given address as UDP packets.

       • --dtmf-log-ng-tcp

         If --listen-tcp-ng is enabled, this will send DTMF events to all connected clients encoded in bencode format.

       • --dtmf-no-log-injects If --dtmf-no-log-injects is enabled, DTMF events resulting from a call to inject-DTMF won’t be sent to --dtmf-log-dest= or --listen-tcp-ng

       • --dtmf-no-suppress

         Some  RTP clients continue to send audio RTP packets during a DTMF event, resulting in both audio packets and DTMF packets appearing simultaneously.  By default, when transcoding, rtpengine sup‐
         presses audio packets during a DTMF event and will only send DTMF packets until the DTMF event is over.  Setting this option disables this feature.

       • --log-srtp-keys

         Write SRTP keys to error log instead of debug log.

       • -E, --log-stderr

         Log to stderr instead of syslog.  Only useful in combination with --foreground.

       • --split-logs

         Split multi-line log messages into individual log messages so that each line receives its own log line prefix.

       • --max-log-line-length=INT

         Split log lines into multiple lines when they exceed the character count given here.  Can be set to a negative value to allow unlimited length log lines.  Set to  zero  for  the  default  value,
         which is unlimited if logging to stderr, or 500 if logging to syslog.

       • --no-log-timestamps

         Don’t add timestamps to log lines written to stderr.  Only useful in combination with --log-stderr.

       • --log-name=STRING

         Set the id to be printed in syslog.  Defaults to rtpengine.

       • --log-mark-prefix=STRING

         Prefix to be added to particular data fields in log files that are deemed sensitive and/or private information.  Defaults to an empty string.

       • --log-mark-suffix=STRING

         Suffix to be added to particular data fields in log files that are deemed sensitive and/or private information.  Defaults to an empty string.

       • --num-threads=INT

         How  many worker threads to create, must be at least one.  The default is to create as many threads as there are CPU cores available.  If the number of CPU cores cannot be determined or if it is
         less than four, then the default is four.

       • --media-num-threads=INT

         Number of threads to launch for media playback.  Defaults to the same number as num-threads.  This can be set to zero if no media playback functionality is desired.

         Media playback is actually handled by two threads: One for reading and decoding the media file, and another to schedule and send out RTP packets.  So for example, if this option is set to 4,  in
         total 8 threads will be launched.

       • --codec-num-threads=INT

         Enables  asynchroneous  transcoding  operation  using  the  specified  number of worker threads.  This is an experimental feature and probably doesn’t bring any benefits over normal synchroneous
         transcoding.

       • --poller-size=INT

         Set the maximum number of event items (file descriptors) to retrieve from the underlying system poll mechanism per iteration.  Defaults to 128.  A lower number can lead to improved  load-balanc‐
         ing among a large number of threads.

       • --thread-stack=INT

         Set the stack size of each thread to the value given in kB.  Defaults to 2048 kB.  Can be set to -1 to leave the default provided by the OS unchanged.

       • --evs-lib-path=FILE

         Points to the shared object file (.so) containing the reference implementation for the EVS codec.  See the README for more details.

       • --sip-source

         The  original  rtpproxy as well as older version of rtpengine by default did not honour IP addresses given in the SDP body, and instead used the source address of the received SIP message as de‐
         fault endpoint address.  Newer versions of rtpengine reverse this behaviour and honour the addresses given in the SDP body by default.  This option restores the old behaviour.

       • --dtls-passive

         Enables the DTLS=passive flag for all calls unconditionally.

       • -d, --delete-delay=INT

         Delete the call after the specified delay from memory.  Can be set to zero for immediate call deletion.

       • -r, --redis=[PW@]IP:PORT/INT

         Connect to specified Redis database (with the given database number) and use it for persistence storage.  The format of this option is ADDRESS:PORT/DBNUM, for example 127.0.0.1:6379/12  to  con‐
         nect to the Redis DB number 12 running on localhost on the default Redis port.

         If  the  Redis  database  is protected with an authentication password, the password can be supplied by prefixing the argument value with the password, separated by an @ symbol, for example foo‐
         bar@127.0.0.1:6379/12.  Note that this leaves the password visible in the process list, posing a security risk if untrusted users access the same system.  As an  alternative,  the  password  can
         also be supplied in the shell environment through the environment variable RTPENGINE_REDIS_AUTH_PW.

         On  startup,  rtpengine will read the contents of this database and restore all calls stored therein.  During runtime operation, rtpengine will continually update the database’s contents to keep
         it current, so that in case of a service disruption, the last state can be restored upon a restart.

         When this option is given, rtpengine will delay startup until the Redis database adopts the master role (but see below).

       • -w, --redis-write=[PW@]IP:PORT/INT

         Configures a second Redis database for write operations.  If this option is given in addition to the first one, then the first database will be used for read operations  (i.e. to  restore  calls
         from) while the second one will be used for write operations (to update states in the database).

         For password protected Redis servers, the environment variable for the password is RTPENGINE_REDIS_WRITE_AUTH_PW.

         When both options are given, rtpengine will start and use the Redis database regardless of the database’s role (master or slave).

       • --redis-subscribe=[PW@]IP:PORT[/INT]

         Configures  a  Redis  database for subscribing and receiving notifications.  This option takes precedence over --redis, if configured.  When --subscribe-keyspace is also configured, the keyspace
         part of --redis-subscribe= is not used, the former takes precedence.  The keyspace number can also be omitted altogether.

         For password protected Redis servers, the environment variable for the password is RTPENGINE_REDIS_SUBSCRIBE_AUTH_PW.

       • -k, --subscribe-keyspace=INT

         List of redis keyspaces to subscribe.  When it and --redis-subscribe= are not present, no keyspaces are subscribed (default behaviour).  In conjunction with --redis-subscribe=,  --subscribe-key‐
         space= overwrites the keyspaces to subscribe to.

         Further subscriptions could be added/removed via rtpengine-ctl ksadd/ksrm.  This may lead to enabling/disabling of the redis keyspace notification feature.

         The list of keyspace subscriptions can initially be left empty, but if any keyspaces are to be added later during runtime, the feature must still be configured at rtpengine startup.  This can be
         achieved by either setting --redis-subscribe= to a valid address, or by listing the single value -1 under --subscribe-keyspace=.

       • --redis-num-threads=INT

         How many redis restore threads to create.  The default is 4.

       • --redis-expires=INT

         Expire time in seconds for redis keys.  Default is 86400.

       • --active-switchover

         With this option enabled, any activity (such as signalling or media) on a call that was created through a Redis keyspace notification will make rtpengine take control of that call.  Without this
         option, an explicit command is required for rtpengine to take (or relinquish) control of a call.

       • -q, --no-redis-required

         When  this parameter is present or NO*REDIS*REQUIRED=`yes' or `1' in the config file, rtpengine starts even if there is no initial connection to redis databases (either to -r or to -w or to both
         redis).

         Be aware that if the -r redis cannot be initially connected, sessions are not reloaded upon rtpengine startup, even though rtpengine still starts.

       • --redis-allowed-errors

         If this parameter is present and has a value >= 0, it will configure how many consecutive errors are allowed when communicating with a redis server before the redis communication  will  be  tem‐
         porarily  disabled  for that server.  While the communication is disabled there will be no attempts to reconnect to redis or send commands to that server.  Default value is -1, meaning that this
         feature is disabled.  This parameter can also be set or listed via rtpengine-ctl.

       • --redis-disable-time

         This parameter configures the number of seconds redis communication is disabled because of errors.  This works together with redis-allowed-errors parameter.  The default value is 10.  This para‐
         meter can also be set or listed via rtpengine-ctl.

       • --redis-cmd-timeout=INT

         If this parameter is set to a non-zero value it will set the timeout, in milliseconds, for each command to the redis server.  If redis does not reply within the  specified  timeout  the  command
         will  fail.  The default value is 0, meaning that the commands will be blocking without timeout.  This parameter can also be set or listed via rtpengine-ctl; note that setting the parameter to 0
         will require a reconnect on all configured redis servers.

       • --redis-connect-timeout=INT

         This parameter sets the timeout value, in milliseconds, when connecting to a redis server.  If the connection cannot be made within the specified timeout the connection will fail.  Note that  in
         case  of failure, when reconnecting to redis, a PING command is issued before attempting to connect so the --redis-cmd-timeout value will also be added to the total waiting time.  This is useful
         if using --redis-allowed-errors, when attempting to estimate the total lost time in case of redis failures.  The default value for the connection timeout is 1000ms.  This parameter can  also  be
         set or listed via rtpengine-ctl.

       • --redis-resolve-on-reconnect

         Enable  `redis  resolve  on reconnect' functionality: when re-connecting to the remote redis server try to re-resolve if the redis hostname was an FQDN and not IP address.  It is a boolean value
         (either true or false).

       • --redis-format=bencode|JSON

         Selects the format for serialised call data written to Redis or KeyDB.  The old default (and previously only option) was as a JSON object.  The new default is using  bencode  formatting.   Using
         bencode has the benefit of yielding better performance and lower CPU usage, while making the data less human readable.

         Both formats can be restored from, regardless of this setting.

       • -b, --b2b-url=STRING

         Enables  and  sets  the URI for an XMLRPC callback to be made when a call is torn down due to packet timeout.  The special code %% can be used in place of an IP address, in which case the source
         address of the originating request (or alternatively the address specified using the xmlrpc-callback ng protocol option) will be used.

       • -x, --xmlrpc-format=INT

         Selects the internal format of the XMLRPC callback message for B2BUA call teardown.  0 is for SEMS, 1 is for a generic format containing the call-ID only, 2 is for Kamailio.

       • --max-sessions=INT

         Limit the number of maximum concurrent sessions.  Set at startup via max-sessions in config file.  Set at runtime via rtpengine-ctl util.  Setting the rtpengine-ctl set maxsessions 0 can be used
         in draining rtpengine sessions.  Enable feature: max-sessions=1000 Enable feature: rtpengine-ctl set maxsessions >= 0 Disable feature: rtpengine-ctl set maxsessions -1 By default, the feature is
         disabled (i.e. maxsessions == -1).

       • --max-load=FLOAT

         If the current 1-minute load average exceeds the value given here, reject new sessions until the load average drops below the threshold.

       • --max-cpu=FLOAT

         If the current CPU usage (in percent) exceeds the value given here, reject new sessions until the CPU usage drops below the threshold.  CPU usage is sampled in 0.5-second intervals.   Only  sup‐
         ported on systems providing a Linux-style /proc/stat.

       • --max-bandwidth=INT

         If  the current bandwidth usage (in bytes per second) exceeds the value given here, reject new sessions until the bandwidth usage drops below the threshold.  Bandwidth usage is sampled in 1-sec‐
         ond intervals and is based on received packets, not sent packets.

       • --max-recv-iters=INT

         This parameter sets maximum continuous reading cycles in UDP poller loop, can help to avoid dropped packets errors on bursty streams (default 50).

       • --homer=IP46:PORT

         Enables sending the decoded contents of RTCP packets to a Homer SIP capture server.  The transport is HEP version 3 and payload format is JSON.  This argument takes an IP address and a port num‐
         ber as value.  Also enables sending the control NG traffic to a capturing agent.  Payload format does not apply in this case.

       • --homer-protocol=udp|tcp

         Can be either udp or tcp with udp being the default.

       • --homer-id=INT

         The HEP protocol used by Homer contains a “capture ID” used to distinguish different sources of capture data.  This ID can be specified using this argument.

       • --homer-disable-rtcp-stats

         Disables the default behaviour that RTCP stats are sent when homer parameter is set.  Sending of RTCP and NG are as such decoupled.

       • --homer-enable-ng

         Enables sending control NG packages to a Homer capturing software.  The capturing agent part is not officialy supported OOTB, but it can be achieved with Kamailio by using the config.  For  this
         feature to work one has to set at least the homer parameter.

       • --homer-ng-capture-proto=INT

         The  HEP protocol used by Homer contains a “Capture protocol type” UINT8 used by the capturing agent and UI to make further processing.  Some values are registered, but currently 0x3d values on‐
         wards are free.  Default value is 0x3d (61).

       • --recording-dir=FILE

         An optional argument to specify a path to a directory where PCAP recording files and recording metadata files should be stored.  If not specified, support for call recording will be disabled.

         rtpengine supports multiple mechanisms for recording calls.  See recording-method below for a list.  The default recording method pcap is described in this section.

         PCAP files will be stored within a pcap subdirectory and metadata within a metadata subdirectory.

         The format for a metadata file is (with a trailing newline):

                      /path/to/recording-pcap.pcap

                      SDP mode: offer
                      SDP before RTP packet: 1

                      first SDP

                      SDP mode: answer
                      SDP before RTP packet: 1

                      second SDP

                      ...

                      SDP mode: answer
                      SDP before RTP packet: 100

                      n-th and final SDP

                      start timestamp (YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss)
                      end timestamp   (YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss)

                      generic metadata

         There are two empty lines between each logic block of metadata.  We write out all answer SDP, each separated from one another by one empty line.  The generic metadata  at  the  end  can  be  any
         length with any number of lines.  Metadata files will appear in the subdirectory when the call completes.  PCAP files will be written to the subdirectory as the call is being recorded.

         Since call recording via this method happens entirely in userspace, in-kernel packet forwarding cannot be used for calls that are currently being recorded and packet forwarding will thus be done
         in userspace only.

       • --recording-method=pcap|proc|all

         Multiple methods of call recording are supported and this option can be used to select one.  Currently supported are the method pcap, proc and all.  The default method is pcap and is the one de‐
         scribed above.

         The recording method proc works by writing metadata files directly into the recording-dir (i.e. not into a subdirectory) and instead of recording RTP packet data into pcap files, the packet data
         is  exposed via a special interface in the /proc filesystem.  Packets must then be retrieved from this interface by a dedicated userspace component (usually a daemon such as recording-daemon in‐
         cluded in this repository).

         Packet data is held in kernel memory until retrieved by the userspace component, but only a limited number of packets (default 10) per media stream.  If packets are not retrieved in  time,  they
         will be simply discarded.  This makes it possible to flag all calls to be recorded and then leave it to the userspace component to decided whether to use the packet data for any purpose or not.

         In-kernel packet forwarding is fully supported with this recording method even for calls being recorded.

         The recording method all will enable both pcap and proc at the same time.

       • --recording-format=raw|eth

         When recording to pcap file in raw (default) format, there is no ethernet header.  When set to eth, a fake ethernet header is added, making each package 14 bytes larger.

       • --record-egress

         Apply  media  recording  to egress media streams (as they are sent by rtpengine) instead of media streams as they are received.  This makes it possible to include manipulated and generated media
         (such as from the play media command) in the recordings.

       • --iptables-chain=STRING

         This option enables explicit management of an iptables chain.  When enabled, rtpengine takes control of the given iptables chain, which must exist already prior to  starting  the  daemon.   Upon
         startup,  rtpengine  will  flush  the chain, and then add one ACCEPT rule for each media port (RTP/RTCP) opened.  Each rule will exactly match the individual port and destination IP address, and
         will be created with the call ID as iptables comment.  The rule will be deleted when the port is closed.

         This option allows creating a firewall with a default DROP policy for the entire port range used by rtpengine and then referencing the given iptables chain to only selectively  allow  the  ports
         actually in use.

         Note that this applies only to media ports, and does not apply to any other ports (such as the control ports) used by rtpengine.

         Also note that the iptables API is not the most efficient one around and does not lend itself to fast dynamic creation and deletion of rules.  If you have a high call volume, and especially many
         call  attempts per second, you might experience significant performance impact.  This is not a shortcoming of rtpengine but rather of iptables and its API implementation in the Linux kernel.  In
         such a case, it is recommended to add a static iptables rule for the entire media port range instead, and not use this option.

       • --scheduling=default|...

       • --priority=INT

       • --idle-scheduling=default|...

       • --idle-priority=INT

         These options control various thread scheduling parameters.  The scheduling and priority settings are applied to the main worker threads, while the idle- versions of these settings  are  applied
         to various lower priority threads, such as timer runs.

         The  scheduling  settings take the name of one of the supported scheduler policies.  Setting it to default or none is equivalent to not setting the option at all and leaves the system default in
         place.  The strings fifo and rr refer to realtime scheduling policies.  other is the Linux default scheduling policy.  batch is similar to other except for a small  wake-up  scheduling  penalty.
         idle  is  an  extremely low priority scheduling policy.  The Linux-specific deadline policy is not supported by rtpengine.  Not all systems necessarily supports all scheduling policies; refer to
         your system’s sched(7) man page for details.

         The priority settings correspond to the scheduling priority for realtime (fifo or rr) scheduling policies and must be in the range of 1 (low) through 99 (high).  For all other  scheduling  poli‐
         cies  (including no policy specified), the priority settings correspond to the nice value and should be in the range of -20 (high) through 19 (low).  Not all systems support thread-specific nice
         values; on such a system, using these settings might have unexpected results.  (Linux does support thread-specific nice values.)  Refer to your system’s sched(7) man page.

       • --mysql-host=HOST|IP

       • --mysql-port=INT

       • --mysql-user=USERNAME

       • --mysql-pass=PASSWORD

         Configuration for playing back media files that are stored in a MySQL (or MariaDB) database.  At least mysql-host must be configured for this to work.  The others are  optional  and  default  to
         their respective values from the MySQL/MariaDB client library.

       • --mysql-query=STRING

         Query  to  be  used for retrieving media files from the database.  No default exist, therefore this is a mandatory configuration for media playback from database.  The provided query string must
         contain the single format placeholder %llu and must not contain any other format placeholders.  The ID value passed to rtpengine in the db-id key of the play media message will be used in  place
         of the placeholder when querying the database.

         An example configuration might look like this:

                  mysql-query = select data from voip.files where id = %llu

       • --endpoint-learning=delayed|immediate|off|heuristic

         Chooses one of the available algorithms to learn RTP endpoint addresses.  The legacy setting is delayed which waits 3 seconds before committing to an endpoint address, which is then learned from
         the  first  incoming RTP packet seen after this delay.  The setting immediate learns the endpoint address from the first incoming packet seen without the 3-second delay.  Using off disables end‐
         point learning altogether, likely breaking clients behind NAT.  The setting heuristic includes the 3-second delay, but source addresses seen from incoming RTP packets  are  ranked  according  to
         preference:  If  a  packet with a source address and port matching the SDP address is seen, this address is used.  Otherwise, if a packet with a matching source address (but a different port) is
         seen, that address is used.  Otherwise, if a packet with a matching source port (but different address) is seen, that address is used.  Otherwise, the source address of any incoming packet  seen
         is used.

       • --jitter-buffer=INT

         Size of (incoming) jitter buffer in packets.  A value of zero (the default) disables the jitter buffer.  The jitter buffer is currently only implemented for userspace operation.

       • --jb-clock-drift

         Enable clock drift compensation for the jitter buffer.

       • --debug-srtp

         Enable  extra  log  messages  to help debug SRTP issues.  Per-packet details such as sequence numbers, ROC, payloads (plain text and encrypted), authentication tags, etc are recorded to the log.
         Every RTCP packet is logged in this way, while every 512th RTP packet is logged.  Only applies to packets forwarded/processed in userspace.

       • --reject-invalid-sdp

         With this option set, refuse to process SDP bodies that could not be cleanly parsed, instead of skipping over the parsing error and processing the SDP anyway.  Currently this  only  affects  the
         processing of SDP bodies that end in a blank line.

       • --listen-http=[IP|HOSTNAME:]PORT

       • --listen-https=[IP|HOSTNAME:]PORT

         Enable listening for HTTP or WebSocket connections, or their TLS-secured counterparts HTTPS and WSS.  If no interface is specified, then the listening socket will be bound to all interfaces.

         The HTTP listener supports both HTTP and WS, while the HTTPS listener supports both HTTPS and WSS.

         If HTTPS/WSS is enabled, a certificate must also be provided using the options below.

       • --https-cert=FILE

       • --https-key=FILE

         Provide a server certificate and corresponding private key for the HTTPS/WSS listener, in PEM format.

       • --http-threads=INT

         Number of worker threads for HTTP/HTTPS/WS/WSS.  If not specified, then the same number as given under num-threads will be used.  If no HTTP listeners are enabled, then no threads are created.

       • --http-buf-size=INT

         Set the internal buffer size used by the HTTP/HTTPS/WS/WSS library, in kilobytes.  If unset or less than or equal to zero, then the implementation-defined default will be used.  Set this to 1024
         (one megabyte) or larger if you experience high WS activity, to improve performance and prevent possible protocol hiccups.

       • --software-id=STRING

         Sets  a free-form string that is used to identify this software towards external systems with, for example in outgoing ICE/STUN requests.  Defaults to rtpengine-VERSION.  The string is sanitised
         to replace all non-alphanumeric characters with a dash to make it universally usable.

       • --dtx-delay=INT

         Processing delay in milliseconds to handle discontinuous transmission (DTX) or other transmission gaps.  Defaults to zero (disabled) and is applicable to transcoded audio streams only.  When en‐
         abled, delays processing of received packets for the specified time (much like a jitter buffer) in order to trigger DTX handling when a transmission gap occurs.  The decoder is  then  instructed
         to fill in the missing time during a transmission gap, for example by generating comfort noise.  The delay should be configured to be higher than the expected incoming jitter.

       • --max-dtx=INT

         Maximum  duration for DTX handling in seconds.  If no further RTP media is received within this time frame, then DTX processing will stop.  Can be set to zero or negative to disable and keep DTX
         processing on indefinitely.  Defaults to 30 seconds.

       • --dtx-buffer=INT

       • --dtx-lag=INT

         These two options together control the maximum number of packets and amount of audio that is allowed to be held in the DTX buffer.  The dtx-buffer option limits the number of packets held in the
         DTX buffer, while the dtx-lag option limits the amount of audio (in milliseconds) to be held in the DTX buffer.  A DTX buffer overflow is declared when both limits are exceeded,  in  which  case
         DTX processing is sped up by dtx-shift milliseconds.

         The defaults are 10 packets and 100 milliseconds.

       • --dtx-shift=INT

         Amount  of  time  in milliseconds that DTX processing is shifted forward (sped up) or backwards (delayed) in case of a DTX buffer overflow or underflow.  An underflow occurs when RTP packets are
         received slower than expected, while an overflow occurs when packets are received faster than expected.

         If this value is set to zero then no adjustments of the DTX timer will be made.  Instead, in order to keep up with the flow of received RTP packets, packets will be dropped or additional DTX au‐
         dio will be generated as needed.

       • --dtx-cn-params=INT

         Specify one comfort noise parameter.  This option follows the same format as cn-payload described below.

         This option is applicable to audio generated to fill in transmission gaps during a DTX event.  The default setting is no value, which means silence will be generated to fill in DTX gaps.

         If any CN parameters are configured, the parameters will be passed to an RFC 3389 CN decoder, and the generated comfort noise will be used to fill in DTX gaps.

       • --amr-dtx=native|CN

       • --evs-dtx=native|CN

         Select the DTX behaviour for AMR and EVS codecs, respectively.  The default is use the codec’s internal processing: during a DTX event, a “no data” frame is passed to the decoder and the  output
         is used as audio data.

         If CN is selected here, the same DTX mechanism as other codecs use is used for AMR/EVS, which is to fill in DTX gaps with either silence or RFC 3389 comfort noise (see dtx-cn-params).  This also
         affects processing of received SID frames: SID frames would not be passed to the codec but instead be replaced by generated silence or comfort noise.

       • --silence-detect=FLOAT

         Enable silence detection and specify threshold in percent.  This option is applicable to transcoded stream only and defaults to zero (disabled).

         When  enabled, silence detection will be performed on all transcoded audio streams.  The threshold specified here is the sensitivity for detecting silence: higher thresholds result in more audio
         to be detected as silence, while lower thresholds result in less audio to be detected as silence.  The threshold is specified as percent between zero and 100.  If set  to  100,  then  all  audio
         would be detected as silence; if set to 50, then any audio that is quieter than 50% of the maximum volume would be detected as silence; and so on.  Setting it to zero disables silence detection.
         To  only  detect silence that is very near or equal to absolute silence, set this value to a low number such as 0.01.  (For certain codecs such as PCMA, a higher minimum threshold is required to
         detect complete silence, as their compressed payloads don’t decode to actual silence but instead have a residual DC offset.  For PCMA the minimum value is 0.013.)

         Audio that is detected as silence will be replaced by comfort noise as specified by the cn-payload option (see below).  Currently this is applicable only to RTP peers that have  advertised  sup‐
         port for the CN RTP payload type, in which case the silence audio frames will be replaced by CN RTP frames.

       • --cn-payload=INT

         Specify  one comfort noise parameter.  This option can be given multiple times and the format follows RFC 3389.  When specified at the command line, list the --cn-payload= option multiple times,
         each one specifying a single CN parameter.  When used in the config file, list the option only a single time and  list  multiple  CN  parameters  separated  by  semicolons  (e.g.   cn-payload  =
         20;40;60).

         The  first CN payload value given is the noise level, specified as -dBov as per RFC 3389.  This means that a noise level of zero corresponds to maximum volume, while higher numbers correspond to
         lower volumes.  The highest allowable number is 127, corresponding to -127 dBov, which is near silence.

         Subsequent CN payload values carry spectral information (reflection coefficients) as per RFC 3389.  Allowable values for each coefficient are between 0 and 254.  Specifying spectral  information
         is optional and the number of coefficients listed (model order) is variable.

         This  option is applicable only to CN packets generated from the silence detection mechanism described above.  The configured CN parameters are used directly as payload of CN packets sent by rt‐
         pengine.

         The default values are 32 (-32 dBov) for the noise level and no spectral information.

       • --player-cache

         Enable caching of encoded media packets for media player.  This is applicable for media playback initiated through the play media command.  When enabled rtpengine will not  simply  decode  given
         media  files and then encode the media to RTP on demand and on the fly, but will rather decode and encode each media file in full the first time playback is requested, and then cache the result‐
         ing RTP packets in memory.  This is done once for each media file and for each output RTP codec requested.

         Caching is done based on unique file name (with no consideration given to different file names that may point to the same file), or integer index for media files played from database.  No  veri‐
         fication  of  changing  content  of  files or database entries is done.  Media files provided as binary blob are also cached, although in this case a hash over the entire media file must be per‐
         formed, therefore this usage is not recommended.

         It’s not possible to choose a different start-pos for playback with this option enabled.

         RTP data is cached and retained in memory for the lifetime of the process.

       • --moh-max-duration=INT

         Music-on-hold max possible duration (in ms).  When not defined (set to 0), it takes 1800000ms default value (half an hour).

       • --moh-max-repeats=INT

         Music-on-hold max possible repeats.  moh-max-duration always takes a precedence over it.  By default is always 999 if not defined otherwise.

       • --moh-attr-name=STRING

         Controls the value to be added to the session level of SDP whenever MoH is triggered.  If not defined, then not in use.

       • --moh-prevent-double-hold

         Protects against double MoH played, e.g. when inadvertently two rtpengine instances in the interaction chain both try to trigger MoH.

         Works in combination with moh-attr-name, which must be defined in order to give a clue to rtpengine, what is the session level attribute to be used for a double hold detection.

         If not defined, then not in use.

       • --kernel-player=INT

       • --kernel-player-media=INT

         Enables and configures the kernel-based media player.  Disabled by default and only available if the kernel module is in use, and requires player-cache to also be enabled.

         When enabled, media playback will be handled by a set of kernel threads.  The option kernel-player defaults to zero and needs to set to non-zero to enable the feature.  The number given  to  the
         option is the maximum number of concurrent kernel media players that can be used.

         The  option  kernel-player-media configures the maximum number of unique media “files” that can be stored for playback in the kernel module.  Media files requested for playback are first decoded
         by the player-cache feature, and then given to the kernel module in a pre-encoded format for quick playback.  Defaults to 128.

         Both player slots and media slots are shared among all instances of rtpengine (using different kernel table IDs) running on a system using the same kernel module.  Unused slots use  minimal  re‐
         sources.

       • --preload-media-files=FILE

         Enables reading of media files at startup and caching them in memory for playback.  Multiple files can be specified.  On the command line, the option must be given multiple times to do so, while
         in the config file the option must be given only once, with the list of files separated by semicolons.

         All  listed  files  will be read into memory at startup and cached there for the lifetime of the daemon.  When playback of one such media file is requested, playback will be done from the cached
         contents instead of opening and reading the file.  The file name given in the play media request must exactly match the file name given in the config option.  If the file name differs (or an en‐
         tirely different file is requested for playback) then playback will happen from file as usual.

         The special string on-demand can be used instead of a file name to enable on-demand loading and caching of media files.  Any file requested for playback that wasn’t already present in the memory
         cache will then be read only once and then retained in the cache for the lifetime of the daemon.

       • --media-files-reload=SECONDS

         Spawn a background thread to periodically check and, if needed, update media files kept in the memory cache.  Each file’s modification timestamp is checked against the last time it was read, and
         if the file was updated since then, it will be re-read and will replace the previous cached contents.

       • --preload-db-media=INT

         Similar to the preload-media-files option, but preloads media from database instead of reading them from files.  Each entry must be an integer  corresponding  to  an  index  from  the  database.
         On-demand loading is also supported by supplying the special string on-demand instead of an index number.

       • --db-media-reload=SECONDS

         Similar  to  the media-files-reload but applicable to media loaded from database.  Note that media stored in a database doesn’t have a modification timestamp, which means that all media will al‐
         ways be reloaded from the database in the given interval.

       • --db-media-cache=PATH

         Enables filesystem-backed caching of media entries from the database.  The given path must be readable and writeable by rtpengine.

         Whenever playback of media from the database is requested, rtpengine first checks if a corresponding cached file within the given path exists.  If it exists, media will be read  from  that  file
         instead of from the database.  If it doesn’t exist, media will be read from the database, and then rtpengine will create the cache file for the next time the same media is requested.

       • --preload-db-cache=INT

         Similar to preload-db-media but populates the filesystem-backed cache instead of storing the media in memory.  On-demand loading is also supported.

       • --cache-media-reload=SECONDS

         Similar to the db-media-reload but applicable to media stored in the filesystem-backed cache.

       • --expiry-timer=SECONDS

       • --media-files-expire=SECONDS

       • --db-media-expire=SECONDS

       • --db-cache-expire=SECONDS

         These options control the automatic removal of entries from the various media caches when and if the entries go unused for a certain amount of time.  By default automatic removal is disabled.

         The  option  expiry-timer  must be set to non-zero for any automatic removal to happen.  It enables creation of a background thread and controls how often this thread should run to check for ex‐
         pired unused cache entries.

         The other options set the maximum allowed age for entries in the respective caches.  If an entry was not used for longer than the given time, it will be removed from the cache.

       • --audio-buffer-length=INT

         Set the buffer length used by the audio player (see below) in milliseconds.  The default is 500 milliseconds.

         The buffer must be long enough to accommodate at least two frames of audio from all contributing sources, which means at least 40 ms or 60 ms for most cases.  If media playback (via the play me‐
         dia) command is desired, then the buffer must be able to accommodate at least one full frame from the source media file, whose length can vary depending on the format of the source  media  file.
         For 8 kHz .wav files this is 256 ms (2048 samples).  Therefore 500 ms is the recommended value.

       • --audio-buffer-delay=INT

         Initial delay for new sources contributing to an audio buffer (used by the audio player, see below) in milliseconds.  The default is 5 ms.

         The initial delay is meant to compensate for varying inter-arrival times of media packets (jitter).  If set too low, intermittent high jitter will result in gaps in the output audio.  If set too
         high, output audio will have an unnecessary latency added to it.

       • --audio-player=on-demand|play-media|transcoding|always

         Define when to enable the audio player if not explicitly instructed otherwise.  The default setting is on-demand.

         Enabling  the  audio  player  for a party to a call makes rtpengine produce its own audio RTP stream (instead of just forwarding an audio stream received from elsewhere).  The audio is generated
         from a circular audio buffer (see above) and all contributing audio sources are mixed into that one audio buffer.  Contributing audio sources are audio  streams  received  from  elsewhere  (that
         would otherwise simply be forwarded) and audio produced by the play media command.

         With this set to on-demand, the audio player is enabled only if explicitly requested by the user for a particular call via the audio-player= option used in a signalling message.

         When  set to play-media, the audio player is enabled only while media playback via the play media command is active.  After media playback is finished, the audio player is again disabled and au‐
         dio goes back to simply being forwarded.

         Setting this option to transcoding leaves the audio player disabled unless any sort of transcoding is required for a call.

         With a setting of always, the audio player is enabled for all calls, unless explicitly disabled via the audio-player= option used in a signalling message.  This  forces  all  audio  through  the
         transcoding engine, even if input and output codecs are the same.

         Audio  player usage can be changed on a call-by-call basis by including the audio-player= option in a signalling message.  This option supports the values transcoding and always, which result in
         the behaviour described just above, and off which forces the audio player to be disabled regardless of this setting.

       • --poller-per-thread

         Enable `poller per thread' functionality: for every worker thread (see the --num-threads option) a poller will be created.  With this option on, it is guaranteed that only a single  thread  will
         ever read from a particular socket, thus maintaining the order of the packets.  Might help when having issues with DTMF packets (RFC 2833).

       • --timer-accuracy=INT

         Minimum  number  of  microseconds that a timer thread is allowed to sleep.  In other words, if a timed event is scheduled sooner than this many microseconds in the future, then the event will be
         executed immediately.  Set to zero for highest accuracy.  Default is 500 microseconds (half a millisecond).

       • --io-uring

         Enable experimental support for io_uring.  Requires Linux kernel 6.0 or later.

         When enabled, instead of the usual polling mechanism each worker thread will set up its own io_uring and use it for polling, as well as directly sending and receiving certain network  data.   In
         particular userspace media data is sent and received directly via io_uring.

         NOTE:  As of the time of writing, worker threads sleeping in an io_uring poll are attributed to the host system as I/O wait CPU usage, with up to 99% CPU time spent in I/O wait (depending on the
         number of worker threads), but without being attributed to any process or thread.  This is not actual CPU usage but rather indicates time spent waiting for a network event, and so should be con‐
         sidered the same as idle CPU time.

       • --io-uring-buffers=INT

         Number of io_uring entries in the buffer allocated from the kernel per thread.  Defaults to 16384.  Must be large enough so that submission entries and completion entries  are  always  available
         when needed.

       • --dtls-cert-cipher=prime256v1|RSA

         Choose  the  type  of  key to use for the signature used by the self-signed certificate used for DTLS.  The previous default was RSA.  The current default and the only other option is prime256v1
         which is a 256-bit elliptic-curve key.

       • --dtls-signature=SHA-256|SHA-1

         Choose the hash algorithm to use for the signature used by the self-signed certificate used for DTLS.  The default is SHA-256.  Not to be confused with the hash algorithm used for  the  certifi‐
         cate fingerprint inserted into the SDP (a=fingerprint:), which is independent of the certificate’s signature and can be selected during runtime.

       • --dtls-rsa-key-size=INT

         Size in bits of the RSA key used by the DTLS certificate, if RSA is in use.  Default is 2048 bits.

       • --dtls-ciphers=STRING

         Ciphers  allowed  during  the  DTLS  key  exchange  (not  to  be confused with the cipher used by the DTLS certificate).  The format of this string is an OpenSSL cipher list.  The default is DE‐
         FAULT:!NULL:!aNULL:!SHA256:!SHA384:!aECDH:!AESGCM+AES256:!aPSK

       • --dtls-mtu=INT

         Set DTLS MTU to enable fragmenting of large DTLS packets.  Defaults to 1200.  Minimum value is 576 as the internet protocol requires that hosts must be able to process IP datagrams of  at  least
         576 bytes (for IPv4) or 1280 bytes (for IPv6).  This does not preclude link layers with an MTU smaller than this minimum MTU from conveying IP data.  Internet IPv4 path MTU is 68 bytes.

       • --mqtt-host=HOST|IP

         Host or IP address of the Mosquitto broker to connect to.  Must be set to enable exporting stats to Mosquitto.

       • --mqtt-port=INT

         Port of the Mosquitto broker.  Defaults to 1883.

       • --mqtt-id=STRING

         Client ID to use for Mosquitto.  Default is a generated random string.

       • --mqtt-keepalive=INT

         Keepalive interval in seconds.  Defaults to 30.

       • --mqtt-user=USERNAME

       • --mqtt-pass=PASSWORD

         Credentials to connect to Mosquitto broker.  At least a username must be given to enable authentication.

       • --mqtt-cafile=FILE

       • --mqtt-capath=PATH

       • --mqtt-certfile=FILE

       • --mqtt-keyfile=FILE

       • --mqtt-tls-alpn=STRING

         Enable  TLS  to  connect to Mosquitto broker, optionally with client certificate authentication.  At least cafile or capath must be given to enable TLS.  To enable client certificate authentica‐
         tion, both certfile and keyfile must be set.  All files must be in PEM format.  Password-proteted files are not supported.  The tls-alpn can be set (e.g. mqtt) if a service  like  AWS  IoT  Core
         shares the same TLS port for two different network protocols.

       • --mqtt-publish-qos=0|1|2

         QoS value to use for publishing to Mosquitto.  See Mosquitto docs for details.

       • --mqtt-publish-topic=STRING

         Topic string to use for publishing to Mosquitto.  Must be set to a non-empty string.

       • --mqtt-publish-interval=MILLISECONDS

         Interval in milliseconds to publish to Mosquitto.  Defaults to 5000 (5 seconds).

       • --mqtt-publish-scope=global|summary|call|media

         When set to summary, one message will be published to Mosquitto every interval milliseconds containing all global stats.  A setting of global has the same effect as summary but will also contain
         a  list  of all running calls with stats for each call.  When set to call, one message per call will be published to Mosquitto with stats for that call every interval milliseconds, plus one mes‐
         sage every interval milliseconds with global stats.  When set to media, one message per call media (usually one media per call participant, so usually 2 media per  call)  will  be  published  to
         Mosquitto with stats for that call media every interval milliseconds, plus one message every interval milliseconds with global stats.

       • --mos=CQ|LQ|G.107|G.107.2|legacy

         Options  influencing  the  MOS  (Mean Opinion Score) calculation formula.  Multiple options can be listed, using multiple --mos=...  arguments at the command line, or using a semicolon-separated
         list in a single mos=... line in the config file.

         CQ and LQ are mutually exclusive and only one of them can be in effect.  Defaults to CQ (conversational quality) which takes RTT into account and therefore requires peers to correctly send RTCP.
         If set to LQ (listening quality) RTT is ignored, allowing a MOS to be calculated in the absence of RTCP.

         The remaining options select a MOS formula and are mutually exclusive.  The default is G.107, which uses a simplified version of the G.107 formula.  The previous default (and  only  option)  was
         legacy, which uses a custom formula which yields slightly higher MOS values than G.107.

         The option G.107.2 uses G.107.2 for fullband audio codecs and the simplified G.107 formula for all other audio codecs.  The full G.107.2 formula is somewhat math-heavy and yields higher MOS val‐
         ues for fullband audio codecs compared to G.107.

       • --measure-rtp

         Enable measuring RTP metrics even for plain RTP passthrough scenarios.  Without that option, RTP metrics are measured only in transcoding scenarios.

       • --rtcp-interval=INT

         Delay  in  milliseconds between RTCP packets when generate-rtcp flag is on.  The effective value includes the random dispersion between 0..1 seconds on top, so the timer execution period is ran‐
         domized and up to 1 sec greater than given value in ms.  Defaults to 5000 ms (5 seconds).

       • --socket-cpu-affinity=INT

         Enables setting the socket CPU affinity via the SO*INCOMING*CPU socket option if available.  The default value is zero which disables this feature.  If set to a  positive  number  then  the  CPU
         affinity for all sockets belonging to the same call will be set to the same value.  The number specifies the upper limit of the affinity to be set, and values will be used in a round-robin fash‐
         ion (e.g. if set to 8 then the values 0 through 7 will be used to set the affinity).  If this option is set to a negative number, then the number of available CPU cores will be used.

       • --client-timeout=INT

       • --client-retries=INT

         For  requests sent to another NG peer, configure timeout and maximum number of retries.  The timeout is in milliseconds, must be larger than zero, and defaults to 50.  The number of retries must
         be larger than zero and defaults to 5.

       • --transcode-config=STR

         Sets the prefix for sections in the config file to use for transcode configurations.  See section TRANSCODE CONFIG below.

INTERFACES
       This section describes the legacy syntax for configuring interfaces, which can equally be used from the configuration file as from the command line.  The new syntax to configure interfaces,  which
       can only be used from the config file, is described at the end of this section, which now is the preferred method as it supports additional options.

   Legacy Syntax
       The  command-line options -i or --interface, or equivalently the interface config file option, specify local network interfaces for RTP.  At least one must be given, but multiple can be specified.
       The format of the value is [NAME/]IP[!IP] with IP being either an IPv4 address, an IPv6 address, the name of a system network interface (such as eth0), a DNS host name (such as  test.example.com),
       or any.

       The  possibility  of  configuring  a network interface by name rather than by address should not be confused with the logical interface name used internally by rtpengine (as described below).  The
       NAME token in the syntax above refers to the internal logical interface name, while the name of a system network interface is used in place of the first IP token in the syntax above.  For example,
       to configure a logical network interface called int using all the addresses from the existing system network interface eth0, you would use the syntax int/eth0.  (Unless omitted, the second IP  to‐
       ken used for the advertised address must be an actual network address and cannot be an interface name.)

       If DNS host names are used instead of addresses or interface names, the lookup will be done only once during daemon start-up.

       The  special  keyword any can be used to listen on any and all available local interface addresses except from loopback devices.  This keyword should only be given once in place of a more explicit
       interface configuration.

       To configure multiple interfaces using the command-line options, simply present multiple -i or --interface options.  When using the config file, only use a single interface line, but specify  mul‐
       tiple values separated by semicolons (e.g.  interface = internal/12.23.34.45;external/23.34.45.54).

   System Network Interfaces
       If  an interface option is given using a system interface name in place of a network address, and if multiple network address are found configured on that network interface, then rtpengine behaves
       as if multiple --interface options had been specified.  For example, if interface eth0 exists with both addresses 192.168.1.120 and 2001:db8:85a3::7334 configured on it, and if the option --inter‐
       face=ext/eth0 is given, then rtpengine would behave as if both options --interface=ext/192.168.1.120 and --interface=ext/2001:db8:85a3::7334 had been specified.

   Advertised Address
       The second IP address after the exclamation point is optional and can be used if the address to advertise in outgoing SDP bodies should be different from the actual local  address.   This  can  be
       useful  in  certain cases, such as your SIP proxy being behind NAT.  For example, --interface=10.65.76.2!192.0.2.4 means that 10.65.76.2 is the actual local address on the server, but outgoing SDP
       bodies should advertise 192.0.2.4 as the address that endpoints should talk to.  Note that you may have to escape the exclamation point from your shell when using command-line options,  e.g. using
       \!.

   Interface Names
       Giving  an  interface  a name (separated from the address by a slash) is optional; if omitted, the name default is used.  Names are useful to create logical interfaces which consist of one or more
       local addresses.  It is then possible to instruct rtpengine to use particular interfaces when processing an SDP message, to use different local addresses when talking to different endpoints.   The
       most common use case for this is to bridge between one or more private IP networks and the public internet.

       For  example,  if  clients  coming  from a private IP network must communicate their RTP with the local address 10.35.2.75, while clients coming from the public internet must communicate with your
       other local address 192.0.2.67, you could create one logical interface pub and a second one priv by using --interface=pub/192.0.2.67 --interface=priv/10.35.2.75.  You can then  use  the  direction
       option to tell rtpengine which local address to use for which endpoints (either pub or priv).

       If multiple logical interfaces are configured, but the direction option is not given in a particular call, then the first interface given on the command line will be used.

   Multiple Addresses per Interface
       It  is  possible  to  specify  multiple  addresses  for  the  same  logical  interface  (the  same name).  Most commonly this would be one IPv4 addrsess and one IPv6 address, for example: --inter‐
       face=192.168.63.1 --interface=fe80::800:27ff:fe00:0.  In this example, no interface name is given, therefore both addresses will be added to a logical interface named default.  You would  use  the
       address family option to tell rtpengine which address to use in a particular case.

       It  is also possible to have multiple addresses of the same family in a logical network interface.  In this case, the first address (of a particular family) given for an interface will be the pri‐
       mary address used by rtpengine for most purposes.  Any additional addresses will be advertised as additional ICE candidates with increasingly lower priority.  This is useful on multi-homed systems
       and allows endpoints to choose the best possible path to reach the RTP proxy.  If ICE is not being used, then additional addresses will go unused, even though ports would still  get  allocated  on
       those interfaces.

   Round-Robin Address Selection
       Another  option is to give interface names in the format BASE:SUFFIX.  This allows interfaces to be used in a round-robin fashion, useful for load-balancing the port ranges of multiple interfaces.
       For example, consider the following configuration: --interface=pub:1/192.0.2.67 --interface=pub:2/10.35.2.75.  These two  interfaces  can  still  be  referenced  directly  by  name  (e.g.   direc‐
       tion=pub:1),  but  it is now also possible to reference only the base name (i.e. direction=pub).  If the base name is used, one of the two interfaces is selected in a round-robin fashion, and only
       if the interface actually has enough open ports available.  This makes it possible to effectively increase the number of available media ports across multiple IP addresses.  There is no  limit  on
       how many interfaces can share the same base name.

       It  is  possible  to combine the BASE:SUFFIX notation with specifying multiple addresses for the same interface name.  An advanced example could be (using config file notation, and omitting actual
       network addresses):

              interface = pub:1/IPv4;pub:1/IPv4;pub:1/IPv6;pub:2/IPv4;pub:2/IPv6;pub:3/IPv6;pub:4/IPv4

       In this example, when direction=pub is IPv4 is needed as a primary address, either pub:1, pub:2, or pub:4 might be selected.  When pub:1 is selected, one IPv4 and one IPv6 address will be used  as
       additional  ICE  alternatives.  For pub:2, only one IPv6 is used as ICE alternative, and for pub:4 no alternatives would be used.  When IPv6 is needed as a primary address, either pub:1, pub:2, or
       pub:3 might be selected.  If at any given time not enough ports are available on any interface, it will not be selected by the round-robin algorithm.

       It is possible to use the round-robin algorithm even if the direction is not given.  If the first given interface has the BASE:SUFFIX format then the round-robin algorithm is used and will  select
       interfaces with the same BASE name.

   Alias Names
       Interface alias names can be created using the ALIAS=NAME syntax.  The alias must be listed after the primary interface that it references.  For example, to create an actual logical interface pub1
       and then an alias pub for that interface:

              interface = pub1/IPv4;pub=pub1

       Interface  aliases are useful in combination with Redis replication.  If an interface is referred to via an alias name (e.g. direction=pub), then the interface’s actual name (pub1 in this example)
       is propagated into the Redis storage and thus to any dependent standby instances.  These standby instances can then have different address configurations for that interface, which makes it  possi‐
       ble to facilitate failover with static addressing (for example behind an IP load balancer).

   Legacy Protocols
       If  you  are  not using the NG protocol but rather the legacy UDP protocol used by the rtpproxy module, the interfaces must be named internal and external corresponding to the i and e flags if you
       wish to use network bridging in this mode.

   New Configuration-File Based Syntax
       When a configuration file is in use, instead of having to list multiple interfaces in one long line in the config file, it’s now possible to use config file sections (or “groups”) for a more  con‐
       venient  way  to  configure  and manage multiple interfaces.  To use it, instead of setting the interface option to any value, the option interfaces-config must be set to a non-empty string.  This
       string is a prefix, which rtpengine uses to look in the config file for config sections (groups) that contain interface configurations.

       For example, if the setting interfaces-config = interface is present in the config file, rtpengine would consider config file sections starting with the string interface and followed by a dash  to
       be  interface configurations.  The remainder of the name of the config section (the part after the dash) becomes the default name of the interface.  The name for the interface can then be overrid‐
       den within the config section (see below).

       NOTE: The names of config sections must be unique within the config file, and each interface config can list only a single address.  To add multiple addresses to the same  logical  interface,  the
       name of the logical interfaces must necessarily be explicitly set in each config section, instead of relying on the name extracted from the name of the config section.

       Each  config section must at least define an interface address by setting the address option, or define an alias interface (as described above) by setting the alias option.  The option name can be
       set to override the default name extracted from the name of the config section.

       Non-alias interfaces support the additional option advertised to set the advertised address, as well as port-min and port-max to set a port  range  different  from  the  global  setting,  and  ex‐
       clude-ports taking a list of semicolon-separated port numbers to exclude individual ports from the port range.  Multiple interfaces sharing the same IP address are allowed to use different, possi‐
       bly overlapping, port ranges.  Round-robin interface usage is supported in the same way as described above, i.e. by using a colon and a suffix as part of the interface name.

       Interface  sections  are  processed in order, and as such the first one listed becomes the default interface.  If both legacy syntax and new configuration-file based syntax are in use, then inter‐
       faces from the legacy syntax are processed first.

       A complete example:

              [rtpengine]
              interfaces-config = interface

              # Create an interface "default" and pick up any non-local addresses
              # that are bound to the system at startup.
              [interface-default]
              address = any

              # Create an interface "external" and pick up any addresses bound
              # to the physical interface "enp63s0".
              [interface-external]
              address = enp63s0

              # Create an interface "internal" with an explicitly set address,
              # and also set the advertised address.
              [interface-internal]
              address = 192.168.67.43
              advertised = 203.0.113.7

              # Create an interface "ICE" and add all addresses bound to the
              # physical interface "enp63s0". Use a mismatched but unique name for
              # the interface section so more addresses can be added to this
              # interface.
              [interface-ICE-1]
              name = ICE
              address = enp63s0

              # Add addresses from interface "enp35s0" to the interface "ICE"
              # and use a different port range.
              [interface-ICE-2]
              name = ICE
              address = enp35s0
              port-min = 10000
              port-max = 59999
              exclude-ports = 20000; 20001; 20002

              # Create an alias interface "virt" pointing to "external".
              [interface-virt]
              alias = external

              # Create two interfaces that will be used in a round-robin way
              # by referring to the interface "rr".
              [interface-rr:0]
              address = enp5p0
              exclude-ports = 29999

              [interface-rr:1]
              address = enp15p0

SIGNALLING TEMPLATES
       Since much of the behaviour of rtpengine is controlled by flags and keys/values given to it during runtime as part of the signalling control protocol that is used  for  communication  between  the
       controlling  agent  (e.g. a  SIP proxy) and the rtpengine process, there often is a need to repeatedly give the same set of default flags and values to rtpengine for each message sent to it.  This
       can lead to controlling scripts that are hard to maintain or hard to read.  To alleviate this problem, rtpengine supports signalling templates that can be configured in its main configuration file
       and can then be referred to by short names.

       To use this feature, a configuration file must be in use (by default /etc/rtpengine/rtpengine.conf) and the configuration key templates=... must be set to a non-empty string.  The value gives  the
       name  of  the  section  in  the configuration file to contain signalling templates.  For example, if the value is set to templates=templates, then the section [templates] will be used to read sig‐
       nalling templates.

       Each key/value in this file section then corresponds to one signalling template, and can be referred to via template=... in any control message.

       For example, in order to make an offer to a WebRTC-compliant client, a Kamailio or OpenSIPS script may have used:

              rtpengine_offer("transport-protocol=UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF ICE=force trickle-ICE rtcp-mux=[offer require] no-rtcp-attribute SDES=off generate-mid");

       This entire string of flags can now be converted into a signalling template in the config file as such:

              [rtpengine]
              ...
              templates = templates
              ...

              [templates]
              WebRTC = transport-protocol=UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF ICE=force trickle-ICE rtcp-mux=[offer require] no-rtcp-attribute SDES=off generate-mid

       The offer command in Kamailio or OpenSIPS can then simply be turned into:

              rtpengine_offer("template=WebRTC");

       In addition to named signalling templates, rtpengine supports default signalling templates that are automatically applied.  Default signalling templates are templates using a name that  matches  a
       signalling  command (e.g.  offer or start recording), or the special name default which is a template that is applied to all signalling messages.  These templates are automatically applied without
       needing to refer to them by name using template=... from within the signalling message.

TRANSCODE CONFIG
       If the setting transcode-config is set to a non-empty string, then rtpengine will look for sections in the configuration file starting with the given  prefix  strings  (plus  a  dash)  to  use  as
       transcode  configurations.   For  example, if transcode-config = tx is set, then sections in the config file such as tx-1 or tx-foobar will be considered as transcode configurations.  The names of
       all sections in the config file must be unique.

       Each transcoding section must list a source codec as source=... and a destination codec as destination=....  Codecs can be named simply by their basic name  (such  as  PCMA)  or  with  a  complete
       SDP-like definition (such as opus/48000/2).  Each section must also list an action or a verdict.

       For example, if source=PCMU and destination=PCMA are set, then this particular transcoding config section would be considered if the received codec is PCMU and the requested output codec is PCMA.

   preference Verdict
       This  verdict  can  be used on its own, or can be used in combination with some other verdict.  It configures a preference for a particular codec combination, relative to other codec combinations.
       The default preference (none configured) is zero.  Codec combinations with higher (positive) preference values will be considered as better options than the default, while lower (negative) prefer‐
       ence values will be considered as worse options.

       For example consider the following configuration:

              transcode-config = tc

              [tc-PCMA-PCMU-higher]
              source = PCMA
              destination = PCMU
              preference = 5

              [tc-GSM-G723-lower]
              source = G723
              destination = GSM
              preference = -5

       Consider a received offer SDP listing codecs GSM, PCMU, and G722 (in that order), with transcoding to PCMA and G723 requested.  The outgoing offer SDP would therefore list GSM, PCMU,  G722,  PCMA,
       and G723 (in that order).

       If the answer were to accept any of GSM, PCMU, or G722, then pass-through without transcoding would occur.

       If the answer were to accept any of the other codecs that were requested for transcoding (PCMA or G723), then normally the first offered codec (GSM) would be used as transcoding partner.  But:

       If  the  answer  were  to  accept  PCMA,  then  GSM  as  transcoding  partner  would  be  considered  with a preference of zero, as no config section matches this pair.  However the config section
       tc-PCMA-PCMU-higher matches PCMU as transcoding partner for PCMA and would give that pair a higher preference (5).  PCMU would therefore win with the highest preference, and transcoding would  oc‐
       cur between PCMA and PCMU.

       If  the  answer  were  to accept G723, then the config section tc-GSM-G723-lower would be considered and would give GSM as transcoding partner a negative preference of -5.  The next possible codec
       (PCMU) doesn’t have a matching config section and so would be considered with a preference of zero.  PCMU would therefore win and transcoding would occur between G723 and PCMU.

       NOTE: These config sections operate directionally, meaning that in the above example, a config section listing source = GSM and destination = G723 would not be considered.  If a codec  pair  ought
       to receive the same preference value regardless of the direction, then it must be listed twice, with source and destination swapped.

   transform Verdict
       To  use  the  transform  verdict,  the  config  key  transform=... must be set.  The value is a remote NG peer endpoint, such as the NG control port of another rtpengine instance, in the usual ad‐
       dress:port notation.  This tells rtpengine to send a transform NG request to the remote peer, to request remotely transcoding the media.  If successful, rtpengine will forward the unmodified media
       stream to the remote peer, to the address and port received from the NG response, and will expect the transcoded media to be sent back in return, which it will then forward to its appropriate des‐
       tination.  In other words, it facilitates a designated remote transcoding node, instead of doing the transcoding locally.

       Optional config keys that can be set are local-interface=... to select the local interface to use to communicate with the remote transform gateway, remote-interface=... to tell the remote  gateway
       to use a particular interface on its side, and address-family=... to select between IPv4 and IPv6.

EXIT STATUS
       • 0

         Successful termination.

       • 1

         An error occurred.

ENVIRONMENT
       • RTPENGINE_REDIS_AUTH_PW

         Redis server password for persistent state storage.

       • RTPENGINE_REDIS_WRITE_AUTH_PW

         Redis server password for write operations, if --redis has been specified, in which case the one specified in --redis will be used for read operations only.

FILES
       • /etc/rtpengine/rtpengine.conf

         Configuration file.

EXAMPLES
       A typical command line (enabling both UDP and NG protocols) may look like:

              rtpengine --table=0 --interface=10.64.73.31 --interface=2001:db8::4f3:3d \
                --listen-udp=127.0.0.1:22222 --listen-ng=127.0.0.1:2223 --tos=184 \
                --pidfile=/run/rtpengine.pid

SEE ALSO
       kamailio(8).

13.5.1.1-1                                                                                       2025-10-16                                                                                    rtpengine(8)
