RUBBER-INFO(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              RUBBER-INFO(1)

NAME
       rubber-info - extract information from LaTeX documents

SYNOPSIS
       rubber-info [options] [action] source

DESCRIPTION
       Rubber-info is a utility for extracting various kinds of information from a LaTeX document. Information can be extracted from the source (for instance when calculating dependencies) or from the compi‐
       lation log files (to extract errors and warnings). This program is a complement for the compilation system rubber(1).

       The command-line options are those used by rubber(1) plus one of the actions described below.

ACTIONS
       One of the following command-line options must be specified, to decide which information to extract. Of course, for actions that read a log file, a compilation must have been done before. If  none  of
       these actions is specified, --check is assumed.

       --boxes
              Extracts from the log file the places in the source where bad boxes appeared (these are the famous overfull and underfull \hbox and \vbox)

       --check
              Report errors if there are any, otherwise report undefined references if there are any, otherwise list warnings and bad boxes. This is the default action.

       --deps Analyse the source files and produce a space-separated list of all the files that the document depends on and that Rubber cannot rebuild.

       --errors
              Extract from the log file the list of errors that occurred during the last compilation.

       -h, --help
              Display the list of all available options and exit nicely.

       --refs Report the list of undefined or multiply defined references (i.e. the \ref's that are not defined by one \label).

       --rules
              Analyse  the  source files and produce a list of dependency rules. One rule is produced for each intermediate target that would be made when running rubber.  Rules are formatted in the style of
              Makefiles.

       --version
              Print the version number and exit nicely.

       --warnings
              Stupidly enumerate all LaTeX warnings, i.e. all the lines in the log file that contain the string "Warning".

BUGS
       There are surely a some...

       This page documents Rubber version 1.5.1.  The program and this man-page are maintained by Sebastian Kapfer <sebastian.kapfer@fau.de>.   The  homepage  for  Rubber  can  be  found  at  https://launch‐
       pad.net/rubber/.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for rubber is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and rubber programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info rubber

       should give you access to the complete manual.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 RUBBER-INFO(1)
