RUBBER(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   RUBBER(1)

NAME
       rubber - a building system for LaTeX documents

SYNOPSIS
       rubber [options] sources ...
       rubber-pipe [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Rubber  is  a wrapper for LaTeX and companion programs.  Its purpose is, given a LaTeX source to process, to compile it enough times to resolve all references, possibly running satellite programs such
       as BibTeX, makeindex, Metapost, etc. to produce appropriate data files.

       The command rubber builds the specified documents completely.  The source files may be either LaTeX sources (in which case the suffix .tex may be omitted) or documents in a format Rubber knows how  to
       translate into LaTeX.  If one compilation fails, the whole process stops, including the compilation of the next documents on the command line, and rubber returns a non-zero exit code.

       The command rubber-pipe does the same for one document but it reads the LaTeX source from standard input and dumps the compiled document on standard output.

       Some information cannot be extracted from the LaTeX sources.  This is the case, for instance, with the search paths (which can be specified in environment variables like TEXINPUTS), or the style to be
       used with Makeindex.  To address this problem, one can add information for Rubber in the comments of the LaTeX sources, see section DIRECTIVES.

OPTIONS
       The options are used either to choose the action to be performed or to configure the building process.  They are mostly the same in rubber and rubber-pipe.  Options are parsed using GNU Getopt conven‐
       tions.

       -b, --bzip2
              Compress the final document (in bzip2 format).  This is equivalent to saying -o bzip2 after all other options.

       --clean
              Remove all files produced by the compilation, instead of building the document.  This option is present in rubber only.  It applies to the compilation as it would be done with the other options
              of the command line, i.e. saying "rubber --clean foo" will not delete foo.ps, while saying "rubber --ps --clean foo" will.

       -c, --command <command>
              Execute the specified command (or directive) before parsing the input files.  See section DIRECTIVES for details.

       -e, --epilogue <command>
              Execute the specified command (or directive) after parsing the input files.  See section DIRECTIVES for details.

       -f, --force
              Force at least one compilation of the source.  This may be useful, for instance, if some unusual dependency was modified (e.g.  a package in a system directory).  This option is  irrelevant  in
              rubber-pipe.

       -z, --gzip
              Compress the final document (in gzip format).  This is equivalent to saying -o gz after all other options.

       -h, --help
              Display the list of all available options and exit nicely.

       --inplace
              Go to the directory of the source files before compiling, so that compilation results are in the same place as their sources.

       --into <directory>
              Go to the specified directory before compiling, so that all files are produced there and not in the current directory.

       --jobname <name>
              Specify a job name different from the base file name.  This changes the name of output files and only applies to the first target.

       -k, --keep
              This option is used in rubber-pipe only.  With this option, the temporary files will not be removed after compiling the document and dumping the results on standard output.  The temporary docu‐
              ment is named rubtmpX.tex, where X is a number such that no file of that name exists initially.

       -n, --maxerr <num>
              Set the maximum number of displayed errors.  By default, up to 10 errors are reported, saying -n -1 displays all errors.

       -m, --module <module>[:<args>]
              Use the specified module in addition to the document's packages.  Arguments can be passed to the package by adding them after a colon, they correspond to the package options in LaTeX.  The mod‐
              ule is loaded before parsing the document's sources.

       --only <sources>
              Compile the document partially, including only the specified sources.  This works by inserting a call to \includeonly on the command line.  The argument is a comma-separated list of file names.

       -o, --post <module>[:<args>]
              Use the specified module as a post-processor.  This is similar to the -m options except that the module is loaded after parsing the document.

       -d, --pdf
              Produce PDF output.  When this option comes after --ps (for instance in the form -pd) it is a synonym for -o ps2pdf, otherwise it acts as -m pdftex, in order to use pdfLaTeX instead of LaTeX.

       -p, --ps
              Process the DVI produced by the process through dvips(1) to produce a PostScript document.  This option is a synonym for -o dvips, it cannot come after --pdf.

       -q, --quiet
              Decrease the verbosity level.  This is the reverse of -v.

       -r, --read <file>
              Read additional directives from the specified file (see also the directive "read").

       -S, --src-specials
              Enable generation of source specials if the compiler supports it.  This is equivalent to setting the variable src-specials to yes.

       -s, --short
              Display LaTeX's error messages in a compact form (one error per line).

       -I, --texpath <directory>
              Add the specified directory to TeX's search path.

       --synctex
              Enable SyncTeX support in the LaTeX run.

       --unsafe
              Permit the document to invoke arbitrary external programs.  This is potentially dangerous, only use this option for documents coming from a trusted source.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase the verbosity level.  Levels between 0 and 4 exist, the default level is 1 for rubber and 0 for rubber-pipe.  Beware, saying -vvv makes Rubber speak a lot.

       --version
              Print the version number and exit nicely.

       -W, --warn <type>
              Report  information  of the given type if there was no error during compilation.  The available types are: boxes (overfull and underfull boxes), refs (undefined or multiply defined references),
              misc (other warnings) and all to report all warnings.

MODULES
       Rubber's action is influenced by modules.  Modules take care of the particular features of packages and external programs.

   Packages
       For every package that a document uses, Rubber looks for a module of the same name to perform the tasks that this package my require apart from the compilation by LaTeX.  Modules can be added  to  the
       ones provided by default to include new features (this is the point of the module system).  The standard modules are the following:

       asymptote
              Process the .asy files generated by the LaTeX package, then triggers a recompilation.

       beamer This module handles Beamer's extra files the same way as other tables of contents.

       bibtex, biblatex
              Takes  care  of processing the document's bibliography with BibTeX when needed.  This module is automatically loaded if the document contains the macro \bibliography (see also in DIRECTIVES for
              options).

       combine
              The combine package is used to gather several LaTeX documents into a single one, and this module handles the dependencies in this case.

       epsfig This modules handles graphics inclusion for the documents that use the old style \psfig macro.  It is actually an interface for the graphics module, see this one for details.

       glossaries
              Run makeglossaries and recompiles when the .glo file changes.

       graphics, graphicx
              These modules identify the graphics included in the document and consider them as dependencies for compilation.  They also use standard rules to build these files with external  programs.   See
              the info documentation for details.

       hyperref
              Handle the extra files that this package produces in some cases.

       index, makeidx, nomencl
              Process the document's indexes and nomenclatures with makeindex(1) when needed (see section DIRECTIVES for options).

       ltxtable
              Add dependencies for files inserted via the ltxtable LaTeX package.

       minitoc, minitoc-hyper
              On cleaning, remove additional files that produced to make partial tables of contents.

       moreverb, verbatim
              Adds the files included with \verbatiminput and similar macros to the list of dependencies.

       multibib
              Handles the extra bibliographies that this package creates, and removes the extra files on cleaning.

       xr     Add additional .aux files used for external references to the list of dependencies, so recompiling is automatic when referenced document are changed.

   Pre-processing
       The following modules are provided for using programs that generate a LaTeX source from a different file format:

       cweb   This  module's purpose is to run cweave(1) if needed before the compiling process to produce the LaTeX source.  This module is automatically loaded if the file specified on the command line has
              .w as its suffix.

       lhs2TeX
              This module uses the lhs2TeX preprocessor to generate the LaTeX source from a Literate Haskell program.  It is automatically triggered if the input file's name ends with .lhs.

   Post-processing
       The following modules are provided to support different kinds of post-processings.  Note that the order matters when using these modules: if you want to use a processing chain like
              foo.tex -> foo.dvi -> foo.ps -> foo.pdf -> foo.pdf.gz
       you have to load the modules dvips, ps2pdf and gz in that order, for instance using the command line
              rubber -p -o ps2pdf -z foo.tex

       bzip2  Produce a version of the final file compressed with bzip2(1).

       dvipdfm
              Runs dvipdfm(1) at the end of compilation to produce a PDF document.

       dvips  Runs dvips(1) at the end of compilation to produce a PostScript document.  This module is also loaded by the command line option --ps.

       expand Produce an expanded LaTeX source by replacing \input macros by included files, bibliography macros by the bibliography produced by bibtex(1), and local classes and packages by their source.  If
              the main file is foo.tex then then expanded file will be named foo-final.tex.  See the info documentation for details.

       gz     Produce a version of the final file compressed with gzip(1).

       ps2pdf Assuming that the compilation produces a PostScript document (for instance using module dvips), convert this document to PDF using ps2pdf(1).

   Compiler choice
       The following modules are used to change the LaTeX compiler:

       aleph  Use the Aleph compiler instead of TeX, i.e. compiles the document using lamed(1) instead of latex.

       omega  Use the Omega compiler instead of TeX, i.e. compiles the document using lambda(1) instead of latex.  If the module dvips is used too, it will use odvips(1) to translate the DVI file.  Note that
              this module is triggered automatically when the document uses the package omega.

       pdftex Instructs Rubber to use pdflatex(1) instead of latex(1) to compile the document. By default, this produces a PDF file instead of a DVI, but when loading the module with the option dvi (for  in‐
              stance by saying -m pdftex:dvi) the document is compiled into DVI using pdflatex.  This module is also loaded by the command line option --pdf.

       vtex   Instructs  Rubber  to  use the VTeX compiler.  By default this uses vlatex as the compiler to produce PDF output.  With the option ps (e.g. when saying "rubber -m vtex:ps foo.tex") the compiler
              used is vlatexp and the result is a PostScript file.

       xelatex
              Instructs Rubber to use xelatex(1) instead of latex.

DIRECTIVES
       The automatic behavior of Rubber is based on searching for macros in the LaTeX sources.  When this is not enough, directives can be added in the comments of the sources.  A directive is a line like
              % rubber: cmd args
       The line must begin with a "%", then any sequence of "%" signs and spaces, then the text "rubber:" followed by spaces and a command name, possibly followed by spaces and arguments.

   General directives
       alias <name1> <name2>
              Pretend that the LaTeX macro name1 is equivalent to name2.  This can be useful when defining wrappers around supported macros.

       clean <file>
              Indicates that the specified file should be removed when cleaning using --clean.

       depend <file>
              Consider the specified file as a dependency, so that its modification time will be checked.

       make <file> [<options>]
              Declare that the specified file has to be generated.  Options can specify the way it should be produced, the available options are from <file> to specify the source and with <rule>  to  specify
              the  conversion rule.  For instance, saying "make foo.pdf from foo.eps" indicates that foo.pdf should be produced from foo.eps, with any conversion rule that can do it.  See the info documenta‐
              tion for details on file conversion.

       module <module> [<options>]
              Loads the specified module, possibly with options.  This is equivalent to the command-line option --module.

       onchange <file> <command>
              Execute the specified shell command after compiling if the contents of the specified file have changed.  The file name ends at the first space.

       path <directory>
              Adds the specified directory to the search path for TeX (and Rubber).  The name of the directory is everything that follows the spaces after "path".

       produce <file>
              Declares that the LaTeX run will create or update the specified file(s).

       read <file>
              Read the specified file of directives.  The file must contain one directive per line.  Empty lines and lines that begin with "%" are ignored.

       rules <file>
              Read extra conversion rules from the specified file.  The format of this file is the same as that of rules.ini, see the info documentation for details.

       set <name> <value>
              Set the value of a variable as a string.  For details on the existing variables and their meaning, see the info documentation.

       setlist <name> <values>
              Set the value of a variable as a (space-separated) list of strings.  For details on the existing variables and their meaning, see the info documentation.

       shell_escape
              Mark the document as requiring external programs (shell-escape or write18).  Rubber does not actually enable this unless called with the option --unsafe.

       synctex
              Enable SyncTeX support in the LaTeX run.

       watch <file>
              Watch the specified file for changes.  If the contents of this file has changed after a compilation, then another compilation is triggered.  This is useful in the case of  tables  of  contents,
              for instance.

   Module-specific directives
       If  a  command  has  the  form foo.bar, it is considered a command bar for the module foo.  If this module is not registered when the directive is found, then the command is silently ignored.  For the
       standard modules, the directives are the following:

       biblatex.path <directory>
              Adds the specified directory to the search path for BibTeX databases (.bib files).

       bibtex.crossrefs <number>
              Set the minimum number of crossref required for automatic inclusion of the referenced entry in the citation list.  This sets the option -min-crossrefs when calling bibtex(1).

       bibtex.path <directory>
              Adds the specified directory to the search path for BibTeX databases (.bib files).

       bibtex.stylepath <directory>
              Adds the specified directory to the search path for BibTeX styles (.bst files).

       bibtex.tool <command>
              Use a different bibliography tool instead of BibTeX.

       dvipdfm.options <options>
              Pass the specified command-line switches to dvipdfm.

       dvips.options <options>
              Pass the specified command-line switches to dvips.

       index.tool (index) <name>
              Specifies which tool is to be used to process the index.  The currently supported tools are makeindex(1) (the default choice) and xindy(1).  The argument index is optional, it may  be  used  to
              specify the list of indexes the command applies to.  When present, it must be enclosed in parentheses; the list is comma-separated.  When the argument is not present, the command applies to all
              indices.

       index.language (index) <language>
              Selects the language used for sorting the index.  This only applies when using xindy(1) as the indexing tool.  The optional argument has the same semantics as above.

       index.modules (index) <module>...
              Specify which modules to use when processing an index with xindy(1).  The optional argument has the same semantics as above.

       index.order (index) <options>
              Modifies the sorting options for the indexes.  The arguments are words (separated by spaces) among standard, german and letter.  This only applies when using makeindex(1).  The  optional  argu‐
              ment has the same semantics as above.

       index.path (index) <directory>
              Adds the specified directory to the search path for index styles (.ist files).  The optional argument has the same semantics as above.

       index.style (index) <style>
              Specifies the index style to be used.  The optional argument has the same semantics as above.

       makeidx.language, .modules, .order, .path, .style, .tool
              These directives are the same as for the index module, except that they don't accept the optional argument.

       multibib.crossrefs, .path, .stylepath, .tool
              These  directives  are the same as for the bibtex module but they apply to bibliographies managed by the multibib package.  They take an optional first argument, with the same convention as for
              the directives of the index module, which may be used to specify the list of bibliographies the command applies to.

BUGS
       There are surely a some...

       This page documents Rubber version 1.5.1.  The program and this man-page are maintained by Sebastian Kapfer <sebastian.kapfer@fau.de>.   The  homepage  for  Rubber  can  be  found  at  https://launch‐
       pad.net/rubber/.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for rubber is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and rubber programs are properly installed at your site, the command

              info rubber

       should give you access to the complete manual.

                                                                                                                                                                                                      RUBBER(1)
