COVERALLS(1)                                                                              General Commands Manual                                                                              COVERALLS(1)

NAME
       coveralls - Coveralls API client utility

SYNOPSIS
       coveralls sub-command

DESCRIPTION
       Coveralls is a command-line utility to interact with Coveralls web service to help you track your code coverage over time, and ensure that all your new code is fully covered.

       Coveralls automatically collects your code coverage data, uploads it to their servers and gives you a nice interface to dig into it.

       Any type of Ruby project or test framework supported by SimpleCov is supported by the Coveralls gem. This includes all your favorites, like RSpec, Cucumber, and Test::Unit.

SUB-COMMANDS
       help COMMAND
              Describe available commands or one specific command.

       last   View the last build for this repository on Coveralls.

       open   View this repository on Coveralls.

       push   Runs your test suite and pushes the coverage results to Coveralls.

       report Runs your test suite locally and displays coverage statistics.

       service
              View this repository on your CI service's website.

       version
              See version.

CONFIGURATION
       Coveralls for Ruby uses an optional .coveralls.yml file at the root level of your repository to configure options.

       The  option repo_token (found on your repository's page on Coveralls) is used to specify which project on Coveralls your project maps to. This is only needed for repos not using a CI and should be
       kept secret -- anyone could use it to submit coverage data on your repo's behalf. This shouldn't be a concern for private repos, however.

       Another important option is service_name which allows you to specify where Coveralls should look to find additional information about your builds. This can be any string, but  using  travis-ci  or
       travis-pro will allow Coveralls to fetch branch data, comment on pull requests, and more.

FILES
       .coveralls.yml

       Coveralls configuration file for Ruby. See CONFIGURATION.

SEE ALSO
       For more information, you may visit Coveralls web site: https://coveralls.io/ or https://coveralls.io/docs/ruby.

       This manual page was generated from Markdown with ronn(1) http://rtomayko.github.com/ronn/ronn.1.html

AUTHOR
       Coveralls was written by Wil Gieseler supapuerco@gmail.com, with contributions from the community.

DOCUMENTATION
       This manual page was written by Miguel Landaeta nomadium@debian.org.

LICENSE
       Both Coveralls and this documentation are released under the terms of the MIT License. You may view the license online: https://github.com/lemurheavy/coveralls-ruby/blob/master/LICENSE

                                                                                                 April 2025                                                                                    COVERALLS(1)
