runescape(6)                                                                                 Games Manual                                                                                 runescape(6)

NAME
       runescape - is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game. Start your adventure, complete quests and win enormous treasures in a 3D world of magic and monsters.

CONTROLS
       Game controls in Runescape are quite basic, being mostly mouse driven, with occasional use of the keyboard.

       MOUSE CLICK (PRIMARY)

       Clicking the primary (normally left) mouse button results in the default action for the situation.

       A few examples:
       * On the main view or minimap (radar): Walk to the position.
       * On a character that can be attacked, and is not a red level: Attack the character.
       * On an NPC: Talk to.
       * On an item in your inventory: Wear, wield or eat it, or "use with" if no other action applies.
       * On an item on the ground: Take the most expensive (in shop value) item from the pile.
       * In the bank, on the bank screen or inventory: Transfer one item.

       If there are many characters or items in one spot, the default action may not select the object you want, a particular example being someone standing in a fire, when you try to cook fish.

       MOUSE CLICK (SECONDARY)

       Clicking the secondary (normally right) mouse button offers a list of all possible targets that can be selected, or options to deal with more than one item.
       In the example above, you would click the fish you have, then secondary click the player and fire, choosing "use with fire".
       In the bank, you can avoid the usual dialog by using secondary click and "use quickly".
       Another time you must secondary click, is when combining two food items which are both edible, and a couple of other situations where you would otherwise eat or drink an item instead of hand‐
       ing it over.
       If your mouse only has one button, you can set the Mouse Buttons option to One, so that every mouse click will be treated as a secondary mouse click.

       KEYBOARD

       Running:
       --------
       Holding  the  CTRL key with any mouse click target means you will run to it, useful for running to take an item, or to escape. Running may also be selected using a panel option, but all move‐
       ment will be made at a run until walking is selected again, or your run energy falls to zero.

       Camera panning:
       ---------------
       The arrow keys are used to pan the main view and minimap, rotating or raising and lowering the viewpoint, though if close to a hill, it may not be possible to lower the viewpoint.
       The middle mouse button can also be used to pan, as well as moving the mouse while having Alt and left-click held down.
       While it can be useful to see items on the main view by rotating the map, holding the map centred north while trying to navigate is highly recommended, as it is easy to forget the  map  angle
       and set off in completely the wrong direction.

       NUMBERS

       The keyboard is used to enter amounts, particularly of coins.  Using the 5, 10 or all options for other items is quicker, even if you have less, or don't have room to carry all.

       CHAT

       You have Public Chat, Private Chat, Clan Chat and Trade Chat.
       The keyboard can also be used for chat with other players.
       It  is not used to talk to NPCs in the game, as any responses are selected from a menu. You can use the spacebar instead of pressing "click here to continue", and you can use a number key in‐
       stead of selecting the response with your mouse.

AUTHOR
       This script was created and written by Carlos Donizete Froes [a.k.a coringao].

       This manual page was written by Carlos Donizete Froes [a.k.a coringao], for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

RUNESCAPE                                                                                    February 2019                                                                                runescape(6)
