RUNLIM(1)                                                                                 General Commands Manual                                                                                 RUNLIM(1)

NAME
       runlim - a program to run benchmarks

SYNOPSIS
       runlim [ options  ...]  command  [ arguments  ...]

DESCRIPTION
       run  is  a  tool that can be used to run and control benchmarks.  It executes a given command with (optional) arguments, samples resource usage during the run, and kills the process (and its child
       processes) if a certain time and/or space limit is exhausted.

       Every 100 milliseconds, runlim takes a sample of the program's resource utilization, and logs status information to stderr every second. Optionally, the status can be logged to a file.

       Multi-threaded programs can be limited by setting a wall clock timeout.  runlim follows the time accumulation scheme of GNU time for multi-threaded programs and programs that spawn multiple child-
       processes: time spent in each thread/child is summed up, unless you are only interested in walk clock time.

OPTIONS
       runlim accepts the following options:

       -h, --help
              Show summary of options.

       --version
              Show version of program.

       -o FILE, --output-file=FILE
              Overwrite or create FILE for output logging.

       -s NUM, --space-limit=NUM
              Set space limit to NUM megabytes.

       -t NUM, --time-limit=NUM
              Set time limit to NUM seconds.

       -r NUM, --real-time-limit=NUM
              Set real time limit to NUM seconds.

       -k, --kill
              Propagate signals.

SEE ALSO
       time(1), timelimit(1), timeout(1), time(7).

AUTHOR
       runlim was written by Armin Biere and Toni Jussila.

       This manual page was written by Thomas Krennwallner <tkren@kr.tuwien.ac.at>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                                                                             February 11, 2011                                                                                    RUNLIM(1)
