runsvdir(8)                                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                                 runsvdir(8)

NAME
       runsvdir - starts and monitors a collection of runsv(8) processes

SYNOPSIS
       runsvdir [-P] dir [ log ]

DESCRIPTION
       dir must be a directory.  log is a space holder for a readproctitle log, and must be at least seven characters long or absent.

       runsvdir  starts  a runsv(8) process for each subdirectory, or symlink to a directory, in the services directory dir, up to a limit of 1000 subdirectories, and restarts a runsv(8) process if it termi‐
       nates.  runsvdir skips subdirectory names starting with dots.  runsv(8) must be in runsvdir's PATH.

       At least every five seconds runsvdir checks whether the time of last modification, the inode, or the device, of the services directory dir has changed.  If so, it re-scans the service  directory,  and
       if  it  sees  a  new subdirectory, or new symlink to a directory, in dir, it starts a new runsv(8) process; if runsvdir sees a subdirectory being removed that was previously there, it sends the corre‐
       sponding runsv(8) process a TERM signal, stops monitoring this process, and so does not restart the runsv(8) process if it exits.

       If the log argument is given to runsvdir, all output to standard error is redirected to this log, which is similar to the daemontools' readproctitle log.  To see the most recent error messages, use  a
       process-listing tool such as ps(1).  runsvdir writes a dot to the readproctitle log every 15 minutes so that old error messages expire.

OPTIONS
       -P     use setsid(2) to run each runsv(8) process in a new session and separate process group.

SIGNALS
       If runsvdir receives a TERM signal, it exits with 0 immediately.

       If runsvdir receives a HUP signal, it sends a TERM signal to each runsv(8) process it is monitoring and then exits with 111.

SEE ALSO
       sv(8), runsv(8), runsvchdir(8), runit(8), runit-init(8), chpst(8), svlogd(8), utmpset(8), setsid(2)

       http://smarden.org/runit/

AUTHOR
       Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>

                                                                                                                                                                                                    runsvdir(8)
