RUP(1)                                                                                    BSD General Commands Manual                                                                                    RUP(1)

NAME
     rup — remote status display

SYNOPSIS
     rup [-dshlt] [host ...]

DESCRIPTION
     rup displays a summary of the current system status of a particular host or all hosts on the local network.  The output shows the current time of day, how long the system has been up, and the load aver‐
     ages.  The load average numbers give the number of jobs in the run queue averaged over 1, 5 and 15 minutes.

     The following options are available:

     -d      For each host, report what its local time is.  This is useful for checking time syncronization on a network.

     -s      Print time data in seconds (seconds of uptime or seconds since the epoch), for scripts.

     -h      Sort the display alphabetically by host name.

     -l      Sort the display by load average.

     -t      Sort the display by up time.

     The rpc.rstatd(8) daemon must be running on the remote host for this command to work.  rup uses an RPC protocol defined in /usr/include/rpcsvc/rstat.x.

EXAMPLE
           example% rup otherhost
           otherhost      up 6 days, 16:45,  load average: 0.20, 0.23, 0.18
           example%

DIAGNOSTICS
     rup: RPC: Program not registered
             The rpc.rstatd(8) daemon has not been started on the remote host.

     rup: RPC: Timed out
             A communication error occurred.  Either the network is excessively congested, or the rpc.rstatd(8) daemon has terminated on the remote host.

     rup: RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out
             The remote host is not running the portmapper (see portmap(8) ), and cannot accomodate any RPC-based services.  The host may be down.

SEE ALSO
     ruptime(1), portmap(8), rpc.rstatd(8)

HISTORY
     The rup command appeared in SunOS.

Linux NetKit (0.17)                                                                             August 15, 1999                                                                             Linux NetKit (0.17)
