rzxtool(1)                         Emulators                        rzxtool(1)

NAME
       rzxtool — Modify Sinclair ZX Spectrum input recording files

SYNOPSIS
       rzxtool   [-dblock  number]  [-eblock  number,filename]  [-iblock  num‐
       ber,filename] [-f] [-u] rzxfile [outfile]

DESCRIPTION
       rzxtool allows some simple modifications to  be  made  to  Sinclair  ZX
       Spectrum  input  recording  files: blocks can be removed, snapshot data
       can be extracted or snapshots can be inserted into the file.  The  file
       can also be uncompressed.

OPTIONS
       -dblock number
              The  block number specified will be deleted from the file. Block
              numbers start at  zero  and  ignore  any  “creator  information”
              blocks  in  the  file. The modified file will be written to out‐
              file.

       -eblock number,filename
              The snapshot in the specified block number will  be  written  to
              the  specified  filename. All snapshot formats supported by lib‐
              spectrum(3) are available.

       -iblock number,filename
              The snapshot specified in filename will be added to the file  at
              the position specified by block number.

       -f
              Finalise  the  RZX file. Any embedded snapshot (except the first
              one) will be deleted. Fuse can add interspersed snapshots to RZX
              files  to  allow  rollbacking to a previous time. Action replays
              submitted to the RZX Archive should not have these snapshots.

       -u
              When outputting an  RZX  file,  this  option  causes  the  input
              recording  data to be output uncompressed; if this option is not
              given, the data will be compressed using zlib(3).

       -h, --help
              Give brief usage help, listing available options.

       -V, --version
              Output version information.

       rzxfile
              specifies an input recording file whose contents are to be modi‐
              fied.

       outfile
              specifies where the modified input file should be written.

BUGS
       None known

SEE ALSO
       fuse(1), fuse-utils(1), rzxcheck(1), rzxdump(1), zlib(3)

       The comp.sys.sinclair Spectrum FAQ, at
       http://www.worldofspectrum.org/faq/index.html.

AUTHOR
       Philip Kendall (philip-fuse@shadowmagic.org.uk).

Version 1.4.3                   1st July, 2018                      rzxtool(1)
