save(1)                                                                                            ShapeTools                                                                                           save(1)

NAME
       save - save revision of a file

SYNOPSIS
       save [ version binding options ] [ options ] files ..
       Save [ version binding options ] [ options ] files ..

       Options: [ -?fglq ] [ -help ] [ -a (or -alias) version alias ] [ -delta ] [ -force ] [ -fix generation | alias | date ] [ -newgen ] [ -lock ] [ -m (or -logmsg) message ] [ -n (or -setvnum) ver‐
                sion number ] [ -nodelta ] [ -quiet ] [ -setattrs filename ] [ -stdin ] [ -version ]

DESCRIPTION
       save takes a snapshot of the current state of the specified files, stores them into corresponding archive files and assigns unique version numbers to the created versions.  The original files will  by
       default be removed and unlocked in order to support a cooperative style of teamwork. Versions of files can be restored as regular files with the retrv command. Versions in archives are inalterable.

       An  archive  will  be  created the first time a file is saved in a subdirectory named AtFS. The AtFS subdirectory must be present.  When an archive is created, save asks for a short description of the
       saved documents purpose. If a subsequent version is saved, the user is prompted for a comment describing the modifications. The save command requires that the version history of a file that  shall  be
       saved  is  locked  by  the user issuing the command.  This is to prevent different developers from applying concurrent updates to the same file and thereby invalidating the other developers' modifica‐
       tions. The only exception from this rule is the first time a file is saved, which means that an archive has yet to be created. For more details on locking, see the ShapeTools Tutorial,  retrv(1),  and
       vadm(1).

       The  save program assigns unique version ids to each evolving revision of a file. The version id is a pair of integers separated by a dot, identifying the major and minor revision (<generation>.<revi‐
       sion>) of a version. Subsequent invocations of save increase the minor revision number, starting with version 1.0. The generation number is increased by invocations of Save (see below).  There  is  no
       support  for  explicit  branching. The version control toolkit rather encourages a linear model of version evolution. Instead of branching, save allows to insert new versions into old generations (see
       description of -fix). This allows, for example, to fix bugs in major revision N (version numbers N.x) which may be the currently operational release while development proceeds in  generation  N+1  (or
       N+n if you like).

       Before a file is saved it will be checked whether it has actually changed with respect to the previously saved version. If the file hasn't changed, the user will be asked if it should be saved anyway.
       The command line option -f (or -force) overrides the prompting.

       The version control system supports a built-in basic status model for versions. The version status is intended to express different levels of quality, and aims at providing  basic  project  management
       functionality.   State  attributes of software objects can help to describe an object's current meaning in the development process (e.g.  tested, incompletely implemented, submitted for evaluation, or
       shipped to customer).

       A newly created version will by default be assigned the state saved. This status marks the lowest level of quality, suggesting that the version is just saved for possible later retrieval  but  may  be
       inconsistent. Versions that meet higher quality standards (or are part of a release) should be marked by appropriate status (see vadm -promote, sbmt, or publ).

       If  the  program is invoked as Save (that is with capital-S) a new major revision (generation) of the document history is created - provided the programmer issuing the command has the permission to do
       this. This option is intended to support a development model where maintenance of an operational release can be performed parallel to the development of the next release (see -fix).

OPTIONS
       For version selection, any version binding option, as described on the vbind(1) manual page, may be given. Version bind directives in brackets added  to  the  filename  are  interpreted  different  to
       vbind(1).  A  version  number following the name will be treated as if the -n (-setvnum) option was given with this version number as argument. Any other string in brackets will be taken as alias name
       (see -alias option).

       -?, -help
              print short information about usage of this command.

       -a, -alias version alias
              assign a version alias (a symbolic name) to the new version. In more detail, an attribute __SymbolicName__ is set to the value specified in version alias. The specified alias name must  not  be
              assigned  to any other version within the same version history.  Alternatively to the -a option, the version alias may be given in brackets following the name of the file to be saved. Check the
              description of the -n option for an example of this notation.

       -delta Create delta for internal storage. This is the default.

       -f, -force
              force a revision deposit (i.e. without asking), even if the busy version hasn't changed since the last time it was saved.

       -fix generation | alias | date
              append a new version after the most recent version within the referenced major revision level. The major revision level (called ``generation'') is either referenced explicitly, by specifying  a
              number, or implicitly, by specifying a version alias (e.g. a release name) or a date. The latter form is particularly useful for saving a fix that extends over more than one object.

              This option is intended to support maintenance of older releases while development proceeds at the logical end of the version chain. In order to insert a (fixed) version into an old generation,
              one must have a lock on the most recent version of that generation (generation lock). This lock must be set with the vadm command. The -fix option is incompatible with -setvnum, -newgen and the
              Save command option.

       -g, -newgen
              create  a major revision of the document. Major revisions are indicated by the first number in the version-id (generation).  Only the archive administrator is allowed to create major revisions.
              The archive administrator is the user who owns the AtFS subdirectory where the version archives reside. Use of this switch is identical to calling the program as Save.

       -l, -lock
              Keep the lock on the version history. The saved files will not be removed.

       -m, -logmsg message
              set message as descriptive note for all document versions that result from the invocation of save. When message starts with an at sign (@), it is interpreted as filename and the text  contained
              in the file is set as descriptive note for all document versions that result from the invocation of save.

       -n, -setvnum version number
              set the version number of the newly created revision to version.  The version must be given in the format <generation>.<revision> where generation and revision are integers. Example:
              save -setvnum 4.3 mkattr.c
              The specified version must be greater than the highest previously assigned version number in a given object history. Only the archive administrator may set version numbers directly. The archive
              administrator is the user who owns the AtFS subdirectory where the version archives reside. -setvnum is useful for keeping consistent version numbering across related, physically different  ob‐
              ject repositories, or for converting archive formats of other revision control systems to this toolkit (see: rcs2atfs). Alternatively to the -n option, the version number may be given in brack‐
              ets following the name of the file to be saved.  The command
              save mkattr.c[4.3]
              is interpreted the same way as the example above.

       -nodelta
              Suppress delta generation

       -q, -quiet
              quiet operation. No messages are printed on standard output.  If the busy version is unchanged, it will not be saved unless -f is set. The user will not be prompted for a descriptive  note.  If
              no message or note is supplied with the command line (see options -m and -t) the log will remain empty. This option is useful for batch operation.

       -setattrs filename
              read  names  and values of user defined attributes from the file filename.  The entries in the attribute file must have either of the formats NAME=VALUE or NAME+=VALUE. NAME must be an alphanu‐
              meric string (no spaces) immediately followed by the assignment operator. The value may be an arbitrary ASCII string with the exception of control-A and newline characters. There is exactly one
              attribute definition per line. The file's last character must be a newline character.

              If  the  first  format  (single  equal symbol) is used, previously assigned values of user defined attributes are reset with the values defined in the attribute file.  The second format (``plus
              equal'') allows to append additional values to an already existing attribute. If no attribute of a given name exists, it will be created.

              This way to attach attributes was introduced to allow quick automatic attachment of a large number of attributes to version objects. This interface to the attribute setting facility  is  mainly
              intended for tools that invoke save.

              If the -setattrs option is omitted, save searches the environment for a variable SVATTRS. If this variable is absent, no user defined attributes will be assigned to the evolving versions.

       -stdin force save to read a descriptive note from stdin instead of forking an editor. A previously set intent-message is printed.

       -version
              print the version of the program itself.

FILES
       All revisions of documents are stored in archive files in the subdirectory AtFS.

BUGS
       With  the  -g  (-newgen)  option given and an unchanged busy version, save ignores the users answer to the question, if the busy version should be saved anyway. It always assumes a positive answer and
       goes on with its saving procedure. You can avoid saving by interrupting (Ctrl-C) save during the next question if the unmodified version should be commented anyway.

SEE ALSO
       retrv(1), vbind(1)

AUTHOR
       Axel.Mahler@cs.tu-berlin.de and Andreas.Lampen@cs.tu-berlin.de

save-4.7                                                                                    Tue Jun 29 16:27:31 1993                                                                                    save(1)
