SBUILD-CHECKPACKAGES(1)                                                                          Debian sbuild                                                                          SBUILD-CHECKPACKAGES(1)

NAME
       sbuild-checkpackages - check the package list in a sbuild chroot against a reference list

SYNOPSIS
       sbuild-checkpackages [-h|--help | -V|--version  | -l|--list | -s|--set] CHROOT

DESCRIPTION
       sbuild-checkpackages compares the package list in an sbuild chroot (dpkg status file) against a reference list of packages.  The differences between the two lists are displayed, showing the changes to
       remove and install in order to return the chroot to match the reference list.

       The reference list may be set from the dpkg status file; this must be done initially in order to have a baseline reference for comparison.  The chroot should only include essential and build-essential
       packages, plus the extra packages that sbuild needs such as fakeroot.

OPTIONS
   Actions
       -h, --help
              Display this manual.

       -V, --version
              Print version information.

       -l, --list
              List the differences between the installed packages and the reference file.

       -s, --set
              Set the reference file from the currently installed package list.

   Chroot selection
       CHROOT The chroot to use.  Note that ‘o’, ‘s’, ‘t’, ‘u’ and ‘e’ may be used as abbreviations for ‘oldstable’, ‘stable’, ‘testing’, ‘unstable’ and ‘experimental’, respectively.

EXAMPLES
       To set the reference file in the unstable chroot:

       % sbuild-checkpackages unstable --set

       To show the differences in the unstable chroot:

       % sbuild-checkpackages unstable --list

AUTHORS
       Roger Leigh.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2006–2008 Roger Leigh <rleigh@debian.org>.

SEE ALSO
       sbuild(1).

Version 0.79.0                                                                                  05 February 2020                                                                        SBUILD-CHECKPACKAGES(1)
