scalasca(1)                                                                                   Scalasca Trace Tools                                                                                  scalasca(1)

NAME
       scalasca - Scalasca information and proxy command

SYNOPSIS
       scalasca [OPTIONS]
       scalasca [OPTIONS] ACTION ACTION_ARGS

DESCRIPTION
       The  scalasca  command allows to query information about a Scalasca Trace Tools installation, but can also be used as a proxy command for measurement, analysis, post-processing, and report examination
       tasks.

       When used without an ACTION argument, the scalasca command provides various OPTIONS to query and display information about the Scalasca Trace Tools  installation,  such  as  the  version  number,  the
       configuration summary report, or installation-dependent path information. It is also possible to display a quick reference guide (if a suitable PDF viewer is found on the system).

       By  contrast,  if  an ACTION argument is given, the scalasca command acts as a proxy which simply delegates the requested operation to the underlying specific command. It can therefore be considered a
       single-entry-point convenience command that is easy to remember.

ACTIONS
       Since ACTION arguments enable the delegation of operations, please refer to the documentation of the respective underlying command for possible ACTION_ARGS. Also, note  that  ACTION_ARGS  have  to  be
       provided after the ACTION argument.

       -a, --analyze, --analyse
           Run application under the control of the Scalasca measurement collection and analysis nexus scan(1).

       -e, --examine
           Examine measurement analysis report using the Scalasca analysis report explorer square(1).

   Deprecated actions
       -i, -inst, --instrument
           Prepare application objects and executable for measurement using the Score-P instrumenter. This action only exists for backward compatibility with the Scalasca 1.x release series.
           Users are strongly encouraged to use the 'scorep' instrumenter command directly to take full advantage of its improved functionality.

OPTIONS
       -c, --show-config
           Print configuration summary, then exit.

       -h, --help
           Print a brief usage summary, then exit.

       -n, --dry-run
           Print the command(s) to be launched, but do not execute them.

       --quickref
           Display quick reference guide, then exit.

       --remap-specfile
           Show path to remapper specification file used for trace-analysis report post-processing, then exit.

       -v, --verbose
           Enable verbose mode.

       -V, --version
           Print version information, then exit.

EXIT STATUS
       scalasca exits with status 0 on success, and greater than 0 if errors occur.

BUGS
       Please report bugs to scalasca@fz-juelich.de. Make sure to include at least the following information in your bug report:

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools version reported by 'scalasca -V'.

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools configuration reported by 'scalasca -c'.

       · The Score-P version reported by 'scorep --version'.

       · The Score-P configuration reported by 'scorep-info config-summary'.

       · The exact command line of the failing command.

       · The exact failure/error message.

       Also,  if  the trace analysis fails, please archive a copy of the entire experiment archive directory including the event trace data, as this may be required to aid in debugging. However, ONLY PROVIDE
       TRACE DATA IF EXPLICITLY REQUESTED, as the data volume may be excessive.

EXAMPLES
       scalasca --version
       Displays the Scalasca Trace Tools version number.

       scalasca --analyze mpiexec -n 4 foo args
       Execute the instrumented MPI program foo with command-line arguments args, collecting a runtime summary (default). Results in an experiment directory scorep_foo_4_sum.

       scalasca --examine -s -f filter scorep_foo_4_sum
       Post-process measurement reports in scorep_foo_4_sum and generate a score report with the run-time measurement filter rules from the file filter applied.

SEE ALSO
       scan(1), square(1)

       The Score-P instrumentation and measurement system documentation is available online at https://www.score-p.org.

       The full Scalasca Trace Tools documentation is available online at https://www.scalasca.org.

Version 2.5                                                                                     Fri Mar 22 2019                                                                                     scalasca(1)
