scan(1)                                                                                       Scalasca Trace Tools                                                                                      scan(1)

NAME
       scan - Scalasca measurement collection and analysis nexus

SYNOPSIS
       scan [OPTIONS] [LAUNCHER [LAUNCHER_ARGS]] TARGET [TARGET_ARGS]

DESCRIPTION
       scan,  the Scalasca measurement collection and analysis nexus, manages the configuration and processing of performance experiments with an executable TARGET. TARGET needs to be instrumented beforehand
       using the Score-P instrumentation and measurement system. In particular, scan integrates the following steps:

       · Measurement configuration

       · Application execution using any given arguments TARGET_ARGS

       · Collection of measured data

       · Automatic post-mortem trace analysis (if configured)

       Many different experiments can typically be performed with a single instrumented executable without needing to re-instrument, by using different measurement and analysis  configurations.  The  default
       runtime  summarization  mode  directly  produces an analysis report for examination, whereas event trace collection and analysis are automatically done in two steps to produce a profile augmented with
       additional metrics.

       Serial and multi-threaded programs are typically launched directly, whereas MPI and hybrid MPI+X programs usually require a special  LAUNCHER  command  such  as  mpiexec,  which  may  need  additional
       arguments  LAUNCHER_ARGS  (e.g.,  to  specify  the  number  of  processes to be created). scan automatically recognizes many MPI launchers, but if not, the MPI launcher name can be specified using the
       environment variable SCAN_MPI_LAUNCHER (see ENVIRONMENT).

       scan examines the executable TARGET to determine whether Score-P instrumentation is present; otherwise the measurement is aborted. The number of MPI processes and OpenMP threads  are  determined  from
       LAUNCHER_ARGS  and/or  the  environment.  If the target executable is not specified as one of the launcher arguments, it is expected to be the immediately following part of the command line. It may be
       necessary to use a double-dash specification (--) to explicitly separate the target from the preceding launcher specification. If there is an imposter executable or script, e.g., often used to specify
       placement/thread binding, that precedes the instrumented TARGET, it may be necessary to explicitly identify the target with the environment variable SCAN_TARGET (see ENVIRONMENT).

       A  unique  directory  is  created  for  each  measurement  experiment, which must not already exist when measurement starts unless SCAN_OVERWRITE is enabled (see ENVIRONMENT); otherwise measurement is
       aborted. A default name for each measurement archive directory is created from a 'scorep_' prefix, the name of the executable TARGET, the run configuration (e.g., number of processes  specified),  and
       the measurement configuration. This default name can be overwritten using the SCOREP_EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY environment variable (see ENVIRONMENT) or the -e command-line option.

       When  measurement  has completed, the measurement archive directory contains all artifacts produced by the measurement and subsequent trace analysis (if configured). In particular, the following files
       are produced independent from the selected measurement mode:

       · MANIFEST.md: a text file briefly describing the directory contents produced by the Score-P measurement system

       · scorep.cfg: a copy of the measurement configuration

       · scorep.log: the measurement log file

       · scorep.filter: a copy of the measurement filter (if provided)

       In runtime summarization mode, the archive directory additionally contains:

       · profile.cubex: the runtime summary result

       In trace collection and analysis mode, the following additional files are generated:

       · an OTF2 trace archive consisting of

         · the anchor file traces.otf2,

         · the global definitions file traces.def, and

         · the per-process data files in the traces/ directory

       · scout.log: the trace analysis log file

       · scout.cubex: the trace analysis result

       · trace.stat: trace analysis pattern statistics

       In multi-run mode, the results of the individual runs are stored in subdirectories inside the top-level measurement archive directory. In addition, the following file will be archived:

       · scalasca_run.cfg: a (possibly auto-generated) copy of the multi-run configuration specification file

OPTIONS
       The scan command accepts the following command-line options. Note that configuration settings specified on the command line  take  precedence  over  those  specified  via  environment  variables  (see
       ENVIRONMENT). Also, see MULTI-RUN EXPERIMENTS below for details on interactions with configuration file settings.

       -h  Print a brief usage summary, then exit.

       -v  Increase verbosity.

       -n  Print the command(s) to be launched, but do not execute them.

       -q  Quiescent execution with neither summarization nor tracing enabled. Sets both SCOREP_ENABLE_PROFILING and SCOREP_ENABLE_TRACING to 'false'.

       -s  Enable runtime summarization mode. Sets SCOREP_ENABLE_PROFILING to 'true'. This is the default.

       -t  Enable trace collection and analysis. Sets SCOREP_ENABLE_TRACING to 'true'.

       -a  Skip measurement step to (re-)analyze an existing trace.

       -e experiment_dir
           Override default experiment archive name to generate and/or analyze experiment_dir. Sets SCOREP_EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY.

       -f filter_file
           Use the measurement filter rules from filter_file. Sets SCOREP_FILTERING_FILE.

       -l lock_file
           Block start of measurement while lock_file exists.

       -R num_runs
           Specifies the number measurement runs per configuration (default=1).

       -M config_file
           Allows to specify a configuration file describing multi-run experiment settings. See MULTI-RUN EXPERIMENTS below for details.

ENVIRONMENT
       Environment  variables  with  the 'SCAN_' prefix may be used to configure the scan nexus itself (which is a serial workflow manager process), rather than the instrumented application process(es) which
       will be measured, which can also be configured via environment variables. Configuration specified on the nexus command-line takes precedence over that specified via environment variables.  See  MULTI-
       RUN EXPERIMENTS below for details on interactions with configuration file settings.

   Environment variables controlling scan
       SCAN_ANALYZE_OPTS
           Specifies trace analyzer options (default: none). For details on the supported options, see scout(1).

       SCAN_CLEAN
           If enabled, removes event trace data after successful trace analysis (default: 'false').

       SCAN_MPI_LAUNCHER
           Specifies a non-standard MPI launcher name.

       SCAN_MPI_RANKS
           Specifies  the  number  of  MPI  processes,  for  example  in  an  MPMD  use case or if the number of ranks is not automatically identified correctly. The specified number will also be used in the
           automatically generated experiment title. While an experiment title with an incorrect number of processes is harmless (though generally confusing), the correct number  is  required  for  automatic
           parallel trace analysis.

       SCAN_OVERWRITE
           If enabled, removes an existing experiment archive directory before measurement (default: 'false').

       SCAN_SETENV
           If  environment  variables  are  not  automatically  forwarded  to MPI processes by the launcher, one can specify the syntax that the launcher requires for this as SCAN_SETENV. For example, "-foo"
           results in passing "-foo key val" to the launcher, while "--foo=" results in "--foo key=val".

       SCAN_TARGET
           If there is an imposter executable or script, for example, used to specify placement/thread binding, that precedes the instrumented target, it may be necessary to explicitly  identify  the  target
           executable by setting SCAN_TARGET to the executable name.

       SCAN_TRACE_ANALYZER
           Specifies an alternative trace analyzer to be used (e.g., scout.mpi or scout.hyb). If 'none' is specified, automatic trace analysis is skipped after measurement.

       SCAN_WAIT
           Time in seconds to wait for synchronization of a distributed filesystem after measurement completion.

   Common Score-P environment variables controlling the measurement
       SCOREP_EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY
           Explicit experiment archive title.

       SCOREP_ENABLE_PROFILING
           Enable or disable runtime summarization.

       SCOREP_ENABLE_TRACING
           Enable or disable event trace generation.

       SCOREP_FILTERING_FILE
           Name of run-time measurement filter file.

       SCOREP_VERBOSE
           Controls the generation of additional (debugging) output from the Score-P measurement system.

       SCOREP_TOTAL_MEMORY
           Size of per-process memory in bytes reserved for Score-P.

       For further details, please refer to the Score-P documentation and/or the output of 'scorep-info config-vars'.

MULTI-RUN EXPERIMENTS
       scan  also  provides  means  to  automate  the  generation  of  multiple measurements with varying configuration settings. This workflow can be employed for various analysis objectives, as long as the
       variations are based on environment variables. Likely candidates are:

       1.  Increasing the statistical significance through multiple repetitions of measurements with identical settings.

       2.  Spreading multiple hardware-counter measurements over different runs to limit the measurement overhead and/or to overcome hardware limitations (e.g., number of hardware performance  counters  that
           can be measured simultaneously).

       3.  Performing a series of measurements with varying application settings, like problem size or input data.

       Results of such multi-run experiments can be used individually, aggregated manually using various Cube tools, or be passed to the square(1) command for automated report aggregation.

       Attention:
           The  degree of non-determinism in an application's runtime behavior will influence the informative value of any aggregated result. Only with sufficient similarity between application runs will the
           combination of results be useful.

       Multi-run experiments are set up using a plain-text configuration file, which is passed to the scan command via  the  -M  command-line  option.  In  this  file,  the  begin  of  each  measurement  run
       configuration  is marked by a line starting with a single dash (-) character; the remainder of the line will be ignored. Subsequent lines up to either the next run separator or the end of the file may
       contain at most one variable setting of the form 'VARIABLE=VALUE'. Optionally, a section with global settings can be specified at the beginning of the config file, introduced by a line  starting  with
       two  dashes  (--);  the  remainder  of this line will again be ignored. A variable defined in the global section will be applied in all subsequent run configurations unless it is overwritten by a run-
       specific setting. The configuration file format also allows for single-line comments starting with a hash character (#) and blank lines, both of which are ignored.

       For example, the following multi-run configuration file defines a series of four subsequent measurements with different settings:

           # example run configuration file
           # global section
           -- this can also hold comments
           SCOREP_ENABLE_TRACING=true
           -
           # first run with two PAPI metrics
           SCOREP_METRIC_PAPI=PAPI_TOT_CYC,PAPI_TOT_INS
           -
           # second run with different PAPI metric and increased Score-P memory
           SCOREP_METRIC_PAPI=PAPI_LD_INS
           SCOREP_TOTAL_MEMORY=42M
           - third run with different PAPI metric
           SCOREP_METRIC_PAPI=PAPI_VEC_DP
           -
           # fourth run using only global settings

       Note that measurement configuration settings are not limited to scan or Score-P environment variables, but also allow for setting arbitrary variables in the measurement  execution  environment.  Also,
       the order in which measurements are specified may have an impact on the aggregated result, see square(1) for details.

       To  ensure consistency and reproducibility, the environment must not contain Score-P or Scalasca variables when using a multi-run configuration file. Otherwise, scan will abort with an error providing
       a list of the offending variables. That is, all Score-P/Scalasca settings to be applied have to be placed in either the global or run-specific sections of the configuration.  Moreover,  all  variables
       used  anywhere  in  the  configuration  file  will be unset before each measurement run, and then set to either the global or run-specific value if applicable, thus avoiding side effects from variable
       settings not specified in the configuration file. The Score-P variable SCOREP_EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY will not have any effect inside the configuration file, as an automatic naming scheme---an  extension
       to the default Scalasca scheme---is enforced to keep the multi-run measurement directories consistent. To set the experiment directory a priori, the scan command-line option -e can be used. Other scan
       options that control the measurement (-q, -t, and -s) will be ignored when used with a config file and should be set through  the  respective  environment  variables  in  the  configuration  file  for
       consistency.

       In  addition  to  multi-run  experiments with different configuration settings, scan supports repeating a single or a set of measurements multiple times via the -R command-line option, for example, to
       provide increased statistical significance. For measurements without a configuration file, the measurement will be repeated the requested number of times with  the  current  environment.  In  case  of
       multi-run configurations, each individual run will be repeated the given number of times with the specified configuration.

       For  multi-run  experiments,  scan  creates  a common directory which contains the result of each individual measurement run stored in a subdirectory. The name of the base directory and the experiment
       directories contains the number of configurations as well as the number of repetitions. To support reproducibility, the configuration used is stored in the file scalasca_run.cfg  in  the  common  base
       directory.

EXIT STATUS
       scan exits with status 0 if measurement and automatic trace analysis (if configured) were successful, and greater than 0 if errors occur.

NOTES
       While parsing the arguments, unrecognized flags might be reported as ignored, and unrecognized options with required arguments might need to be quoted.

       Instrumented  applications  can  still  be  run  without  using  scan  to generate measurements, however, measurement configuration is then exclusively via Score-P environment variables (which must be
       explicitly exported to MPI processes) and trace analysis is not automatically started after event trace collection.

BUGS
       Please report bugs to scalasca@fz-juelich.de. Make sure to include at least the following information in your bug report:

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools version reported by 'scalasca -V'.

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools configuration reported by 'scalasca -c'.

       · The Score-P version reported by 'scorep --version'.

       · The Score-P configuration reported by 'scorep-info config-summary'.

       · The exact command line of the failing command.

       · The exact failure/error message.

       Also, if the trace analysis fails, please archive a copy of the entire experiment archive directory including the event trace data, as this may be required to aid in debugging. However,  ONLY  PROVIDE
       TRACE DATA IF EXPLICITLY REQUESTED, as the data volume may be excessive.

EXAMPLES
       scan mpiexec -n 4 foo args
       Execute the instrumented MPI program foo with command-line arguments args, collecting a runtime summary (default). Results in an experiment directory scorep_foo_4_sum.

       OMP_NUM_THREADS=3 scan -s mpiexec -n 4 foobar
       Execute the instrumented hybrid MPI+OpenMP program foobar, collecting a runtime summary (default, but explicitly requested). Results in an experiment directory scorep_foobar_4x3_sum.

       OMP_NUM_THREADS=3 scan -q -t -f filter bar
       Execute  the instrumented OpenMP program bar, collecting only an event trace with the run-time measurement filter filter applied. Trace collection is immediately followed by Scalasca's automatic trace
       analysis. Results in an experiment directory scorep_bar_Ox3_trace.

SEE ALSO
       scalasca(1), square(1), scout(1)

       The Score-P instrumentation and measurement system documentation is available online at https://www.score-p.org.

       The full Scalasca Trace Tools documentation is available online at https://www.scalasca.org.

Version 2.5                                                                                     Fri Mar 22 2019                                                                                         scan(1)
