scout(1)                                                                                      Scalasca Trace Tools                                                                                     scout(1)

NAME
       scout - Scalasca parallel trace analyzer

SYNOPSIS
       scout.ser [OPTION] (ANCHOR_FILE | EXPERIMENT_DIR)
       scout.omp [OPTION] (ANCHOR_FILE | EXPERIMENT_DIR)
       scout.mpi [OPTION] (ANCHOR_FILE | EXPERIMENT_DIR)
       scout.hyb [OPTION] (ANCHOR_FILE | EXPERIMENT_DIR)

DESCRIPTION
       scout is the scalable automatic trace-analysis component of the Scalasca Trace Tools. In particular, it provides the ability to

       · identify wait states in communication and synchronization operations that occur, for example, as a result of unevenly distributed workloads,

       · pinpoint the root causes of those wait states (i.e., delays), and

       · identify  the  activities on the critical path of the target application, highlighting those routines which determine the length of the program execution and therefore constitute the best candidates
         for optimization.

       Usually, scout is launched automatically by the Scalasca measurement collection and analysis nexus scan(1) after a successful measurement if event tracing is configured. However, it can  also  be  run
       manually on an existing event trace measurement.

       scout  currently  supports  trace  experiments  in  two  different  event trace formats: OTF2 traces generated by the Score-P instrumentation and measurement system, and legacy traces in EPILOG format
       generated by the measurement system of the Scalasca 1.x release series. For OTF2 event traces, scout has to be provided with the corresponding ANCHOR_FILE (e.g., 'traces.otf2'), for EPILOG traces with
       the experiment directory name EXPERIMENT_DIR.

       Depending on the build configuration and the capabilities of the target platform, the scout analyzer may be available in up to four forms:

       scout.ser
           is  always  built.  It  is  used  to analyze event traces generated by serial applications. It can also be used to analyze event traces from multi-threaded applications, however, it will then only
           provide information about the master thread.

       scout.omp
           is built whenever the Scalasca Trace Tools are configured with OpenMP support. It is used to analyze event traces generated by  pure  multi-threaded  applications  (e.g.,  using  OpenMP  or  POSIX
           threads). It can also be used to analyze event traces from serial applications, though analysis incurs a higher overhead than using scout.ser.

       scout.mpi
           is built whenever the Scalasca Trace Tools are configured with MPI support. It is used to analyze event traces generated by pure MPI applications. It can also be used on traces from multi-threaded
           MPI applications, however, it will then only provide information about the master thread of each process and its MPI activities.

       scout.hyb
           is built if the Scalasca Trace Tools are configured with both MPI and OpenMP support. It is used to analyze  event  traces  generated  by  multi-threaded  MPI  applications  (e.g.,  MPI+OpenMP  or
           MPI+Pthreads), providing information about all OpenMP/POSIX threads of each MPI process. It can also be used on traces from pure MPI applications, though analysis incurs a slightly higher overhead
           than using scout.mpi.

       Note that scout.mpi and scout.hyb are implemented as MPI programs, and therefore have to be executed using appropriate MPI launch commands and flags. Also, the number of MPI processes for  scout  must
       be identical to the number of MPI processes used for the target application execution.

       If successful, scout produces the following output files in the measurement archive directory:

       · scout.cubex: the trace analysis result

       · trace.stat: trace analysis pattern statistics

OPTIONS
       scout accepts a number of command-line options to enable/disable particular analysis features. When scout is launched automatically from the Scalasca measurement collection and analysis nexus scan(1),
       these options can be passed to the analyzer via the SCAN_ANALYZE_OPTS environment variable.

   Common options
       --statistics
           Enables most-severe instance tracking and wait-state statistics. This is the default.

       --no-statistics
           Disables most-severe instance tracking and wait-state statistics.

       --critical-path
           Enables critical-path analysis. This is the default.

       --no-critical-path
           Disables critical-path analysis.

       --rootcause
           Enables root-cause analysis. This is the default.

       --no-rootcause
           Disables root-cause analysis.

       --single-pass
           Use single-pass forward analysis only. Disables both critical-path and root-cause analysis, as well as the detection of Late Receiver wait states.

       -v, --verbose
           Increase verbosity.

       --help
           Print a brief usage summary, then exit.

   MPI options (scout.mpi/scout.hyb only)
       --time-correct
           Enables enhanced timestamp correction. Event traces collected on clusters without a synchronized clock may contain logical clock condition violations (such  as  a  receive  completing  before  the
           corresponding  send  is  initiated).  When  scout  detects such situations, it issues a warning that the analysis may be inconsistent and recommends (re-)running trace analysis with its integrated
           timestamp correction algorithm activated.

       --no-time-correct
           Disables enhanced timestamp correction. This is the default.

EXIT STATUS
       scout exits with status 0 if automatic trace analysis was successful, and greater than 0 if errors occur.

NOTES
       scout poses a number of requirements on the input event trace data, which are documented in the OPEN_ISSUES file installed as part of the Scalasca Trace  Tools  documentation.  It  is  also  available
       online at https://www.scalasca.org. If those requirements are not met, scout may abort, deadlock, or crash.

       If  scout crashes or deadlocks even though the documented requirements are met (which usually indicates a bug), restricting the scope of the analysis by disabling certain features (e.g., critical-path
       and/or root-cause analysis) may help as a workaround. In any case, please report such issues for further investigation (see BUGS below).

BUGS
       Please report bugs to scalasca@fz-juelich.de. Make sure to include at least the following information in your bug report:

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools version reported by 'scalasca -V'.

       · The Scalasca Trace Tools configuration reported by 'scalasca -c'.

       · The Score-P version reported by 'scorep --version'.

       · The Score-P configuration reported by 'scorep-info config-summary'.

       · The exact command line of the failing command.

       · The exact failure/error message.

       Also, please archive a copy of the entire experiment archive directory including the event trace data, as this may be required to aid in debugging. However,  ONLY  PROVIDE  TRACE  DATA  IF  EXPLICITLY
       REQUESTED, as the data volume may be excessive.

EXAMPLES
       scout.omp scorep_foo_Ox4_trace/traces.otf2
       Perform the Scalasca OpenMP event trace analysis on the OTF2 event trace with anchor file scorep_foo_Ox4_trace/traces.otf2.

       mpiexec -n 16 scout.mpi --time-correct scorep_bar_16_trace/traces.otf2
       Apply the enhanced timestamp correction and perform the Scalasca MPI event trace analysis on the OTF2 event trace with anchor file scorep_bar_16_trace/traces.otf.

       mpiexec -n 4 scout.hyb epik_foobar_4x4_trace
       Perform the hybrid Scalasca MPI+OpenMP event trace analysis on the EPILOG event trace in the experiment archive epik_foobar_4x4_trace generated by the Scalasca 1.x release series.

SEE ALSO
       scalasca(1), scan(1), square(1)

       The full Scalasca Trace Tools documentation is available online at https://www.scalasca.org.

Version 2.5                                                                                     Fri Mar 22 2019                                                                                        scout(1)
