scrontab(1)                                                                                      Slurm Commands                                                                                     scrontab(1)

NAME
       scrontab - manage Slurm crontab files

SYNOPSIS
       scrontab [-u user] [ -e | -l | -r ]

DESCRIPTION
       scrontab is used to set, edit, and remove a user's Slurm-managed crontab.  This file can define a number of recurring batch jobs to run on a scheduled interval.

       Lines must be either comments starting with '#', whitespace, or valid crontab entries.

       Lines  starting  with  #SCRON allow options to be defined for the single following crontab entry. Options are always reset in between each crontab entry. Options include most of those available to the
       sbatch command; details are available in the sbatch(1) man page.

       Note that jobs are not guaranteed to execute at the preferred time. Jobs will run no more frequently than requested, but are managed by setting the BeginTime field to the next valid iteration, and are
       then subject to queuing delays. The exact behavior will depend on the local site configuration.  Because of this method of implementation, the next job in the series won't be submitted until after the
       previous job has completed.  For example, if you have a monitoring job that is scheduled to run every minute on a busy system, if the job scheduled to start at  08:20:00  isn't  able  to  start  until
       08:20:30 and it runs for 35 seconds then the job at 08:21:00 will be skipped and the next job will be scheduled for 08:22:00.

       scrontab uses the same syntax for date and time specifiers as cron.  Each line has five fields that have the following meanings:
              field           allowed values
              -----           --------------
              minute          0-59
              hour            0-23
              day of month    1-31
              month           1-12 (or name)
              day of week     0-7 (0 and 7 are Sunday, or use name)

       A  field  can  contain an asterisk (*) which means that it's valid for each of the allowed values for the given time period. Ranges are allowed where a range is two numbers with a hyphen between them.
       The second number must be greater than the first. Lists are allowed, with commas separating the numbers or ranges being separated. Step values can be specified by entering a slash (/), followed by the
       step value, causing the job to run at the specified interval appropriate for that field.

OPTIONS
       -e     Edit the crontab. If a crontab does not exist already, a default example (without any defined entries) will be provided in the editor.

       -l     List the crontab. (Prints directly to stdout.)

       -r     Remove the crontab. Any currently running crontab-defined jobs will continue to run but will no longer recur. All other crontab-defined jobs will be cancelled.

       -u <user>
              Edit or view a different user's crontab. Listing is permitted for Operators and Admins. Editing/removal is only permitted for root and the SlurmUser account.

SCRONTAB OPTIONS
       scrontab allows you to use shortcuts to specify some common time intervals for the specified script to run.  These include the following:

       @yearly | @annually
              Job will become eligible at 00:00 Jan 01 each year.

       @monthly
              Job will become eligible at 00:00 on the first day of each month.

       @weekly
              Job will become eligible at 00:00 Sunday of each week.

       @daily | @midnight
              Job will become eligible at 00:00 each day.

       @hourly
              Job will become eligible at the first minute of each hour.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       VISUAL              Used as the interactive editor if set.

       EDITOR              Used as the interfactive editor if set and VISUAL is not defined.

       SLURM_CONF          The location of the Slurm configuration file.

NOTES
       scrontab is only available if the ScronParameters=enable option has been enabled in the slurm.conf.

EXAMPLES
       To create a job that would run at the beginning of each hour, using the 'high' partition, 'sub1' account and have a walltime of 1 minute, you would add the following to scrontab:

              #SCRON -p high
              #SCRON -A sub1
              #SCRON -t 1:00
              @hourly /home/user1/date.printer.job

       To have a job run every Wednesday, every other hour during the work day, each of the first five minutes of the hour and again at the thirty minute mark, you would add the following to scrontab.

              1-5,30 8-17/2 * * wed /home/user1/example.job

COPYING
       Copyright (C) 2020 SchedMD LLC.

       This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.  For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.

       Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
       your option) any later version.

       Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
       License for more details.

SEE ALSO
       sbatch(1), squeue(1), slurm.conf(5)

April 2021                                                                                       Slurm Commands                                                                                     scrontab(1)
