scrub-files(1)                                                                                   GNU Telephony                                                                                   scrub-files(1)

NAME
       scrub-files - securely erase files by filling with random data first.

SYNOPSIS
       scrub [options] paths...

DESCRIPTION
       This  command  is  used to securely erase files.  This is accomplished by filling the file with random data in pre-sized chunks.  Multiple passes of random data may also be used.  The pre-sized chunks
       are used to remove information about exact original file size.  Other options include random renaming of the original file before deletion and the use of truncation to break  down  meta-data  on  what
       blocks in the file system were originally associated with a securely deleted file.  This is specifically intended to make it harder to perform forensic analysis on securely erased files.

OPTIONS
       --blocksize size
              Set  the  default  block size (in 1 k increments) for scrub-files to use when writing random data.  This effects both the final file length, which will be aligned to the specified size, and the
              way the truncate option decomposes files.  The default is 1k.

       --follow
              Dereference and follow symlinks, erasing the target file.

       --passes=count
              The number of passes used when writing random data.  The default is 1 pass.

       --recursive
              If argument is a directory, recursively scan directory and any subdirectory contents as arguments.

       --rename
              Rename the file randomly before deletion to clear persistant inode data.

       --truncate
              Decompose the file through truncation to break down file system page maps.

       --verbose
              Display each file being processed to the console.

       --help Outputs help screen for the user.

AUTHOR
       scrub-files was written by David Sugar <dyfet@gnutelephony.org>.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to bug-commoncpp@gnu.org or bugs@gnutelephony.org.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2010-2014 David Sugar, Tycho Softworks.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

GNU uCommon                                                                                       January 2010                                                                                   scrub-files(1)
