SCRYPT(1)                                                                                  General Commands Manual                                                                                SCRYPT(1)

NAME
       scrypt — encrypt and decrypt files

SYNOPSIS
       scrypt {enc | dec | info} [-f] [--logN value] [-M maxmem] [-m maxmemfrac] [-P] [-p value] [--passphrase method:arg] [-r value] [-t maxtime] [-v] infile [outfile]
       scrypt --version

DESCRIPTION
       scrypt  enc  encrypts  infile and writes the result to outfile if specified, or the standard output otherwise.  The user will be prompted to enter a passphrase (twice) to be used to generate a de‐
       rived encryption key.

       scrypt dec decrypts infile and writes the result to outfile if specified, or the standard output otherwise.  The user will be prompted to enter the passphrase used at encryption time  to  generate
       the derived encryption key.

       scrypt info provides information about the encryption parameters used for infile.

       Unless  otherwise specified via --passphrase, scrypt reads passphrases from its controlling terminal, or failing that, from stdin.  Prompts are only printed when scrypt is reading passphrases from
       some terminal.

OPTIONS
       -f             Force the operation to proceed even if it is anticipated to require an excessive amount of memory or CPU time.  Do not print any warnings about exceeding any memory or CPU time lim‐
                      its.

       --logN value   Set the work parameter N to 2^value.  If --logN is set, -r and -p must also be set.  If such explicit parameters are given, the resource limits set by -M, -m, and  -t  are  not  en‐
                      forced.

       -M maxmem      Use at most maxmem bytes of RAM to compute the derived encryption key.

       -m maxmemfrac  Use at most the fraction maxmemfrac of the available RAM to compute the derived encryption key.  The maximum possible value for maxmemfrac is 0.5.

       -P             Deprecated synonym for --passphrase dev:stdin-once.

       -p value       Set the work parameter p to value.  If -p is set, --logN and -r must also be set.  If such explicit parameters are given, the resource limits set by -M, -m, and -t are not enforced.

       --passphrase method:arg
                      Read the passphrase using the specified method.

                      dev:tty-stdin
                          Attempt to read the passphrase from /dev/tty; if that fails, read it from stdin.  This is the default behaviour.

                      dev:stdin-once
                          Attempt to read the passphrase from stdin, and do so only once even when encrypting.  This cannot be used if infile is also stdin (aka '-').

                      dev:tty-once
                          Attempt to read the passphrase from /dev/tty, and do so only once even when encrypting.

                      env:VAR
                          Read the passphrase from the environment variable specified by VAR.

                          Storing a passphrase in an environment variable may be a security risk.  Only use this option if you are certain that you know what you are doing.

                      file:FILENAME
                          Read the passphrase from the file specified by FILENAME.

                          Storing a passphrase in a file may be a security risk.  Only use this option if you are certain that you know what you are doing.

       -r value       Set the work parameter r to value.  If -r is set, --logN and -p must also be set.  If such explicit parameters are given, the resource limits set by -M, -m, and -t are not enforced.

       -t maxtime     Use at most maxtime seconds of CPU time to compute the derived encryption key.

       -v             Print encryption parameters (N, r, p) and memory/cpu limits.

       --version      Print version of scrypt, and exit.

       In  scrypt  enc, the memory and CPU time limits are enforced by picking appropriate parameters to the scrypt key derivation function.  In scrypt dec, the memory and CPU time limits are enforced by
       exiting with an error if decrypting the file would require too much memory or CPU time.

EXIT STATUS
       The scrypt utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

       Note that if the input encrypted file is corrupted, scrypt dec may produce output prior to determining that the input was corrupt and exiting with a non-zero status; so  users  should  direct  the
       output to a safe location and check the exit status of scrypt before using the decrypted data.

ALGORITHM PARAMETERS
       The  scrypt  algorithm has three tuneable work parameters: N, r, p.  When decrypting, scrypt will always use the values specified by the encryption header.  When encrypting, scrypt will choose ap‐
       propriate values based on your system's speed and memory (influenced by -M, -m, and/or -t), unless you specify explicit parameters via --logN, -p, -r.

SEE ALSO
       Colin Percival, Stronger Key Derivation via Sequential Memory-Hard Functions, BSDCan'09, May 2009.

       Colin Percival and Simon Josefsson, The scrypt Password-Based Key Derivation Function, IETF RFC 7914, August 2016.

HISTORY
       The scrypt utility was written in May 2009 by Colin Percival as a demonstration of the scrypt key derivation function.  The scrypt key derivation function was invented in March 2009 by Colin  Per‐
       cival in order to allow key files from the Tarsnap backup system to be passphrase protected.

Debian                                                                                             @DATE@                                                                                         SCRYPT(1)
