SCUTE(7)                                                                                           Scute                                                                                           SCUTE(7)

SYNOPSIS
       scute.so

DESCRIPTION
       Scute is a PKCS#11 implementation for the GnuPG Agent using the GnuPG Smart Card Daemon.  Currently, OpenPGP and PIV cards are supported.

       Scute  enables  the  use  of the OpenPGP smart card or a PIV smart card in applications supporting PKCS#11 compliant security tokens.  The main application at this time is client authentication in
       Mozilla-based web browsers.  In the future, other applications will be supported.

       To prepare your application for use with Scute, you have to load the Scute module as a PKCS#11 module into the application.  See below for notes on how to do that with Firefox.

OPTIONS
       As a shared library, scute has no command line options but its behaviour can be modified by the use of a global configuration file or with an environment variable (see below).  The global configu‐
       ration file is expected as ‘/etc/gnupg/scute.conf’.  It consists of keywords and values and some meta commands.  There is currently only one useful option for general use, the  other  options  are
       used for debugging.  Scute uses the same parser as GnuPG does; thus for the meta commands please consult the GnuPG description.

       Here is the short list of supported keywords:

       only-marked
              Scute consideres only keys having the Use-for-p11 as part of their meta data.

       user name
              If Scute is running with root permission and this option is used it runs the GnuPG components in the context of the user name.  name may either be a name or a numerical UID.  This allows to
              use  the  GnuPG  setup of a certain user instead of running it under the root account.  This is needed to make Scute work smoothly as a PKCS#11 provider for OpenVPN.  If the current user is
              not root, this option has no effect.

       debug flag
              Useful values for flag are 1 and 3.

       log-file file
              This has currently no effect but will in a future version write the log to file.  Writing to a socket will be possible by prefixing the file with the string socket://.

       assume-single-threaded
              This is a hack to ignore a request to use native threads instead of user provided callbacks.  Should only be used with caution if there is no easy way to fix the caller  or  until  we  have
              fixed Scute.

       no-chain
              By  default, when Scute is asked for a certificate, it returns the requested certificate along with the chain of signing certificates.  This option makes Scute return only the leaf certifi‐
              cate.

       In addition to the above configuration file, Scute also reads GnuPG´s ‘common.conf’ in the same way GnuPG does.  This way the no-autostart option is detected and Scute will not try to launch  gpg-
       agent, which it usually does.  The important use-case here is running Scute on a server with the gpg-agent on a desktop box.

NOTES (FIREFOX)
       To use Scute with Firefox or Thunderbird, follow these instructions:

       From the menu choose Edit->Preferences.  In the preferences configuration dialog, you then select the Advanced configuration section, then the Security tab, and then select Security Devices in the
       category  Certificates.  In the devices manager dialog, you can select Load to load a new PKCS#11 device.  In the pop-up dialog that follows, you can give a module name (e.g. ``Scute'') and a mod‐
       ule filename.  The latter should correspond to the full file name of the installed Scute module file ‘scute.so’.

       The default installation path is ‘/usr/local/lib’, which would mean that you have to provide the file name ‘/usr/local/lib/scute.so’.  If you or your system administrator installed Scute in a dif‐
       ferent location, you have to adjust the file name correspondingly.

       After confirming installation of the security device, a pop-up window should confirm that the module was successfully loaded, and an entry for the security device should appear in the device  man‐
       ager list of

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variable SCUTE_DEBUG gives the same debug flags as described above.  This numerically value may be followed by a colon and the name for the log file.  The global options will over‐
       ride these values once they have been parsed.

SEE ALSO
       scdaemon(1) gpgsm(1)

Scute 1.7.1-unknown                                                                              2024-12-18                                                                                        SCUTE(7)
