sedta(1)                                                                             SETools: SELinux Policy Analysis Tools                                                                            sedta(1)

NAME
       sedta - Domain transition analysis for SELinux policies

SYNOPSIS
       sedta [OPTIONS] -s SOURCE [-t TARGET (-S|-A LIMIT)] [EXCLUDE [EXCLUDE ...]]

DESCRIPTION
       sedta is a command line tool that allows the user to perform domain transition analyses on an SELinux policy.

POLICY
       A  single file containing a binary policy. This file is usually named by version on Linux systems, for example, policy.30. This file is usually named sepolicy on Android systems.  If no policy file is
       provided, sedta will search for the policy running on the current system. If no policy can be found, sedta will print an error message and exit.

OPTIONS
   Analysis Settings
       -p POLICY
              Specify the policy to analyze. If none is specified, sedta will search for the policy running on the current system.

       -s SOURCE
              Specify the source type to use in the domain transition analysis.

       -t TARGET
              Specify the target type to use in the domain transition analysis. Using this option will also require specifying an analysis algorithm.

   Analysis Algorithms
       sedta uses graph algorithms to analyze the domain transition paths of an SELinux policy.  The following algorithms are options for determining paths from a source type to a target type.

       -S     Print the shortest domain transition path(s) from the source type to the target type.  If multiple paths have the same length, all will be displayed.

       -A LIMIT
              Print all domain transition path(s) up to LIMIT steps long.  Depending on the connectiveness of the policy, this may be extremely expensive.

   Analysis Options
       -r     Perform a reverse domain transition analysis.  The domain transitions will be analyzed to find the the parent domains, instead of finding the child domains.

       -l LIMIT_TRANS
              Specify the maximum number of domain transitions to output. The default is unlimited.

       EXCLUDE
              A space-separated list of types to exclude from the analysis.

   General Options
       --stats
              Print domain transition graph statistics at the end of the analysis.

       -h, --help
              Print help information and exit.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Print additional informational messages.

       --debug
              Enable debugging output.

AUTHOR
       Chris PeBenito <pebenito@ieee.org>

BUGS
       Please report bugs via the SETools bug tracker, https://github.com/SELinuxProject/setools/issues

SEE ALSO
       apol(1), sediff(1), seinfo(1), seinfoflow(1), sesearch(1)

SELinux Project                                                                                    2016-02-20                                                                                          sedta(1)
