seinfoflow(1)                                                                        SETools: SELinux Policy Analysis Tools                                                                       seinfoflow(1)

NAME
       seinfoflow - Information flow analysis for SELinux policies

SYNOPSIS
       seinfoflow [OPTIONS] -m MAP -s SOURCE [-t TARGET (-S|-A LIMIT)] [EXCLUDE [EXCLUDE ...]]

DESCRIPTION
       seinfoflow is a command line tool that allows the user to perform information flow analyses on an SELinux policy.

POLICY
       A  single file containing a binary policy. This file is usually named by version on Linux systems, for example, policy.30. This file is usually named sepolicy on Android systems.  If no policy file is
       provided, seinfoflow will search for the policy running on the current system. If no policy can be found, seinfoflow will print an error message and exit.

OPTIONS
   Analysis Settings
       -p POLICY
              Specify the policy to analyze. If none is specified, seinfoflow will search for the policy running on the current system.

       -m MAP Specify the path to the permission map file to use in the information flow analysis.

       -s SOURCE
              Specify the source type to use in the information flow analysis.

       -t TARGET
              Specify the target type to use in the information flow analysis. Using this option will also require specifying an analysis algorithm.

   Analysis Algorithms
       seinfoflow uses graph algorithms to analyze the information flow paths of an SELinux policy.  The following algorithms are options for determining paths from a source type to a target type.

       -S     Print the shortest information flow path(s) from the source type to the target type.  If multiple paths have the same length, all will be displayed.

       -A LIMIT
              Print all information flow path(s) up to LIMIT steps long.  Depending on the connectiveness of the policy, a limit of 5 or more may be extremely expensive.

   Analysis Options
       -w MIN_WEIGHT
              Specify the minimum permission weight to consider for the analysis (1-10). The default is 3.

       -l LIMIT_FLOWS
              Specify the maximum number of information flows to output. The default is unlimited.

       EXCLUDE
              A space-separated list of types to exclude from the analysis.

   General Options
       --stats
              Print information flow graph statistics at the end of the analysis.

       -h, --help
              Print help information and exit.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Print additional informational messages.

       --debug
              Enable debugging output.

AUTHOR
       Chris PeBenito <pebenito@ieee.org>

BUGS
       Please report bugs via the SETools bug tracker, https://github.com/SELinuxProject/setools/issues

SEE ALSO
       apol(1), sediff(1), sedta(1), seinfo(1), sesearch(1)

SELinux Project                                                                                    2016-02-20                                                                                     seinfoflow(1)
