
sendsms(1)                                                                                           gnokii                                                                                          sendsms(1)

NAME
       sendsms - command line tool to send SMSes using gnokii

SYNOPSIS
       sendsms [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       sendsms  allows you to send a SMS using gnokii not knowing the syntax of gnokii command. It is written using dialog and allows to send a text SMS choosing recipients from the phone address book or en‐
       tering it manually.

   OPTIONS
       Available options:

       [--debug|-D]
              May bother with more debugging messages. For debugging purpose.

       --simul[ate], -S
              Simulation mode. Doesn't really send SMS by phone. Only simulates. For debugging purpose.

       --forceSMread, -s
              Forces sendsms to read phonebook from SIM card, and to parse the generated file in order to update the numbers' list (useful only if required to pickup number  from  the  phone's  memory).  See
              NOTE.

       --forceMEread, -m
              Forces  sendsms to read phonebook from phone memory, and to parse the generated file in order to update the numbers' list (useful only if required to pickup number from the phone's memory). See
              NOTE.

       --skipgnokiicheck, -K
              Skip the test of the presence of binary 'gnokii'. (It must be somewhere in your $PATH).  It allows you to try this script program, even if you don't have 'gnokii' already. ;)

       --smsset, --setsms
              Allows you to preset a SMS message from STDIN. (pipe or input redirection).  This message will be proposed on the 'SMS message' field during the program input cycle.

       --help, -h, /h
              display this help and exit

       --version, -V
              output version information and exit"

       NOTE:  If you require to pickup number from phone's memory (or from SIM card), for the first time, it anyway reads phonebook from your mobile phone.  (It may take a while... please, be patient ;-)

BUGS
       None reported.

AUTHOR
       Sendsms was written by Gabriele Zappi - Rimini <gzappi@inwind.it>.

       This manual page was written by Pawel Kot.

COPYING
       This program is distributed under the GNU Public License.

SEE ALSO
       gnokii

Pawel Kot                                                                                       August 29, 2003                                                                                      sendsms(1)
