setpix(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   setpix(1)

Name
       setpix - Set FITS or IRAF image values

Synopsis
       setpix [-vn] file.fts [x_range y_range value] [@valuefile]

Description
       Set  a  specified  pixel  or  range of pixels in a FITS or IRAF image to a specified value. More than one range of pixels and values may be specified on one command line. A file of xrange yrange value
       triplets may be used to set multiple regions at once. The image may be overwritten or a new image created.

Options
       filename
              Name of IRAF image header file or FITS file. This must be present.

       @coordfile
              Name of file containing lines of the format
                       xrange yrange value where xrange and yrange are of the format n or n-n or n,n,n or n-n,n-n and value my be integer or floating point.  value will be converted to the type of the image.
              If a range is 0, the entire row or column specified by the other non-zero range will be set to the indicated value. If both ranges are zero, the entire image will be set to the specified value.
              New in version 2.6.4.

       xrange yrange value
              Image coordinate x and y ranges and the value to which that region will be set. Either one of these triplets or a file of triplets, specified by @filename, must be present.  xrange  and  yrange
              are  of  the format n or n-n or n,n,n or n-n,n-n and value my be integer or floating point. value will be converted to the type of the image. If a range is 0, the entire row or column specified
              by the other non-zero range will be set to the indicated value. If both ranges are zero, the entire image will be set to the specified value. Ranges new in version 2.6.4.

       -a <number>
              Add constant to pixels

       -d <number>
              Divide pixels by constant

       -i     List each line which is dropped

       -m <number>
              Multiply pixels by constant

       -n     Write the output to a new file which is named by inserting an e before the file extension. The new file is always written to the current working directory.

       -s <number>
              Subtract constant from pixels

       -v     Print more information about the process

Author
       Jessica Mink, SAO (jmink@cfa.harvard.edu)

6 July 2001                                                                                         WCSTools                                                                                          setpix(1)
