SFXTEST(1)                                                                                        AWE32 manual                                                                                       SFXTEST(1)

NAME
       sfxtest - test utility for the Linux AWE32 driver

SYNOPSIS
       sfxtest [command parameters] ...

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  documents briefly the sfxtest command.  This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution (but may be used by others), because the original program does not have a
       manual page.

       sfxtest is a program designed for testing that the Linux AWE32 driver has been set up properly, and that the appropriate patch files are loaded correctly (using sfxload(1), or gusload(1)).

OPTIONS
       The program takes a series of commands followed by arguments. It accepts the following commands:-

       X      Instructs the program to use channel control mode.

       x channel
              Changes the channel being operated on to channel

       b bank Changes the bank being used to bank

       p program
              Changes the program (instrument) being used to program

       n note velocity
              Sends a noteon command for note note at velocity velocity

       k      Kills a note (sends noteoff).

       K note Kills the note note (used for channel mode).

       r value
              Sets the pitch sense to value

       w value
              Sets the putch wheel to value

       t      time Waits for time hundredths of a second.

       c value
              Sets the panning value to value

       v note velocity
              Changes the key pressure of note to velocity velocity

       D mode Sets the debug mode of the driver to mode.  Higher values of mode are more verbose.

       C mode Sets the chorus type to mode

       R mode Sets the reverb type to mode

       F parameter value
              Sends an effect command type parameter, with value value

       I      (Re-)Initializes the AWE32 driver and EMU8000 chip.

SEE ALSO
       sfxload(1), gusload(1), drvmidi(1)

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Tom Lees <tom@lpsg.demon.co.uk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system.

       The AWE32 driver and utilities were written by Takashi Iwai <iwai@dragon.mm.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp>.

awesfx 0.3.3                                                                              Sun Mar  2 09:57:48 GMT 1997                                                                               SFXTEST(1)
