SGT‐TWIDDLE(6)                                                              Games                                                              SGT‐TWIDDLE(6)

NAME
       sgt-twiddle - Rotational sliding block puzzle

SYNOPSIS
       sgt-twiddle [--generate n] [--print wxh [--with-solutions] [--scale n] [--colour]] [game-parameters|game-ID|random-seed]

       sgt-twiddle --version

DESCRIPTION
       Twiddle is a tile-rearrangement puzzle, visually similar to Sixteen (see sgt-sixteen(6)): you are given a grid of square tiles, each containing a num‐
       ber, and your aim is to arrange the numbers into ascending order.

       In  basic Twiddle, your move is to rotate a square group of four tiles about their common centre. (Orientation is not significant in the basic puzzle,
       although you can select it.) On more advanced settings, you can rotate a larger square group of tiles.

       I first saw this type of puzzle in the GameCube game ‘Metroid Prime 2’. In the Main Gyro Chamber in that game, there is a puzzle you solve to unlock a
       door, which is a special case of Twiddle. I developed this game as a generalisation of that puzzle.

Twiddle controls
       To play Twiddle, click the mouse in the centre of the square group you wish to rotate. In the basic mode, you rotate a 2×2  square,  which  means  you
       have to click at a corner point where four tiles meet.

       In  more advanced modes you might be rotating 3×3 or even more at a time; if the size of the square is odd then you simply click in the centre tile of
       the square you want to rotate.

       Clicking with the left mouse button rotates the group anticlockwise. Clicking with the right button rotates it clockwise.

       You can also move an outline square around the grid with the cursor keys; the square is the size above (2×2 by default, or larger). Pressing  the  re‐
       turn key or space bar will rotate the current square anticlockwise or clockwise respectively.

       (All the actions described below are also available.)

Twiddle parameters
       Twiddle provides several configuration options via the ‘Custom’ option on the ‘Type’ menu:

       •      You can configure the width and height of the puzzle grid.

       •      You can configure the size of square block that rotates at a time.

       •      You  can ask for every square in the grid to be distinguishable (the default), or you can ask for a simplified puzzle in which there are groups
              of identical numbers. In the simplified puzzle your aim is just to arrange all the 1s into the first row, all the 2s into the second  row,  and
              so on.

       •      You  can  configure  whether the orientation of tiles matters. If you ask for an orientable puzzle, each tile will have a triangle drawn in it.
              All the triangles must be pointing upwards to complete the puzzle.

       •      You can ask for a limited shuffling operation to be performed on the grid. By default, Twiddle will shuffle the grid so much that any  arrange‐
              ment is about as probable as any other. You can override this by requesting a precise number of shuffling moves to be performed. Typically your
              aim  is then to determine the precise set of shuffling moves and invert them exactly, so that you answer (say) a four-move shuffle with a four-
              move solution. Note that the more moves you ask for, the more likely it is that solutions shorter than the target length will turn  out  to  be
              possible.

Common actions
       These actions are all available from the ‘Game’ menu and via keyboard shortcuts, in addition to any game-specific actions.

       (On Mac OS X, to conform with local user interface standards, these actions are situated on the ‘File’ and ‘Edit’ menus instead.)

       New game (‘N’, Ctrl+‘N’)
              Starts a new game, with a random initial state.

       Restart game
              Resets the current game to its initial state. (This can be undone.)

       Load   Loads a saved game from a file on disk.

       Save   Saves the current state of your game to a file on disk.

              The  Load  and  Save  operations preserve your entire game history (so you can save, reload, and still Undo and Redo things you had done before
              saving).

       Print  Where supported (currently only on Windows), brings up a dialog allowing you to print an arbitrary number of puzzles  randomly  generated  from
              the current parameters, optionally including the current puzzle. (Only for puzzles which make sense to print, of course – it's hard to think of
              a sensible printable representation of Fifteen!)

       Undo (‘U’, Ctrl+‘Z’, Ctrl+‘_’, ‘*’)
              Undoes a single move. (You can undo moves back to the start of the session.)

       Redo (‘R’, Ctrl+‘R’, ‘#’)
              Redoes a previously undone move.

       Copy   Copies  the  current  state of your game to the clipboard in text format, so that you can paste it into (say) an e-mail client or a web message
              board if you're discussing the game with someone else. (Not all games support this feature.)

       Solve  Transforms the puzzle instantly into its solved state. For some games (Cube) this feature is not supported at all because it is of no  particu‐
              lar  use. For other games (such as Pattern), the solved state can be used to give you information, if you can't see how a solution can exist at
              all or you want to know where you made a mistake. For still other games (such as Sixteen), automatic solution tells you nothing  about  how  to
              get to the solution, but it does provide a useful way to get there quickly so that you can experiment with set-piece moves and transformations.

              Some  games  (such  as Solo) are capable of solving a game ID you have typed in from elsewhere. Other games (such as Rectangles) cannot solve a
              game ID they didn't invent themself, but when they did invent the game ID they know what the solution is already. Still other  games  (Pattern)
              can solve some external game IDs, but only if they aren't too difficult.

              The  ‘Solve’  command  adds  the solved state to the end of the undo chain for the puzzle. In other words, if you want to go back to solving it
              yourself after seeing the answer, you can just press Undo.

       Quit (‘Q’, Ctrl+‘Q’)
              Closes the application entirely.

Specifying games with the game ID
       There are two ways to save a game specification out of a puzzle and recreate it later, or recreate it in somebody else's copy of the same puzzle.

       The ‘Specific’ and ‘Random Seed’ options from the ‘Game’ menu (or the ‘File’ menu, on Mac OS X) each show a piece of text (a ‘game ID’) which is  suf‐
       ficient to reconstruct precisely the same game at a later date.

       You  can  enter  either of these pieces of text back into the program (via the same ‘Specific’ or ‘Random Seed’ menu options) at a later point, and it
       will recreate the same game. You can also use either one as a command line argument (on Windows or Unix); see below for more detail.

       The difference between the two forms is that a descriptive game ID is a literal description of the initial state of the game, whereas a random seed is
       just a piece of arbitrary text which was provided as input to the random number generator used to create the puzzle. This means that:

       •      Descriptive game IDs tend to be longer in many puzzles (although some, such as Cube (sgt-cube(6)), only need very  short  descriptions).  So  a
              random  seed  is often a quicker way to note down the puzzle you're currently playing, or to tell it to somebody else so they can play the same
              one as you.

       •      Any text at all is a valid random seed. The automatically generated ones are fifteen-digit numbers, but anything will do; you can type in  your
              full name, or a word you just made up, and a valid puzzle will be generated from it. This provides a way for two or more people to race to com‐
              plete  the same puzzle: you think of a random seed, then everybody types it in at the same time, and nobody has an advantage due to having seen
              the generated puzzle before anybody else.

       •      It is often possible to convert puzzles from other sources (such as ‘nonograms’ or ‘sudoku’ from newspapers) into descriptive game IDs suitable
              for use with these programs.

       •      Random seeds are not guaranteed to produce the same result if you use them with a different version of the puzzle program. This is because  the
              generation  algorithm  might  have  been improved or modified in later versions of the code, and will therefore produce a different result when
              given the same sequence of random numbers. Use a descriptive game ID if you aren't sure that it will be used on the same version of the program
              as yours.

              (Use the ‘About’ menu option to find out the version number of the program. Programs with the same version number running  on  different  plat‐
              forms should still be random-seed compatible.)

       A descriptive game ID starts with a piece of text which encodes the parameters of the current game (such as grid size). Then there is a colon, and af‐
       ter  that  is  the description of the game's initial state. A random seed starts with a similar string of parameters, but then it contains a hash sign
       followed by arbitrary data.

       If you enter a descriptive game ID, the program will not be able to show you the random seed which generated it, since it wasn't generated from a ran‐
       dom seed. If you enter a random seed, however, the program will be able to show you the descriptive game ID derived from that random seed.

       Note that the game parameter strings are not always identical between the two forms. For some games, there will be parameter data  provided  with  the
       random  seed  which  is  not  included  in the descriptive game ID. This is because that parameter information is only relevant when generating puzzle
       grids, and is not important when playing them. Thus, for example, the difficulty level in Solo (sgt-solo(6)) is not mentioned in the descriptive  game
       ID.

       These  additional  parameters  are  also not set permanently if you type in a game ID. For example, suppose you have Solo set to ‘Advanced’ difficulty
       level, and then a friend wants your help with a ‘Trivial’ puzzle; so the friend reads out a random seed specifying ‘Trivial’ difficulty, and you  type
       it  in.  The  program will generate you the same ‘Trivial’ grid which your friend was having trouble with, but once you have finished playing it, when
       you ask for a new game it will automatically go back to the ‘Advanced’ difficulty which it was previously set on.

The ‘Type’ menu
       The ‘Type’ menu, if present, may contain a list of preset game settings. Selecting one of these will start a new random game with the parameters spec‐
       ified.

       The ‘Type’ menu may also contain a ‘Custom’ option which allows you to fine-tune game parameters. The parameters available are specific to  each  game
       and are described in the following sections.

Specifying game parameters on the command line
       (This section does not apply to the Mac OS X version.)

       The  games  in  this  collection deliberately do not ever save information on to the computer they run on: they have no high score tables and no saved
       preferences. (This is because I expect at least some people to play them at work, and those people will probably appreciate leaving as little evidence
       as possible!)

       However, if you do want to arrange for one of these games to default to a particular set of parameters, you can specify them on the command line.

       The easiest way to do this is to set up the parameters you want using the ‘Type’ menu (see above), and then to select ‘Random Seed’ from the ‘Game’ or
       ‘File’ menu (see above). The text in the ‘Game ID’ box will be composed of two parts, separated by a hash. The first of  these  parts  represents  the
       game parameters (the size of the playing area, for example, and anything else you set using the ‘Type’ menu).

       If you run the game with just that parameter text on the command line, it will start up with the settings you specified.

       For  example: if you run Cube (see sgt-cube(6)), select ‘Octahedron’ from the ‘Type’ menu, and then go to the game ID selection, you will see a string
       of the form ‘o2x2#338686542711620’. Take only the part before the hash (‘o2x2’), and start Cube with that text on the command line: ‘sgt-cube o2x2’.

       If you copy the entire game ID on to the command line, the game will start up in the specific game that was described. This  is  occasionally  a  more
       convenient way to start a particular game ID than by pasting it into the game ID selection box.

       (You  could also retrieve the encoded game parameters using the ‘Specific’ menu option instead of ‘Random Seed’, but if you do then some options, such
       as the difficulty level in Solo, will be missing. See above for more details on this.)

Unix command-line options
       (This section only applies to the Unix port.)

       In addition to being able to specify game parameters on the command line (see above), there are various other options:

       --game

       --load These options respectively determine whether the command-line argument is treated as specifying game parameters or a save file  to  load.  Only
              one should be specified. If neither of these options is specified, a guess is made based on the format of the argument.

       --generate n
              If  this  option  is  specified, instead of a puzzle being displayed, a number of descriptive game IDs will be invented and printed on standard
              output. This is useful for gaining access to the game generation algorithms without necessarily using the frontend.

              If game parameters are specified on the command-line, they will be used to generate the game IDs; otherwise a default set of parameters will be
              used.

              The most common use of this option is in conjunction with --print, in which case its behaviour is slightly different; see below.

       --print wxh
              If this option is specified, instead of a puzzle being displayed, a printed representation of one or more unsolved puzzles is sent to  standard
              output, in PostScript format.

              On each page of puzzles, there will be w across and h down. If there are more puzzles than w×h, more than one page will be printed.

              If  --generate has also been specified, the invented game IDs will be used to generate the printed output. Otherwise, a list of game IDs is ex‐
              pected on standard input (which can be descriptive or random seeds; see above), in the same format produced by --generate.

              For example:

              sgt-net --generate 12 --print 2x3 7x7w | lpr

              will generate two pages of printed Net puzzles (each of which will have a 7×7 wrapping grid), and pipe the output to the lpr command, which  on
              many systems will send them to an actual printer.

              There are various other options which affect printing; see below.

       --save file-prefix [ --save-suffix file-suffix ]
              If  this  option is specified, instead of a puzzle being displayed, saved-game files for one or more unsolved puzzles are written to files con‐
              structed from the supplied prefix and/or suffix.

              If --generate has also been specified, the invented game IDs will be used to generate the printed output. Otherwise, a list of game IDs is  ex‐
              pected on standard input (which can be descriptive or random seeds; see above), in the same format produced by --generate.

              For example:

              sgt-net --generate 12 --save game --save-suffix .sav

              will generate twelve Net saved-game files with the names game0.sav to game11.sav.

       --version
              Prints version information about the game, and then quits.

       The following options are only meaningful if --print is also specified:

       --with-solutions
              The set of pages filled with unsolved puzzles will be followed by the solutions to those puzzles.

       --scale n
              Adjusts how big each puzzle is when printed. Larger numbers make puzzles bigger; the default is 1.0.

       --colour
              Puzzles will be printed in colour, rather than in black and white (if supported by the puzzle).

SEE ALSO
       Full documentation in /usr/share/doc/sgt-puzzles/puzzles.txt.gz.

sgt‐twiddle (sgt‐puzzles)                                                 April 2023                                                           SGT‐TWIDDLE(6)
