SHEEPDOG(8)                                                                                 System Manager's Manual                                                                                 SHEEPDOG(8)

NAME
       sheepfs - A pseudo file system exports both Sheepdog's internal state as well as Sheepdog's storage

SYNOPSIS
       sheepfs [OPTION]... MOUNTPOINT

DESCRIPTION
       sheepfs  -  Sheepdog is a distributed storage system for QEMU. It provides highly available block level storage volumes to virtual machines.  Sheepdog supports advanced volume management features such
       as snapshot, cloning, and thin provisioning. The architecture of Sheepdog is fully symmetric; there is no central node such as a meta-data server.

       The server daemon is called sheep(8).  A command line utility is available via dog(8). A pseudo file system is available via sheepfs(8). QEMU virtual machines use the sheep daemon via a  block  driver
       available in qemu(1).

       Sheepfs is a FUSE-based pseudo file system in userland to access both Sheepdog's internal state (for e.g, cluster info, vdi list) as well as Sheepdog's high reliable storage.

       The idea here is that its sometimes useful that we can envision our interaction with an Sheepdog's object in terms of a directory structure and filesystem operations.

       People might be mostly interested into sheepfs's volume directory, which export VM's volume as a pseudo block file in your local file system hierarchy, which can be used as

       1. a big file abstraction, which is actually backed by Sheepdog's storage, distributed in the cluster.

       2. a loop device file, which you can mount wherever you want to use it as a file system backed up by Sheepdog.

       3. a loop device file for some VM's image, which you want to access(RW) its internal data.

       4. storage media for other hypervisor, such as XEN

       This file abstraction integrates well into kernel's pagecache.

OPTIONS
       -a, --address
              specify the sheep address (default: 127.0.0.1)

       -d, --debug
              enable debug output (implies -f)

       -f, --foreground
              sheepfs run in the foreground

       -k, --pagecache
              use local kernel's page cache to access volume

       -o, --objectcache
              enable object cache of the connected sheep daemon

       -p, --port
              specify the sheep port (default: 7000)

       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

DEPENDENCIES
       Sheepdog requires QEMU 0.13.z or later and Corosync 1.y.z.

FILES
       none

SEE ALSO
       sheep(8), dog(8), qemu(1), corosync_overview(8)

AUTHORS
       This software is developed by the Sheepdog community which may be reached via mailing list at <sheepdog@lists.wpkg.org>.

                                                                                                   2021-07-23                                                                                       SHEEPDOG(8)
