shotwell(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               shotwell(1)

NAME
       shotwell - Digital photo manager

SYNOPSIS
       shotwell [OPTION]... [FILE]

DESCRIPTION
       Shotwell  is  a  digital photo organizer designed for the GNOME desktop environment.  It allows you to import photos from disk or camera, organize them in various ways, view them in full-window or
       fullscreen mode, and export them to share with others.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help Show help options

       -d, --datadir=FOLDER
              Path to Shotwell's private data. Using -d stand-alone without --profile --create is considered deprecated and should not be used anymore.

       --no-runtime-monitoring
              Do not monitor library folder at runtime for changes

       -f, --fullscreen
              Open the viewer mode in fullscreen. Has no effect in library mode.

       --no-startup-progress
              Don't display startup progress meter

       -V, --version
              Show the application's version

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use

       -p, --show-metadata
              Dump all Exif, IPTC and XMP metadata of FILE

       -i, --profile=PROFILE
              Start shotwell with a different profile. A profile consists of a set of settings and a new private data dir. The data dir can be overriden by secifying --datadir as well.

       -l, --list-profiles
              Show the available profiles

       -b, --profile-browser
              Show the available profiles in a dialog, with managing capabilities and the ability to start Shotwell with a specific profile by double-clicking.

EXAMPLES
       shotwell
              Opens Shotwell with the user's library.

       shotwell FILE
              Opens an image file for direct editing.  File is not imported into library and unsaved changes are lost on close.

       shotwell --profile="Development environment"
              Opens shotwell using the profile named "Development environment".

NOTES
       Shotwell homepage: https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Shotwell

       Report bugs: https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/shotwell/issues

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Jim Nelson jim@yorba.org and Allison Barlow allison@yorba.org.

                                                                                                                                                                                                shotwell(1)
