SID(8)                                                                                      System Manager's Manual                                                                                      SID(8)

NAME
       sid — Storage Instantiation Daemon

SYNOPSIS
       sid [-f] [-h] [-v] [-V]

DESCRIPTION
       Storage Instantiation Daemon (SID) aims to help with Linux storage device state tracking that encompasses device layers, groups and whole stacks by monitoring progression of events. Based on monitored
       states and further recorded information, it is able to trigger associated actions for well-defined triggers, including activation and deactivation of devices and their layers in the stack.

       SID positions itself on top of udev, reacting to udev uevents.  It is closely interlinked and cooperating with udev daemon. A specialized usid helper command is executed in udev rules  to  communicate
       with SID daemon which in turn triggers further processing.

       At  its core, SID provides an infrastructure and an API for various device subsystems to create modules that handle specific device types and their abstractions. For this purpose, it organizes overall
       uevent processing into discrete and controlled steps and, through an API, it provides access to its own SID database for use within core parts as well as modules to store and retrieve extended  infor‐
       mation besides udev daemon’s database capabilities.

       The SID database contains both internal and general-purpose records.  The internal records are accessed only through dedicated API calls which are used to track and support device dependencies, group‐
       ing, triggers and associated actions. The general-purpose records can be stored and retrieved by modules directly with a possibility to define their key components,  scope  of  visibility  and  access
       type.

       Since SID keeps track of the overall storage device stack and grouping, it provides an insight into the stack, the device and group dependencies and it is able to notify when there are changes to cer‐
       tain parts of the device stack to which there needs to be an appropriate action executed either inside (using SID’s triggers and associated actions) or outside SID itself (using extended notifications
       that SID sends out).

OPTIONS
       -f, --foreground
              Run in foreground.

       -h, --help
              Display the help text.

       -j, --journal
              Log to the journal.

       -v, --verbose
              Run in verbose mode. Repeat up to 4 times to increase the level of detail of log messages.

       -V, --version
              Display version, configuration and compilation information.

SEE ALSO
       udev(7) systemd-udevd(8)

Red Hat, Inc.                                                                      Storage Instantiation Daemon version 0.0.5                                                                            SID(8)
