SIEVE-DUMP(1)                     Pigeonhole                     SIEVE-DUMP(1)

NAME
       sieve-dump - Pigeonhole's Sieve script binary dump tool

SYNOPSIS
       sieve-dump [options] sieve-binary [out-file]

DESCRIPTION
       The  sieve-dump  command  is  part  of  the Pigeonhole Project (pigeon‐
       hole(7)), which adds Sieve (RFC 5228) support  to  the  Dovecot  secure
       IMAP and POP3 server (dovecot(1)).

       Using  the  sieve-dump  command, Sieve binaries, which are produced for
       instance by sievec(1), can be transformed into a human-readable textual
       representation.  This  can  provide  valuable  insight in how the Sieve
       script is executed. This is also particularly useful  to  view  corrupt
       binaries  that  can  result from bugs in the Sieve implementation. This
       tool is intended mainly for development purposes,  so  normally  system
       administrators and users will not need to use this tool.

       The format of the output is not explained here in detail, but it should
       be relatively easy to understand. The Sieve binaries comprise a set  of
       data  blocks,  each  of  which can contain arbitrary data. For the base
       language implementation two blocks are used:  the  first  containing  a
       specification  of  all required language extensions and the second con‐
       taining the main Sieve program. Compiled Sieve programs are represented
       as  flat byte code and therefore the dump of the main program is a dis‐
       assembly listing of the interpreter operations. Extensions  can  define
       new  operations  and  use  additional  blocks. Therefore, the output of
       sieve-dump depends greatly on the language extensions used when compil‐
       ing the binary.

OPTIONS
       -c config-file
              Alternative Dovecot configuration file path.

       -D     Enable Sieve debugging.

       -h     Produce  per-block hexdump output of the whole binary instead of
              the normal human-readable output.

       -o setting=value
              Overrides  the  configuration  setting  from  /etc/dovecot/dove‐
              cot.conf  and from the userdb with the given value.  In order to
              override multiple settings, the -o option may be specified  mul‐
              tiple times.

       -u user
              Run  the Sieve script for the given user. When omitted, the com‐
              mand will be executed with  the  environment  of  the  currently
              logged in user.

       -x extensions
              Set the available extensions. The parameter is a space-separated
              list of the active extensions. By prepending the extension iden‐
              tifiers with + or -, extensions can be included or excluded rel‐
              ative to the configured set of active extensions. If  no  exten‐
              sions  have  a + or - prefix, only those extensions that are ex‐
              plicitly listed will be enabled. Unknown extensions are  ignored
              and a warning is produced.

              For  example -x "+imapflags -enotify" will enable the deprecated
              imapflags extension and disable the enotify extension. The  rest
              of  the  active  extensions  depends on the sieve_extensions and
              sieve_global_extensions  settings.  By   default,   i.e.    when
              sieve_extensions  and  sieve_global_extensions  remain unconfig‐
              ured, all supported extensions are available, except for  depre‐
              cated extensions or those that are still under development.

ARGUMENTS
       sieve-binary
              Specifies the Sieve binary file that needs to be dumped.

       out-file
              Specifies where the output must be written. This argument is op‐
              tional. If omitted, the output is written to stdout.

EXIT STATUS
       sieve-dump will exit with one of the following values:

       0   Dump was successful. (EX_OK, EXIT_SUCCESS)

       1   Operation  failed.  This  is  returned  for  almost  all  failures.
           (EXIT_FAILURE)

       64  Invalid parameter given. (EX_USAGE)

FILES
       /etc/dovecot/dovecot.conf
              Dovecot's main configuration file.

       /etc/dovecot/conf.d/90-sieve.conf
              Sieve interpreter settings (included from Dovecot's main config‐
              uration file)

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs, including doveconf -n output, to the Dovecot Mailing  List
       <dovecot@dovecot.org>.   Information  about reporting bugs is available
       at: http://dovecot.org/bugreport.html

SEE ALSO
       dovecot(1), dovecot-lda(1), sieve-filter(1), sieve-test(1),  sievec(1),
       pigeonhole(7)

Pigeonhole for Dovecot v2.4       2016-04-05                     SIEVE-DUMP(1)
