SIGNSET-EDITOR(1)     User Contributed Perl Documentation    SIGNSET-EDITOR(1)

NAME
       signset-editor - DNSSEC-Tools Signing Set GUI Editor

SYNOPSIS
         signset-editor <keyrec-file>

DESCRIPTION
       signset-editor provides the capability for easy management of signing
       sets in a GUI.  A signing set contains zero or more names of key
       keyrecs.  These sets are used by other DNSSEC-Tools utilities for
       signing zones.  The signing sets found in the given keyrec file are
       displayed in a new window.  New signing sets may be created and
       existing signing sets may be modified or deleted from signset-editor.

       signset-editor has two display modes.  The Signing Set Display shows
       the names of all the set keyrecs in the given keyrec file.  The Keyrec
       Display shows the names of all the key keyrecs in the given keyrec
       file.  signset-editor starts in Signing Set Display mode, but the mode
       can be toggled back and forth as needed.

       An additional toggle controls the display of additional data.  If the
       Extended Data toggle is turned on, then the Signing Set Display shows
       the names of the key keyrecs in each signing set and the Keyrec Display
       shows the names of each signing set each key keyrec is in.  If the
       Extended Data toggle is turned off, then the Signing Set Display only
       shows the names of the set keyrecs and the Keyrec Display only shows
       the names key keyrecs.

       signset-editor has a small number of commands.  These commands are all
       available through the menus, and most have a keyboard accelerator.  The
       commands are described in the next section.

       Management of signing sets may be handled using a normal text editor.
       However, signset-editor provides a nice GUI that only manipulates
       signing sets without the potential visual clutter of the rest of the
       keyrec entries.

   UNDOING MODIFICATIONS
       signset-editor has the ability to reverse modifications it has made to
       a keyrec file.  This historical restoration will only work for
       modifications made during a particular execution of signset-editor;
       modifications made during a previous execution may not be undone.

       When undoing modifications, signset-editor does not necessarily restore
       name-ordering within a keyrec's signing_set field.  However, the
       signing-set data are maintained.  This means that an "undone" keyrec
       file may not be exactly the same, byte-for-byte, as the original file,
       but the proper meaning of the data is kept.

       After a "Save" operation, the data required for reversing modifications
       are deleted.  This is not the case for the "Save As" operation.

OPTIONS
       signset-editor takes the following options:

       -Version
           Displays the version information for signset-editor and the DNSSEC-
           Tools package.

       -help
           Displays a usage message.

COMMANDS
       signset-editor provides the following commands, organized by menus:

       Open (File menu)
           Open a new keyrec file.  If the specified file does not exist, the
           user will be prompted for the action to take.  If the user chooses
           the "Continue" action, then signset-editor will continue editing
           the current keyrec file.  If the "Quit" action is selected, then
           signset-editor will exit.

       Save (File menu)
           Save the current keyrec file.  The data for the "Undo Changes"
           command are purged, so this file will appear to be unmodified.

           Nothing will happen if no changes have been made.

       Save As (File menu)
           Save the current keyrec file to a name selected by the user.

       Quit (File menu)
           Exit signset-editor.

       Undo Changes (Edit menu)
           Reverse modifications made to the signing sets and keyrecs.  This
           is only for the in-memory version of the keyrec file.

       New Signing Set (Commands menu)
           Create a new signing set.   The user is given the option of adding
           key keyrecs to the new set.

           This command is available from both viewing modes.

       Delete Signing Set/Key (Commands menu)
           Delete the selected signing set or key.

           This command is available from both viewing modes.  If used from
           the Signing Set Display mode, then all the keys in the selected
           signing set will be removed from that set.  If used from the Keyrec
           Display mode, then the selected key will no longer be part of any
           signing set.

       Modify Signing Set/Key (Commands menu)
           Modify the selected signing set or key.

           This command is available from both viewing modes.  If used from
           the Signing Set Display mode, then the selected signing set may be
           modified by adding keys to that set or deleting them from that set.
           If used from the Keyrec Display mode, then the selected key may be
           added to or deleted from any of the defined signing sets.

       View Signing Sets (Display menu)
           The main window will display the keyrec file's signing sets.  If
           Extended Data are to be displayed, then each key keyrec in the
           signing set will also be shown.  If Extended data are not to be
           displayed, then only the signing set names will be shown.

           This command is a toggle that switches between View Signing Sets
           mode and View Keyrecs mode.

       View Keyrecs (Display menu)
           The main window will display the names of the keyrec file's key
           keyrecs.  If Extended Data are to be displayed, then the name of
           each signing set of the keyrec will also be shown.  If Extended
           data are not to be shown, then only the keyrec names will be
           displayed.

           This command is a toggle that switches between View Keyrecs mode
           and View Signing Sets mode.

       Display Extended Data (Display menu)
           Additional data will be shown in the main window.  For Signing Sets
           Display mode, the names of the signing set and their constituent
           key keyrecs will be displayed.  For Keyrec Display mode, the names
           of the key keyrecs and the Signing Sets it is in will be displayed.

           This command is a toggle that switches between Extended Data
           display and No Extended Data display.

       Do Not Display Extended Data (Display menu)
           No additional data will be shown in the main window.  For Signing
           Sets Display mode, only the names of the Signing Sets will be
           displayed.  For Keyrec Display mode, only the names of the keyrecs
           will be displayed.

           This command is a toggle that switches between No Extended Data
           display and Extended Data display.

       Help (Help menu)
           Display a help window.

KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
       Below are the keyboard accelerators for the signset-editor commands:

           Ctrl-D  Delete Signing Set

           Ctrl-E  Display Extended Data / Do Not Display Extended Data

           Ctrl-H  Help

           Ctrl-M  Modify Signing Set

           Ctrl-N  New Signing Set

           Ctrl-O  Open

           Ctrl-Q  Quit

           Ctrl-S  Save

           Ctrl-U  Undo Changes

           Ctrl-V  View Signing Sets / View Keyrecs

           Ctrl-W  Close Window (New Signing Set, Modify Signing Set, Help)

       These accelerators are all lowercase letters.

REQUIREMENTS
       signset-editor is implemented in Perl/Tk, so both Perl and Perl/Tk must
       be installed on your system.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2006-2014 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
       file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

AUTHOR
       Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

SEE ALSO
       cleankrf(8), fixkrf(8), genkrf(8), krfcheck(8), lskrf(1), zonesigner(8)

       Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::keyrec(3)

       file-keyrec(5)

perl v5.34.0                      2021-07-21                 SIGNSET-EDITOR(1)
