MACRO8X(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                         MACRO8X(1)

NAME
       macro8x - PDP8 macro assembler

SYNOPSIS
       macro8x [ -d -m -p -r -x ] inputfile inputfile...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the macro8x command.  This is a cross-assembler to for PDP/8 assembly language programs.  It will produce an output
       file  in  bin  format,  rim format, and using the appropriate pseudo-ops, a combination of rim and bin formats.  A listing file is always produced and
       with an optional symbol table and/or a symbol cross-reference (concordance).  The permanent symbol table can be output in a form that may be read back
       in so a customized permanent symbol table can be produced.  Any detected errors are output to a separate file giving the filename in which  they  were
       detected along with the line number, column number and error message as well as marking the error in the listing file.
       The following file name extensions are used:
          .pal    source code (input)
          .lst    assembly listing (output)
          .bin    assembly output in DEC's bin format (output)
          .rim    assembly output in DEC's rim format (output)
          .err    assembly errors detected (if any) (output)
          .prm    permanent symbol table in form suitable for reading after   the EXPUNGE pseudo-op.

OPTIONS
          -d   Dump the symbol table at end of assembly
          -m   Print macro expansions.
          -p   Generate a file with the permanent symbols in it.
               (To get the current symbol table, assemble a file than has only
               a $ in it.)
          -r   Produce output in rim format (default is bin format)
          -x   Generate a cross-reference (concordance) of user symbols.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Assembler error diagnostics are output to an error file and inserted in the listing file.  Each line in the error file has the form

          <filename>(<line>:<col>) : error:  <message> at Loc = <loc>

       An example error message is:

          bintst.pal(17:9) : error:  undefined symbol "UNDEF" at Loc = 07616

       The  error diagnostics put in the listing start with a two character error code (if appropriate) and a short message.  A carat '^' is placed under the
       item in error if appropriate.

       An example error message is:

          17 07616 3000          DCA     UNDEF
          UD undefined                   ^
          18 07617 1777          TAD  I  DUMMY

       When an indirect is generated, an at character '@' is placed after the the instruction value in the listing as an indicator as follows:

          14 03716 1777@         TAD     OFFPAG

       Undefined symbols are marked in the symbol table listing by prepending a '?' to the symbol.  Redefined symbols are marked in the symbol table  listing
       by prepending a '#' to the symbol.  Examples are:

          #REDEF   04567
           SWITCH  07612
          ?UNDEF   00000

       Refer to the (source) code for the diagnostic messages generated.

BUGS
       Only  a  minimal  effort  has  been made to keep the listing format anything like the PAL-8 listing format.  The operation of the conditional assembly
       pseudo-ops may not function exactly as the DEC versions.  I did not have any examples of these so the implementation is my interpretation of how  they
       should work.

       The  RIMPUNch  and  BINPUNch  pseudo-ops do not change the binary output file type that was specified on startup.  This was intentional and allows rim
       formatted data to be output prior to the actual binary formatted data.  On UN*X style systems, the same effect can be achieved by using the "cat" com‐
       mand, but on DOS/Windows systems, doing this was a major chore.

       The floating point input does not generate values exactly as the DEC compiler does.  I worked out several examples by hand and believe that  this  im‐
       plementation is slightly more accurate.  If I am mistaken, let me know and, if possible, a better method of generating the values.

HISTORICAL NOTE
       This  assembler was written to support the fleet of PDP-8 systems used by the Bay Area Rapid Transit System.  As of early 1997, this includes about 40
       PDP-8/E systems driving the train destination signs in passenger stations.

AUTHOR
         Gary A. Messenbrink <gary@netcom.com>
         MACRO8X modifications: Bob Supnik <bob.supnik@ljo.dec.com

       This manual page was written by Vince Mulhollon <vlm@debian.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

                                                                       August 12, 2002                                                             MACRO8X(1)
