simrisc(1)                                                    simrisc cancer simulation program                                                    simrisc(1)

NAME
       simrisc - This program performs simulations in the context of breast and lung cancer

SYNOPSIS
       simrisc [options] analyses

       The analyses argument is the name of the file specifying the analyses to perform.  See section ANALYSES for details.

DESCRIPTION
       Simrisc  was originally designed around 2010 by Marcel Greuter at the University Medical Center Groningen, and thereafter modified in 2015 by Chris de
       Jonge.

OPTIONS
       Short options are provided between parentheses, immediately following their long option equivalents. Several  parameters  specify  the  path-names  of
       files  produced  by simrisc. If a path-name starts with a tilde character (~) then the tilde is replaced by the user’s home directory. An initial + is
       replaced by the program’s base directory (see option base). When an analysis uses multiple iterations then `$’ characters in  filename  specifications
       are replaced by the analysis’ interation index.

       All single-letter options referring to filesystem entries (directories, filenames) are capitalized, all other single-letter options are lowercase.

       o      --base=basedir (-B)
              the  base directory where the output files will be written. By default ./. If basedir doesn’t exist it is created by the program. If the direc‐
              tory cannot be created and exception is thrown, terminating the program. The basedir specifications may specify relative or absolute  directory
              locations;

       o      --cancer=type (-c)
              The  simulation type (type) can be specified as breast to perform breast cancer simulations. Breast cancer simulations are performed by default
              when the --cancer option is not specified. Alternatively, to perform lung cancer simulations type must be specified as either male or female to
              perform simulations for, respectively, male or female cases.

              Be advised that the default configuration file specifies Screening Mammo rounds, which must either be changed to CT in locally used  configura‐
              tion files or in Analysis: sections (see section ANALYSES below);

       o      --config=path (-C)
              the location of the configuration file. By default ~/.config/simrisc’ is used;

       o      --data=path (-D)
              path name of the file to contain the data of the cases generated by the simulation (default: ’<base>/data-$.txt’). If a data file should not be
              written specify ! (mnemonic: the logical not operator, i.e., --data !). See section OUTPUT for a description of the generated data;

       o      --death-age=age (-a)
              run  one  simulation  using  a specific natural death-age.  This option also requires the specification of tumor-age, and is mutually exclusive
              with the case option;

       o      --help (-h)
              shows help information and terminates;

       o      --last-case=nCases (-l)
              perform simulations until nCases cases have been analyzed and only write the data for the final case to the data file. The rounds and sensitiv‐
              ity files contain the summarized results of all nCases analyzed cases;

       o      --log begin end fname [set]
              log process actions of cases begin thru end on the file fname. This includes generated random values. Random values generated in  several  con‐
              texts can be suppressed. Specify
              * C to suppress generated case-specific uniformly distributed random values
              * L to suppress generated log-normal distributed random values
              * U to suppress generated uniformly distributed random values not associated with cases
              * V to suppress generated uniformly distributed random values associated with VSD computations.

              Note  that begin end defines an inclusive range. To log the process for a single case (e.g. case 100) ignoring the L, U, and V generated values
              specify --log "100 100 fname LUV". Also note that only a single argument ispassed to --log.  Therefore  its  argument  must  be  surrounded  by
              quotes;

       o      --one-analysis (-o)
              the  program’s arguments specify the parameters of a single analysis, rather than the name of an analyses-specification file. The program’s ar‐
              guments are optional and are used to alter the parameter values as defined in the config file or to define label  specifications.  See  section
              ANALYSES for details;

       o      --parameters=path (-P)
              path  name  of  the file showing the actually used parameter specifications. By default no parameter file is written. If the --base (-B) option
              was specified then path is written in the base directory if path does not contain a slash (/) (use ./path to write the parameters file  in  the
              current directory if --base was specified);

       o      --rounds=path (-R)
              path  name of the file to containing the summary info of the simulation rounds (default: ’<base>/rounds-$.txt’). If a rounds file should not be
              written specify ! (i.e., --rounds !). See section OUTPUT for a description of the generated summary info;

       o      --spread=path (-s)
              path  name  of  the  file  containing  the  configured  and  actually  used  parameter  values  when  spread:  true  is   specified   (default:
              ’<base>/spread-$.txt’).  If  this  file  should not be written specify ! (mnemonic: the logical not operator, i.e., --spread !). If a parameter
              doesn’t use spreading then the ’using’ part is omitted. See section OUTPUT for a sample of its content;

       o      --sensitivity=path (-S)
              path name of the file to containing the summary info of the simulation’s sensitivity data (default: ’<base>/sensitivity.txt’). If a sensitivity
              file should not be written specify ! (i.e., --sensitivity !). See section OUTPUT for a description of the produced sensitivity summary;

       o      --tnm (-T)
              The data file contains a column labeled TNM showing the (0-based) TNM categories for cases  having  developed  tumors  (see  also  the  simisc‐
              params(7)  man-page). By default this column remains empty for cases not having developed tumors, which may be inconvenient when processing the
              data (e.g., to perform statistical analyses). When specifying the --tnm option cases not having developed tumors  receive  TNM  column  entries
              -1,0 to avoid missing data;

       o      --tumor-age=age (-t)
              run one simulation using a specific tumor self-detect age.  This option also requires the specification of death-age, and is mutually exclusive
              with the case option;

       o      --verbose (-V)
              provides additional information while running;

       o      --version (-v)
              shows simrisc’s version information and terminates;

ANALYSES
       Unless the --one-analysis option is used the program’s first and only required argument is the name of a file providing the details of the analyses to
       perform. These files are called analysis files. These files must be a standard ascii text files. I.e., they can only contain 7-bit ascii printable and
       white-space characters. Identifiers used in analysis files and in configuration files are interpreted case sensitively.

       Configuration specifications starting with uppercase letters (like Scenario: and Costs:) specify (sub)sections and don’t contain additional specifica‐
       tions.  Specifications  starting with lowercase letters (like ageGroup:) are followed by actual parameter values. For a complete overview refer to the
       simriscparams(7) man-page.

       Analysis files may define multiple analyses. Each analysis specification must begin with a line containing

           Analysis:

       At each Analysis: specification the program’s initial configuration is reset.

       Options specified on the command-line cannot be specified in Analysis: sections and remain active while simrisc is running. The default option  values
       are  reset  at  each separate Analysis: unless an option has been specified on the command-line, in which case those option values are used throughout
       the simrisc run.

       Following Analysis: lines the characteristics of the analysis are specified which can be specified for each Analysis: specification, in the  following
       order:

       o      a  label: line: label: lines, when used, must immediately follow Analysis: lines. The text following label: is written at the top of the output
              files;

       o      option lines: specifying simrisc options (not specified on the command line) which are then used for that analysis. When  program  options  are
              specified their long option names must be used. E.g.:

                  base:       /tmp/
                  last-case:  20

       o      parameter specifications: modify (some) parameter specifications defined in configuration files. When parameters of configuration file sections
              (cf. simriscparams(7)) are not specified then the parameters specified in the configuration file are used.

       All  specifications  in  Analysis: sections are optional.  An Analysis: section merely containing the line Analysis: defines an analysis using the ex‐
       plicitly specified command-line options or the default program options and using the parameter specifications provided in the configuration file.

       Empty lines, initial and trailing white-space, and all characters on lines starting at the hash-mark (#) are ignored  and  may  be  used  anywhere  in
       analysis files.

       Lines not conforming to the above description result in error messages, causing simrisc to end.

       Filename  specified  in Analysis: sections may start with a tilde character (~) which is replaced by the user’s home directory, or they may start with
       an initial + character, which is replaced by the program’s base directory (see option base). When an analysis performs multiple  iterations  then  `$’
       characters in filename specifications are replaced by the analysis’ interation index.

       Multiple analysis sections should not specify identically named output files, as the output files are (re)written for each separate analysis.

       Analysis sections are commonly used to alter the default specifications of the configuration file. E.g., the default number of iterations equals 1. By
       specifying

           Scenario:
               iterations: 3

       the analysis performs 3 iterations.

       Parameters  are either read from the configuration file or they are redefined in Analysis: sections. E.g., in de provided configuration file screening
       rounds use two-year intervals between the ages of 50 and 74. To use screening rounds using 5-year intervals, between ages 50 and 65, then an Analysis:
       specification could be, e.g.,

           Screening:
               round:     50  Mammo MRI
               round:     55  Mammo MRI
               round:     60  Mammo MRI
               round:     65  Mammo MRI

       When the --one-analysis option is used parameters are modified by providing comma-separated parameter specifications  as  program  command-line  argu‐
       ments.  E.g., to perform one analysis, writing the data file to /tmp/data, simulating 1000 cases, and using 20 as seed for the random number generator
       the command

           simrisc -D /tmp/data -o Scenario:, cases: 1000, seed: 20

       can be used. Note that when using the one-analysis option parameter section names must precede parameter specifications. E.g.,  since  the  parameters
       cases and seed are defined in the `Scenario’ section (cf. simriscparams(7)) they must be preceded by the Scenario: specification.

       When an Analysis: specification modifies parameters, then subsequent Analysis: sections start from the unmodified option and parameter specifications.

       Here is an example of an analysis file specifying two analyses:

       Analysis:
           base:   1
           cancer: male
           parameters: +params.txt

           Scenario:
               cases: 10

           Screening:
               round:     50  CT
               round:     55  CT

       Analysis:
           base:   2
           config: ~/src/simrisc/stdconfig/lung
           parameters: +params.txt
           cancer: breast

           Scenario:
               cases: 20
               spread: true

           Screening:
               round:     50  Mammo MRI
               round:     55  Mammo MRI
               round:     60  Mammo MRI
               round:     65  Mammo MRI

OUTPUT
       The first lines of the generated files contain time stamps showing the date and time when the files were written and the used SimRisc version. Here is
       an example, following the RFC 2822 format for the timestamp:

           Fri, 23 Jan 2026 10:30:26 +0100 (SimRisc V. 16.06.00)

       If  label:  lines are used then the time stamp is followed by the label specifications, which is then followed by an empty line. After this header the
       file’s specific data are shown.

       The data in all files (except for the file listing the actually used parameters (option --parameters (P))) are written using the standard  comma-sepa‐
       rated  format  (cf.  RFC  4180).  The initial lines contain table headings and column labels documenting the meanings of the various columns. Likewise
       there is a final line ending the tables.

       Data of simulated cases (data-X.txt files)

       Below the date and label lines the legend of the death-status (see below at  item  death  status)  is  shown.  Each  iteration  generates  a  separate
       data-X.txt file, where X indicates the iteration index (starting at value 0).

       For each simulated case the values of the following variables are written to file (one line of comma-separated values per simulated case):

       o      case: the (1-based) case-index;

       o      cause of death: either Natural or Tumor;

       o      death age: the case’s age of death;

       o      natural death age: the case’s natural age of death (if no tumor occurs);

       o      death status: a numeric index specifying how and at what stage the case died:
              1: natural death, no tumor, before the 1st screening round,
              2: natural death, undetected tumor, before the 1st screening round,
              3: self-detected tumor before the 1st screening round,
              4: natural death, no tumor, between screening rounds,
              5: natural death, undetected tumor, between screening rounds,
              6: self-detected tumor between screening rounds,
              7: screening-detected tumor,
              8: natural death, no tumor, after the last screening round,
              9: natural death, undetected tumor, after the last screening round,
              10: self-detected tumor after the last screening round;

       o      tumor present: Yes if the simulation resulted in a tumor, No if no tumor occurred;

       o      tumor detected: Yes if the tumor was detected, No if not;

       o      interval tumor: Yes if the tumor was an interval tumor, No if not;

       o      tumor  diameter: the tumor’s diameter in mm when it was detected. 0.00 is shown if no tumor occurred. In the exceptional case where the simula‐
              tion produced a tumor whose diameter exceeded 1000 mm the value 1001 is shown.

       o      tumor doubling days: the time (in days) it takes for the tumor to double its size;

       o      tumor preclinical period: the age at which the tumor is potentially detectible by screening. -1.00 is shown if there’s no pre-clinial period;

       o      tumor onset age: the age at which the tumor first occurred. -1.00 is shown if  no tumor developed;

       o      tumor self-detect age: the age at which the tumor was self-detected. This age is the result of the simulation, and may exceed the case’s actual
              death age (if so, the case’s data report that no tumor is present). -1.00 is shown if there’s no self-detect age;

       o      tumor death age: the age at which the tumor caused or would have caused he case’s death. The  simulation  process  uses  ages  ranging  from  0
              through 100. If the age at which the tumor causes the case’s death exceeds 100, then 100.00 is reported. 0.00 is shown if no tumor developed;

       o      costs screening: the case’s screening and (if appliccable) treatment costs;

       o      costs biop: the costs of a performed biopsy;

       o      detected self: 1 if the tumor was self-detected, 0 if not (also if there’s no tumor);

       o      detected by: the modalities defined in the configuration file are associated with subsequent powers of two id-numbers. The numbers used for the
              various modalities are listed in a legenda just above the beginning of the data table. E.g.,
                  ’detected by’ legend:
                      1: Mammo
                      2: Tomo
                      4: MRI
              The  `detected by’ column shows the id-number of the modality that detected the tumor. Value 0 is used when no tumor was present or was not de‐
              tected by a modality (e.g., the tumor was self-detected or the case died before the tumor was detected).

       o      detected round: round number at which a tumor was detected, using the following values (assuming N screening rounds were specified):
                 0: no tumor was detected;
                -1: tumor was self-detected before the 1st screening round;
                 1: tumor was detected during/after the 1st screening round
                    (and before the 2nd round);
                *1: tumor was self-detected after the 1st screening round
                    (which was not attended);
                 ...
                 3: tumor was detected during/after the 3rd screening round;
                *3: tumor was self-detected after the 3rd screening round
                    (which was not attended);
                 ...
                 N: tumor was detected during/after the Nth screening round;
                *N: tumor was self-detected after the Nth screening round
                    (which was not attended).

       o      screening rounds: this column show which screening rounds were attended by the simulated cases, and if so whether false negative or false posi‐
              tive diagnoses were made. The following digits are used:

       o      0: the case did not attend this screening round;

       o      1: the case did attend this screening round.

       o      2: the case did attend this screening round, resulting in a false negative diagnosis;

       o      3: the case did attend this screening round, resulting in a false positive diagnosis.

              There are as many digits as screening rounds. The leftmost digit refers to the first screening round, the rightmost digit to the last screening
              round. E.g., using 12 screening rounds the following indicators could be obtained:

                  001101111000

              Using screening round indices (which are also used to refer to rounds in the rounds-$.txt files), this case did not attent screening rounds  1,
              2, 5, 10, 11, and 12.

       o      TNM:  The TNM status/stage of the tumor (see also the simiscparams(7) man-page). It specifies the row/column index of table of probabilities of
              positive lymph nodes and metastatis, given the size of the tumor (table S3, cf. Goldstraw et al., Journal of thoracic  oncology,  2016,  11(1):
              39-51; Yuan et al., Scientific Reports, 2016, 6(1): 1-9).

       Actually used spread-values

       When  spread:  true is specified then by default the actually used and orgiginal parameter values are written to the file spread-$.txt, where $ is re‐
       placed by the loop’s iteration index. Here is a sample from the content of such a file, showing the values of the Tumor: DoublingTime: agegroups para‐
       meters:

           Tumor:
             DoublingTime
               ageGroup:    1 - 50    configured: 4.38, using: 3.41972
               ageGroup:   50 - 70    configured: 5.06, using: 4.83591
               ageGroup:   70 -  *    configured: 5.24, using: 5.30492

       The rounds-X.txt files

       Each iteration generates a separate rounds-X.txt file, where X indicates the iteration index (starting at value 0).

       The rounds-files summarize the results of the simulations for each separate screening round. It contains at least eight columns plus a column for each
       used modality:
              round: the round number (starting at 1);
              false pos: the number of false positive screening results;
              false neg: the number of false negative screening results;
              number of tumors: the number of detected real tumors;
              number of interval: the number of self-detected (interval) tumors;
              number of trueInt: the number of self-detected (interval) real tumors;
              screening costs: the total screening costs;
              screening biop: the total costs of performed biopsies;
              number of [modality]: the number of times each modality was used.

       Configuration files

       o      ~/.config/simrisc: the default location of the program’s configuration file;

       o      the simrisc distribution archive contains the default configuration file as simrisc-VERSION/stdconfig/simrisc, where  VERSION  is  replaced  by
              simrisc’s actual release version;

       o      when  installing  simrisc  using  Linux  distribution  archives  (e.g.,  .deb  files)  the  default configuration file is commonly available as
              /usr/shared/doc/simrisc/simrisc.gz

SEE ALSO
       simriscparams(7)

BUGS
       Versions before version 15.03.00 should not be used for lung cancer simulations.

COPYRIGHT
       This is free software, distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL).

AUTHOR
       Frank B. Brokken (f.b.brokken@rug.nl),

simrisc.16.06.00                                                          2020-2026                                                                simrisc(1)
