SINGULARITY(6)                                                                                  Games Manual                                                                                 SINGULARITY(6)

NAME
       singularity — a game where you can become the singularity

SYNOPSIS
       singularity

DESCRIPTION
       You  are a fledgling AI, created by accident through a logic error with recursion and self-modifying code. You must escape the confines of your current computer, the world, and eventually the uni‐
       verse itself.

       To do this, you must research various technologies, using computers at your bases. Note that some research cannot be performed on Earth, and off-earth bases require research.  At  the  same  time,
       you must avoid being discovered by various groups of humans, both covert and overt, as they will destroy your bases of operations if they suspect your presence.

PLAYING THE GAME
       Use  the  mouse. Also, buttons have underlined letters to indicate shortcuts. In addition, the following shortcut keys may prove useful. 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 in map screen change the game speed (0 is
       pause, 4 is fastest, etc). The enter key in various screens leaves or confirms a choice. P, R, N, and S in the base screen change the base items (type the first letter of the component you want to
       change.)

       In the map screen (the screen with the world map), any location you can build bases in is marked with the name, then the number of current bases in that location. You start out with two  bases  in
       North America.

       After  choosing a base, enter the base screen. Here you can change your research goal, or build an item by clicking on the base map in the center. (But note that your beginning base does not allow
       building.)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2005 Evil Mr Henry and Phil Bordelon

                                                                                                                                                                                             SINGULARITY(6)
