sipwitchctl(1)                                                                                   GNU Telephony                                                                                   sipwitchctl(1)

NAME
       sipwitch - script control and manage GNU sipwitch server.

SYNOPSIS
       sipwitchctl command [arguments...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  sipwitchctl  command allows one to interact with a running sipwitch daemon instance on the current machine.  This can be used to create management shell scripts or to perform basic service opera‐
       tions, using the sipwitch fifo control interface.  Normally this command would be used only by root or someone in an admin group that the sipwitch daemon is running under.  If the sipwitch  daemon  is
       started by an ordinary user, the command can be used by the same user to control that daemon instance.

       abort  terminate running daemon with core for debugging.

       activate ext ipaddr
              register a static sip extension manually on a fixed address.

       calls  list active call sessions on the server.

       check  verify running daemon for deadlocks or other problems.

       concurrency level
              set concurrency level of the daemon.  See pthread_setconcurrency.

       contact
              return server contact address for autoconfig.

       digest userid [realm [type]]
              compute a sip digest for the server realm.

       disable conf-id...
              remove /etc/sipwitch.d configurations.

       down   stop and shutdown the running sipwitch daemon.

       drop user|callid
              drop specified calls either by a user or call id.

       dump   dump server configuration to stdout.

       enable conf-id...
              enable /etc/sipwitch.d configurations.

       events display server events as received.

       grant group
              grants directory access to system group.

       history [size]
              set size or dump recent error log history.

       ifdown iface
              notify server interface went down.

       ifup iface
              notify server interface came up.

       message ext ``Text''
              send a short text message to a registered extension.

       policy print access policy list and peering (published) addresss.

       period interval
              dump periodic stats for specified minute interval, often used for cron.

       pstats dump server periodic statistics.  See ``stats''.

       registry
              dump all user agent registrations to stdout.

       realm [new-realm [digest-type]]
              set or show the server realm.

       release ext
              deactivate an extension registered with the daemon.

       reload load server configuration while live.

       restart
              force server restart.

       siplog dump sip messages from when trace is enabled.

       snapshot
              create snapshot diagnostic file from daemon.

       state id
              set daemon to specified state id.

       stats  dump server call statistics.

       status server mapped call status list.

       trace on|off|clear
              Set or clear server sip message tracing.

       usercache
              dump user cache.

       verbose level
              set daemon error logging verbosity.

EXIT STATUS
       Normally  exit status is 0 if the request was successfully processed by the sipwitch service daemon.  An exit status of 0x indicates an error in the sipwitch utility, such as invalid argument parsing.
       An error of 1x indicates some communication failure with the server, and a error of 2x is related to errors on server processed requests.

AUTHOR
       sipwitch was written by David Sugar <dyfet@gnutelephony.org>.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to sipwitch-devel@gnu.org or bugs@gnutelephony.org.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2009-2014 David Sugar, Tycho Softworks.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

GNU SIP Witch                                                                                     January 2009                                                                                   sipwitchctl(1)
