sipw(8)                                                                                          GNU Telephony                                                                                          sipw(8)

NAME
       sipw - sipwitch service daemon

SYNOPSIS
       sipw [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This  is  a  service daemon for the SIP protocol.  This daemon enables sip devices and softphone applications to register as well as to route messages for the SIP protocol between arbitrary endpoints,
       both locally and remote over the Internet using DNS to resolve destination uri's.  As a telephone system, sipw offers call redirection, speed dials, call forwarding, sms style instant  messaging,  and
       the ability to ring multiple user agents tied together under a common user id.

       The  sipw  daemon  is also being used as a mediator for desktop telephony.  For this purpose, sip users become the same as normal login accounts which happen to be in a specific group of sipusers, and
       sipw will assume a role for VoIP services similar to what gstreamer does for media.

OPTIONS
       Normally the sipw daemon is started from an init script or upstart rather than manually, and hence only those options setable in the /etc/default/sipwitch config file can be set.   However,  the  sipw
       daemon can be manually started, both in the foreground for testing, and in the background.  If this is done, a number of options may be passed to it directly as documented.

       --background
              Execute the sipw daemon detached in the background (default).

       --concurrency=level
              Set the pthread concurrency level for the sipw process.

       --debug=level
              Specify debug logging level (0-9).  When run in foreground debug messages are shown on the console.  When in background they are saved in the sipwitch log file.

       --foreground
              Execute the sipw daemon in the foreground, with output shown on stdout or stderr.

       --gdb  Execute the sipw daemon under control of gdb for full debugging.

       --group=id
              Specify the group id that the sipw daemon will execute as for receiving control messages or access to daemon managed shared memory.

       --memcheck
              Execute the sipw daemon under valgrind to validate basic memory management.

       --memleak
              Execute the sipw daemon under valgrind for full memory leak detection.

       --no-localusers
              Disable use of local (system) user accounts entirely.

       --plugins=names
              Load only these specified plugins from /var/lib/sipwitch.

       --priority=level
              Execute the sipw daemon under the realtime (fifo) schedule, and specify a realtime process priority level (1-9).

       --restarable
              The sipw daemon will automatically restart if it exits or crashes other than from a manually specified reason.  This is often used on BSD systems when sipw is started from an rc file.

       --trace
              Logs sip messages the sipw daemon sends and receives.

       --version
              Print the currently installed version of sipwitch to standard output.

AUTHOR
       sipw was written by David Sugar <dyfet@gnutelephony.org>.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to sipwitch-devel@gnu.org or bugs@gnutelephony.org.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2009-2014 David Sugar, Tycho Softworks.
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

GNU SIP Witch                                                                                    December 2009                                                                                          sipw(8)
