SMFSH(1)                                                                                                                                                                                           SMFSH(1)

NAME
       smfsh - SMF shell

SYNOPSIS
       smfsh [ -V ] [ file ]

OPTIONS
       -V     Print libsmf version and exit.

       file   Load the file.

DESCRIPTION
       smfsh, an "SMF shell", is an interactive, command-driven frontend to libsmf, useful for modifying MIDI files by hand.  It started its life as a debugging aid for libsmf.

       There are four groups of commands: SMF level, track level, event level, and others.

SMF LEVEL COMMANDS
       SMF level commands display or change properties of smf (i.e. the MIDI file) as a whole.

       save file
              Save a file.  If the file name is not given, the last file name is used.

              Note that this will not ask for confirmation.

       load file
              Load a file.  If the file name is not given, the last file name is used.

              Instead of using "load", you can pass the file name on the command line.

       ppqn new-ppqn
              Show (if used without parameter) or change PPQN (Pulses Per Quarter Note, aka Division).

       format new-format
              Show (if used without parameter) or change format.

       tempo  Show tempo map.  Tempo map is computed automatically from the SMF contents - to modify a tempo, just add a Tempo Change event using "add" command.

       length Show total length of the song.  Just like the tempo map, file length is computed from the SMF contents.

TRACK LEVEL COMMANDS
       Track level commands display or change properties of tracks.  SMF may contain one or more tracks.

       tracks Show the list of tracks in the SMF.

       track track-number
              Show details of a track (if called without parameter), or select track with a given number - for example in order to display ("events") the events it contains.

       trackadd
              Create new track.

       trackrm track-number
              Remove the track.  If the track number is not given, this will remove the track currently selected.

EVENT LEVEL COMMANDS
       Event level commands display or change properties of events.  Events are grouped into tracks.  Track may contain any number of events, including zero.

       events Show the list of events in the current track.

       event event-number
              Show information about a current event (if used without parameter) or select the event.

       add time-in-seconds midi-message-as-hex
              Add new event to the currently selected track.

       rm event-number
              Remove the event.  If the event number is not given, this will remove the event currently selected.

OTHER COMMANDS
       There are three commands in the "other" category - "help", "version", and "exit".  Their meaning should be self expanatory.

smfsh 1.3                                                                                      21 March 2010                                                                                       SMFSH(1)
