SNAC(1)                                                             General Commands Manual                                                           SNAC(1)

NAME
       snac — A simple, minimalistic ActivityPub instance

SYNOPSIS
       snac command basedir [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The snac daemon processes messages from other servers in the Fediverse using the ActivityPub protocol.

       This  is the user manual and expects an already running snac installation. For the administration manual, see snac(8).  For file and data formats, see
       snac(5).

   Web Interface
       The web interface provided by snac is split in three data streams: the public timeline, the private timeline and the instance timeline. There  are  no
       other feeds like the federated firehoses provided by other similar ActivityPub implementations like Mastodon or Pleroma.

       The  public  timeline,  also  called the local timeline, is what an external visitor sees about the activity of a snac user: that is, only the list of
       public notes, boosts and likes the user generates or participates into. This is, obviously, read-only, and not very remarkable, unless the  user  pub‐
       lishes messages of staggering genius. A set of history links, grouped by month, will also be available at the bottom of the page.

       The  private  timeline, or simply the timeline, is the private, password-protected area of a snac server where the user really interacts with the rest
       of the Fediverse.

       The top area of the timeline provides a big text area to write notes for the public (i.e. for the user followers). As this is the second  most  impor‐
       tant  activity  on the Fediverse, this is located in the most prominent area of the user page. You can enter plain text, @user@host mentions and other
       things. See the snac(5) manual for more information on the allowed markup.

       Other fields immediately below the big text one allow some control about the post to be sent:

             Sensitive content
                     If you set this checkbox, your post will be marked with a content warning. The immediately following, optional text box  allows  you  to
                     write a description about why your content is so sensitive.

             Visibility
                     From  these  radio  button set you can select the scope of the new post. The available options are: Public, Unlisted, Followers-only and
                     Direct Message (sent only to accounts mentioned in the post body).

             Reply to (URL)
                     If you fill this optional text field with the URL of another one's post, your text will be considered as a reply to it, not a standalone
                     one.

             Draft   If you set this checkbox, your text will not be sent when you push the Post button, but stored for later modification  in  the  "Drafts"
                     section.

             Language
                     A dropdown to select which language your post will be written in. This control only appears after you configure the set of languages you
                     expect to use in the User Settings (see below).

             Scheduled post...
                     This dropdown menu allows setting a date and time for the post publication.

             Attachments...
                     This dropdown menu allows uploading media attachments (images, audio, video, etc.) to your post.

             Poll...
                     this  dropdown  menu gives access to the voting options, that will make your post a poll. You can set the options to be voted, if it's a
                     multiple choice poll and the due date.

       More options are hidden under dropdown menus. They are the following:

             Follow (by URL or user@host)
                     Fill the input area with a user 'actor' URL or a user@host Fediverse identifier to follow.

             Boost (by URL)
                     Fill the input area with the URL of a Fediverse note to be boosted.

             Like (by URL)
                     Fill the input area with the URL of a Fediverse note to be liked.

             User setup...
                     This option opens the user setup dialog.

             Followed hashtags...
                     Enter here the list of hashtags you want to follow, one per line, with or without the # symbol. Since version 2.78, URLs to RSS feeds of
                     ActivityPub objects are also allowed (like e.g. https://mastodon.social/tags/bloomscrolling).

             Blocked hashtags...
                     Enter here the list of hashtags you want to block, one per line, with or without the # symbol.

             Muted words...
                     Enter here a list of words to be silenced. If a post includes any of this words, it's hidden behind a dropdown.

       The user setup dialog allows some user information to be changed, specifically:

             User name
                     Your user name, or not really that. People like to include emojis, flags and strange symbols for some reason.

             Avatar URL
                     The URL of a picture to be used as your avatar in timelines around the world.

             Bio     Enter here a bunch of self-indulgent blurb about yourself.  The same markup options available for text notes apply here.

             Always show sensitive content
                     By default, snac hides content marked as sensitive by their publishers.  If you check this option, sensitive content is always shown.

             Email address for notifications
                     If this field is not empty, an email message will be sent to this address whenever a post written by you is liked,  boosted  or  replied
                     to.

             Telegram notifications
                     To enable notifications via Telegram, fill the two provided fields (Bot API key and Chat id). You need to create both a Telegram channel
                     and  a  bot  for this; the process is rather cumbersome but it's documented everywhere. The Bot API key is a long string of alphanumeric
                     characters and the chat id is a big, negative number.

             ntfy notifications
                     To enable notifications via ntfy (both self-hosted or standard ntfy.sh server), fill the two provided fields (ntfy server/topic and,  if
                     protected, the token).  You need to refer to the https://ntfy.sh web site for more information on this process.

             Notify webhook
                     If  this is set to an URL, an HTTP POST will be sent to it whenever a new notification happens (see the 'Webhook for notifications' sec‐
                     tion below for more information).

             Maximum days to keep posts
                     This numeric value specifies the number of days to pass before posts (yours and others') will be purged. This value overrides  what  the
                     administrator  defined  in the global server settings only if it's lesser (i.e. you cannot keep posts for longer than what the admin de‐
                     sires). A value of 0 (the default) means that the global server settings will apply to the posts in your timeline. Also, if the adminis‐
                     trator has configured it, purged local posts generate a Delete activity that is sent everywhere.

             Drop direct messages from people you don't follow
                     Just what it says in the tin. This is to mitigate spammers coming from Fediverse instances  with  lax  /  open  registration  processes.
                     Please take note that this also avoids possibly legitimate people trying to contact you.

             This account is a bot
                     Set this checkbox if this account behaves like a bot (i.e.  posts are automatically generated).

             Auto-boost all mentions to this account
                     If this toggle is set, all mentions to this account are boosted to all followers. This can be used to create groups.

             This account is private
                     If this toggle is set, posts are not published via the public web interface, only via the ActivityPub protocol.

             Collapse top threads by default
                     If  this  toggle is set, the private timeline will always show conversations collapsed by default. This allows easier navigation through
                     long threads.

             Follow requests must be approved
                     If this toggle is set, follow requests are not automatically accepted, but notified and stored for later review. Pending follow requests
                     will be shown in the people page to be approved or discarded.

             Publish follower and following metrics
                     If this toggle is set, the number of followers and following accounts are made public (this is only the number; the  specific  lists  of
                     accounts are never published).

             Web interface language
                     If the administrator has installed any language file, it can be selected here.

             Time zone
                     The time zone the user is on (default: UTC). Only used for scheduled posts.

             Languages you usually post in
                     Fill this string with the ISO 639 Language Codes you expect to write your posts in, space-separated (example: en fr pt_BR).

             Password
                     Write the same string in these two fields to change your password. Don't write anything if you don't want to do this.

       The  rest of the page contains your timeline in reverse chronological order (i.e., newest interactions first).  snac shows the conversations as nested
       trees, unlike other Fediverse software; every time you contribute something to a conversation, the full thread is bumped up, so new  interactions  are
       shown always at the top of the page while the forgotten ones languish at the bottom.

       Private  notes  (a.k.a.  direct  messages)  are also shown in the timeline as normal messages, but marked with a cute lock to mark them as non-public.
       Replies to direct messages are also private and cannot be liked nor boosted.

       For each entry in the timeline, a set of reasonable actions in the form of buttons will be shown. These can be:

             Reply...
                     Unveils a text area to write your intelligent and acute comment to an uninformed fellow. This note is sent to  the  original  author  as
                     well  as  to your followers. The note can include mentions in the @user@format; these people will also become recipients of the message.
                     If you reply to a boost or like, you are really replying to the note, not to the admirer of it.

             Emoji react...
                     Unveils a text area that allows a user to react with an emoji by typing its identifier, that should match one of the emojis  defined  in
                     the emojis.json file. By now, only those emoji identifiers surrounded by colons can be used.

             Like    Click this if you admire this post. The poster and your followers will be informed.

             Boost   Click this if you want to propagate this post to all your followers. The original author will also be informed.

             Bookmark
                     Click this to bookmark a post.

             Follow  Click here if you want to start receiving all the shenanigans the original author of the post will write in the future.

             Unfollow
                     Click here if you are fed up of this fellow's activities.

             Delete  Click  here  to  send  this post to the bin. If it's an activity written by you, the appropriate message is sent to the rest of involved
                     parts telling them that you no longer want your thing in their servers (not all implementations really obey this kind  of  requirements,
                     though).

             MUTE    This  is the most important button in snac and the Fediverse in general. Click it if you don't want to read crap from this user again in
                     the foreseeable future.

             Hide    If a conversation is getting long and annoying but not enough to MUTE its author forever, click this button to avoid seeing the post and
                     its children anymore.

             Edit    Posts written by you on snac version 2.19 and later can be edited and resent to their recipients.

   Command-line options
       The command-line tool provide the following commands:

             init [basedir]
                     Initializes the data storage. This is an interactive command; necessary information will be prompted for. The basedir directory must not
                     exist.

             upgrade basedir
                     Upgrades the data storage after installing a new version.  Only necessary if snac complains and demands it.

             httpd basedir
                     Starts the daemon.

             purge basedir
                     Purges old data from the timeline of all users.

             adduser basedir [uid]
                     Adds a new user to the server. This is an interactive command; necessary information will be prompted for.

             deluser basedir uid
                     Deletes a user, unfollowing all accounts first.

             resetpwd basedir uid
                     Resets a user's password to a new, random one.

             update basedir uid
                     Sends a user's updated profile to following instances.

             queue basedir uid
                     Processes the output queue of the specified user, sending all enqueued messages and re-enqueing the failing ones. This command must  not
                     be executed if the server is running.

             follow basedir uid actor
                     Sends a Follow message for the specified actor URL.

             request basedir uid url
                     Requests an object and dumps it to stdout. This is a very low level command that is not very useful to you.

             announce basedir uid url
                     Announces (boosts) a post via its URL.

             note basedir uid text [file file ... [-r inReplyTo [-d YYYYmmddHHMMSS]]]
                     Enqueues  a  Create  +  Note message to all followers. If the text argument is -e, the external editor defined by the EDITOR environment
                     variable will be invoked to prepare a message; if it's - (a lonely hyphen), the post content will be read from stdin.  The rest of  com‐
                     mand  line  arguments  are  treated as media files to be attached to the post. The LANG environment variable (if defined) is used as the
                     post language. An optional URL to a Fediverse post, prefixed by -r, can be specified for this note to be a reply to. If a date in YYYYm‐
                     mddHHMMSS format is followed by -d, the note is scheduled for that moment instead of immediately posted (this date must be in  the  same
                     timezone the user has configured in the web UI).

             note_unlisted basedir uid text [file file ... [-r inReplyTo [-d YYYYmmddHHMMSS]]]
                     Like the previous one, but creates an "unlisted" (or "quiet public") post.

             note_mention basedir uid text [file file ... [-r inReplyTo [-d YYYYmmddHHMMSS]]]
                     Like the previous one, but creates a post only for accounts mentioned in the post body.

             block basedir instance_url
                     Blocks a full instance, given its URL or domain name. All subsequent incoming activities with identifiers from that instance will be im‐
                     mediately blocked without further inspection.

             unblock basedir instance_url
                     Unblocks a previously blocked instance.

             verify_links basedir uid
                     Verifies  all links or account handles stored as metadata for the given user.  This verification is done by downloading the link content
                     and searching for a link back to the snac user url that also contains a rel="me" attribute. These links are specially marked as verified
                     in the user's public timeline and also via the Mastodon API.

             export_csv basedir uid
                     Exports some account data as Mastodon-compatible CSV files. After executing this command, the following files will  be  written  to  the
                     export/ subdirectory inside the user directory: bookmarks.csv, blocked_accounts.csv, lists.csv, and following_accounts.csv.

             export_posts basedir uid
                     Exports  all  posts written by the user to the file outbox.json inside the export/ subdirectory inside the user directory. The format is
                     compatible with the one generated by the equivalent option in Mastodon.

             alias basedir uid @account@remotehost
                     Sets an account as an alias of this one. This is a necessary step to migrate an account to a remote Mastodon instance (see snac(8), sec‐
                     tion 'Migrating from snac to Mastodon').

             migrate basedir uid
                     Starts a migration from this account to the one set as an alias (see snac(8), section 'Migrating from snac to Mastodon').

             import_csv basedir uid
                     Imports CSV data files from a Mastodon export. This command expects the following files to be  inside  the  import/  subdirectory  of  a
                     user's directory inside the server base directory: bookmarks.csv, blocked_accounts.csv, lists.csv, and following_accounts.csv.

             state basedir
                     Dumps the current state of the server and its threads. For example:

                           server: comam.es (snac/2.45-dev)
                           uptime: 0:03:09:52
                           job fifo size (cur): 45
                           job fifo size (peak): 1532
                           thread #0 state: input
                           thread #1 state: input
                           thread #2 state: waiting
                           thread #3 state: waiting
                           thread #4 state: output
                           thread #5 state: output
                           thread #6 state: output
                           thread #7 state: waiting

                     The  job fifo size values show the current and peak sizes of the in-memory job queue. The thread state can be: waiting (idle waiting for
                     a job to be assigned), input or output (processing I/O packets) or stopped (not running, only to be seen while starting or stopping  the
                     server).

             import_list basedir uid file
                     Imports  a  Mastodon list in CSV format. The file must be stored inside the import/ subdirectory of a user's directory inside the server
                     base directory.  This option can be used to import "Mastodon Follow Packs".

             import_block_list basedir uid file
                     Imports a Mastodon list of accounts to be blocked in CSV format. The file must be stored inside the import/ subdirectory of a user's di‐
                     rectory inside the server base directory.

             lists basedir uid
                     Prints the name of the user created lists.

             list_members basedir uid name
                     Prints the list of actors in the named list.

             list_create basedir uid name
                     Creates a new list.

             list_remove basedir uid name
                     Removes an existing list.

             list_add basedir uid name account
                     Adds an account (by its @name@host handle or actor URL) to a list.

             list_del basedir uid name actor_url
                     Deletes an actor (by its actor URL) from a list.

             top_ten basedir uid [N]
                     Returns the ids of the top ten (or top N) most popular posts (considering the sum of likes and boosts).

   Migrating an account to/from Mastodon
       See snac(8) for details.

   Using Mastodon-compatible apps
       Since version 2.27, snac includes support for the Mastodon API, so you can use Mastodon-compatible mobile and desktop applications to access your  ac‐
       count. Given a correctly configured server, the usage of these programs should be straightforward.  Please take note that they will show your timeline
       in  a  'Mastodon fashion' (i.e., as a plain list of posts), so you will lose the fancy, nested thread post display with the most active threads at the
       top that the web interface of snac provides.

   Implementing post bots
       snac makes very easy to post messages in a non-interactive manner. This example posts a string:

             uptime | snac note $SNAC_BASEDIR $SNAC_USER -

       You can setup a line like this from a crontab(5) or similar. Take note that you need a) command-line access to the same machine that  hosts  the  snac
       instance, and b) write permissions to the storage directories and files.

       You  can  also post non-interactively using the Mastodon API and a command-line http tool like curl(1) or similar. This has the advantage that you can
       do it remotely from any host, anywhere; the only thing you need is an API Token. This is an example:

             curl -X POST https://$SNAC_HOST/api/v1/statuses \
             --header "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" -d "status=$(uptime)"

       You can obtain an API Token by connecting to the following URL:

             https://$SNAC_HOST/oauth/x-snac-get-token

   Webhook for notifications
       Since version 2.78, users can set the URL to a webhook that will receive an HTTP POST with every notification (in JSON format). This can  be  used  to
       implement some automation whenever a new activity happens, like autorepliers, chatbots, interactive textual games or whatever. The examples/ subdirec‐
       tory contains a tiny Python program that implements an auto-follower for every new follow. The JSON notification object includes the following data:

             id      a unique notification identifier

             actor   the origin actor id

             target  the target actor id

             date    the notification date

             msg     the full ActivityPub action JSON object

             objid   the object identifier (extracted from msg, may be null)

             type    the action type (extracted from msg)

             utype   the action subtype (extracted from msg, may be null)

             uid     the user identifier (account name)

             basedir
                     the server base directory

             baseurl
                     the server base URL

             account
                     the origin actor object

             reply   the activity this post is a reply to (may not exist)

ENVIRONMENT
       SNAC_BASEDIR
               This  optional environment variable can be set to the base directory of your installation; if set, you don't have to add the base directory as
               an argument to command-line operations. This may prove useful if you only have one snac instance in your system (which is probably your case).

       DEBUG   Overrides the debugging level from the server 'dbglevel' configuration variable. Set it to an integer value. The higher, the deeper  in  mean‐
               ingless verbiage you'll find yourself into.

       EDITOR  The user-preferred interactive text editor to prepare notes.

       LANG    The language of the post when sending notes from the command line.

SEE ALSO
       snac(5), snac(8)

AUTHORS
       grunfink @grunfink@comam.es: https://comam.es/snac/grunfink

LICENSE
       See the LICENSE file for details.

CAVEATS
       Use the Fediverse sparingly. Don't fear the MUTE button.

BUGS
       Probably many. Some issues may be even documented in the TODO.md file.

Debian                                                                    $Mdocdate$                                                                  SNAC(1)
