snapconv(1)                        Emulators                       snapconv(1)

NAME
       snapconv — Sinclair ZX Spectrum snapshot converter

SYNOPSIS
       snapconv [ -c ] [ -n ] [ -f ] infile outfile

DESCRIPTION
       snapconv converts between ZX Spectrum snapshot files.

OPTIONS
       -c     specifies  that  all  data in the output snapshot should be com‐
              pressed, even if that compression will result in a  bigger  file
              than if some data is left uncompressed. This helps compatibility
              with some buggy programs that can only read entirely  compressed
              .z80 files.

       -n     specifies that the output snapshot should be uncompressed.

       -f     specifies  that  the  A  and F and A' and F' registers should be
              swapped.  Version 0.5.0 and older of libspectrum(3)  had  a  bug
              that  resulted in these registers being swapped in SZX snapshots
              only. Version 0.5.1 and newer  of  libspectrum(3)  automatically
              recognise these snapshots and correct the problem, but this flag
              is necessary to fix some snapshots created by  development  ver‐
              sions only of libspectrum(3) which had the bug fixed, but cannot
              be distinguished from snapshots containing the bug.

       -h, --help
              give brief usage help, listing available options.

       -V, --version
              output version information.

       infile specifies the snapshot to be converted. This file can be in  any
              of the snapshot formats supported by libspectrum(3).

       outfile
              specifies  the output snapshot. The format will be determined by
              the file extension and can be in any  of  the  formats  libspec‐
              trum(3) supports for output.

BUGS
       None known.

SEE ALSO
       fuse(1), fuse-utils(1), libspectrum(3), listbasic(1), snap2tzx(1)

       The comp.sys.sinclair Spectrum FAQ, at
       http://www.worldofspectrum.org/faq/index.html.

AUTHOR
       Philip Kendall (philip-fuse@shadowmagic.org.uk).

Version 1.4.3                   1st July, 2018                     snapconv(1)
