SNOWDROP(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               SNOWDROP(1)

NAME
       sd-eng, sd-engf, sd-c - text watermarking and watermark recovery

SYNOPSIS
       sd-eng [-6] -i origfile newfile "Recipient" ["Comment"]

       sd-eng [-6] -e origfile newfile

       sd-eng [-6] -l

DESCRIPTION
       snowdrop is a steganographic text watermarking and watermark recovery system.  It is composed of three programs:

       sd-eng Watermark normal English text.

       sd-engf
              Watermark fine quality English text, yielding higher quality output but encoding less information.

       sd-c   Watermark C code.

       The three programs operate similarly, with the same parameters and usage.  The watermark is encoded in using a number of techniques, such as whitespace reformatting, typo insertation, word substi‐
       tutions, punctuation changes, and for C code, logic reordering, variable name mangling, etc.

       The  watermark  is a md5sum, which is retrievable from as little as 5 or 10 lines of the watermarked document. Even large changes to a medium sized document should not obscure the watermark, as it
       is stored redundantly in multiple independent channels.

       The three usage modes are adding a watermark, checking for the presence of a watermark, and listing the contents of your database of watermarks. Note that to later check a watermark, you must  re‐
       tain a copy of the original, un-watermarked file.

OPTIONS
       -i     Inject  a watermark into a file. You must pass it the original file, the filename to output the watermarked version to, information about who you intend the watermarked file for, and an op‐
              tional comment.

       -e     Extract a watermark from a file. Needs the original file and the new file that you suspect bears the watermark.

       -l     Lists the contents of the watermark database. Each of the three programs will have a different list.

       -6     Enable 64 bit watermarking. The default is a weak 32 bit watermark.

ENVIRONMENT
       SD_SYNONYMS
              This variable can be used to point snowdrop at a customized synonyms file.

FILES
       ~/.snowdrop/database
              Database of watermarked files.

SEE ALSO
       /usr/share/doc/snowdrop/README.gz
              Explain snowdrop in more depth, its limitations, and how to write additional watermarking modules for other types of files.

AUTHOR
       Michal Zalewski <lcamtuf@coredump.cx>

                                                                                                                                                                                                SNOWDROP(1)
