soapsuds(1)                 General Commands Manual                soapsuds(1)

NAME
       soapsuds - Mono's Remoting Proxy Generator

SYNOPSIS
       soapsuds [options] [inputs] [outputs]

DESCRIPTION
       soapsuds is a tool for generating WSDL documents and client proxies for
       remoting services.  A WSDL document describes the methods that  a  ser‐
       vice  provides  together with XML schemas of all referenced data struc‐
       tures. A client proxy is a class which offers the same methods  as  the
       service it represents, but provides no implementation, it just forwards
       calls to the remote service.

       Generated client proxies are not strictly necessary, since the  runtime
       can  automatically  generate  proxies  from the original service types.
       However, it implies the need of distributing the service class  to  all
       clients. In some scenarios a better approach is to use soapsuds to gen‐
       erate a proxy class which has the same interface as  the  service,  but
       without any implementation.

       soapsuds  can  generate  a  WSDL document from a set of types specified
       with the option -types or can extract the types from an assembly speci‐
       fied with -inputassemblyfile.  In this last case, soapsuds will include
       schemas for all serializable classes in the WSDL document.

       Taking as input a WSDL document (or anything from which  such  document
       can  be  generated)  the  tool  can generate source code for the client
       proxy (using the -gc option) or it can directly  generate  an  assembly
       that  implements the proxy (with the -outputassemblyfile option). soap‐
       suds will also generate fake serializable classes for all types defined
       in  the schema. However, beware that those classes will lack the seman‐
       tics of the original classes, since only data structure is generated.

INPUT SOURCES
       The following sources are available (only one can be specified):

       -urltoschema:url -url:url
              Url from which to retrieve the WSDL document.

       -types:type1,assembly[,serviceEndPoint][;type2,assembly[,serviceEnd‐
       Point]]...
              Specifies  types  for which to generate a schema or proxy. If no
              service endpoint is provided, the one provided  with  the  -ser‐
              viceendpoint option is used.

       -inputassemblyfile:file , -ia:file
              Assembly that contains the types to export.

       -inputschemafile:schena , -is:schema
              Schema from which to generate proxy classes.

INPUT OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -inputdirectory:directory , -id:directory
              Directory where DLLs are located.

       -serviceendpoint:url , -se:url
              Url of the service to be placed in the WSDL document.

OUTPUTS
       The following output options are available (more than one can be speci‐
       fied):

       -outputassemblyfile:file , -oa:file
              Generates the proxy code and compiles it into an  assembly  with
              the provided name.

       -outputschemafile:file , -os:file
              Generates a WSDL document that represents the provided types.

       -generatecode , -gc
              Generates  proxy  source  code for the provided WSDL document or
              types.

OUTPUT OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -outputdirectory:directory , -od:directory
              Directory where generated files will be placed.

       -proxynamespace:namespace , -pn:namespace
              Namespace of the generated proxy.

       -nowrappedproxy , -nowp
              Do not generate a wrapped proxy.

       -wrappedproxy , -wp
              Generate a wrapped proxy.

       -strongnamefile:file , -sn:file
              Strong name file.

GENERAL OPTIONS
       The following options are available:

       -nologo
              Supress the startup logo.

       -u:username , -user:username
              The user name to use when connecting to the server.

       -p:password , -password:password
              The password to use when connecting to the server.

       -d:domain , -domain:domain
              The domain to use when connecting to the server.

       -httpproxyname:name , -hpn:name
              Name of the http proxy.

       -httpproxyport:port , -hpp:port
              Port of the http proxy.

AUTHORS
       Lluis Sanchez Gual (lluis@ximian.com)

LICENSE
       wsdl is released under the terms of the GNU GPL.

SEE ALSO
       wsdl(1), disco(1), mono(1), mcs(1)

                                                                   soapsuds(1)
