stunc(1)                                                                                General Commands Manual                                                                               stunc(1)

NAME
       stunc - STUN test client.

       STUN test client.

       Author
           Pekka Pessi Pekka.Pessi@nokia.com

           Martti Mela Martti.Mela@nokia.com

           Kai Vehmanen Kai.Vehmanen@nokia.com

       Date
           Created: Thu Jul 24 17:21:00 2003 ppessi

Synopsis
       stunc [OPTIONS] <stun-server-address>

Description
       The stunc utility can be used to gather information about possible NAT devices that are located between the client and STUN server.

       stunc can provide the following information: the IP address and port as seen by the STUN server, detecting presence of NATs, and hints on the type of address translation done. It should be
       noted that the results of NAT type and life-time detection should be considered as hints. There is no guarantee that NAT(s) will handle future packets in the same way.

Command Line Options
       The stunc utility accepts following command line options:

       -b  Perform  a  STUN  binding  discovery.  stunc  will  report the client transport address (IP:port) as seen by the STUN server. In the presence of NATs, this address is allocated by the NAT
           closest to the STUN server.

       -l  Perform a STUN binding life-time check.

       -n  Perform a STUN binding type check. Notice that the results are only hints. Nondeterministic behaviour, resource exhaustion, or reboots  of  network  elements  can  cause  changes  in  NAT
           behaviour between successive runs of stunc.

       -r  Randomize the local port. Otherwise stunc let's the operating system select a free port.

       -s  Request a shared-secret over TLS. Tests whether the STUN server supports the shared-secret mechanism (needed to protect message integrity). Can be combined with -b, -l and -n.

Return Codes
       0when successful 1when any errors detected

Examples
       Discover the NAT binding, use a random local port:

       $ stunc stunserver.org -b -r

Environment
       #STUN_DEBUG

Reporting Bugs
       Report bugs to sofia-sip-devel@lists.sourceforge.net.

Authors
       • Pekka Pessi <pekka -dot pessi -at- nokia -dot- com>

       • Martti Mela <martti -dot mela -at- nokia -dot- com>

       • Kai Vehmanen <kai -dot vehmanen -at- nokia -dot- com>

Copyright
       Copyright (C) 2005,2006 Nokia Corporation.

       This program is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

sofia-sip-utils                                                                          Version 1.12.11devel                                                                                 stunc(1)
