SOL(6)                           Games Manual                           SOL(6)

NAME
       AisleRiot  - a collection of card games which are easy to play with the
       aid of a mouse.

SYNOPSIS
       sol [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the sol command. For  more  informa‐
       tion, please refer to the excellent GNOME help for AisleRiot

       AisleRiot  (also  known  as  Solitaire  or sol) is a collection of card
       games which are easy to play with the aid of a mouse.   The  rules  for
       the games have been coded for your pleasure in the GNOME scripting lan‐
       guage (Scheme).

       The following games can be selected from within the program, or by  us‐
       ing a command line switch:

              Peek,  Auld  Lang  Syne,  Fortunes, Seahaven, King Albert, First
              Law, Straight Up, Jumbo,  Accordion,  Ten  Across,  Plait,  Lady
              Jane, Gypsy, Neighbor, Jamestown, Osmosis, Kings Audience, Glen‐
              wood, Gay Gordons, Monte Carlo, Kansas, Camelot, Fourteen, Scor‐
              pion,  Isabel,  Escalator, Agnes, Bristol, Quatorze, Bear River,
              Gold Mine,  Athena,  Spiderette,  Chessboard,  Backbone,  Yukon,
              Union  Square, Eight Off, Napoleons Tomb, Forty Thieves, Streets
              And Alleys, Maze,  Clock,  Pileon,  Canfield,  Thirteen,  Bakers
              Game,  Triple  Peaks, Easthaven, Terrace, Aunt Mary, Carpet, Sir
              Tommy, Diamond Mine, Yield, Labyrinth, Thieves, Saratoga, Cruel,
              Block  Ten,  Will O The Wisp, Odessa, Eagle Wing, Treize, Zebra,
              Cover, Elevator, Fortress, Giant, Spider,  Gaps,  Bakers  Dozen,
              Whitehead,  Freecell,  Helsinki,  Spider  Three  Decks, Scuffle,
              Poker, Klondike Three Decks, Valentine, Royal  East,  Thumb  And
              Pouch,  Klondike,  Doublets,  Template,  Golf, Westhaven, Belea‐
              guered Castle, Hopscotch, Eliminator, Aunt Mary, Hamilton, Wall

OPTIONS
       AisleRiot accepts the following options, besides the  usual  Gtk+/GNOME
       switches:

       -v, --variation=NAME
              Select the game to play

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use

USAGE
       This text is taken verbatim from the AisleRiot Manual V2.12.

       Moving  the  cards  is  reasonably  obvious. Assuming you have a right-
       handed mouse, left-click on a card and drag it somewhere.  Release  the
       mouse button to deposit the card.

       If  a  card  can be moved to the foundation(s), you do not need to drag
       it. You can double-click on it and it will move. If a sequence of cards
       can be moved to the foundations, you can generally move the sequence as
       one move.

       Double clicking a card will send it to a foundation, if that is  possi‐
       ble.  This  is useful for cleaning up large numbers of cards at the end
       of a successful game.

       In games which have a stock pile you can redeal it by clicking  on  the
       empty  space  where  it  was. Be warned that some games only let you do
       this a limited number of time. Watch for the Redeals  Left  message  at
       the bottom of the window.

       A  useful tip to know is that right-clicking on a face-up card which is
       partially obscured by a card laid over it will raise it so that you can
       see what it is.

       There  is  an alternative way to move cards. By selecting Click to move
       from the Control menu you can click once to pick up  a  card  and  then
       click  again to place it.  This can be faster than dragging and will be
       easier on your hand since you don't have to hold the mouse  down.  How‐
       ever, it may take a while to get used to.

       Some games have options to change the way the game is played. For exam‐
       ple Klondike can be played with either single card deals or  three-card
       deals.  In  these  games there is a separate menu with the game's name.
       You can only change the rules of the game at the beginning of the  game
       -- the menu will be inactive during the game.

       Statistics on how well you have done at a particular game are available
       by selecting Statistics from the Game menu. Only games where you  actu‐
       ally  start  moving cards are counted. The statistics are here for your
       own enjoyment, there are numerous ways to cheat and  it  is  unwise  to
       make comparisons.

HOMEPAGE
       https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Aisleriot

AUTHOR
       This   manual   page   was   written  by  Martin  Ferrari  <martin.fer‐
       rari@gmail.com>, for the Debian system (but may  be  used  by  others).
       You  can  find the list of authors and more information about AisleRiot
       in /usr/share/doc/aisleriot.

AisleRiot                       March 22, 2007                          SOL(6)
